The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role. Before we kick things off we're going to do the videos in just a moment to intro as we're waiting for a member to arrive. But before we get started tonight we have a couple special giveaways getting all the subscriber counts we can get. First off if we hit 3500 subscribers tonight we're going to be giving away a player's handbook signed by the cast of Critical Role, a dicebox, and one of these fantastically reconstructed horns of Orcus torn recently from forehead of the mad beholder K'varn. We actually have two of these available tonight as part of the giveaways. The first one will be at 3500 the next one at 3550 with the same package: The player's handbook signed by everybody the dice box and one of these horn props which were made for us by the incredible KommissarProps. This is Kai Norman. Kai, want to come in and say hello to everyone?
Kai: Yeah!
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Thank you.
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Hey guys!
Kai: I guess I should show you a little bit about how they're built. They're resin. They're cast resin so they've got a little bit of rigid foam in the back so they've got this nice kind of bone marrow look and they're all hand painted by me and hopefully you guys will --
Marisha: He's super awesome.
Matt: It's a good start.
Marisha: You should totally go follow him at KommissarProps. It's kind of hard so I printed this out for you guys. Follow him on Instagram and on Facebook. That's where you see the most about this guy. And go check it out. It's good for the giveaway.
Matt: He's a talented guy. He's providing these for us for the giveaway tonight totally on his own and he's also going to be helping us with future possible prop stuff for the game as it progresses.
Marisha: You definitely want to go follow him. I actually tweeted a picture from your Instagram account, so for those of you who are following me, there's a direct link to his Instagram account. Or just search this on Facebook or Instagram.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Do it. Do it now.
Matt: So we have those at 3500 and 3550. If we get to 3600 tonight, you'll get the t-shirt signed, a dice box, a starter kit and we'll stay after and play some more Just Dance. (cheers)
Matt: Yeah! Great!
Matt: Also want to give a big shoutout to -- we might have a bunch of new folks from imgur today -- someone put up a really cool post about us on imgur and a lot of people saw it, so those who came through that, hello, welcome, you're gonna sit in and watch a bunch of us silly folk play Dungeons & Dragons, so it should be fun hopefully. Welcome. In the meantime we'll go ahead and roll the videos, we'll get some history on some of the characters and we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Marisha: We'll be back. Go follow. And then we'll pull winners.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst (brawling sounds) Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. (brawling sounds) the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honour, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gun cocks and fires)
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (creature growl and snapping) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow Gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the Elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (sword unsheathing and slashing) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated Elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear -- her own stolen Trinket -- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back guys! We have some interesting aspects of playing tonight Orion Acaba will be here shortly, he's currently stuck in traffic. Unfortunately we will not have a Sam Riegel tonight, due to his schedule.
Ashley: Scanlan?!
Marisha: No Scanlan.
Matt: Laura Bailey and Travis Willingham, our loving Grog and Vex, are out of town in Florida but are Skyping in via modern technology.
Laura: Technology? What's it all about?
Marisha: We can actually see you guys pretty good.
Matt: We're going to try and make this work.
Marisha: It's pretty cool.
Zac: We're getting audio set up right now.
Matt: So we're getting this figured out. They'll stay in play as long as they can. They are three hours ahead of us. To be fair, we have friends across the coast that get up at 4am to watch this
Laura: That's true.
Matt: You should hang around long as you can. (strange monkey noises)
Matt: You should hang around long as you can.
Matt: We can't hear you right now. (strange monkey noises) (more monkey noises)
Matt: It's even better.
Matt: So as they're figuring this out guys. We'll let you know, we've already hit our first milestone for subs.
Matt: So we have a winner. The winner of our first package, which includes the player's handbook signed by everybody, the dice, and one horn of Orcus torn from the forehead of K'varn... Is the esteemed RhymesWithOrange! Congratulations RhymesWithOrange, you are the first winner of the horn. (everyone claps)
Matt: Well done. So we'll get that sent out --
Taliesin: Are you taking a selfie with the iPad?
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: It's alright. So --
Marisha: Thank you again to our friend Kai Norman at KommissarProps for making the horn, go follow him. It's awesome. KommisarProps on Instagram and Facebook
Matt: Our next giveaway is at 3550. And we will give away the second and only other horn, as well as the rest of that package. And at 3600 we're going to do t-shirt signed, dice box, starter kit and we're going to be dancing for you afterwards. Let's see if we can get that by tonight. Also, want to give you guys a heads up, we've wanted to get some confirmation to you guys about the episode releases after the live show. Because we have a lot of people who watch the show who can't watch it live.
Matt: The episodes are available immediately afterward on Twitch if you're a subscriber. So the morning after the show, if you're a subscriber, you get to watch the episodes immediately afterward. Plus you're helping us keep this channel going. All the subscription money goes toward maintaining the channel, all the people that work here throughout the week, all the other amazing hosts and people that actually run the programs here. So you help make this channel function.
Marisha: Only subscribers get access to the archives.
Matt: -- archives immediately. However --
Laura: (coughs) However --
Matt: -- volume.
Matt: To finish this thought, for those who aren't subscribers, episodes do go up now every Monday, that's going to be the confirmed time period of release.
Matt: So you can look forward to episodes up on the Geek & Sundry website every Monday. That's the scenario.
Matt: So, given that case, whenever Orion gets here he'll hop in, in the meantime, let's go ahead and start this game up.
Matt: So.
Ashley: All right here we go.
Matt: So, for those of us who --
Matt: Just a little heads up here, the party has just returned after a long arduous trek through The Underdark, beneath the Dwarven city of Kraghammer.
Matt: They were sent to retrieve a paladin named Lady Kima of Vord, who was on a vision quest to stop some dark evil that her deity Bahamut told her was existing beneath this mountain range, and needed to be squelched.
Matt: The party managed to salvage her from insidious torture, and through her aid as well as a Mind Flayer who had been outcast from the society and the colony nearby.
Matt: They managed to convince to help them as well, fought their way through the tunnels, past the Duergar army, eventually to the underground Mindflayer colony of Yogg Voril where they found that this entity called K'varn. This was then eventually revealed to be a mad beholder, K'varn, who had been pseudo possessed and given additional power by the Horn of Orcus, a great and evil artifact long forgotten, which had been found by this entity. So they managed to make their way into the temple, kill K'varn, tear the horn from it's forehead, however found themselves swarmed immediately by an entire colony of mind flayers heading toward the top of this temple. They managed to battle and battle, nearly losing a few party members, and through some ingenuity, escape through the top, glide over the city of Yogg Voril through this underground chasm to a distant embankment along the beachside of this underground lake. And teleport their way back to their base city of Emon. So they've come back to Emon, they've come to their keep, Greyskull Keep, and they've had an evening of rest. Upon waking the next morning, they've managed to get some breakfast, they've freed Lady Kima from her stone entrapment as she was turned to stone during the battle with the beholder, and had a conversation based around what should or could be done about this Horn of Orcus evil artifact. So here we will pick up again from that point. So the rest of you guys have eaten your meal, Kima hungrily doing so. All of you guys both sore and exhausted having barely seen sunlight for a little over a week and being probably the first or second good meal you've had since leaving Kraghammer proper. You all finish your food, Grog hungrily so, double the size of his normal intake of delicious meats and starches. Tiberius has not seemed to have woken up or found his way down from his room as of yet. However, you guys did recently receive a rolled up piece of parchment. A notification from the council of Tal’Dorei, saying that you have been requested to the council chambers at some point this afternoon, around the mid-day sun, to discuss your return and the situation and conditions about it. And that was all it said.
Liam: I can't remember is Lady Kima with us at this point? Is she unstoned?
Matt: She's unstoned, you've already had the conversation with her last week talking about the horn, basically interrogating her.
Liam: And we said that we had it somewhere safe, but weren't we playing coy with that?
Matt: You were playing coy with it but you --
Ashley: I had gone downstairs to go get Grog.
Matt: Yes, Grog returned with it and you guys had the conversation basically saying ‘Oh, it's safe, don't worry. It's fine’. Grog at which currently has it in the bag of holding.
Marisha: But we haven't told her that it's in the bag of holding right?
Matt: No you just said you have it somewhere safe.
Marisha: We just said we have it somewhere safe.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Turn them up a little bit.
Taliesin: I am highly entertained.
Liam: I think we're getting feedback.
Matt: Oh, I see.
Marisha: Oh yeah, that's us.
Laura: Right! That would be us.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Ashley: We'll figure this out guys.
Marisha: That wasn't too bad.
Matt: This is the new attempt at technology with our out-of-towners.
Taliesin: It's amazing.
Marisha: It's working pretty well.
Taliesin: It is working pretty well.
Marisha: I'm kind of impressed.
Taliesin: Have we actually opened up the parchment and read it yet?
Matt: Yes, you have received it and you've inspected it.
Ashley: It's Tiberius.
Orion: Hey everybody.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Hey boo.
Taliesin: I don't know what's going to happen.
Matt: He's going to crawl under the table. There you have it.
Liam: Good morning sleepyhead.
Orion: Hi guys.
Matt: As a couple hours have passed --
Marisha: Good morning Tiberius.
Orion: Hi. Right.
Orion: Hello.
Orion: Am I here?
Liam: Yes you've just come down the stairs.
Matt: You've just now come down after many hours of breakfast have passed. It's now pushing around 11:00 in the afternoon comparatively, and Tiberius comes storming into the main dining hall of your keep.
Orion: Morning everyone.
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: This is my own bag of holding.
Orion: And I walk over to Grog and I open their bag of holding and take out my wheel of mending and I put it in here.
Laura: You got your own bag of holding?!
Orion: That's what I needed the extra gold for before I left.
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: We're face-timing?
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: Hey! Hi Guys!
Taliesin: Science.
Liam: We are the coolest.
Orion: I was like that's, "That's Laura's voice, where the hell is that coming from?"
Ashley: At least we think we're cool.
Marisha: At least we think we're cool.
Orion: Travis is there too! Sorry!
Orion: I mean.. Yes.
Liam: So Tiberius we're just waiting for you to awake. I think we should probably go and see the emperor, like you do. Talk about the little problem we have.
Marisha: Wait. Where did you go and get a bag of holding in the time of us sleeping and you waking up.
Orion: If you recall, I actually went to Draconia... when we all woke up to begin with.
Marisha: You didn't tell us that.
Orion: Why would I have to tell you?
Marisha: I didn't say you didn't have to, I'm just saying you acted like I should know and I'm saying I had no idea.
Orion: I could have sworn I cast that and said that last game.
Matt: No, you just stayed in your room and did it on your own.
Orion: Oh shit. (all laugh)
Marisha: Yeah. So right now you're crazy to me.
Orion: Right. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm also a little disturbed that it looks like that bag of holding is made of you.
Marisha: Yes it does look like it's made of drag -- that seems cruel.
Orion: Actually this is wyvern skin. We use it in the air force of the Draconian army. And when the --
Ashley: Air force?
Orion: Yes. Draconia has an army, 500 standing, 200 are airborne.
Marisha: But they have an air force?
Orion: Yes. Keyleth: Do they fly-- nevermind.
Taliesin: No, they just blow, they force air.
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: We have trained and tamed wyverns which we have utilized and they are part of our culture.
Taliesin: I've never seen a skinned one.
Orion: Yes. And so I went to the local "shoppe" and purchased a bag of holding because I realized that I did not hold my own wheel of mending for a long time.
Taliesin: That was frustrating you, wasn't it?
Orion: It was extremely frustrating. Especially because it's my artifact.
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Well that's good. It's probably good to have a second one of those.
Marisha: And it comes with water, how handy.
Orion: It holds a lot of things!
Marisha: How fantastic.
Taliesin: We should probably get off to see what the emperor wants.
Orion: Before we do that --
Orion: Where's Scanlan now?
Marisha: Not here.
Matt: Scanlan is currently in the room eating breakfast
Orion: We're all eating breakfast still right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: Not you, you've apparently been globe shopping.
Orion: Right. Scanlan? I was thinking about our last encounter.
Orion: I'm going to take off my ion stone that's kinda chilling.
Orion: This is a particular thing that you've seen me use several times. And I notice in the last couple of battles you've actually literally run out of spells to cast. I propose a friendly trade. The crown on your head allows you to do certain things which you have not utilized the last several rounds you've owned it. It seems you've actually complained about not having extra spells to cast.
Liam: Rounds of what?
Orion: --rounds of battle, Vax.
Liam: Oh.
Orion: I don't know. (all laugh)
Orion: So I assume that you could probably actually use this more. I have a tool that allows me to do it to begin with and it's come in rather handy as you've seen. What say you, Scanlan?
Matt: Scanlan looks to you and thinks for a second and goes
Sam: You know what. I'm going to think on that.
Marisha: (laughs)
Sam: Wait untill I'm more rested and solid and sound mind before I can make any sort of arrangements or trades here. It would be unfair, given our current state of -- (all laugh)
Liam: It's true Scanlan, you should probably wait until you're feeling a little more present.
Ashley: Wonderful plan Scanlan.
Sam: Agreed, agreed.
Sam: A couple hours at the local brothel and all should be fine.
Matt: He cracks his fingers, expectantly.
Liam: Welcome back, even though we didn't know you were gone. I've eaten. The rest of us have eaten --
Ashley: Were you gone all night?
Orion: No, just for about an hour.
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: It was a good trip. I needed it.
Ashley: Just saying hello to family and that?
Orion: No I just literally went to a shop I knew in Draconia and picked up the item. I wasn't sure if they had any in Emon and didn't really want to waste any time looking for one.
Ashley: Well...
Liam: Good on you, shall we go to meet the emperor?
Taliesin: I've eaten, let's politic.
Liam: I think so.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is so --
Matt: Can you guys hear us fine?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Just making sure.
Laura: Too scared to talk is all.
Marisha: Scared to talk?
Liam: Chime in, please.
Matt: Feel free to chime in whenever.
Liam: One of us, one of us.
Travis: Balls. Taint. Ale. Nipples.
Matt: That's our Grog.
Ashley: Hey, there's Grog.
Marisha: Grog!
Matt: As our wonderful giant, now filled with various forms of delicious food matter warm in his belly, gives a string of various curse words in enjoyment, and sits up from the table with a loud fart and you guys make your way out of Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Towards the outer wall of Emon, in towards the entrance to Abedar's Promenade, making your way towards the Cloudtop District where the palace itself resides. Is there any place --
Laura: Is Lady Kima with us?
Matt: Lady Kima is with you, yes.
Taliesin: Good.
Matt: Is there anything else you want to do or are you guys making a beeline for the palace?
Orion: I would like to take another 500 gold from the treasury before we do that. And I do.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wait, what?
Liam: From the treasury.
Liam: You have to ask the treasurer.
Laura: How much do you want?
Orion: Five hundred to replenish the 500 that I initially took. I don’t know if I will have to spend it at all, and if I do, I will completely share my plan with all of you. But I would like to see how what we do plays out next.
Laura: Another 500?
Orion: Yes.
Orion: That's all I do. That's all I want to do.
Matt: Anything else?
Liam: Have we had contact with Allura? Since returning?
Matt: Nuh uh.
Liam: Not yet?
Liam: I feel good about her being at this meeting.
Ashley: Someone just got really excited when we mentioned the name Allura.
Orion: I cast prestidigitation on myself and make robes are all super clean and nice.
Matt: Got you.
Matt: As you guys walk into the center of the Cloudtop District, you can see that her ivory tower, which once collapsed around you, is now standing in it's previous location, seemingly untouched and back to it's original esteemed visual.
Taliesin: That is the question, do we stop in first or do we go straight to --
Liam: Was there a time requested on there?
Matt: It said around the noon day sun. It's probably about 30 minutes give or take.
Liam: Allura's really the only person I trust.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should not walk into the palace with this on us, so to speak.
Liam: We don't have anything on us.
Taliesin: No, we don't, but if we did we should probably deal with it.
Taliesin: What.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: No. Yes. (laughs)
Liam: Tibbsy. Let's go ring Allura's bell.
Travis: I'd like to ring her bell.
Taliesin: It's like having the internet right there.
Liam: So I just start walking off towards Allura's tower.
Orion: I'll follow Vax.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else go with them?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So you guys trek your way towards the northern edge of the Cloudtop District. You round about the series of very nice, fine marbled houses, finely crafted stone. This is the affluent area of Emon proper. It's in the secondary city wall, which of course the upper echelon of merchants and those who have money are offered the secondary form of defense against the town being sieged at all.
Matt: You come around the corner on the fine kind of yellowish cobblestone road, turn, and you get to the point where you can see to the left of you is the giant courtyard that surrounds the outskirts of the palace proper. With the giant steps that lead up to the darkened purple marble that the entire structure is made out of. To your right, there's a few buildings and the white ivory tower that Allura lives in. You approach, the front door is closed. It still remains that giant iron knocker on the front that hangs loosely, like a giant wishbone that you slam into the front of the wooden doorway.
Matt: Give it a couple hits? (Vax nods)
Matt: You can hear it echo throughout the interior of the tall standing tower. A few moments pass, you hear the movement of chain. A creaking of metal and then a -- some sort of large shifting of a wood platform or plank. The door then creaks open and there standing, a little bleary eyed, slept-in a bit, but in the process of getting ready, you see before you Arcanist Allura. Her long blonde hair is half braided. She's in her darkened blue robes. You're used to seeing her in and see -- She opens the door, the sunlight hitting her eye. She protects her vision for a second before they focus on the rest of the group and she goes,
Matt: "My lord, you've all arrived! You've all arrived!"
Matt: And she swings the door opens and runs forward immediately to you, the first person that's there and she gives you a big hug.
Matt: She holds back and gives you a look over.
Matt: Her eyes are opened. You can see how honestly eager and happy to see that everyone's here safe.
Liam: I look over at Tiberius and just short of sheepishly shrug.
Orion: I'm used to it, it's fine.
Matt: She turns over to give Pike a big hug. She makes her way around the rest of the group.
Matt: "You're all... I'm so glad to see you're all back. I've heard there was some difficulties happening in Kraghammer at the time you arrived."
Matt: She turns around and takes your hands, Keyleth, into her own and gives you a nod and a small hug. Goes to Percy and gives you a hug. Goes to Tiberius and gives you a big warm hug.
Matt: She slowly pulls away. She acquiesces to your longer hug... And then... pushes away.
Orion: It is nice to see you again.
Matt: "The pleasure is mine."
Laura: (sings) Awkward. Everyone: (laughs)
Matt: "The pleasure is mine, Tiberius."
Matt: And as she turns around, she sees standing behind the rest of you, there's Kima. There in her now freshly cleaned golden armor that she polished over the evening so she doesn't smell of Duergar sweat and blood anymore.
Liam: We've brought you a present.
Matt: There's this moment where they both look at each other quietly. And then Allura steps forward and says,
Matt: "Kima. Welcome back."
Matt: And they both just run and give this big embracing bear hug. She lifts Kima up and there's a slow spin. You can see this very very strong bond of friendship before she eventually puts Kima down and takes a little bit, she holds her hands for a second. You can see a tear running down Allura's cheek.
Matt: "I was so worried about you."
Matt: And Kima sheepishly turns her eyes to the side and says,
Matt: "Sorry for the all the trouble."
Orion: Story of my life. (all laugh)
Orion: Seriously Matthew?! Come on!
Matt: What?! (all laugh)
Matt: They're good friends.
Liam: Friends! Friends!
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: Friends.
Matt: Your assumptions, dragonborn. (all laugh)
Liam: Don't mug yourself.
Taliesin: That's great.
Liam: Come correct. Don't mug yourself.
Matt: (laughs)
Matt: They take a moment to just nod at each other. She reaches her hand out in front of Kima's head and rustles her hair for a second and says,
Matt: "You had many of us worried sick you can't keep running off like that."
Matt: And Kima says,
Matt: "I know, I know."
Matt: Then Allura turns to the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Thank you all so, so very much. You've done the realm and myself a great service in bringing her back."
Matt: At which point, Kima says,
Matt: "Bring me back? They helped me complete my quest! You've made some strong allies, Allie."
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Marisha: Allie?
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Laura: I like it.
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready. You all look like you could use it to be honest."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "Come. Please."
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Orion: I love tea.
Taliesin: We have a moment we can spend.
Liam: Long story.
Matt: So as you guys all walk into her tower, you remember it untouched from your previous entry here. It's a weird moment to step into a tower that you were once in as it crumbled and folded on itself, to see it as if nothing had ever happened.
Taliesin: Is there a new rug?
Matt: There is not.
Taliesin: Ah-hah!
Laura: Hmm..
Marisha: We're not giving it back.
Laura: We shouldn't tell her about the rug.
Marisha: Don't tell her about the rug.
Matt: You guys step into the center of the room and she's talking to herself for a moment, saying
Matt: "Things have been a bit crazy here, obviously. Now that the floodgates have opened as far as discussions with the council and people who have maintained a backlog for a while. It's been a bit busy. But, this is a wonderful moment to respite. I'm greatly enjoying the company to be honest. Come."
Matt: She guides you all to the center of the chamber. Once again, there's that large stone platform in the center that has a number of the inert runes carved into the stonework. As you all step onto it, she taps her heel against the bottom of it for a second. As she does, all the runes glow with a bright flash of blue and a familiar sensation as that circular platform begins to lift like an arcane elevator, up the center of the tower, going up one, two, three stories. And as you're going up you're seeing certain sections of wooden library shelves set up at odd angles along the top of the arcane tower itself. You can see there are small stairways that lead off into doorways that seem to almost exit into the sky.
Matt: You've gotten into the idea that a lot of these powerful mage-built towers, the inner workings don't really match the outer exterior look. And there are rooms that shouldn't exist at certain points as you lift up.
Liam: I'd like to make a perfunctory insight check just to see if there's anything hinky.
Orion: I'd like to google perfunctory real quick.
Matt: You can do that. Go for it.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: On Allura?
Liam: Yeah, everything's probably fine. That's an 18.
Matt: Best that you can gather, she looks like she's a bit groggy, having slept in recently. But she seems extremely excited you've all returned and seems eager to catch up as far as what has transpired since last you met her.
Matt: The platform continues before it reaches the topmost floor of the tower before the slowing of the stone platform eventually comes to a halt with a slight jostling. The runes fade and you're all on the top floor of the tower once again. This is her main chamber. You can see across the way there is her large cush canopy bed in the far corner. There are a number of desks. There's a small arcane laboratory on the far side. Looks like it's in a bit of disarray, as she's probably in the middle of a project.
Matt: You do hear, as soon as you arrive, it sounds like the whistle of a tea kettle in the distance. At which point, she says,
Matt: "Ah! Allow me."
Matt: And she begins to walk over. She lifts her hand and you see a small drift of arcane energy as her mage hand goes and lifts, takes the water off of it's burner, and begins to absent mindedly mage-hand various teacups out of a large cabinet above the little kitchenette area.
Ashley: That's awesome. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point, everyone's looking around, Kima, amongst the rest of you guys, says,
Matt: "It's been awhile since I've been here. Everything's as grandiose and unnecessarily dressed as it always is. I'm glad you got rid of that old rug though."
Laura: (laughs) (scattered coughing)
Liam: Sorry.
Liam: (coughs)
Ashley: Was there a rug?
Liam: I'm fine.
Taliesin: I don't remember that.
Marisha: Stay cool. Come on.
Travis: This rug?
Laura: Nope.
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: Nope.
Taliesin: Not here.
Matt: Allura, who is now in the process of pulling chairs over and setting up a small sitting arrangement, a semi-circle, and says,
Marisha: It’s so cute.
Matt: "The last time the tower collapsed and I was so rudely assaulted in my living quarters, it appears my rug went missing. It's all right. I've kept my eye out for a new one for some time."
Orion: That was unfortunate.
Liam: Magic, it's tricky.
Orion: I had no idea. I jumped out when that happened.
Taliesin: Speaking of tricky magic.
Matt: She gives a slow, knowing look about the group. And gives a nod like, 'I acquiesce to this, that's fine'.
Marisha: You should have some potted plants, Allura. Like some nice greenery.
Taliesin: You're going to try and feng shui the tower, is that what you--
Marisha: Well, why not.
Taliesin: I don't know.
Matt: "That's not a bad idea. Perhaps we'll discuss this."
Liam: This is silly.
Liam: Allura, it's a long story. Lot of deurgar, lot of mindflayer, lot of mindflayers, and an evil god?
Taliesin: A beholder.
Orion: Yes, moreover, a beholder.
Liam: Yes, but who was pulling the strings behind the beholder.
Marisha: He thought he was an evil god. A beholder with a god complex?
Matt: "Curious."
Matt: At which point, as you say that, she does this with her fingers, and all the chairs rush in underneath you guys. And you're put into a sitting position. As you all sit, she begins to slowly mage-hand over each one of you a freshly poured cup of tea.
Matt: A look of concern comes across her face.
Matt: "So you found your way beneath the city, I assume based on the denizens you've mentioned, into the underdark proper. A beholder you say? Mindflayers you say?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I first off must apologize, I was not aware I was putting you into such dangerous territory."
Orion: Ha! It was really dangerous! It was nothing, filled with just buttholes everywhere. Terrible.
Matt: "That sounds like a terrible city."
Orion: Mhm..
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I apologize for that. I am incredibly grateful you're all seemingly healthy and still here. And you've brought Kima back to us which is very important."
Matt: "Well, I guess this is in order."
Matt: And she sits up for a second and walks over. And you can see she looks back at the rest of you and brushes her hand for a second. A sphere of darkness appears in the corner of the room where you can not see an entire part of the room. And she sits there and hovers. Just a little pocket of darkness.
Marisha: Aw, man.
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Marisha: We've been in darkness so long.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: The sphere of darkness finishes and you see she's holding a sack of coins, that you don't know where she picked them up from.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: She steps back over to her chair, sits down, and says,
Matt: "Just a precaution, I like to keep my private things private. But, a deal is a deal and you've done as you've asked. So as we've discussed, 10,000 gold pieces, to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks."
Laura: I take that. "to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks." (all laugh)
Matt: She hands it out to Vex's eager palm. It's very heavy.
Laura: Good thing I'm strong then, huh?
Matt: With her 9 strength, it sags.
Laura: Sorry about the hand gesture there, stop it. (all laugh)
Matt: Internet.
Matt: She sits back down, says,
Matt: "You tell me what else if anything has transpired, and I'll let you know what you've missed."
Ashley: Well.
Orion: We have Orcus's horn. So that's a thing.
Matt: There's a slight pause before the actual sound of breaking glass hits your ears as the teacup that she's holding shatters across the stonework on the floor.
Matt: Allura, still sitting in her chair, hands in place and says
Matt: "I'm sorry, what did you say?"
Orion: Yes, that beholder butthole that we had to fight, that we had no idea we had to fight, had this Orcus horn on his head. So we took it off and we kept it safe. That's what you wanted I'm assuming, to destroy it.
Laura: But we haven't touched it though.
Orion: No.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: She looks over to Kima, who does this with her shoulders up. Kima gives her a nod and says,
Matt: "To be honest, I wasn't sure that was the end of my journey. But it seems that great evil I talked about before, we killed it and took its source of power. Now we're figuring out what to do with it."
Matt: She gives a sheepish grin and a slight shrug in her armor. Allura looks to the ground for a moment and says,
Matt: "I don't know much of this object you say, but if it was the source of the creature's power, and it carries with it the connotations of Orcus, then this is a very, very ill omen indeed."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "This must be brought before the council immediately."
Orion: Wait.
Marisha: The council?
Orion: The council?
Matt: "The council of Tal'Dorei, the council you are part of."
Orion: That helps.
Ashley: Are you going there, right now, also?
Matt: "Yes, I was summoned to it."
Ashley: We were as well.
Orion: Here's the thing.
Orion: Sorry, Pike. The thing with this particular item is, the more people know about it, the more dangerous it actually becomes. The fact that we even share this information with Kima and with you is a very dangerous thing to begin with.
Matt: "I agree."
Orion: Are the council trustworthy?
Matt: "Those who currently reside on the council are trustworthy, I assure you this. I've done my work with them for many years, and those that have passed have been replaced with equally trustworthy individuals. And, rest assured, I have my checks and balances in place as well."
Liam: I think what we're worried about most is the corrupting nature of this thing. And while the council may have good intentions, I think more than a few of us are somewhat nervous. What effect it might have on them, on us.
Matt: "Can you assess what the mistrust would be to not bring this before the sovereign and the council?"
Orion: Namely, if the immediate want is for it to be immediately destroyed, because that's what needs to happen with anything from Orcus, as you very well know.
Matt: "I understand, and I don't think you'll find anyone who disagrees. But I also don't think you should sow mistrust with the council by keeping any of this information from them."
Marisha: It's not about trust.
Laura: Uriel has been corrupted once already.
Marisha: Exactly.
Matt: "This is true, and was it not by your hand that he was freed and his family kept safe? Understand, that this is a man that owes you him and his family's life. I think he would take in to you, his ear bent in your direction quite strongly."
Marisha: Correct, but couldn't you also safely say that he is therefore fairly easy corruptible? If he had been corrupted before, even not if subconsciously, I'm not saying intentionally, but he clearly...
Matt: "You would know best what was responsible for corrupting our sovereign, as you did fight and one was felled, by it's own strength."
Marisha: I'm saying Lady Allura, that there is essences, there seems to be magical properties to this horn that corrupt even some of the strongest willed individuals.
Matt: "Then we must be rid of it quickly. And I think we need to at least discuss this with the council, if not present it. Bring it to their attention. There are ways, arcane... not very approved ways, of nullifying targeted memories." "The rest of the arcana pentsafocal have banned the use of such magics but if we could have approval, understanding the safety concerns of this object from the council we could override the arcana pentsafocal and I could employ some of these magics to make sure that once this artifact is destroyed or taken somewhere to never be found again, we ourselves perhaps would not recall it ever existed. And that itself is the safest course of action."
Orion: I agree.
Liam: I think that we trust you. And you trust the council. That's enough for me.
Taliesin: That's enough for me as well.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: That's definitely enough for me.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: Just so you know Allura --
Orion: I might have a solution as well for actually destroying it, so I will follow your lead.
Taliesin: I think the best course of action is to trust people.
Liam: And we're incapable of destroying the thing on our own.
Orion: Oh, that's not true at all. I might have a solution which I just shared with Allura. I'm letting her take the lead on this, and when the situation presents itself I might have a solution to destroy it outright.
Laura: Why don't you share that with us now Tiberius, instead of keeping it secret?
Liam: Just give us a rough sketch, maybe? instead of keeping it secret?
Orion: Very well.
Orion: I'll pull out my bag of holding.
Orion: This.
Marisha: The mending wheel?
Orion: No, the bag.
Laura: An empty fist?
Liam: He pulled out the bag.
Marisha: Okay. Would you care to elaborate, Tiberius?
Orion: I'm sorry. This part of the thing I wanted to tell all of you at breakfast. The idea is, with some research I've come to find that if anything is in a bag of holding, and the bag of holding itself is destroyed, the items or whatever go into a somewhat void, that cannot be retrieved by any one particular thing. If we are to have our memories erased, as you say, then it would guarantee that when we place the thing in a bag of holding and destroy that bag, it will then be dissipated into that void.
Matt: At which point, Allura raises her hand and says,
Matt: "Tiberius. You, as a very trained sorcerer, have some knowledge in this regard. I've been crafting bags of holding since I was a child as a way of keeping my weekends busy. I have to notify you that should such a pocket of interdimensional arcane space is disrupted in this way, it doesn't send it into a void. It jettisons the contents into the Astral Sea. The Astral Sea which has many denizens that could come across this object. Githyanki themselves and their great ships."
Orion: I hate yankees.
Matt: "Gith --nevermind."
Ashley: So it could be bad.
Orion: There are things --
Matt: "There are many things that exist in the Astral Sea that could recover this item. I'm not saying there isn't merit to this, but I think it would be best we put it somewhere where at least we know for certain no one will find it, as opposed to just hoping it disappears somewhere."
Orion: But the memory thing is crucial.
Marisha: What about those who might be uncomfortable with toying around with my memories and tramping along around in my head, I don't really want --
Liam: Why don't you think about it for a while?
Travis: My head's pretty fragile as it is.
Liam: We're talking about erasing the path back to this thing, we're not talking about removing your adolescent years from your memory. Just this one thing.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: How many lessons have we learned in just the time. Wouldn't we have to erase all memories surrounding it? We wouldn't even remember our trip into the underdark?
Taliesin: I think we could perhaps just erase the memory of where we put it.
Orion: That is what I assume will happen.
Matt: "That is possible. Like I've said, these magics have not been tampered with in nearly 200 years."
Marisha: So we're gonna break the seal on some untampered-with magics and just experiment.
Matt: "I am part of a group that oversees civilization. I can't go into too much detail but they are responsible for keeping such ancient magics, long forgotten magics such as this. I would have to meet with and discuss and gain approval for its use. But for an item as dangerous as what you say, perhaps this is one of those special occasions."
Liam: She's working for the Illuminati and we're basically the A-team, so I think she might know a little better.
Taliesin: The A-team?
Marisha: What do you think, Pike?
Ashley: I feel like at this point we don't really have another option.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Orion: I'm all tapped out.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Ashley: So I feel like if we just go check it out. I don't really know what our other option is.
Ashley: That was a good one.
Liam: And if we don't like it we can step.
Taliesin: And if we don't like it we can keep thinking of something else. We have time.
Matt: "This is true. And who knows what wisdom the rest of the council might have in their midst as well."
Matt: "They have members from all across the world. We'll see which resources they have at their disposal."
Taliesin: I'm sure they're waiting for us.
Matt: "I am glad to be free of my usual business. Are you guys familiar with the Wilder Fens?"
Liam: Sorry? The Wilder Fens?
Matt: "The Wilder Fens? They're a bloody merchant guild. They've left our chambers in shambles. Look, since you've been gone and the council map has been brought brought up to speed once more, we've had to deal with the backlog of all the various council meetings that have been pushed back and pushed back for months and months. It's been rather nightmarish. So this, all dangerous as it is, I'm taking it as a nice change from the usual, pardon my speaking, political bullshit I've been dragged into on a weekly basis. Between Wilder Fens, and there was the Cortigian League from Wildmount, and they just tore through Emon with a caravan of partying gypsies that destroyed everything in their path."
Marisha: Who?
Orion: Damn gypsies.
Matt: "The Cortian League."
Marisha: The Cortian League.
Matt: "From Wildmount, the north."
Taliesin: We fought stitch monsters, that was mostly what we... it was guns and swords and...
Matt: "It's far more interesting. Most of our guests have been a bit rough around the edges. Although I would say we did manage to meet with Syldor of Syngorn. We have some business there getting Syngorn situated."
Laura: Oh, Syldor!
Matt: "And Lord and Lady Briarwood were rather nice to us when they came into the town. So, business has been... fair."
Taliesin: Shall we take this to the council then?
Liam: Yes, we have pressing matters. We'll get to that later.
Matt: "All right. Let's go to the council then."
Matt: As you guys make your way back down through the tower, you eventually venture through the castletop district in front of the palace. The guards stand there with their long, red, velvet cloaks and their brass breastplates. They recognize both Allura and you as you approach. They step aside, put their spears toward the steps, and give you a grand entrance to the front of the palace.
Matt: As you step up, the front doors open on their own with a large heavy shaking of the wood. As the palace doors open, you are led into the central chambers of the main palace walkway which splits to the right and left, and then across leads into the main throne room. However, you guys are meeting in the council room which is to the left. You've been there twice before.
Matt: So you're led over to the council chambers, which, as you enter the main circular room, you're brought into the nice hardwood floors, the dark forest green colored walls, these long tapestries which recall various battles of history and broad mountainous landscapes showing settlers making their way across dangerous terrain. You can see various weapons from different civilizations that were brought up as gifts to Emon that have been mounted on the walls as presentory atmospheric decor. And in the central room, you can see what currently stands, the entirety of the Tal'Dorei council, in a hushed discussion. The council, of course, has at the center, across the table from you, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei the Second himself. The leader of Emon and the current Sovereign of all of Tal'Dorei, this section of the continent. You see him with his characteristic dark hair, with greying sides, cut shorter than you recall. Looks like he recently got a trim and some very well kept facial hair. He's wearing his ceremonial robes which are the same gold and red color as the armored soldiers that greeted you at the front of the palace. Next to him, you see Lord Riskell Daxio, the elven male who helped you guys handle the purchasing of the keep when you were awarded that at the end of your last journey. He's the Master of Trade currently within Emon. You can see he has long strawberry blonde hair that is pulled into a tight ponytail to the back. He wears darker clothing, more for decoration than actual use. His armor seems to be loose and more decorative. Next to him is Guardian Tofor Brotorus, which you've heard of but have not met before. A female dragonborn paladin.
Marisha: Say that one more time? Guardian who's a what now?
Matt: Guardian Tofor Bratoras.
Marisha: To-for?
Matt: T-O-F-O-R. Bratoras. Her name's been mentioned before but this is the first time you guys have actually seen her in person.
Ashley: It's a girl?
Matt: It's a female dragonborn paladin. She is adorned in full, silvered platinum plate. That has currently carved multiple symbols of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. As she looks up and notices, you can see she gives a hand up, a symbol of greetings towards Kima. As Kima also gives her hand up and they both touch the front of their armor in a symbolic holy way, they both being followers of Bahamut. You immediately make that religious connection between the two of them. She looks across at the rest of the group there that she doesn't seem to notice, eyes meeting with Tiberius. This is strange. You haven't seen very many dragonborn at all within Emon, and as soon as she meets your gaze, she gives you a look of deep, deep stinkeye.
Orion: Hello. My name is Tiberius Stormwind. Of House Stormwind, from Draconia. Tofor: "From Draconia, you say?"
Orion: Yes. I'm sure you've heard of my father Kravanas, my mother Penelope? Tofor: "And perhaps you should close that trap and sit across the table as far from me as possible. "
Matt: She seems to spit the words almost, and sits back in her chair.
Orion: Mind your tongue.
Matt: The rest of the council's talking amongst themselves and hearing this slight discussion. Next to her there is a halfling male, in a ranger-ish garb, wearing what looks like some really fine chain shirt, with a thick dark black cloak. He is shaved bald with tattoos on one side of his face, and he introduces himself.
Matt: "I'm terribly, sorry. I did not mean for there to be any sort of misunderstanding here."
Matt: He gives a slight nudge to Tofor.
Matt: "I do not believe we've met at this time. My name is Seeker Asum Emring. I am the master of secrets here within the council."
Matt: He extends his hand towards you, almost like alleviating the tension.
Orion: Hi. Stormwind here. Seeker Asum: "I assume you're the ones we're waiting for, please have a seat."
Matt: At which the sovereign finishes discussion with another human which you have not met. He is a built and armored individual, stands probably the tallest of the entire group, thick square jaw, unshaven. At which point he puts his hand on the sovereign's shoulder and says,
Matt: "I suppose I should introduce myself as well. I've heard much about you, Vox Machina. I am Arbiter Braum Goldhand. I have recently taken up as of three months ago the position that General Kreig once held within the city. Since he was unfortunately lost to us, there was a need for a new master of law. As since I've had a lot to keep up on. Unable to meet you personally until now, but it is a pleasure. I've heard nothing but great things."
Matt: He sits down in his chair. Allura finds her side of the table and gestures the rest of you.
Matt: "Please, have a seat."
Orion: I stand. I don't sit.
Matt: All right.
Matt: The overeign finishes writing some papers, rolls them up, snaps twice, and a gentleman comes by. He hands him the papers and says,
Matt: "Get this to Lady and Lord Briarwood as soon as possible, thank you."
Matt: "All right. First of all, I want to welcome you all back. It's been a few weeks since we've seen each other. I've been recently given word that you unceremoniously appeared in the center of the Lyceum not but twelve hours ago, worse for wear. So I would like to know, first off, why you've returned in the center of our city. And I want to see how you've all been these past few weeks. I apologize if I'm a bit scattered I’ve had a few things on my mind as of late. But yes, how is Vox Machina."
Liam: If I may. We didn't choose to dump ourselves right in the middle of the city. That was born out of necessity, not out of choice. The task we set out to finish proved a lot more complicated than originally perceived. Frankly, I worry about the safety of the city of Kraghammer. Underneath their home down in the bowels of the earth, I'm don't know how much the council knows about the race of the illithid. We stumbled into a veritable hornets' nest of them below the city.
Matt: Most faces are blank. Allura has her hands on the table, listening intently. As you say illithid, you do notice that Seeker Asum Emring, the halfling, immediately sits back in his chair with a look of 'oh, snap'.
Liam: I see a lot of blank stares at this table. I wasn't very familiar with them either. There is an entire city in the underdark beneath Kraghammer. And... ... in their midst was a beholder that was controlling the entire city. We ended up destroying it, barely escaping with our lives. Fleeing the city... destroying a god? I think.
Laura: I don't think we destroyed the god.
Orion: The beholder is merely a demi-demon.
Laura: Yes, it was something he had possessed, but the god still lives.
Liam: Yes, but Orcus was behind the beholder.
Marisha: We just have the horn.
Liam: We killed K'varn and then he got back up again. He didn't get himself back up.
Marisha: Because Orcus is a god of necromancy and undeath.
Orion: That's what the horn did. It brought him back to life when he would die. That's why I ripped it out when we did it because I knew that's what was going on. That's what the horn does.
Liam: I just worry that it's not just an appliance. It's got hidden in it something --
Orion: It absolutely has -- Remember, it laughed at me when I tried to crush it --
Liam: --is what I'm saying.
Matt: Allura looks at you strangely.
Matt: "Tiberius, you sound different."
Orion: I was talking to --
Matt: I know.
Liam: Be that as it may we riled up a city of --
Taliesin: Mind flayers.
Liam: Buttholes as Tiberius would call them. -- very unhappy race of things below the surface of the earth. Now, we're here today because Tiberius, crafty as he is, was able to flee ahead of us and create a portal back here. We ended up falling ass over tea kettle in the Lyceum, so here we are.
Matt: "Well, welcome back."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "It's glad to see you're safe."
Liam: We've brought a little bit of the evil with us.
Matt: At which point the table gets extremely uncomfortable, suddenly. As everyone steps back, Kima steps forward. She's kept to the back at this point, and says,
Matt: "It's all right. I will speak for this group as you also know of their exploits and their abilities. They saved me from what was probably certain death and torture and aided me in stopping what darkness was beneath Kraghammer. At least what we could. But, listen to what they have to say and understand they are as trustworthy as they come."
Matt: At which point the sovereign lifts a hand up to her and says,
Matt: "Well Kima, your word is trusted and I appreciate you also have returned to us healthy. So. What is this evil you bring with you?"
Liam: We have it stored safely away.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: But this beholder... ... was using an artifact, a horn. Emanating darkness and shit. And Tiberius, in the heat of the battle, ripped it from its pate. And we brought it back with us.
Marisha: It is one of the two horns of Orcus.
Matt: At that notification, you say the name Orcus, and you can see there's a whole energy shift in the room at which point. A lot of furrowed brows drop to intense. The actual air of the room seems to go still for a moment. From what you can see, Seeker Asum and Tofor both grit their teeth and lean forward as you say this. Tofor says, Tofor: "You said Orcus?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Orion: Are you deaf?
Marisha: Tiberius.
Taliesin: Manners.
Liam: We see the apprehension written on your faces and we are nervous as well. But the alternative was leaving the horn with these illithid. Hundreds if not thousands of illithid. We had to make a judgement call rather quickly, and... ... frankly leaving it there with them seemed like it wasn't an option. Tofor: "You've done right in bringing it here. This has to be destroyed. Sent as far away-- If this is indeed an artifact of Orcus, it cannot exist on this plane."
Taliesin: Plans must be drawn up.
Marisha: That's kind of what we thought.
Orion: Yes we knew this already.
Matt: At which point Kima steps forward and says
Matt: "Now, understand this is not something you can lock in a box, or put some guards around it. There was a reason this was forgotten and needs to be again. With the proper surrounding strength and formidable individuals, I can take it to the grand chantry in Osthania where the High Paladin Archibald will reseal it. Far away from the eyes and minds of the world. Lest we can come up with some sort of way to destroy this item."
Matt: At which point the Arbiter, Braum, steps forward. Arbiter Braum: "If you think there's possibly a way to destroy this, we need to discover this here. We cannot allow it outside of the midst of this, to some chaotic winds and whim of the world around us. We have the walls of Emon to keep it safe. Why not take it to the Lyceum."
Liam: I want to make an insight check on the whole table.
Travis: Dang.
Taliesin: I want to also double-check, who was it that handed off the letter to the Briarwoods?
Matt: That was the sovereign.
Taliesin: Sovereign? Thank you.
Matt: So which individual, the Arbiter?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, Arbiter Braum. What'd you roll?
Liam: Just a ten.
Matt: Ten?
Ashley: Can I insight the seeker?
Matt: Sure.
Matt: What's your insight roll?
Ashley: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Okay.
Taliesin: I would like to insight the sovereign just because, reasons.
Ashley: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: One.
Matt: Starting the game off strong guys.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Taliesin: I'm just an idiot thinking.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Liam: Yeah, I think so too. You're awfully quiet.
Laura: I'm going to insight check as well!
Laura: Because Matt can totally whisper to me if I get this good.
Liam: He'll text you.
Matt: I'll text it to you.
Liam: Roll high.
Laura: Hold on, I'm looking.
Travis: She's rolling.
Laura: Seventeen.
Matt: Eleventeen?
Travis: Seventeen!
Laura: Seventeen!
Matt: A total of 17?
Liam: Eleventy-seven.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: On which individual?
Liam: Which person at the table, sis?
Laura: You.
Liam: Your brother?
Laura: Oh no! On the deep voiced guy!
Ashley: The Arbiter.
Matt: Okay. Arbiter Braum.
Laura: Yes, the arbiter. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You!
Liam: Why you gotta be like that, huh?
Matt: I'll say in a general feel about the room, but the arbiter specifically, There is definitely a very quick rising in tension, fear, and adrenaline in the room at this conversation. Fear is the main thing you're getting. I wouldn't say that you sense any deception. You just sense that the stakes have just suddenly jumped from what they were expecting their morning to be. They're trying to wrap their head around it. So nothing too particular catches your shit radar.
Laura: All right.
Travis: We are not leaving the horn here.
Laura: No..
Taliesin: We would have to leave you here.
Matt: As Grog speaks up for the Arbiter, he says, Arbiter Braum: "I'm not saying we leave it here. I'm saying that while we have it here, we have it studied. Bring it to the Lyceum. The headmaster and his entire research facility could possibly find a way to destroy it. There is no finer arcane focus than that lyceum in the city. They're responsible for the construction of our sky ships. And the crystals that keep them elevated."
Orion: I love skyships.
Laura: I believe the power would be too great. It will corrupt. People will want to take it for themselves. Arbiter Braum: "Then it has to be taken elsewhere and sealed. Like Kima was requesting."
Marisha: So you're saying essentially our two options are we can either keep it here and study it to try and figure out a way to destroy it and have all of the risks of this horn being inside the city or we take the other massive risks of trying to ship it off somewhere and hope that it gets sealed away?
Matt: At which point, Tofor the female dragonborn sits up in her chair and says, Tofor: "Regardless. It should not stay here in my opinion. Understand the longer it resides within Emon, the more word will spread. And more despots will be drawn to our city to claim it. Do you wish to have all the darkness of this land slowly swarm in on the city?"
Liam: I think we're of a like mind.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I think we should take it from the city.
Marisha: I think it's a giant target on our backs right now.
Orion: I turn to the Arbiter.
Orion: There is something that you should know. During our battle with K'varn, which was the name of the beholder, which the horn resided upon its head. When I ripped it from its head, I held it in the telekinesis state. I attempted to crush it for not knowing what it was at first. Just knowing it was bringing creatures back to life. When I attempted to do so, I heard somewhat of a laughter in the back of my mind. I fear whatever this is attached to might be aware, or if anything, more aware than it was previously. I'm not sure if it was alerted by being placed on the beholder's head to begin with, but I heard something.
Orion: Looking at Tofor.
Orion: I agree with the peasant. That we should get it out of here immediately.
Matt: At which point the sovereign who's been kinda quiet this moment, says,
Matt: "Well. Best I can tell at this point, it should not stay in Emon. We've had enough trouble in this city and enough issues here that we're having to deal with in the aftermath of the attack on my family. We do not have the mental will nor the ability to withstand any sort of assault either from the inside or the outside of the city. If we are to take it elsewhere I trust the opinion of you, of Kima, and Allura."
Matt: At which point Allura takes a moment and says,
Matt: "Just the knowledge of such a thing existing, let alone two, in this world is dangerous. Who knows what horrors an individual could achieve should they find both horns. Now, wherever this gets taken, the knowledge that all of us know that these exist now, and anyone else beyond this, means that that's a leak. That's a weakness. Now I've heard of some magics that can erase selective memories permanently. Ancient magics."
Matt: At which point as she starts saying this, the rest of the room shifts uncomfortably. You can see Tofor begins to raise her hand to protest. Allura shuts her down and says,
Matt: "But, I'd not employ these unless they were absolutely necessary. I need to speak with the Arcana Pentsafocal and see if this is such a strange and necessary circumstance to allow the use of such magics. That will take me some time to get the entire conclave to agree, but I think it's possible. It may be the only way, if we can not destroy this, to make sure that the rest of this world never knows that it existed. I think that's the safest route. As for getting it out of the city I feel that we have two individuals here, two followers of Bahamut, both the deity that saw the deity, brought the vision to Kima, and presented, whether in a roundabout way, the power and strength of these individuals to eventually retrieve it and prevent it from being an artifact that instrumentally destroyed the dwarven city and quite possibly all of Tal'Dorei. So I think if there was a god whose guidance we can look into, I would put my trust in the clergy of Bahamut."
Matt: She looks to Kima. Kima nods her head.
Orion: Of course we'd agree with such sentiments as well.
Matt: Kima raises her maul and says,
Matt: Well then, if that's to be the case, "I'll send word over to the rest of my temple. We'll send over our finest paladins, clerics, and guardians. Prepare a box for travel. We'll take it across the sea. Then we shall seal this bastard."
Orion: Kima.
Travis: Yeah! Oh. Sorry. (all laugh)
Orion: Kima, when you do approach your king, propose because Orcus's horn is pure black evil, perhaps the side of light can help as well. The blessing of Sarenrae and other light sources, divine powers, could be helpful as well.
Matt: "The horn will remain here until the vessel is brought over. But we have holy vessels specifically designed for the keeping of remains or things that are of great evil. We would gladly welcome the blessing of something from Sarenrae as well. After all, there is nothing wrong with more positive energy instilled to maintain such a negative force."
Marisha: I personally don't trust this horn travelling anywhere without at least one of our supervision.
Matt: At which point the sovereign speaks up and says,
Matt: "And to be completely honest, we are very grateful you've brought the horn here. But you are a motley crew. Who is to say any of you are also immune to this corruption as well? Who's to say you eight carry the mental willpower to withstand this darkness any better than a group of paladins designed and trained their entire lives to withstand and destroy this evil. What assurance do I have that your attachment to nature will not become some dark, brambled, twisted, thing in the proximity of this artifact? None. Just keep that in mind."
Orion: I look to the group and do this to Scanlan. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Taking quite advantage of his current state of mind.
Orion: You have no idea what I'm going to do for the rest of this game.
Travis: You literally do that to Scanlan. Like you... to Scanlan?
Orion: No, I was pointing at him.
Liam: Right in the ear.
Matt: Wet willy. To our little gnome bard.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: We miss you Sam.
Matt: Uriel looks around.
Matt: "Well, given the circumstance I would say that our best bet now is to have Kima and Tofor reach out to the grand chambers of Bahamut. Have them bring a vessel and seal it somewhere that they find fit for an object of this dark presence. Is the council in agreement of this? Unless some other, better means arises. How long will it take for this vessel to arrive?"
Matt: At which point, Kima scratches her chin for a second.
Matt: "By the fastest ships, especially if we're using some of your fancy sky dinghies. I can't imagine more than two weeks?"
Marisha: Two weeks?!
Matt: At which point --
Orion: That's 14 days, your highness.
Marisha: (sighs)
Laura: That was adorable.
Ashley: A fortnight?
Matt: At which point Allura stands forward and says,
Matt: "It's in the means of --"
Marisha: You guys don't have any holy ships here. You don't have like a ship dock?
Orion: I'm sure if they did they would probably use that one.
Taliesin: But I'm using it. (all laugh)
Matt: At this point Allura sits forward and to the rest of the group, says,
Matt: "To be fair Kima, in my experience and knowledge, ships function well for the movement of goods and large objects. The speed of this requires some expediting and I happen to have a friend who is over in Osthania, probably not far from your clergy. Perhaps we can facilitate a two-day travel?"
Matt: At which point the group leans back for a second and Kima goes,
Matt: "Well fine. Yeah, I guess."
Matt: Shoots a dirty look a little bit to --
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on Allura really quick?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: She's saying a ship will be ready in two days or take two days to travel?
Matt: Allura's saying,
Matt: "Depending on the size of this vessel, why do we even need a ship? We have the ability to transport between the cities. If we can pool our resources, there's no reason why we can't bring them here nearly instantaneously."
Marisha: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Best you can tell, Allura's really hard to read. She keeps up her smile but she definitely has her intense face on. She's deep in the moment. No real gives one way or the other. The rest of the group looks around and Arcanist in the silence goes,
Matt: "Well then, I think that me and Kima and Tofor, if you'd like, we can designate a way of bringing this relic container as fast as possible so we can get this going. I wish not to keep this within our presence much longer. Do we agree to that?"
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: I think we would feel comfortable going along for the ride and seeing this thing through to the end.
Matt: She glances over to the sovereign. The sovereign nods.
Matt: "Very well. Very well, I'll allow it. I may have some business for you coming soon so try not to be gone too long. Although this is much more important business, I do agree."
Matt: Then he gives a laugh and smile to raise a bit of levity in the room that nobody seems to respond to.
Matt: "But nevertheless if you wish to travel and see this through I don't see there would be any complaint."
Matt: He looks to Lady Kima and Kima says,
Matt: "No, not at all. We've gotten along swimmingly so far. Mostly. Very well. I'm bad at this political stuff."
Matt: Kima steps back a little bit, Kima: "I defer to the rest of you."
Matt: Puts her maul on the ground and awkwardly looks away. The sovereign goes,
Matt: "Very well. It is settled. Reach out to your clergy. Bring the vessel. Allura, facilitate its arrival. We will get this artifact as far away from Emon as possible. This is adjourned. Thank you all very much for coming to this council meeting."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to catch the sovereign on his way out.
Matt: All right. At which point everyone gathers the rest of their papers, their parchments, they're rolling up scrolls. The Arbiter gets up and lumbers his way out of the room. The seeker, Asum, steps up to the rest of you with a final handshake.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you all, once again, I've heard so much. You're doing fine work."
Matt: He seems strangely nervous. But in a weird way, he's a gentle hint of fanboy.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: I wink at him. (all laugh)
Matt: He slyly winks back on his way out.
Matt: As he exits, Tofor stands up. You've only seen her sitting since you arrived. As Tofor stands in her female dragonborn form, she is probably a good solid foot taller than Tiberius. And is a thick musclebound dragonborn paladin of Bahamut. Her armor shifts as she stands, she begins to make her way towards the door, not even with a glance in your direction.
Orion: That means she's as tall as you, Grog.
Travis: What?
Orion: She's as tall as you.
Marisha: I just whisper to Tiberius and say,
Marisha: Are all the ladies that big in Draconia?
Orion: It all depends. Not really.
Matt: She's bigger than usual.
Orion: She's a wretched peasant so I can not.
Marisha: That's so mean.
Liam: That's a little harsh.
Matt: Allura stands up and begins to leave. The sovereign stands up and as he stands up the guards come out and they come to his side.
Taliesin: Good Sovereign, if I can have a moment? Did I hear correctly that Lord and Lady Briarwood were in town?
Matt: "They were but a week ago."
Taliesin: They were but a week ago? And they've left, have they?
Matt: "Yes. Do you know of Lord and Lady Briarwood?"
Taliesin: Just in passing. Did they have business in town? Was there something in particular? I'm just curious. It doesn't really matter. I mean it does matter but not particularly.
Matt: "It was relatively routine, we're establishing an official trade route through the northeast. Spanning the Boreal Plane to Whitestone."
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: "They inherited the region after the unfortunate demise of the Derolo family."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "However our ambassador has noted that they've rebuilt rather well and honored the memory of the family and they're really committed to reestablishing the foothold of Whitestone in the north. So they came here on a diplomatic mission to open trade."
Taliesin: That's nice. I would love to. Please, keep it quiet, but if I could be notified if they're coming through again. I would like very much to surprise them, if that would be possible.
Orion: Am I standing next to Percy? Am I hearing this?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Good.
Taliesin: It's just old business. It would be very interesting to see them again.
Matt: For the sake of this conversation, I'm going to ask you to roll a deception check.
Taliesin: Okay. Natural 20.
Marisha: (cheers)
Orion: (claps)
Marisha: On the new pretty die.
Taliesin: Don't fuck with me.
Matt: The Sovereign gives you a look and says,
Matt: "Certainly. Very well, I will notify you should they come through again."
Taliesin: Deeply honored by your thought, sir. Thank you.
Orion: At the end of this conversation I'm going to rip off a piece of the scroll of telescription and I'm going to approach.
Orion: When you do, all you do is write the message to this and we will receive it. It's an enchanted parchment. I will receive the message.
Matt: He tells you,
Matt: "I know how these work. Yes, thank you."
Matt: As you present it, he walks by and one of his guards takes it from you and gives you a nod.
Matt: They exit the chambers. You guys are escorted out into the main hallway of the palace.
Ashley: Bye!
Matt: The rest of the council
Matt: The rest of the council scatters amongst the palace proper. You are all left. The doors close behind you and the echoing hallways towards the central left side of the palace.
Taliesin: (sighs)
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: You're sweating.
Taliesin: I know.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: Why are you sweating?
Taliesin: It's hot.
Marisha: What happened?
Taliesin: Nothing. The sun comes up and it gets very hot. I'll tell you later.
Orion: Very good.
Taliesin: This is discussion for later. There's more important things.
Matt: Kima and Allura are near you. At which point, Kima looks at the rest of you and says,
Matt: "I apologize, I have to figure this out now. So I'm going to head to the nearest temple of Bahamut and see if we could reach out quickly."
Marisha: What should we do?
Matt: That's up to you.
Matt: She looks to Allura, questioning Allura.
Matt: "In the event of this blessed chamber arriving, you will be notified. We will request your presence to bring the artifact in question, seal it, and then we will begin our journey over to its place of hopeful destruction and/or proper banishment."
Ashley: Would you like anyone to go with you or you just want to go alone?
Matt: "To?"
Ashley: To work out the details of all of this?
Matt: Allura says,
Matt: "For me, it's just preparation of the arcane transference ritual. I'm going to go meet with a friend of mine over in Ostania."
Taliesin: I will say we haven't replenished our potions yet. And we could go --
Ashley: Should we go to visit our old friend?
Marisha: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Marisha: Gilmore?
Ashley: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Ashley: Gilmore's Glorious Goods?
Marisha: You essentially want us to wait?
Matt: "Whatever business you need to get done. It should take no more than two days to get this taken care of."
Marisha: You guys, we have a weekend! (all laugh)
Liam: This is Allura and Kima who are here?
Matt: Yeah, they're the only two who have stayed behind with you guys outside of the council chambers.
Liam: I take Pike by the hand and I walk over to Kima. And they're short so I kneel down. I say to the both of them.
Liam: I've never pretended to be a man of the cloth, I know little of the gods. But the brush we had down below has left me shaken. What can the gods tell us? The gods stick their noses into our doings whenever it pleases them. Are they not here? Have they anything to say for what is happening now?
Marisha: I'm with this guy! High five Vax.
Matt: At which point-- did you wish to respond in any way?
Ashley: Well, I just know that I tried to have a response from my god down below and she didn't really respond the way I would have liked for her to. But maybe things will be different. What were you going to say?
Matt: At which point Kima looks to you, at what you just said with curious worry.
Matt: "Well, if what you say is your faith has been shaken, there is always room at the temple of Bahamut to find redemption, strength, and guidance. You realize the platinum --"
Marisha: She's trying to get you to come to her church.
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: She's trying to convert.
Marisha: She's trying to convert! Get the leaflet.
Matt: "The platinum dragon has guided much of civilization's growth, expansion, and survival for thousands of years. The eternal battle between him and the darkness that is Tiamat and the chaos beyond that --"
Marisha: With all due respect, Kima, I don't think that was Vax's question.
Matt: "To get to the point, I apologize. The gods are many and the gods have been at war for as long as we exist. There are some that believe we are nothing but the aftermath of their squabbles. But nevertheless, there is much good in this world that guides us to our ultimate destiny. And if you yourself ever feel that you are lost amongst this chaos, don't ever be afraid to stop in and ask a few questions."
Liam: I was just wondering if I could ask you to ask them, to maybe help. I would never think to ask the gods for help if I wanted a shiny new sword or pile of riches, but this is something different.
Travis: Unless they could get us a pile of riches.
Laura: Or a shining sword.
Liam: Good boy. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point Kima laughs to herself.
Matt: "There are benefits to being of the order."
Matt: Kima who does not have an accent and did not say it that way. Too many NPCs in my head right now. She says,
Matt: "But, understand. Whenever I felt lost, which was often. It's good to have that guiding warmth to turn to. And sometimes it brings you into a subterranean mountain being tortured by dwarves. Sometimes it guides you to new friends and allies. Strange the way the gods work. But, when you put your all into it, they've kept me alive so far."
Ashley: That's a really good point. I guess that's a positive way to look at it.
Marisha: I really like long walks in the forest when I'm feeling disconnected.
Ashley: That works too, you know.
Travis: Lady Kima, do the gods allow you to have relationships?
Matt: Kima, you ask this and she gives you a look of confusion, and then… She already a darker complexion for a halfling but her cheeks grow noticeably ruddier. She averts her gaze and says,
Matt: "Well..."
Travis: I start trying to do my best Vax wink.
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: --Vex wink. (all laugh)
Matt: She averts her gaze and goes,
Matt: "Well, as far as I know it is not a vow of chastity within the order."
Travis: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: She still is looking away. She looks away and looks to the rest of you. Looks to Allura. Looks to you again. And then goes,
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Taliesin: You did this.
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Matt: She leaves the group and continues down the hallway. Quick steps.
Ashley: Bye, Kima! Quick steps.
Liam: A lot of math involved in that equation.
Marisha: Yeah...
Matt: Allura chuckles to herself and steps into the place where she was and goes,
Orion: I care not to solve the puzzle.
Matt: "Oh, as a note. Be careful who you ask those questions to, you may get an earful."
Matt: And Allura smiles and motions towards Kima.
Matt: "Don't get me wrong, you're more than welcome to explore as you like, but that's a rabbit hole my friend."
Travis: A rabbit hole, is that what we're calling it these days?
Matt: You feel a gentle slap from some unknown arcane force across your cheek Grog. And Allura gives you a stern glare.
Marisha: Oh, don't talk about her girl that way.
Liam: Don't make me take my earrings off.
Matt: Anyway.
Matt: "So two days. We'll call for you when the item is to be transferred and properly brought to its destination. In the meantime, prepare as you see fit, enjoy this well-earned rest, and we'll take it from there. I have much travel to do myself. See you all very soon."
Matt: She begins to step up the hallway. As she steps up the hallway, you can see there's a light yellowish glow about her form. Then with a sudden flash of white light, Allura's just gone.
Marisha: So guys. I'm thinking we take a local tour of all the historical highlights of Emon. We've never really gone sightseeing, Then maybe we can catch a nice dinner in the city tonight.
Laura: Oh, look at the time.
Travis: Oh, it's getting so late.
Marisha: It's 1pm. We've got the whole day
Taliesin: It feels like eight. It really feels so late.
Marisha: I picked up one of these pamphlets while we were in the palace and apparently there's a nice natural history museum.
Taliesin: Gilmore's? Gilmore's?
Orion: Your highness, what is a pam-phlet?
Taliesin: Gilmore's?
Orion: Oh, a lot of paper.
Taliesin: I'll be at Gilmore's.
Orion: Oh, it's like a mini book!
Marisha: It's like a tiny scroll.
Orion: It has pictures!
Marisha: Yes!
Orion: Look, Percy!
Taliesin: I'm already heading towards Gilmore's.
Liam: I'm following Percy.
Travis: We're going to Gilmore's, too.
Matt: All right. You guys exit and find your way, exiting the palace and the cloudtop district to make your way to Abedar's Promenade to enter and reunite with your good friend Gilmore.
Matt: We're going to take this moment to take a break, use the restroom, get some food.
Taliesin: We're at two? Are we at two more?
Zac: Giveaway time!
Matt: Oh, it's giveaway time. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, so we have --
Matt: Oh no.
Marisha: Snuggle Lord?!
Marisha: It's a Snuggle Lord variant!
Taliesin: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord.
Liam: There he is. (all cheer)
Marisha: Snuggle Lord has returned!
Matt: There you go, there is Snuggle Lord in his glory.
Marisha: No, not the horns of Orcus!
Orion: No, now he has the power! (all laugh)
Zac: We hit our second giveaway. (all cheer)
Zac: We're going to give one of these away. All you have to do is be active in the chat room, guys. So, if you're watching full screen, get out of full screen, be active. She can't see it, can she?
Matt: No, she can see it though.
Marisha: Can't see.
Marisha: Can you see it? Gotta tilt it down a bit.
Laura: There we go, it's so cute.
Zac: All right guys be active in the chat room. We're going to let these guys take a break. When we come back from the break, we'll announce the winner.
Marisha: Do we have a word?
Zac: Oh yeah, go for it.
Marisha: Here we'll use the word KommissarProps in the chat room.
Zac: I'll have to go set it up. Okay, I gotta run.
Matt: Go set it up. So hold that thought, until he starts it. The word will be KommissarProps.
Marisha: Say KommissarProps and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook
Matt: These horns will be yours. and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook because he was awesome enough to make these horns for us. So Instagram and Facebook, that's where all the pretty pictures are.
Matt: You yourself can be corrupted by the evil of Orcus.
Marisha: You yourself can be corrupted if you go and find him.
Taliesin: Watch him while he sleeps.
Matt: You and RhymesWithOrange can be the two keepers of the two horns of Orcus and bring ruin to the entire world of Exandria. So that could be you. Anyway, we're taking a break. We'll see you guys back here in a little over ten minutes and we'll continue as they head towards… Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Taliesin: Gilmore's!
Matt: All right, I gotta prepare. See you soon guys.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. We’re about to get in some game time again here in a second, but first we have our second winner to win the second horn of Orcus for the evening’s giveaway. We’re really excited to announce the winner of the second player’s handbook signed by the group, the dice kit, as well as this horn, is Ember72.
Matt: Ember72, congratulations.
Travis: Ember72!
Matt: You get to have this one. It’s awesome, really stoked. We now have both of these horns given away. And while these are the only horns of Orcus that’ll be out there, our fantastic propmaster over here, Kai, Kommissar Props, will be working with us in the future to do more Critical Role-based prop giveaways. And once again, definitely check out his work, he’s an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Ashley: Those are the only two? he’s an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Matt: These are the only two that’re gonna go out.
Taliesin: They’re the only two in the world.
Ashley: That’s really special.
Taliesin: They’re the only two in the world.
Zac: At 3600 we’ll do the starter kit, t-shirt --
Ashley: That sounded insincere, but I really meant it.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: That did sound insincere.
Matt: We’ll see somewhere down the road. If we want to put out more stuff, we’ll see. But right now these are just an exclusive giveaway. Excited for those two guys. So everyone once again for Rhymeswithorange and Ember72, congratulations on those bits.
Marisha: Or maybe if you follow Kommissar Props, we’ll do another giveaway to the people who follow him.
Matt: Helping friends out because they do awesome work. Congratulations on that. If we can get to 3600 we’re gonna be doing some dance after the show, so hopefully we can hit that subscriber number tonight.
Zac: Plus giveaway.
Matt: Plus giveaway. Plus the signed t-shirt, the dice box, starter kit, so.
Matt: Good stuff. All right, bringing us back to the game.
Ashley: Gilmore!
Matt: So you guys, you make your way outside of the Castletop District into the center of Emon proper. Returning to Abedar’s Promenade, which is the largest central section of the city, where most of the merchantile itself seems to have gathered and been a serious conglomerate where all business in this city happens. Those who would like a quick little visual idea of the city, this is Emon.
Matt: Right there. It’s a small little -- --there is an amazing printout of this that they’ve, actually Laura and Travis, have framed and put up in their room sometime. We’ll have to go ahead and bring on the show and show you guys.
Laura: We’re gonna bring it to put on the set. At some point.
Matt: Yeah, we’ll have it too. Anyway, the Castletop District is here, the inner portion. You guys have made your way out south to the Central District and then towards Abedar’s Promenade, which is right over here. So you guys would’ve gone this way, actually. So you’re out to Abedar’s Promenade in the far eastern side of Emon, where you eventually find your way to the outskirts of your favorite purveyor of arcane mystical artifacts.
Marisha: Gilmore!
Matt: Shaun Gilmore himself.
Marisha: Shaun Gilmore.
Matt: So as you guys --
Ashley: Is that his first name?
Marisha: I didn’t know Shaun was his first name either.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I didn’t know Shaun was his first name either.
Taliesin: You’ve not been paying attention.
Matt: Shaun Gilmore, but you’ve always called him Gilmore.
Marisha: We’re on a first-name basis now, guys.
Matt: No one’s on a first-name basis with Gilmore.
Marisha: We are.
Matt: Gilmore is Gilmore.
Marisha: Except for maybe Vax over there.
Matt: Except for maybe, maybe Vax.
Matt: So at this point now you’re pushing about two in the afternoon. It’s extremely busy, you can hear the clopping of horse hooves on the ground, people are walking past. You’d swear as you’re stepping through the city, maybe a handful of people tend to stop and watch you guys walk through, stunned. Almost like they’d seen a celebrity on the street, as the most recent makeup of the Winter’s Crest festival was a celebration of you being the heroes who saved the city of Emon and the sovereign and his family. Apparently you are now recognizable within the city of Emon.
Liam: My sister winks.
Travis: Yeah we are.
Matt: All right, so Vax wills Vex to wink. Vex, do you accept this wink from your brother?
Laura: I do.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Other way.
Matt: Perfect, there you go.
Laura: Just a little more.
Matt: Perfect. We’ve lined it up. As you walk across the main thoroughfare, you make your way to the wide but single-story building that is Gilmore’s Glorious Goods. Of all the various shades of brown and red and brick that makes up all these buildings, Gilmore’s Glorious Goods is presented in fine, deep blue and purple fabric and a paint scheme that would look like the worst funhouse to enter. Worst or best, depending on your opinion. The entranceway is not a door but a series of hanging beads and large cloth drapes that are gently falling to be brushed aside as you enter. It’s not as big as you remember, or recall, seemingly. But as you step through the front door you remember why. Much like the TARDIS, the interior of Gilmore’s Goods is bigger on the inside. There is a magical enchantment based within this building where the interior is actually a two-story and much larger place of business. Immediately the smells of incense and fine perfumes assault your nose --
Travis: Ugh! fine perfumes assault your nose --
Matt: Like a terrible medieval Sephora.
Liam: Like coming home.
Ashley: Medieval Sephora.
Matt: A series of magically flickering ever-burning candles adorn sconces along the walls. You can see there are glass cases set out in the center of the room, there is the long wooden bar on the far end which has itself its own beaded curtain that is closed, and there are three employees of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods in their ceremonial blue and purple robes that match the exterior, staring about while there a number of other possible customers that are looking about. There are numerous bookshelves along the walls. You can see there is, next to the stairway on the far left side of this floor, there is an herbalist who specializes in dried herbs and sales in that regard. You haven't been to the upstairs yet in this complex. But you now are standing back in the comfortable, although slightly offensive to your senses, interior of Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Liam: I'm scanning the entire store for him. I want to find him.
Matt: He's not currently visible.
Liam: Oh! He's not here?
Matt: He's not visible. Not in the main room.
Liam: All right.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Laura: Brother.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: You should get that evil Clarota helmet checked out and see what all good it does us.
Liam: What, this one?
Laura: Yep. That one.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Marisha: I say you'd be the point man here.
Liam: I think so.
Orion: I would agree.
Ashley: I think that's a really good plan.
Taliesin: I second that notion. Quintuple it.
Marisha: Yeah. The twinsies should go.
Liam: Start looking around. Start shopping. Don't pay for anything yet, because I have an arrangement.
Ashley: He can get a little discount.
Laura: He can get a little wink, wink, nudge, nudge discount.
Marisha: I go up to Vax. I put my hands on his shoulders, and I say,
Marisha: You got this.
Marisha: And I cast Enhance Ability on him.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: For charisma? I'm assuming?
Liam: Let's make my hair even glossier than it already is.
Marisha: And I give him a little bit of the dad thumb.
Liam: I know that thumb.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: The dad thumb?
Marisha: Wipe the morning breakfast off of him before I send him on to school.
Matt: (laughs quietly)
Marisha: And I give him a little love tap on his behind and send him on his way.
Ashley: Send him on his merry way.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Shoulder massage.
Matt: All righty. So?
Marisha: So you have advantage rolls on all charisma rolls.
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Orion: (package crinkling)
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Matt: On the far back side, there is a very long, well-crafted dark wood desk that is adorned with what looks like small alchemical components, (package crinkling) with what looks like small alchemical components, glass tubing and -- (package crinkling) Be a little louder with those Red Vines.
Orion: Sorry. Do you want one?
Matt: I'm good, thank you.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: We're good. You can see there are a number of glass containers and small corked vials --
Liam: I'm sorry, he's looking for Gilmore.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: They're going to flirt together.
Matt: (laughs)
Orion: It's like watching a movie.
Marisha: (giggles)
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: It's all right. There are some books stacked up. There is a small, embedded glass case that seems to have a couple of items that are under a purplish-maroon, velvet piece of material that's currently covering them. There is that beaded curtain with strips of material that block the back room.
Liam: Okay, and there's a person manning the --
Matt: No, not currently. It is just an empty desk.
Liam: Is there a bell or anything?
Matt: There is a bell.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you hit the bell, one of the employees who is helping somebody looks around and goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry."
Matt: What you see is a half-elven woman with thick spectacles who is currently stepping over to try and stop you. However, the beaded curtain swishes open with the grandiose gesture of one slightly meaty hand. Stepping out in his fine, gold-trimmed, purple robes, his longish thick, black, coarse hair pulled into a nice ponytail. Smoothly-shaved face with a slight hint of a braided goatee that dangles about three inches from his chin.
Liam: Will you remind me because it's been a while. Gilmore's a good-looking man, though, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. He's handsome.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Is the braid new? Is that a new addition?
Laura: He's so handsome, Vax.
Marisha: The braid's new. He decided to rock the braid. Go for it!
Matt: Gilmore's a very handsome gentleman. I would say he's not fit and muscular. He is a handsome, comfortably jovial gentleman.
Liam: I'm picturing Jeremy Irons in a wizard robe.
Matt: Kind of. Imagine him with a little more paunch.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: But very charismatic. Open chest to his vest, with a number of gold chains and medallions that dangle around.
Liam: I feel you.
Matt: It's almost like a wizard's track suit. (all laugh)
Liam: You ruined it for me, man!
Taliesin: And it's dead.
Marisha: Please tell me it says "arcane" on the butt?
Matt: No. (all laugh)
Matt: He's very well-dressed, but his presentation is definitely a presentation. As the hand swishes open, he goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry, was I being summoned?"
Orion: Yes.
Matt: He immediately looks and goes,
Matt: "Oh. You've returned."
Liam: Gilmore, you glorious bastard. How have you been?
Matt: He immediately rushes to the edge and leans over the counter to give you a grandiose hug and actually lifts you off your feet. Much stronger than you anticipated. He goes,
Matt: "Oh, Vax'ahlia. It's been far too long."
Matt: He sets you down next to him behind the counter and gives you a big hug, his strong wizard arms around you. A scent of what's almost like fine herbs with a hint of patchouli enters your nose.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: You naughty man. You just called me by my sister's name. That is going to cost you.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: "I said Vax! What do you mean?"
Liam: I heard "Vex'ahlia." That's ridiculous. Preposterous. Can we go to the videotape? Anyone?
Marisha: Instant replay!
Orion: Actually, Vax, he was correct. He said your name correctly. I believe you owe him a little something now.
Marisha: I think it was a little bit of combination. A little bit of column A, a little bit of column B. I think he called you Vex'ahlia.
Liam: Water under the bridge.
Marisha: Or Vax'ahlia, is what he called you.
Orion: He called you Vax'ahlia, which I call you in my sleep.
Liam: Shut up, you.
Liam: I lean in.
Matt: He looks genuinely perturbed and embarrassed by the whole circumstance.
Matt: "I --"
Liam: I lean in. I pat him on the hand.
Liam: Don't you worry. We have come from far and away. You would not believe the shit we have been through, but I don't want to talk about me. I want to talk about you. What has been going on in this city since we've been gone?
Matt: "Well."
Matt: And he looks about the rest of you and says,
Matt: "Obviously you've brought the rest of your friends here. Come, sit! Story time, story time!" (all laugh)
Matt: "Please sit around."
Orion: Fantastic.
Matt: "We have been doing marvelously. Trade has opened up wide in Emon. We've had travelers from all over Tal'Dorei and beyond. It's incredible." (all giggle)
Matt: "I'm in the process of planning an expansion to another town. Perhaps even --"
Laura: Oh, my.
Matt: "--perhaps even opening a second store in Westruun."
Marisha: You're going to own a chain?
Orion: Congratulations!
Matt: "Perhaps."
Orion: This is a big step for any businessman.
Taliesin: Spectacular.
Matt: "But yes. No, I have been able to take on two more arcanists. We've been in the process of designing some more interesting, wondrous items. We have stocked many of our recent possible and available items. We are doing quite well for ourselves."
Orion: Are you looking for investors, Gilmore?
Matt: "I technically am your investor, in a way."
Orion: Oh.
Laura: He is.
Marisha: True, we are sponsored by him.
Matt: "But. If you have the money in which to sponsor our business, that's a whole other discussion."
Orion: I just wanted you to talk to me for a little bit. Vax, take it away.
Matt: "Dragonborn. But yes! How about yourselves? You look like you've --"
Matt: He gives you all a look over.
Matt: "--like you've maybe not slept in a fortnight."
Liam: Well. We're lucky we're not dead. It came close a couple of times. We were off on official business for the emperor. We've been underground for weeks and weeks. We've only seen the sun for a couple of days.
Matt: "Oh. That kind of a weekend. I know how that goes."
Liam: Needless to say, our stores are terribly depleted. We are going to need to stock up a bit before we head out of town again. I don't want to rush things, though. I think my friends probably want to shop about. My sister can probably handle things for me. I would love to take a stroll with you around the city. Get a bit of lunch, a bite, and hear about what's been happening. Hear the rumors of town. We all know nobody matches your shrewdness in business. That's no surprise.
Matt: (chuckles)
Liam: But I'm wondering what you've heard. What's on the wind? Can you take the afternoon off?
Matt: He looks over at the same half-elven woman who was trying to stop you earlier. She gives a look like, 'what's he going to say?' No one's ever asked him this question. He goes,
Matt: "For you? Of course." (all laugh)
Marisha: Man date. Go for it!
Laura: Don't worry, Gilmore. We'll take wonderful care of your employees.
Matt: "Well if you wish to do business, why not do that now?"
Laura: We need to shop around first, of course.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: And we're so curious as to any of these interesting and fascinating things that you've developed in the several weeks it's been since we've been here. We'd love to see what you've been working on.
Matt: "Very well. Sherri!"
Matt: The same woman, her shoulders droop.
Matt: "Yes, Gilmore?" (all laugh)
Matt: "Would you be so kind as to see to whatever our friends need? These are Vox Machina, by the way. They are currently sponsored by Gilmore's Glorious Goods, Inc, and I would very much like to make sure that they are taken care of."
Matt: "Yes, sir. I'll make sure that happens."
Matt: (laugh)
Taliesin: (laugh)
Matt: "So. Shall we?"
Liam: I think this will take a while. Let's.
Laura: Have a wonderful time, brother.
Liam: I look to my sister as we go.
Liam: Just get what I need, will you?
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Thank you.
Liam: And stroll out the door with Gilmore. Have at it, ladies and gentlemen.
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: We'll leave dinner on the stove for you.
Matt: So Sherri looks at the rest of you as they leave and goes,
Matt: "So you're all friends of Gilmore, then?"
Marisha: Yes.
Ashley: Business friends.
Matt: Business friends. All right.
Marisha: We're mutual fans of one another, if you will.
Matt: She adjusts her glasses.
Matt: "Then let's continue with the business. What are you seeking? What do you need? What are you looking for?"
Orion: I don't know. We like all kinds of things.
Marisha: Well, we definitely need potions.
Matt: "Potions. Those we can provide."
Marisha: Health potions.
Matt: "Health potions, yes. Potions of healing can be provided."
Marisha: What do you have right now?
Matt: She goes behind the counter for a second and ruffles through some stuff. Goes in the back room and comes back out with a wooden crate, pretty much. You hear the glass jangling inside as she moves it and sets it on the counter with a ting. They all eventually come to rest. She goes,
Matt: "All right, looking through here, it looks like we have about 12 regular potions of healing. We have six of greater healing. And it looks like three of superior healing."
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Orion: We'll take the lot.
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Matt: "Superior healing? Let's see, currently those go for about --"
Matt: She looks at the price book, going through.
Matt: "Those will run you --"
Matt: As I go through my price book.
Ashley: We are sponsored.
Taliesin: We do keep getting turned to stone. This has been a problem, and it's been sticking around a bit. I feel like we should maybe take some precautions for the inevitable next time this happens.
Matt: "That will be 1500 gold pieces per superior."
Marisha: Is that with our sponsorship prices?
Matt: "Right, you mentioned you're sponsored. That would be a 10% discount. That would bring it to about 1350, should you wish to purchase them individually."
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: I definitely need one of those.
Laura: Wait. How much if we're purchasing them individually?
Matt: "1350 gold pieces per superior healing potion."
Orion: How much for the lot?
Laura: And if we buy in bulk, what can you bring it down to?
Matt: "If you buy all three?"
Laura: A thousand each?
Matt: "I'm sorry. You've already been given the discount via Gilmore. That price stands as it is. Let's say you buy the three remaining items, I'll give you 1200 apiece. And even that I'll probably get in trouble for, but he seems to like you."
Laura: 1200 apiece? Yes?
Travis: We'll take that.
Taliesin: Sounds good.
Laura: Three superior.
Matt: "Very well. So 3600 gold pieces. Three superior are yours."
Matt: She pulls them out of the crate and slides them across. They are thick, very heavily-made glass vials with these small glass handles on the side. You can see the interior. The liquid itself is a reddish purple, almost blood color, but there's a gold sheen as you shake it in the light. You can see there's a spark of divine glow to it.
Marisha: Like Goldschlager.
Taliesin: Classy.
Matt: Kind of. It's the worst of healing Goldschlager.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Is that all you require?"
Travis: Do you sell any love potions?
Matt: She gives you the blank stare and goes,
Matt: "No." (all laugh)
Travis: Right. Sorry for asking. Jeez.
Taliesin: I would also say we should take the six superior healing potions, as well.
Orion: Absolutely.
Matt: "The greater ones."
Taliesin: Greater.
Laura: What did we just buy? We didn't buy superior?
Taliesin: We bought the three superior. We should also get the six greater.
Laura: Six greater. All right. How much is that?
Matt: "Those are 500 apiece. With your discount, that would be 450 apiece."
Laura: But if we're buying all six, 400 apiece is a very good price.
Orion: Now, this is the Vex I miss.
Matt: Roll a persuasion check.
Marisha: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Orion: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Taliesin: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Liam: Vex hasn't had a chance to haggle since the show started.
Marisha: Yep.
Liam: All she used to do before this show was haggle.
Marisha: We used to take food breaks.
Marisha: No!
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Fourteen? She goes,
Matt: "Let's call it an even 425 gold pieces each."
Laura: I like this. I'm comfortable with that.
Matt: "All right."
Taliesin: 425 times 6...
Matt: She brings out her arcane calculator.
Marisha: Her arcane calculator? Once again, our charity.
Matt: "That’ll be 2550 gold pieces."
Laura: All right.
Matt: And she pulls out the six that are there and she kinda slides them over the counter to you. One tips over but she catches it, leaves it there at the far end.
Travis: Careful with those.
Matt: "They’re fine, they can take a beating, they’re designed that way."
Travis: So can I.
Matt: She pushes her glasses up and looks vastly unimpressed at the presentation.
Laura: How much were the superiors again?
Matt: "The superiors were 1500 brought down to 1200 apiece, yes."
Laura: 1200. Which came to 36?
Taliesin: Thirty-six.
Taliesin: So do you have anything, we keep getting turned into stone, it’s been sort of a running theme. We were hoping you might have something to help alleviate stone skin or any --
Matt: "We do have potions of petrification removal."
Taliesin: Yes! Petrification removal.
Matt: I think. Let me check.
Matt: And she goes in the back room, rummages around for a minute, comes out and she presents two of them. They have a clear liquid that looks almost like dirty water, and they’re like thin little vials, she goes,
Matt: "These potions, when applied to the flesh, will, more of an oil I guess you would say, removes the affliction of petrification. These do cost 750 gold apiece."
Laura: We have greater restoration from Pike, and she can cure --
Matt: "Then you’re fine."
Matt: And she takes them --
Orion: How many potions are there?
Matt: "Two."
Liam: But in the heat of the moment.
Orion: Get them.
Taliesin: In the heat of the moment, it might come quite in handy.
Liam: A stone Grog in the middle of a fight?
Travis: I agree.
Orion: It takes her a day to learn that and she can only do it like once or twice at the most.
Travis: I think we need to get it.
Taliesin: I’d rather have the potions than the gold, to be fair.
Marisha: Let’s just get one.
Taliesin: And we haven’t discussed our discount.
Marisha: I should learn how to make potions. I should learn this.
Liam: Money is meant for spending.
Laura: Do we want to take one?
Orion: Take both.
Taliesin: I’d actually say we take both.
Liam: Not that I’m here.
Laura: Take both. 750 was not the discounted price.
Orion: No.
Matt: She gives you another look of like, ugh. She adjusts her glasses.
Orion: To be fair, we are spending a lot, right? Overall, so.
Ashley: Overall.
Matt: "That would come to 1350."
Taliesin: Thirteen fifty.
Travis: We’ll take it.
Laura: 1300. Remember, we’re very good friends of Gilmore’s, he said to treat us well.
Matt: Make another persuasion roll. This is my new fan dice.
Matt: It’s awesome, thank you.
Laura: That was really good.
Matt: It’s awesome, thank you.
Laura: That would be 21.
Matt: It’s a good thing. She gives you a look and goes,
Matt: "I don’t like you." (all laugh)
Matt: "Thirteen hundred."
Laura: Thirteen hundred, lovely, thank you.
Marisha: Sherri? It was Sherri, right?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Do you have any books on how to learn how to start making your own potions? Or do you know of any classes in town where maybe I could sign up for like a potion workshop?
Matt: "Nothing here, but that’s not a bad idea, might run that past Gilmore."
Taliesin: You should offer a workshop.
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop.
Matt: "That’s a good idea,"
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop. "otherwise the Lyceum would be the place to look."
Marisha: The Lyceum?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Do you have any potions of strength or any ability potions?
Matt: She leaves for a second, then comes back and goes,
Matt: "No, I’m afraid those were all purchased. However, we may have more in a few weeks or so. They take some time to create and the ingredients are a little bit scarce. However, trade is opening, perhaps --"
Marisha: Someone purchased all of your potion of strength potions?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Oh. How many did you have?
Matt: "We had four, I believe. Varying giant strength types."
Ashley: One person did or it was just a bunch of people just buying.
Matt: "It was a handful over the period of time."
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: I’m gonna hand her also a ticket, a scroll of telescription and be like,
Orion: When it comes in, please write that it has and I will be notified via this parchment.
Matt: "Very well."
Matt: She folds it and places it in a little cubby on the side.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: "Is there anything else you require? We have many magical, various armaments and/or protective items."
Travis: Armaments, what kind of armaments you got?
Matt: "Well, if you’ll follow me."
Matt: She leads you up the stairway to the second floor. The second floor itself is just a series of glass cases that are leaned at an angle. In these cases you can see there are different items just laid out, small labels at the bottom with
Travis: Oh. a brief description of the enchantment.
Matt: She leads you across, she goes,
Matt: "Well, first we’ll start here with the ring section."
Matt: You can see there’s a small case that has along this purplish velvet pillow, a bunch of different rings set out. She goes,
Matt: "We have varying degrees of rings of protection. These rings are designed to protect the individual who wears, we have one I believe with the basic enchantment, and one with one step higher above that."
Matt: The equivalent of a ring of protection +2.
Matt: "That ring runs 6500 gold. We have a ring of psychic resistance that does protect yourself from various mental intrusions. We have a ring of evasion that can be utilized three times a day, or one to three times a day. Should one of you not be quite quick enough to avoid any sort of incoming danger. You could allow yourself a successful escape. That runs 4500. We also have a ring of water walking. This one has been popular in the past for some various traveling troupes that wish to do various performances that require defying the surface of water. It gets a bit shifty now that I think about it, but you know, whatever folks will enjoy. Peasantry is easily pleased. So those are our rings at the moment. Should any of those tickle your fancy, please do let me know. Here --"
Matt: And she points over where there is a thick leather belt with like three straps across that looks highly well made with what looks like square runic carvings on the side.
Matt: "--this is what is referred to, and this was import from Kraghammer, but we’ve had it in here for quite some time, a belt of dwarvenkind. This belt, when adorned, does increase the physical heartiness of the individual as well as giving them positive interaction with other dwarves. And we haven’t fully tested it yet, but apparently it also seems to resist against poison intrusion in one’s body, allows you to see better in dark places, and apparently grants you the ability of speaking, reading, and writing Dwarvish."
Laura: Oh wow.
Marisha: I need that.
Matt: It is 5000 gold.
Laura: I bet that’s very expensive...
Liam: One month ago you needed that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: What was the first ring?
Travis: Ring of protection.
Matt: "The first ring was the ring of protection."
Marisha: Plus two, right?
Matt: It gives a plus two bonus to AC and saving throws.
Marisha: That’s really good.
Ashley: What was the evasion one?
Matt: "That one, that’s the ring of evasion."
Ashley: Yes, what was that?
Matt: It has three charges and it regains 1d3 charges per day. When you fail a dexterity saving throw while wearing it, you can use your reaction to expend a charge and auto-succeed on the saving throw instead. Good for people who have low dexterity.
Travis: The one that protects you psychically, could you repeat that one on the menu, please?
Matt: "The ring of psychic resistance --"
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: It gives you resistance to psychic damage, so anyone does damage that is psychic-based, you take half damage.
Laura: That’s not quite it.
Travis: It’s not good?
Laura: No, it’s not quite the same.
Travis: Not even for me?
Laura: Do you have anything to make Grog smarter?
Travis: Well, fuck off. (all laugh)
Matt: She looks over at him for a moment and goes,
Matt: No. No we don’t.
Laura: Any crayons so he could be occupied?
Travis: Do you have crayons?
Matt: "We have colored writing implements for children, if you’d like."
Orion: Yes, please.
Travis: I saw a few children in town. Maybe they would like them.
Matt: She goes back downstairs and comes back in a moment. She presents two small boxes that contain small colored wax things. You can see on the outside it has a picture of Gilmore, and he’s doing this, and it says Gilmore’s Glorious Colored Sticks.
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "These are usually reserved for the children of our customers, so if the children will enjoy it, enjoy."
Travis: I’ll take one of those, please.
Marisha: Yes, trust me --
Travis: The colors are quite nice.
Marisha: --the children will.
Matt: "Five gold pieces apiece."
Marisha: Five gold pieces apiece? I thought they were free, like when you go to an O’Charley’s or an Applebee’s.
Matt: "What’s an Applebee’s?"
Orion: It’s a hellhole, apparently near where you used to live.
Matt: It’s one of the layers of the Abyss, it’s like around --
Marisha: One of the infernal layers of the Abyss.
Matt: About layer 943.
Marisha: It’s getting pretty low, yeah.
Ashley: So I’ve been talking with Scanlan and I know he was interested in the plus two AC ring.
Marisha: I think we should pick that up for sure.
Ashley: What’s the price on that?
Matt: "Sixty five hundredd gold pieces for that."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "With your discount, that would bring it --"
Matt: Goes back and looks again at her magic calculator, I’m an actor not --
Liam: It’s an abacus.
Matt: Exactly.
Matt: "That brings it to 5850."
Ashley: Well, he does have this amazing ruby gem. He was maybe thinking of trading that for maybe bringing down the price?
Matt: Do we know how much that was worth?
Liam: Uh.
Matt: Has Scanlan looked at his sheet and found what it’s worth?
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Ashley: Scanlan,
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Liam: Do you know how much it’s worth?
Liam: I think you wrote it down. He’s talking quietly.
Matt: There was the diamond also that was repaired in the mending wheel.
Matt: He can look that up as well.
Marisha: There was a diamond.
Liam: Vex, do you remember how much that diamond was worth, we got that diamond --
Matt: Oh no, we lost them.
Taliesin: We lost them.
Marisha: Oh no!
Matt: Redial, redial!
Marisha: This is important!
Liam: I got it.
Marisha: How much is the diamond worth?
Matt: "Regardless. Other things of interest, nothing that would make him smarter, that would make him quicker."
Liam: This is so period. It’s just like Lord of the Rings. Beep beep beep.
Matt: Magical sending stone.
Liam: God damn it!
Marisha: Answer!
Matt: Answer your Facetime.
Marisha: Answer, bitches.
Matt: Vex!
Orion: I hate when you call and you know that they’re there and they don’t pick up.
Liam: All right, well I’m not here anyway, so I’m just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: We’ll come to it. so I’m just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: "Regardless."
Marisha: We know you’re there!
Matt: She continues on, showing you through, she goes,
Matt: "Well, I don’t necessarily have anything that would make him smarter. We do have something that would make anyone quicker."
Matt: She goes a second, there is a big, thick leather tome.
Matt: "This is an ancient tome that was enchanted many, many generations back. Upon properly reading and studying this tome, one would increase their physical dexterity permanently."
Marisha: Oh, I like that.
Matt: "It only has its abilities and power once a century, so it does come quite pricey."
Marisha: What is that price?
Matt: "Fifteen hundred gold pieces."
Marisha: We should buy that.
Ashley: We should probably buy it.
Marisha: A tome that increases your dexterity plus one.
Laura: It’s on my phone now. We switched.
Matt: That’s okay.
Matt: "So there is the manual of quickness of action, we also have the hat of disguise --"
Matt: And she produces this like -- (Facetime noises)
Matt: And she produces this like --
Matt: She produces this fine brass cap that has intricate swirling runes on it and what looks like a small set of ears that are pushed on the sides so when it fits on the head it looks almost like a smaller head on top of yours. She says,
Matt: "This cap when worn, however, one can alter their appearance however they see fit. We also have --"
Matt: She pulls out this thick, leather armor that has a brownish-blue trimmed hue to it and goes,
Matt: "This is what we refer to as coldsnap leather armor. It has an enchantment to improve one’s armor class by two. While wearing it, you have resistance to cold damage."
Marisha: Is it leather armor, you said?
Matt: "Leather armor, yes."
Marisha: How much is that?
Matt: "That is 7500 gold pieces. We also have the cape of Mountebank. It is a cape that when triggered --"
Matt: She takes it and shifts it for a second, you can see a little bit of smoke plumes off of it, smells sulfurish. She goes,
Matt: "While wearing it, you can use it to teleport yourself a short distance instantaneously, once per day. We have this --"
Matt: She pulls another dark cloak off the wall. This one looks like it’s made of dark fur, but as she shakes it you can see these two little tendrils are on it. They like wiggle about, these little spiked edges to the tendrils.
Matt: "This is a cloak of displacement, enchanted and taken from the body of a displacer beast. While wearing it, it makes it so your body projects an illusion. Anyone attempting to cause you harm has difficulty actually finding purchase on your physical form, not knowing where you truly stand."
Orion: I will take that cape.
Matt: "It is 4500 gold pieces."
Orion: Wonderful. Vex?
Orion: Oh, shit. She’s not here.
Matt: "I’ll put this aside as a possibility. We have a pearl of power."
Matt: She pulls up from this small box, she opens up the top lid.
Matt: "This enchanted pearl, you can use it to speak a command word and regain one expended spell slot, up to third level, that you’ve already used. Once you’ve used the pearl, it can’t be used until the next dawn, so once per day you can just return. It’s for your caster-types."
Marisha: A third-level spell?
Matt: "Yes, up to third level, one spell slot, you can immediately restore it. It does require attunement, however, and you can’t have more than three items attuned to you, so be aware of your limitations."
Ashley: What’s the price on that one?
Matt: "This is 550 gold pieces."
Ashley: Okay.
Orion: Pike, do you have any 3rd-level healing spells?
Ashley: Do I have 3rd-level healing spells? I do.
Matt: "We’ll put it aside as a possibility. I also have --"
Matt: And you move to the side, going through the armor section as well, she goes --
Matt: "I have a mithral chain shirt, as well as an enchanted mithral chain shirt, there is a plus one enchantment on it as well. They are flexible and can be worn under normal clothing, does not impose disadvantage on dexterity or stealth checks. It is considered light armor. There is golden chainmail, it’s a plus one enchantment."
Matt: Then she goes to what looks to be a series of weapons. She brings forth a very fine-looking dagger, that has --
Liam: Everyone hears from the back, Scanlan’s voice piping up saying, "Just buy all this shit!"
Marisha: Just buy all this shit.
Ashley: Buy everything.
Marisha: How much money did we have? Didn’t we have like at least --
Liam: Thirty... thirty-ish. I mean, I’m not here, but --
Matt: And you still have money you haven’t collected in Kraghammer, too.
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: There’s money you still haven’t collected in Kraghammer. Lord Nostoc Greyspine, you guys made a deal with him before you went down in the pits.
Liam: So maybe we could open up a line -- I’m sure you guys could open up a line of credit with my buddy Gilmore.
Marisha: A line of credit?
Liam: Yeah, an I.O.U. Once we’re back from our day.
Marisha: So we’ve got like roughly 30k?
Liam: In our possession now. Thirty-one.
Orion: We have over that. Because Vex and Grog are with us. And they have --
Matt: She has all the money. So we’ll just keep track of what you guys spend and bring it back to Vex, your treasurer. And she’ll be really angry that you guys spent all that money.
Liam: She’s trying, she’s trying, it’s coming up on my phone.
Orion: The trick is, we don’t know how much the total is.
Marisha: We generally would if our party’s here. She just can’t tell us at this moment.
Orion: It’s well over thirty. I think we have closer to fifty. ... maybe forty.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Marisha: We don’t want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Matt: "This is a fine dagger,"
Marisha: We don’t want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: "This is a fine dagger, the blood runs themselves are enchanted --"
Marisha: We also spent a lot on the keep, "the blood runs themselves are enchanted --" don’t forget that, we dumped a lot of money into the keep.
Matt: Yep, you did.
Marisha: So we might have more like thirty.
Matt: You guys spent quite a bit on the keep. All right.
Ashley: What’s this dagger?
Matt: "This dagger actually can take the lifeforce from an enemy when delivering a very strong blow."
Matt: Essentially, on a critical hit on the attack roll -- (all cheer)
Ashley: We got it. (all cheer)
Orion: Here they are. (all cheer)
Marisha: How much money do we have?
Laura: We have --hold on, let me look.
Travis: Twenty-four thousand --
Laura: No. I normally don’t,
Laura: We have about 20,000, all right?
Orion: So we have 50,000 total. Because we just had 30, we just got paid 30 grand, right?
Matt: Yeah, ten.
Marisha: No.
Marisha: Ten grand.
Matt: You got ten grand from Allura and you currently have a floating --
Marisha: And she added that.
Orion: That’s added?
Laura: I already added that, we’re at 20,000.
Orion: I thought we were at 30 --
Marisha: We spent almost 50,000 dollars on our keep.
Orion: Right, but --
Travis: Plus those fucks in Kraghammer owe us a fortune.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, 25,000 gold is still owed by Lord Nostoc Greyspine.
Orion: That’s who owed us.
Marisha: Yes, that’s what we’re saying.
Orion: What?
Marisha: That’s why we’re saying we only have 20 or 30 --
Taliesin: No, we haven’t gone back there.
Orion: So we’ll have to go back and get it.
Taliesin: Eventually, yeah.
Matt: "So while you --"
Laura: Will you point us a little bit out so we can see --
Matt: "As I was saying, this dagger, upon a very impactful wound on a foe, steals a bit of its life force, dealing an additional ten necrotic damage, and then gives the wielder ten temporary hitpoints."
Laura: Whoa, that’s major.
Matt: "So there’s that. We also have an enchanted heavy maul, and we have --this is quite a find here."
Matt: As she pulls out this wooden case, she pulls back the wooden top to it. As she does, you can see there’s a little bit of ice crystal that’s gathered along the interior of the wooden case. There inside sits a short sword, a relatively thick short blade, but the blade itself is like a blue, almost glimmering metal, and there’s actually a rising frozen mist that drifts off the blade.
Matt: "This is an enchanted frostbrand. It acts as a shortsword. Whenever it does damage to an enemy, it does an additional 1d6 cold damage. And while you hold the weapon you have resistance to any fire damage you would take. At freezing temperatures, it sheds a ten foot radius of dim light, and when you draw the weapon, you extinguish all magical flames within 30 feet of you."
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: "And those are currently all the things we have at the moment. We’re working on a few more things that will be ready in the next couple of weeks, but those are the current haul for our above-the-average consumer. Magical creations."
Ashley: I have a question.
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: Do you have anything that can make armor... ... quieter? (all laugh)
Ashley: Maybe like a really heavy armor, that’s really quiet.
Liam: That oil from the Wizard of Oz.
Matt: "We don’t have anything for that, but we could have it commissioned for you if you’d like."
Ashley: I would like to see about that.
Matt: "All right. I’ll have to talk to Gilmore. That’s more in his realm of enchantment, but that is a possibility."
Matt: She adjusts her glasses again.
Matt: "When he returns, whenever that is, we can discuss with him what you’d like, yes."
Ashley: That would be great.
Matt: "All right, well."
Ashley: Thank you.
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt and the cape, thank you very much.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: And she grabs the --
Orion: But that’s not the total yet. Vex has to talk about the rest of what we want.
Ashley: What’s the price on the dagger and the sword?
Matt: "The sword is 8500 gold pieces. The dagger is 7800 gold pieces. This is without your discount. The mithral chain shirt, it is medium armor, I lied. It is 5250 gold pieces."
Orion: Wait, I can’t --
Matt: You can’t wear armor.
Matt: "And you were looking at the pearl of power, which is 550 gold, and there is the cloak of displacement, which is 4500 gold pieces."
Travis: Would you be interested in a trade?
Matt: "What do you have to trade?"
Travis: We’ve got lots of bits from dragons, lots of bits from umber hulks, and we’ve got basilisk eggs.
Marisha: We also have that diamond and the ruby. Do we know how much that is?
Orion: Yes. Do we know how much that is?
Laura: We also have some jewels.
Marisha: I definitely say we pick up that ring with the AC and I wouldn’t mind having that leather --
Laura: The ring of protection?
Marisha: That ring of protection that gives you plus two to your AC. That we need for somebody. And I wouldn’t mind having that leather armor. That adds a plus two to my AC.
Matt: "Cold snap?"
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: "All right. There are the things we are looking at currently on this table, we have the belt of dwarvenkind, the manual of quickness of action --"
Marisha: We should get that too.
Matt: "--cold snap leather armor --"
Marisha: Get that manual.
Matt: "--cloak of displacement, ring of protection plus two --"
Ashley: Put the dagger and sword on the table also.
Ashley: Just in case.
Matt: "All right."
Ashley: Throwing it out there to see, I don’t know.
Matt: "They are there on the table."
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Orion: Let’s see what the total is.
Marisha: We could trade,
Orion: Let’s see what the total is.
Marisha: Let’s see what we can trade around maybe.
Matt: "So the total for all of these items, including --"
Matt: She starts going through her --
Marisha: I want new stuff. I haven’t gotten new armor since we started.
Taliesin: I haven’t either.
Orion: You should get the mithral shirt, it adds something to your --
Marisha: Do you wear light armor or medium armor?
Taliesin: I would guess light armor, I imagine.
Matt: "With the discount, this entire haul would come to 49,815 gold pieces."
Ashley: What’s that, how much?
Marisha: 50k.
Matt: "49,815 gold pieces with your discount for this entire sum. Now, would you like to pay in gold? Would you like to pay in--"
Liam: Get the dragon armor out.
Orion: Twenty-four total, before the dwarven--
Ashley: Maybe we can see how much we can trade of what we have, maybe we can get a little--
Laura: How much is a pound of dragon scales worth to you?
Matt: "What dragon? Show me the scales."
Laura: Blue dragon scales.
Travis: Blue dragon scales, here you go.
Matt: You pull them out of the bag of holding. She takes a few and she takes her glasses off and then pulls out from a pocket this intricate-looking, multi-lensed tinkering viewing device and inspects it very closely.
Laura: It was a very powerful dragon.
Matt: "Apparently not powerful enough if you have these."
Travis: Hey Pike, don’t take this shit.
Marisha: I don’t know if that was a compliment or an insult.
Travis: Hey Pike, don’t take this shit.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Marisha: Taking it as a compliment.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Matt: "These are legitimate. I won’t question how you came about them, but they are definitely legitimate. A pound, you say?"
Laura: How much is a pound worth to you?
Travis: We have several pounds.
Laura: And I’ll tell you how much we have.
Laura: And I’ll tell you how much we have.
Matt: "Say a pound of dragon scales --"
Matt: And the dragon scales themselves are about that big each, they’re about the size of a peach.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Dragons are big, especially this one.
Matt: "Blue dragon scales, I’d say a pound is maybe, guessing close to eight to ten scales. That would be worth about, I’d put that at 1,000 gold credit for each pound provided."
Travis: I have at least 11 pounds.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Perfect.
Laura: So that’s another, at least, what? Eleven thousand?
Liam: Five hundred thousand gold right there.
Laura: That’s like another 10,000 we have in dragon scales.
Travis: We have 11 pounds of dragon scales.
Marisha: And how about that diamond that we put in the mending wheel?
Orion: No, ruby.
Laura: It’s flawless and beautiful and so sparkly.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Pulls that again, looks over it.
Marisha: Catch.
Matt: "This ruby, probably about 500 gold pieces."
Laura: That’s it?
Travis: We also have three dragon teeth, fangs from the beast’s mouth.
Matt: Make a perception roll.
Orion: Oh sweet, and they froze there.
Matt: Or not that, a persuasion roll.
Orion: Oh no, they --
Marisha: Oh no, they didn’t!
Liam: I’m gonna tell them. Oh my gosh.
Marisha: Persuasion roll. Oh no!
Liam: You have to make a persuasion roll, quick.
Taliesin: That’s hilarious.
Matt: Timing is everything, folks. Timing is everything.
Taliesin: Timing is everything.
Ashley: I have one dragon fang around my neck.
Matt: That’s a keepsake for actually slaying a dragon. You’re welcome to trade that. It’s worth quite a bit.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Ashley: That was the white dragon?
Matt: That was the white dragon.
Orion: Yeah, it was the white dragon you killed.
Matt: That’s the one that you got the final blow on.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Matt: That’s the one that you got the final blow on.
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Ashley: I know, I gotta keep it.
Matt: Anyway.
Taliesin: Gotta keep it.
Ashley: Keepsake, can’t put a price on it.
Liam: Ten. Ten, they rolled a ten.
Matt: They rolled a ten. She says,
Matt: "Dragons’ teeth actually, strangely enough, are a little easier to find. I would put, each dragon’s tooth available would probably add about 250 gold pieces to the exchange."
Travis: We’ve got three.
Marisha: And how about the basilisk eggs? While we’re --
Liam: Get it out out.
Marisha: --cleaning our bag out, exactly.
Travis: We have two basilisk eggs we’re willing to part with.
Matt: As you pull out the basilisk eggs, you pull it out and immediately there is a stench that is emanating from these eggs that have been in your bag of holding for probably close to eight or nine months.
Travis: No, the smell means they’re good.
Matt: This is now the fourth time she’s looked at you with a deadpan glance and adjusted her glasses.
Matt: "We’re not interested in the eggs, but thank you anyway."
Travis: All right, we do have three pints of dragon’s blood.
Laura: This is super, super powerful.
Travis: It might’ve congealed a little bit actually, though.
Ashley: No, it’s absolutely just really fresh because we put it in Tupperware.
Matt: "We’ll stick with the scales for now." put it in Tupperware.
Laura: You’ll stick with the scales.
Travis: Right, any chance you’d be interested in claws of an umber hulk?
Liam: I like that the 400,000 people who saw that thing are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Taliesin: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Marisha: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: We’ve been fighting and killing for weeks,
Liam: We’ve been fighting and killing for weeks, and now we’re haggling over prices.
Orion: But we do need new gear.
Matt: Timing is everything.
Marisha: We do need new gear.
Matt: This has now turned into the flea-market episode. Hey, you guys guide the story. It’s fun though.
Marisha: You guys guide the story. Hey, you guys guide the story. It’s fun though.
Matt: "We’d say with the credit from the dragon scales, that’ll take 10,000, 11,000 away from the current pricing, that would put us at 39,815 for this batch."
Marisha: So can we open that line of credit we were talking about?
Matt: "What line of credit?"
Marisha: That line we’re talking about right now. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, your majesty.
Marisha: That one that I just said two seconds ago?
Liam: Wait, DM, where am I with Gilmore?
Matt: We’ll get to that right now.
Orion: It takes time to make a --
Laura: We could advertise for Gilmore.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: We could advertise, but maybe we should wait until they get back so if their walk goes really well, whatever that means, we could maybe try to strike a deal.
Marisha: Right, put this on layaway?
Laura: He’ll probably give us everything for free.
Ashley: Because we probably need to talk to Gilmore about the credit.
Orion: True.
Taliesin: Yes, that’s fair.
Marisha: So can we hold this for now?
Ashley: We’ll wait until Gilmore gets back.
Matt: "Certainly."
Ashley: We’ll wait until Gilmore gets back.
Marisha: Oh, good.
Matt: "If you wish."
Matt: Starts putting everything into a small layaway pile in the corner.
Marisha: So you guys. Natural history museum? Pizza and then natural history museum?
Orion: What is pizza?
Matt: In the meantime.
Orion: It sounds wonderful.
Marisha: We’ve got time, we’ve gotta wait for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Matt: In the meantime. for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Yes. Gilmore, who has sweeped you out into the middle of Abedar’s Promenade, takes you by the arm and begins to lead you happily up towards the Erudite Quarter of Emon, which has a secondary wall around it as well. As he brings you along, he talks happily and loudly about how,
Matt: "It’s rather wonderful the way that we were presented with this opportunity over in Westruun. It’s magnificent, the team they’ve assembled to build this brand. I’m very excited at how they brought it to my attention. I wanted to keep things very localized, of course, but it seems--"
Liam: Will you trust the folk in Emon to handle your business or will you go between?
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Matt: "I have a couple of friends there that will oversee the process, but I will be very involved and keeping an eye, so I’m not too terribly worried. Besides, it’s a much smaller business we’re running there and it’ll be fine. Oh, look ahead."
Matt: As you guys step into the Erudite Quarter, he’s now brought you into essentially what is an outdoor botanical garden that is just a very nice walk. Grass across the ground, with fine well-cut bushes. There is a canopy of beautiful trees that are arcane, through arcane means, twisted and sculpted to form this long tunnel. It’s strangely romantic. As Gilmore begins to walk you down, there’s a fountain to the side, and he says,
Matt: "What about you? How’s Vox Machina been? How’ve they been treating you? How are you, Vax?"
Liam: Well, we’re tired, to be sure. I was not kidding before, we really are lucky to be alive. And that’s thanks in large part to a lot of the gear you outfitted us with the last time.
Matt: "Wondrous, I’m happy to help. And have you been keeping up your end of the bargain? Have you been singing the praises of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods across Kraghammer and beyond?"
Liam: You were mentioned in Kraghammer. I regret to inform you, though, that we were forced to travel underground rather quickly and the duergar and the other things that we ran into were not really customers you’d want to deal with. No, our lives were too much in harm’s way. But now that we’re above ground, I’m looking to pick up where I left off.
Matt: "Very well." And do your shop honor.
Liam: Your contribution to what we’ve done --
Liam: And I place my hand on his hand.
Liam: --was no small part in our survival.
Liam: And I give it just a little squeeze.
Liam: And I want to thank you. I don’t know that I would be standing here if not for your help.
Matt: "Had it not been for Gilmore’s Glorious Goods." (all laugh)
Matt: He looks you deep in the eyes, pats the top of your hand, and goes,
Matt: "Vax. This, that moment, that is why I do what I do."
Liam: You’re a unique man, Gilmore. No question. Never met anyone quite like you.
Matt: "Well. Would you care to share a glass of wine with a man not quite like anyone else you’ve met?"
Liam: Indeed. What do you recommend in the area?
Matt: "Oh, please, come, there are casks that pour the finest of honeyed Syngoran wine. I know perhaps you’ve not been home for quite some time?"
Liam: That’s a complicated thing for me, one that I’m not really quite ready to talk about yet.
Matt: "Oh."
Liam: Maybe someday.
Matt: "Maybe with enough wine."
Liam: You old so-and-so.
Marisha: You old so-and-so.
Matt: About an hour and a half, time passes before eventually there’s a loud clattering at the front of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods, where a laughing Vax and Gilmore come stumbling in, flush of face, with emptied goblets, laughing to themselves. Is there anything specific before this moment that you wanted to ask --
Liam: I took the duergar, I was holding her right over the cliff, and I just cut, and she fell! She fell! I didn’t know what I was doing, I just did it!
Matt: "You are ridiculous, Vax'ildan! Oh, it tickles me."
Ashley: Hi! Hello!
Matt: "Oh, good to see your friends."
Ashley: Sounds like you had fun.
Liam: Family. Family, family. I’ve had a couple of drinks. I’m an adult, I can do that.
Liam: What have you found? Have you guys been shopping?
Marisha: Well, we have!
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: Well, we have!
Marisha: We were hoping that you and Gilmore had a wonderful time and that, we just thought we’d wait for you. We didn’t want to make any final decisions without one of our main party members.
Matt: "It was delightful. You travel with the finest companion. We told stories, we cried, we laughed. It was a delight."
Matt: "I’ve had a few."
Matt: He collects himself for a minute.
Liam: I pat him on the back, I do a little circle with my hand.
Marisha: Remember, you have advantage.
Matt: "I’m not as spry as I once was, unfortunately. But yes! Business to attend. What do you need? What can we do?"
Matt: At which point Sherri, waiting in the back, says,
Matt: "Sir, they’ve requested perhaps a few things in bulk. The current amount comes to about roughly 40,000 gold, with your discount."
Matt: "Forty thousand gold, oh, well. Certainly. What seems to be the problem?"
Ashley: Well, I don’t know. We were just talking about, since we’re purchasing so many things, and since we’ve gained some popularity here in Emon, walking around, people are noticing us walking around...
Ashley: I shouldn’t be the one talking right now.
Ashley: Maybe we could open up a line of credit.
Liam: Obviously we’re only shopping with you, Gilmore, at this point.
Matt: He looks about the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Not everyone seems to be wearing the same patented Gilmore’s Glorious Armor that was given not too long ago. So that’s not true."
Orion: We did find some off of dead things.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "And those dead things are not under the umbrella of Gilmore’s Glorious Expansion."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "But should we discuss this, where would this credit be placed against, what do you have that you could ante?"
Liam: What have you guys been talking about? We do have a big pile of dragon’s scales and some gem --
Laura: We do.
Taliesin: We also are owed money.
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer.
Laura: One question that
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer. Grog just whispered to me.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: How much is a platinum worth?
Matt: "What is a platinum? Platinum is worth ten gold pieces."
Liam: Where we at, girl?
Orion: She is displeased.
Laura: We may have a lot more money than I thought we had, because Grog’s been hiding money in the bag of holding. (all laugh)
Travis: It’s really shiny.
Travis: I’m in trouble, Matt. She’s really mad.
Marisha: Wait, is this like when you slapped Trinket on the ass mad?
Laura: No. Not close, not even close. Doesn’t mean as much as Trinket means.
Liam: This is finances, this sounds like a married couple.
Taliesin: How much platinum do we have hiding in the bag of holding?
Travis: I don’t have the number in front of me, but it’s at least 150.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Where did we procure that again, Grog? I’m sorry, I’m a little fershnickered.
Travis: I don’t remember, but it’s in the bag of holding.
Laura: I remember getting platinum.
Marisha: I do remember getting platinum, too.
Matt: But you don’t have a number.
Travis: No, I know it’s at least 100, at least 150, I think it’s somewhere up north of 150, I just can’t remember the number.
Liam: Did we get that from the dragon, where did we get that?
Matt: It was a combination of the dragon, the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-hoarding. the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-looting.
Liam: I’ll never forget the rage-looting.
Ashley: Rage-looting.
Liam: I’ll never forget the rage-looting.
Travis: It’s my shiny, though, I didn’t want to give it to her, though. She’s evil. You see how she haggles!
Liam: It’s true. She’s my sister, I know, Grog. But right now we need to put that aside and do what’s best for the party.
Travis: Well, we could buy a party with all that. (all laugh)
Liam: Not that kind of party, Grog.
Laura: I think we have enough to buy everything if you guys want.
Liam: Grog, money is meant to be spent.
Travis: I’m going to drink! (all laugh)
Ashley: That solves everything.
Matt: Scanlan goes,
Sam: I agree. Drinks and whoring.
Matt: And smacks Grog in the side. The two of them leave off into the evening to go ahead and make use of their return to Emon properly.
Liam: Vax looks at Gilmore and just shakes his head.
Matt: "There is business to be had, but let’s get business out of the way so we can get to pleasure."
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Liam: Cheers to that.
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Taliesin: I have tinkering to do anyway.
Laura: What did we agree the total for everything we wanted was?
Matt: "Roughly 39,500 gold pieces."
Liam: Pish-posh.
Laura: Roughly. Gilmore.
Matt: "That’s with the discount! I already offered this to you, and you haven’t even kept up your end of the bargain by wearing my emblazoned symbol and my"
Laura: Don’t you want us to advertise in Westruun for you? "immortalized Gilmore’s Glorious Armor."
Liam: We would, Gilmore, we would be wearing that. Again, we nearly died. The armor that you gave me is gone, and I’m lucky to be alive today, and that armor helped me be where I am at the moment.
Matt: "How much credit do you wish to open?"
Liam: Fifty gold.
Ashley: Thousand? Fifty thousand?
Liam: Fifty, ah yes. Fifty thousand.
Matt: "Because 50 gold I can definitely do."
Liam: We’ve been out drinking for two hours, man.
Matt: "This is true. I’m sorry."
Ashley: One million, please.
Matt: "That’s a tough order."
Matt: "You mentioned you had money waiting for you in Kraghammer. How much was --"
Laura: Yes, we do.
Matt: "How much is waiting for you there?"
Liam: Twenty-five, wasn’t it?
Laura: It was 25,000.
Matt: "How about we open a 25,000 gold piece line of credit here with Gilmore’s Glorious Goods that you only need to pay back within the next month."
Liam: That’s fair.
Matt: "Giving you time to arrive. If it’s not paid, you will be hunted. But I’m sure that won’t be a worry, will it?"
Orion: How far is Kraghammer from here?
Taliesin: Not far.
Laura: It’s a week’s ride, isn’t it?
Orion: I can’t teleport everyone.
Marisha: Gilmore, question. Maybe you should consider making little pins that we could just wear on top of our armor? Because wearing your armor, we have our own clothes that we like, so maybe like a pin.
Matt: He steps forward and says,
Matt: "Oh --"
Marisha: Or like a patch?
Matt: "--that’s not even a worry."
Matt: He pulls out a small implement, this wand, and he flicks it over your shoulder. And all of a sudden an arcane swirl around your armor, with a big flash of sparks and glitter almost. You look down and there is, emblazoned upon your current armored form, a symbol of Gilmore’s Glorious Goods now permanently emblazoned on the leather.
Marisha: Ah!
Matt: "Easy enough to fix."
Liam: What a good idea.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather. My mom gave this to me.
Matt: "Well, your mother has not provided for you the means of keeping the deal we already made."
Marisha: Can you take this off when we pay you back and put it on that one?
Marisha: Oh, come on.
Taliesin: I think it’ll transfer when you change.
Marisha: Will it transfer when I change armor?
Matt: "I don’t know." (all laugh)
Ashley: We’ll find out.
Matt: "So. Twenty-five thousand gold line of credit, within a month or you’ll be hunted."
Marisha: Wait, do you really have a unicorn as part of your logo?
Matt: "It’s…"
Marisha: What?
Matt: "It’s a creature of my creation, I designed it when I was a child --"
Liam: It’s a phallic thing.
Marisha: Ah.
Laura: So we open the 25,000 line of credit with you and you give us all the things we want?
Matt: "If that is what you want."
Liam: Don’t we have a lot of platinum? What are we dickering prices with?
Laura: Yes! Why don’t we just buy it now, and then we won’t have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Travis: (cries) and then we won’t have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Liam: Yes, we’ll use some of the platinum. One platinum is equal to ten gold. Sorry, Gilmore. Trying to dicker over rates.
Ashley: Not a line of credit?
Liam: No line of credit, we’ll pay for it outright in cold hard platinum.
Matt: You don’t have the amount of platinum with you.
Liam: But Grog’s got it.
Matt: Grog said, because he doesn’t have it in front of him, he has around 150 platinum.
Laura: We can pay him back, it’s true.
Matt: That’s roughly 1500 gold.
Matt: That’s roughly 1500 gold.
Liam: But where is it?
Matt: It’s in the bag of holding, but he doesn’t have the bag of holding information in front of him.
Liam: He doesn’t have the info. And because he doesn’t have the sheet --
Taliesin: --next game.
Liam: --and he can’t read the exact amount?
Matt: Yup. Because he said in memory it’s 150 platinum. That’s only --
Liam: I thought it was a 100,000.
Matt: Oh, no.
Laura: No no no, 150 platinum.
Liam: Oh, 150.
Matt: Hundred thousand you’d be the richest man in the fucking world.
Liam: Okay. in the fucking world.
Matt: So 150 platinum --
Liam: What do you think, sis?
Matt: --based on memory is 11,500,
Liam: Vox Machina treasurer?
Matt: which is a little helpful.
Laura: Right.
Liam: What do you think?
Laura: That would put us at about 30,000 that we have to spend left, which the signal cut out so it doesn’t matter.
Matt: No, we’ve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Liam: No, we’ve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So the total tab is what again, Gilmore?
Laura: How much do we have? He does have a picture of it. We have 1,620 platinum.
Marisha: What!
Matt: Is that right? There you go.
Orion: So that’s like--
Matt: 16,000 gold pieces.
Liam: All right. Spend it.
Liam: Spend it.
Marisha: All right. No!
Ashley: So we don’t need to open up a line of credit?
Liam: No.
Matt: Ten gold per platinum.
Orion: We have 1,000.
Matt: A thousand platinum. One thousand six hundred platinum. Move the decimal point. That brings it to 16,000 gold pieces.
Orion: Move two on that.
Matt: No, it’s not 100 gold per platinum, ten gold per platinum.
Matt: I’ve been saying ten gold per platinum this whole time, guys.
Taliesin: No, I’m with you.
Orion: I get it.
Liam: We’re losing our audience. Ring it up.
Matt: We’re getting into math in this.
Marisha: Our charity, 826LA, after-school tutoring.
Taliesin: It could’ve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Really good to have,
Taliesin: It could’ve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Your reading and your writing and your arithmetic.
Taliesin: For players who can read good.
Marisha: For players who can read good.
Liam: Ring it up, we’ll take it.
Ashley: We’ll take it all.
Liam: The whole lot.
Ashley: And then, could I commission you, by the way, to maybe make some armor that’s really heavy armor but very quiet?
Matt: "How heavy?"
Ashley: How heavy can you make it?
Matt: "I can work on plate armor if you’d like, but an enchantment of that magnitude would be the only enchantment it would have. So it would be the equivalent of full plate armor and the entire enchantment would enable you to move a little more easily inside it, and that would cost, it would take about, I'd say, a month to enchant on my end and would cost about, not including the cost of the actual armor, materials and time required, I’d put it at about 8,000 gold pieces?"
Liam: Worth it.
Liam: We’ll fund the money.
Ashley: And it’ll just be really quiet?
Matt: "It will enable you to move freer within the armor."
Liam: By a turn. Is 8,000 Vox Machina’s rate, or the general rate?
Matt: "That is through our friendship and our current arrangement."
Liam: Thank you. It’s appreciated.
Matt: "Mm."
Matt: "Business is business, but please don’t take this solemn,"
Liam: Of course. "but please don’t take this solemn, intense face to be anything other than friendship, this is just business and I run a business."
Liam: Understood.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: I’m not taking advantage.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: "So. To take all of these items, with the dragon scales included, bringing it down to 39,000 gold. We’ll call it even, 39,000 gold."
Taliesin: Fair.
Laura: That wasn’t much of a discount, Gilmore.
Liam: Hush up, Vex’ahlia.
Liam: Done, sold, thank you.
Liam: With our thanks.
Matt: "So minus the platinum, that’s 22,000 gold pieces after the platinum and dragon scales."
Marisha: And we have that, right?
Matt: "And you have 25,000 gold credit if you’d like."
Laura: We have, hold on... gotta go away for a minute.
Liam: We’re passing on the credit, Gilmore.
Laura: We have plenty left.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: You guys are a black screen, what happened?
Taliesin: They paused it.
Laura: I was looking at my calculator.
Liam: All right, we hear you. There you are!
Orion: Abacus!
Liam: You’re so dark sometimes, Vex’ahlia. I swear.
Laura: So the total was 20,000 minus the platinum and the dragon scales?
Matt: "Twenty-two thousand."
Laura: Yes, we still have enough, so.
Matt: "All right. So a deal?"
Marisha: Deal!
Taliesin: Deal.
Laura: My god, all of our money’s gone.
Matt: He snaps his fingers, Sherri comes and presents all the items that she had currently in a little stowaway bin off to the side of the desk. Brings them out to the rest of you and places it on the counter. Gilmore immediately snaps his fingers and a contract shows up. He writes up the numbers exchanged, making note of his business, passes it out.
Matt: "Please sign here. Anyone that represents you and your fine Vox Machina. Sign here and present the money."
Laura: I guess I’ll do that.
Taliesin: You do that.
Matt: "Vex’ahlia."
Matt: He hands you a quill. Takes your coin, slides you, and you now have this entire batch of magical items
Laura: That’s pretty cool.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Marisha: Yes! New armor!
Matt: And from that point --
Laura: Make sure we get some of those things.
Matt: "An absolute pleasure doing business with all of you. Absolutely."
Marisha: Thank you, Gilmore.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: So really though. Will this transfer to that?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Marisha: I was wanting to ask you, Gilmore. Have you considered maybe doing potion-making workshops?
Matt: "Hm. I’ll put some thought to that."
Marisha: Okay. Let me know.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel very uncomfortable and I leave. I go outside to hang out with Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: As Gilmore takes the change behind the counter, he goes,
Matt: "I’ve got a bit more business to do here. Vax, I greatly appreciate spending the afternoon with you. Where are you staying?"
Liam: I take him by the hand, do one of these clasps, and say,
Liam: We live here now, we’re residents. I haven’t had time to tell you. We have a keep, our own keep. You should come visit. It’s on the outskirts of town. It’s called Greyskull Keep, and you’re welcome any time. Day or night.
Matt: "Good to know. All right. To business I go. I bid you all a fine farewell."
Taliesin: Adieu.
Marisha: Bye, Gilmore.
Matt: He goes back through his beaded exit to the back room and leaves you to the rest of your-- --at which point Sherri goes,
Matt: "I’ll get back to work."
Matt: She goes back up, leaving you guys alone in the main chamber as a couple of other customers start walking around.
Matt: I think we’ll call that the adventure for the evening.
Marisha: Thanks for watching us shop.
Ashley: Thanks for watching us shop!
Laura: All the money’s gone!
Matt: All the money’s gone. You spent it, guys.
Marisha: We have 25 waiting for us in Kraghammer.
Matt: That’s true, you didn’t open the line of credit.
Laura: Yeah, we’d better get that.
Marisha: At least we’re not in debt.
Liam: The world is full of money, Vex'halia.
Travis: We got more money?
Ashley: Who had dibs on what?
Taliesin: I wanted the dexterity boost and I was thinking of the mithral.
Marisha: And I want the leather armor and he wants the cape.
Ashley: I can't use the sword, right? The frostband sword?
Liam: No, clerics can't use swords.
Matt: Check on your class, you might have access to it. Let me check here for you real fast.
Liam: It used to be just blunt weapons for clerics, wasn't it?
Matt: That's the older version, they've changed a few things. They don't do it too often. Let me double-check. Cleric has access to all simple weapons. The sword is a martial weapon so you cannot use that as a weapon.
Ashley: That's okay.
Zac: Oh man. These donations tonight, guys.
Matt: That's great. I'm glad you guys are enjoying watching our--
Laura: Me and Travis are going to cut out.
Matt: -- Laura and Travis are taking off, guys.
Marisha: Bye guys, have fun in Florida!
Liam: We were so glad to have you, sister!
Laura: We were so glad to be here.
Marisha: What con are you guys at?
Laura: We're at MetroCon, down in Tampa.
Matt: MetroCon in Tampa. So if you guys want to go see Vex and Grog in person and you're in the Florida/Tampa area, go to MetroCon this weekend and say hi.
Laura: Let's see how tired we are tomorrow.
Marisha: MetroCon in Tampa.
Liam: Worth it.
Matt: Thank you guys.
Marisha: Have fun!
Matt: Thanks again for the chat that bought us dinner tonight, it was amazing and delicious. Thank you so much guys, you're amazing every week. So we're going to go to donations.
Zac: Let's get through these.
Matt: Yeah, all right. Thank you guys again for -- Once again, this was the recovery episode of a long, twelve-week battle through the underdark. This was interesting to come back to, I hope you enjoyed it. All right, so first, donations.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. I think this is our 24th episode, which is ridiculous. We've been doing this since March, and it gets more and more ridiculous every week. Glad you guys can join us. The new guys, welcome to our chaos. For all the old folks, glad you could come and join us again. Quick thing I want to mention: last week we were talking about the changes to Critmas, because we had stresses on scheduling and we had crew here, and when things go long, we were talking about possibly moving to Periscope on a different day, separate medium. Well, the fanbase has spoken very loudly and very intently about their reaction to that, and so what we're doing, to still make it so people aren't kept here for ridiculous hours weekly, we're still going to have Critmas on the stream, but it's going to be once a month. It's probably going to be the first Thursday of every month, and we're going to make it an extensive day for that month where we open everything that evening. We still get to experience and share that with you guys, but also not keep these guys here way too late unpaid every Thursday night. So I think that's the plan we're going with forward. Hopefully, that's cool with everyone, because we love it, too, and we want to make sure we still share that with you guys. All right, couple of other announcements. First and foremost, I wanted to mention again-- we mentioned it last week, as well-- there's that Hasbro game design contest, design the next party game. That's still up until end of this month, I believe. So if you want to check it out, you can go ahead and tweet at me, last week's episode or search for the Hasbro game design contest. That's still happening. Also, there's a film series that I'm a part of called Mythica. It's like a high fantasy film series where I play the main villain, the necromancer Zorloc. It's fun times. It's like awesome, fun, fantasy genre film. And they're currently putting up a Kickstarter to finish the post on the third film, so you should check that out. Search Mythica on Kickstarter and you should find it there. Also, WeLoveFine is still running their DND t-shirt contest for their Rage of Demons release for Wizards of the Coast, where you can submit your own t-shirt designs that fit within the Rage of Demons theme. I am one of the judges on that, so if you submit your art to this, there is a cash prize. All the rules are up there on the WeLoveFine contest site. And I'll be able to judge your artwork and hopefully put you through to the end. So there's that. Trying to get through these as fast as possible. Our TeeSpring shirt for Is It Thursday Yet? is still up. It has one more week. So if any of you guys want to get the limited edition Critical Role Is It Thursday Yet? shirt, that is only available for one more week and then it'll be gone forever, so get it while you can. Let's see. I'm doing my best to get through this as fast as possible. No worries. Not everything. Also, Ashley's show Blindspot is premiering this coming Monday. (cheering)
Matt: Which is so exciting. You can check out Ashley on Blindspot where she'll maybe be sneaking Critical Role stuff into the show, hopefully. We're trying to push her to do that. So you should go support her. See it. It's awesome. And all of us lament that's the reason she's away from us. Someone want to handle our other cool--
Laura: But it's not on us yet. Oh look, now you can see us.
Liam: Why don't I go, and then you can go. Hey, you guys. I just want to make sure all of you are aware-- this is going to be so awkward-- I want to make sure you're all aware of a Kickstarter that's out there that is put up by a good friend of mine named Joe Madureira. Now if you don't know who Joe is, he is a comic book rock god and a game developer. When I was a teenager, he made a comic book called Battle Chasers. Look, here's mine. From when I was 16, Joe. I fell in love with it. Nobody does art like Joe Mad does, and I've followed his art for years and years. Even when I fell out of comic books, I was checking in with Hellboy and I was checking in with Joe Mad. And then, years later, I got cast in a game called Darksiders as one of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse. I played War, and I walked into the room and Joe Mad was in the fucking room, and then we became friends. So that game was amazing. Darksiders is a beautiful game. It just reeked of Joe's art style and now he has formed another company called Airship Syndicate and they have a Kickstarter up. They are making a game called Battle Chasers. Oh shoot! I didn't put the thing that comes-- oh, Nightwar! Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They've already hit their goal, but there are stretch goals. They are making an RPG, sort of in the ilk of JRPGs, like Final Fantasy and Chrono Trigger. And it's just going to be bathed in the glory of Joe Mad's amazing art style. So they've hit their goal, but the bigger the budget, the better the game is going to be. I backed it already. And you guys should at least go check it out. A lot of love for Joe Mad.
Orion: Yeah, me too. I'm on the same end. I knew Joe Mad through meeting Liam for a while, and later realizing that this guy I knew as an amazing voice director and an amazing producer has inked some of my favorite issues of Excalibur, and I crapped my pants. I have four of yours, Joe, in my box right now at home. He's an amazing guy and awesome thing to back. Check it out, please.
Liam: And one, the main character from Battle Chasers kind of looks like Pike!
Laura: She does! I thought that, too.
Matt: That's sweet. Wunderbar!
Taliesin: I got something. Next weekend, September 26 and 27, I'm going to be at a con! In Anchorage, Alaska.
Orion: That means "convention".
Taliesin: That means moose. I'm so excited. Senshi Con in Anchorage. I'll be there. I know we at least have, like, three fans at the very least in Alaska. Come on by. I'd love to see you. It'll be awesome.
Matt: Fantastic. Speaking of conventions, guys.
Marisha: Oh man, drop it like it's hot.
Matt: For those of you upper East Coast folks, we've recently been able to announce that we will be at and running some events at New York Comic Con in October. All of us, the entire Critical Role team will be at Comic Con. We're going to have signing, panel and all kinds of fun stuff throughout the weekend. And we'll be there. And if you're in the area, or if it's drivable, or even if it's not, you should come anyway, cause we'd like to see you. If it's trainable, if it's flyable.
Travis: If you steal a horse, steal a horse and ride it.
Laura: If you want to ride a bear there, I wouldn't judge you.
Marisha: And what weekend is New York Comic Con?
Liam: Eight, nine, ten, 11.
Marisha: October 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th. So you've got three weeks to prepare.
Matt: Yeah, so excited to be there. Excited to see you there. And it'll be a lot of fun. A lot of fun.
Liam: Primarily doing stuff Saturday that we know. We're waiting to see what's going on Sunday weekend.
Laura: Saturday is for sure.
Taliesin: With more of us than are even here.
Travis: Bring your swag. Bring your friends.
Marisha: Not even all of us were at San Diego. Well, we were all there, just not all at one point at one time.
Travis: Because we were missing Sam.
Matt: The first full Critical Role con appearance. Boom.
Travis: The unicorn appears.
Orion: I'm going to get a hot dog.
Matt: Orion's going to get a hot dog. Awesome. Any other announcements? Or did you have something, you said?
Laura: No, I was just so excited about New York Comic Con, I wanted to be a part of that announcement.
Orion: I would like to announce that I feel pretty good.
Taliesin: I'm terrified, personally, but--
Orion: I know, but maybe that's why I feel so good.
Taliesin: You were right. It is awful.
Orion: I'll get shunned for it happening, then I'm like, oh, cool. I don't have to worry about me right now.
Marisha: So much pressure.
Laura: Should we say that we have Kit here?
Taliesin: No, we shouldn't tell them that we have Kit here. Let's hold that back.
Matt: Kit Buss is not here.
Marisha: We also have both of our artists here.
Laura: Kit and Wendy.
Matt: Kit and Wendy.
Marisha: Kit and Wendy. Come here! But come here!
Ryan: There's a 30-second lag.
Matt: We'll eventually have them say hello to everyone, but Kit Buss, our official CritRole artist who did all the original character designs, continues to produce amazing art for this show, is here visiting Los Angeles for the next week. So she's here on the set and we'll drag her out in front of the camera and embarrass her shortly.
Taliesin: I've been curious precisely how long the lag is, because--
Laura: It's about 30 seconds.
Marisha: We learned when we killed the carpet.
Laura: Yeah. (muffled yelling)
Marisha: Just time that. Time that.
Matt: I guess also an announcement for all you League players out there: awesome character just got announced called Kindred. Kind of a two-part thing. That wolf that's the part of Kindred sounds pretty cool so you should play it.
Travis: I heard that. It's subtle.
Matt: Real subtle. It's a good one. I think that's it, isn't it? I think we're good on announcements, and we can start.
Taliesin: I feel like we have, do we have an address? Address?
Matt: Oh, the PO Box?
Taliesin: Do we have that?
Travis: It's up. Yeah, he's got it.
Taliesin: It's up and in the chat?
Ryan: The mods are posting it in the chat.
Matt: The mods got that covered. Now diverting all Critmas images and the boxes, and we have arrived. Our nefarious Scanlan--
Sam: Whoa. Were you just talking about me?
Matt: Yeah!
Sam: Whoa, that's crazy. I was just talking about me, too.
Matt: As was the website, because your interview went up today.
Sam: Oh, that's right. I saw. Some of that I had my ghostwriter write for me. I have a biographer and a ghostwriter.
Travis: Is that a ghostwriter on retainer that we can also use?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: Good to know. Well, fantastic. Do you have any announcements you want to make, Sam, or shall we jump in?
Sam: No. Just that I don't have any dice but I can use Orion's and they're going to be awesome.
Laura: I have so many dice. Take this giant bag and just fish some out.
Sam: Great. Thanks.
Taliesin: The Bag of Disagreeable Dice.
Laura: No, let him find them.
Matt: All righty, then in just a minute, let us begin this next episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. All right, so to give you guys a little heads-up of what has recently transpired in the story. The party, after completing their business in the city of Vasselheim, on the far-off northwest continent. Grog, of course, having an epic battle in the Crucible fight pit against Kern, reclaiming his honor.
Travis: (singing) I am the champion, my friends.
Matt: Pike left back there to finish up the renovation of the temple of Sarenrae that was discovered. The rest of the party moved on back to Emon, the rest of their business complete. Within Emon, they returned to Greyskull Keep, where they encountered a fan, apparently, of Vox Machina, that had been camping for two weeks outside, who was promptly bludgeoned in the temple by Vax to teach him a lesson. Brought back from the brink, and taught that hard lesson-- that this is a dangerous field-- managed to seemingly reach out and touch the heart of this young, intrepid, wannabe adventurer to possibly try and better himself before he throws himself into danger's way. And he ran off to train harder.
Taliesin: Dagger, dagger, hug.
Matt: Indeed. Upon returning to the keep, notice was sent off to one of the other members of the Council of Tal'Dorei, Seeker Asum, who is the halfling head of whispers and all sorts of subterfuge across the countryside, who came to you notifying you that within a week's time, the Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, are supposed to be arriving here within Emon for a feast to discuss building a bridge and a more political joining between Emon, the Tal'Dorei royal family, and these up-and-coming lords and ladies, who have a very dark history with Percy's character. You've been asked to join as part of this feast as you previously requested with sovereign Tal'Dorei, that should anything involved the Briarwoods that you be included. You have a week to figure out what you want to do in advance of that. And that is where we left off.
Orion: What time of the day is it?
Matt: Right now, after this discussion, you guys' arrival, I'd say it's probably mid-afternoon. First things first, though, after this discussion with Seeker Asum, who leaves the keep, you do have a brief moment of awkward silence as most of the people that work within your keep turn to you. Laina looks about the rest of you and goes, "By the way, we've been working here for about six weeks on the pay of four. We're coming close to our next pay scheme, and you tend to leave often and for extended periods of time. We would also like to be paid, if possible."
Laura: Most definitely, dear. Yes. We are definitely going to pay you. Does anybody remember how much we are supposed to pay them?
Orion: Pardon, what is the total of the staff's payment?
Matt: She thinks to herself for a moment, at which point you see Erwen, the elderly servant in the back says, "Actually, you had previously said it was both of our services was 50 gold each for the month. And if I recall, the other mercenaries or guardians that you've hired to watch the walls of the keep were at a discussed 100 gold for the month's wages. Each."
Laura: And how many of those guys do we have?
Matt: "You currently have five on your payroll, yes. 600 gold pieces total per month for the services for everyone keeping your keep."
Laura: Tell you what, I will front this from my personal funds for this month. Just because we don't have enough in the party funds to cover that.
Sam: We don't have 600 gold?
Laura: We do not!
Sam: Who's our treasurer?!
Laura: I am, but you bitches keep spending money!
Liam: I'll go halfsies.
Laura: Halfsies? Lovely. Twinsies will pay halfsies. Here you go! 300 for each.
Matt: "Thank you so much. I'll make sure this gets to the appropriate individuals immediately. They'll be very happy to not have to walk away. "
Laura: Yes, don't worry, you will always be paid from Vox Machina.
Matt: Erwen steps in. "And by the way, if you do intend to leave for an extended period of time again, I would recommend perhaps paying that in advance. There was a bit of unrest last time."
Sam: Should we pay another month?
Laura: Not yet. Not just yet.
Orion: I'll pay him in advance right now, just to get it out of the way. 600, out of here, phew, there you go.
Matt: "Very well, sire! I shall disseminate this amongst the others."
Taliesin: Traditionally, the head of the house does dispense out the stipends anyway. That would be appropriate. I'm not even in the room, am I? Never mind! Sorry.
Matt: Yeah, you're down in the workshop.
Laura: Can I go find Percy?
Matt: You can.
Marisha: Actually, we should all go find Percy. We should all talk to Percy.
Matt: "Thank you kindly, Tiberius. Thank you." And he wanders off and begins counting out change into a smaller purse.
Orion: When they start to go, I'd like to go to the temple with the sigils and talk to the guy who runs the place.
Matt: Oh, you mean the Lyceum?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, the Alabaster Lyceum.
Orion: Yeah, because I learned something new this week and I was like, I'm dumb. But that's where I would like to head.
Matt: All right. So you make your way towards the Alabaster Lyceum. The rest of you head down into Percy's workshop. So you head around the outskirts of the inner portion of the keep itself, down the stairway that leads to the basement floor, which contains a small cell, like a holding cell that you had constructed for you in case you had somebody to take prisoner at some point. To the right. To the left of you, there's a small turning hallway that leads to the workshop. The workshop contains a series of various tools, workbenches. It actually has a working forge, with anvil and various blacksmithing tools. And as you guys come down, the heat is already blasting from it, and you can see Percy madly diving into work of some kind.
Travis: What are you doing, Percy? You making more mousetraps? Guess not.
Taliesin: I'm a bit busy. I am making more ammo. I'm working on a few projects that have been rolling around in my head for quite some time now.
Orion: (whispers) Don't forget the bolt.
Taliesin: The bolt is on the list, yes.
Laura: Quite the worker.
Taliesin: I've got a lot to do.
Laura: Yes. Darling...
Taliesin: How many of you are down here right now?
Travis: I think we're all here. I'm moving through his stuff.
Laura: I let Trinket forage around the courtyard, so he's not down here at the moment.
Liam: I think we need a little history lesson here--
Taliesin: Grog, don't touch that!
Travis: Why not? But it moves!
Laura: Don't touch anything.
Orion: Matthew, I took some fine meats before I left and I'm feeding them to Lockheed along the way.
Matt: Okay. Lockheed enjoys them thoroughly. They're delicious. Comfort food crafted by the finest of cooks in Greyskull Keep.
Marisha: Percy, it's hard not to clearly notice that you're quite distressed, and we're concerned. And you know, we were talking about it-- not that we were talking about you or anything, behind your back or anything-- but we never really found out why you were in that prison cell when we found you.
Liam: We've never questioned it before. We've never wanted to make you uncomfortable. But we're about to walk into a party, and I feel like we need a bit of a history lesson.
Taliesin: Ugh. I know you're right. (sighs)
Travis: Should we guess? Was it public nudity?
Taliesin: A bit. I've never had to say this out loud before. I've never actually had this discussion with anyone.
Sam: It's okay. It gets better.
Taliesin: Do I get an inspiration die for that?
Matt: I'll give you a d6 inspiration die. (laughter)
Taliesin: The Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, are responsible for the death of my entire family. Whitestone was my home. Many years ago-- I don't want to get into the details. I came from a big family. I came from a proud family. One night, they were invited into our home, and over the course of that night, they slaughtered everybody. They are evil. They are corrupting. The few survivors of Castle Whitestone who did survive only survived through deceit and by working for the Briarwoods, turning on their masters. Thankfully, the de Rolo family still has standing elsewhere, and there's other branches of the family other than my father's. (sighs) I was lost for quite a while after that happened. I had nothing else in my life other than my family. I was never really going to inherit anything. I was not going to run anything. I was idle. And at some point, I made the decision that, if nothing else, I survived to, maybe, extract some vengeance. Maybe set something right. Maybe stop whatever it was that they were doing. I don't know. There was one of their party, Dr. Ripley. She was in charge of something during the murder. I don't know what. I chased her. I chased her down. It took a year, and I had my gun, and I discovered where she was and where she was working on some ruins, and I approached her. I never even saw her face. Her guards captured me, beat me up. Didn't even bother taking my things. They just threw me in that dungeon. I never even got close enough to see her face.
Sam: You know her name, but you've never seen her before?
Taliesin: I saw her when she was interrogating me in my home.
Sam: Oh, so you could recognize her.
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Laura: How did you get away when they-- with the rest of your family?
Taliesin: My sister Cassandra, my younger sister. She somehow evaded capture. I don't know how. She set me free. I don't know what became of her. I don't know what became of any of my siblings. Probably nothing reasonable. Nothing good.
Liam: You witnessed none of these deaths?
Taliesin: I saw bodies of a few of them. It's all a bit shady. It's all a bit of a blur.
Sam: How many years ago was this?
Taliesin: (sighs) Four now. Five now.
Laura: If you know that they murdered your family, how are they still part of society?
Taliesin: I don't know. (sighs) I could have gone home. I could have gone home at any point, at this point. I'm scared.
Marisha: Did they take over Whitestone? Are they still there?
Taliesin: I discovered approximately a week ago that they're still at Whitestone.
Laura: Will they recognize you?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: And these pricks are in good standing with the council?
Taliesin: (sighs) I don't know what to do. I'm preparing for anything. When I got thrown into that dungeon, I came to the realization that maybe I wasn't doing this the right way. I wasn't being responsible, and I prayed to whatever it is I pray to that maybe I would have a sign of what I should be doing, and then there you were. I've been trusting that Vox Machina will take me where I need to go, and maybe what I need to do is confront this, but I don't know what this is, and I'm terrified.
Liam: And the remains of your family, were they killed by the sword?
Taliesin: I don't know. There was an interrogation. Dr. Ripley was asking questions. I assumed, for all these years, that that's what became of my family.
Marisha: What was she asking questions about? What did they want? Was it just a political coup?
Taliesin: Asking questions about the castle, about things about the castle. It was a long time ago, and I was not equipped for torture. I don't remember much.
Travis: Do you want them dead?
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Should we interrogate them first? Find out more about your family?
Travis: Or just skip ahead to the dead part?
Taliesin: I put down my gun, and I turn the barrel, and of the six barrels, five of them have names, and Lord and Lady Briarwood are two of those names. Dr. Ripley is another.
Sam: What are the other ones?
Taliesin: Sir Stonefell is the other, and Professor Anders is the other, and then there's one blank one.
Laura: Are they all members of the same party? They travel with the Briarwoods?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Wait, what were the names? The Briarwoods, Ripley, Sir Kerrion Stonefell. Who is he?
Taliesin: He was the captain of their guard.
Marisha: And Professor Anders? Who's that?
Taliesin: Professor Anders was my teacher. He was my tutor, and he was in collusion with them, and he was the one that I believe allowed them to take the castle in the night.
Marisha: And do you remember why they were invited to Whitestone to begin with?
Taliesin: They were traveling. They were on the road. It was my brother Julius and my sister Vesper who handled matters of court. I was studying. I didn't think.
Marisha: And how many brothers and sisters do you have?
Taliesin: I had six.
Laura: You might have six. We don't know what happened to them.
Marisha: You said you saw a few bodies of family?
Taliesin: It's all very much a blur. (sighs) There's things you just forget.
Sam: Well, this is certainly tragic, but looking forward, what do we know of this meeting? Event? Party? What are we doing?
Laura: Well, I think we need to do some spying.
Sam: Well, do they know Percy's among us?
Laura: That's the thing. I don't know if they do.
Taliesin: You don't have to get involved in this.
Laura: Oh, we are so involved.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, we do. You said you want them dead.
Laura: We've got your back, darling.
Liam: Percival, you don't really have a choice in the matter. My sister and I know a little piece of your pain. I'm not going to get into it, but there's nothing she and I can do. We can find reparations for you. We will.
Marisha: Percy, is this what you want?
Taliesin: There's only one way to find out.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: And if we kill them, how much will you pay us? Just kidding. We ask other people that.
Laura: Something I do need to know. Percy. If we see them, and we're not ready to show our faces, will you be able to contain yourself?
Taliesin: I think so.
Marisha: And would they be able to recognize your face?
Taliesin: Which is why I was planning on-- I know we have a cap of disguise.
Travis: Oh! We do.
Laura: Scanlan has it.
Taliesin: I don't even know if they would recognize me. My hair was different.
Laura: Less purple?
Sam: We could go into town, and find you a bushy mustache. It's worked for me many times.
Taliesin: I don't think I wear one as well as you do.
Liam: How does that cap work?
Sam: Well, that cap is more of a hat. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast Disguise spell. Oh. Cast a Disguise spell? Do you have to be a spellcaster to use it?
Matt: You do not have to, no.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: I see a shiny tool. I don't know what it does.
Matt: You reach over and grab it, and it's a large set of tongs, used for gripping large, heavy pieces of metal, either for the actual forge itself, or to bend and manipulate on the workbench.
Travis: I take it (yawns) and put it in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Marisha: Stealing from the workshop that you partially own?
Travis: There are lots of cool stuff in there! What was the check?
Matt: Sleight of hand.
Travis: Where's sleight of hand-- 17!
Laura: My passive perception is 21.
Taliesin: No, this could be funny, let this happen.
Laura: I give him the evil eye.
Matt: She gives you the evil eye.
Travis: It hurts. I put it back.
Taliesin: Out of curiosity, what did you pick up, what did it look like?
Travis: It was a big thing of tongs. I didn't know what it did, I just wanted it.
Taliesin: A big thing of tongs? What would I have to roll to find out if it was covered in some basic sulfuric acid? If it was one of the things I was using for casting.
Matt: Ah, interesting. You know your tools very well in your workshop, and yeah, the metal is scarred and pockmarked from use with the various corrosive chemicals.
Taliesin: That'll take about ten minutes to take effect. All right. (gasping)
Orion: Stupid.
Laura: You're not there.
Sam: Well this Hat of Disguise, Percival, it requires some attunement. I don't know how capable you are with magical items.
Taliesin: I can find out.
Liam: We got seven days. I can make you look like anything. I can talk to the right people and get you the right paperwork and you can be anyone and no one will know a fucking difference.
Marisha: Calm down there.
Taliesin: I can forge paperwork, as well.
Laura: Oh yes, he can. He's actually the guy we go to.
Marisha: He is that guy you meet on the corner of Sandy Alley.
Sam: I can make us all into birds.
Travis: Are we supposed to go meet with the council right away?
Taliesin: No, in a week.
Sam: What do we do in the week? Prepare. Recon?
Laura: We can do things. How long of a ride is it to Kraghammer?
Matt: To Kraghammer, on horseback? It's about two and a half days.
Laura: Solo style, if you're fast, and back?
Matt: Fast and back? I'd say just under two days, probably.
Taliesin: How about the giant eagle flies?
Marisha: Yeah, what if you're flying?
Matt: I'd say, well, the horse is probably a little bit faster than the eagle.
Laura: But you don't have to stick to the road as an eagle.
Matt: I'd say it'd put you there about the same pace, about two days on eagle, because you can just go straight through. I mean, you want to take the road because you know that there's a lot of dangerous things that wander the wild that are between there.
Laura: What do you think? Is it stupid to go and ride hard and try to get there and back before--?
Sam: Wait, we're going to get cash and come back?
Laura: We don't all have to go. A couple of us can make a fast ride.
Marisha: Tiberius is working on it, I have a feeling deep down inside.
Orion: (laughs) Why would you say that?
Matt: You know I deduct points for metagaming.
Orion: I didn't do anything!
Taliesin: I agree we should send someone for the money. I agree.
Sam: And it won't take us a whole week to prepare for this party. All we need is a couple disguises.
Marisha: Yeah, but we need to do research. You barely know who the Briarwoods are.
Liam: We don't know if these people are straight up gangster, or if there's something supernatural, seriously supernatural, about them. That hat would probably work on 80% of people, but I don't know. We don't know anything about them.
Marisha: Well, they're not going to recognize any of us, are they?
Sam: We could go do some recon.
Travis: Besides, have we seen all the brothels in Emon? I don't think so.
Sam: We should do some research, some reconnaissance while someone goes for the money.
Laura: Or should we wait? I really want the money.
Taliesin: People get married in my family for money. I think it's perfectly reasonable.
Sam: Listen, we could all go get the money and be back in four days, right?
Laura: No, because some people need to do some work. We need to send some people off.
Sam: Split the party?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Hopefully be back in time.
Taliesin: There's four days. We can each do our part. Five days.
Liam: Keyleth, can you-- Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? Sorry.
Liam: Can you and Scanlan fly to Kraghammer?
Marisha: Yes. I would like to stop and talk to Gilmore first, though, before I leave. Do I have time for that? I can fly.
Laura: Our illustrious god just told us it's better to stick to the road because there's bad things--
Marisha: In the air? There's air traffic? I have to worry about air traffic?
Matt: By horseback, you want to stick to the road. By air--
Sam: By air, though. Check yourself, Kiki--
Marisha: What?
Sam: You, I would assume, use Polymorph as I do.
Marisha: No, I use my Beast Shaping.
Sam: Ooh. That's so sexy. Does that last for longer than a day?
Marisha: It lasts as long as I want it to last.
Sam: Damn!
Travis: I go up to the kitchen and look for something to eat.
Marisha: It's in my blood.
Sam: You can be an animal as long as you want?
Marisha: Where are you going with this, Scanlan?
Matt: You can stay in Beast Shape for a number of hours equal to half your druid level. Five hours right now, you can transform for.
Marisha: So when I mean as long as I want, I mean, long enough to where I've never had to really think about it before now.
Sam: Well then, like me, flying there would not be an option. We'd have to stop, rest, walk, sleep.
Laura: Yeah, that would slow it down a lot.
Marisha: Well, I could get ten hours, because I can use two Beast Shaping abilities.
Laura: But that's still a two days' flight--
Liam: Two days is the horse, riding hard. What about an eagle?
Marisha: No, I get my druid shapes back after a short rest.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Because Circle of the Moon, bitch.
Matt: So you could Beast Shape twice, rest 30 minutes, Beast Shape twice.
Marisha: Can I make a stop first, and then I'll run an errand?
Liam: We don't really have a lot of money at the moment.
Laura: She might have some.
Marisha: Yeah, I've got my personal fundsies.
Taliesin: Can you leave me an earpiece so that I can keep in contact? I'm not leaving my workshop.
Marisha: I have an earpiece, right?
Laura: We'll leave you alone, Percy. To work.
Marisha: Is there anything else you need from us, Percy? Is there anything you need while I'm out and about?
Taliesin: Leave me an earpiece, and I'll call if I need anything else.
Travis: Percy, is there anything in this shop that you want in the Bag of Holding for later?
Taliesin: Not yet. Thank you, Grog.
Laura: Do you not have an earpiece?
Travis: I'll give him mine.
Taliesin: How many minutes has it been? I'm wondering if his hands are starting to itch yet.
Matt: About this time, you start to get this weird tingling sensation around your fingers.
Travis: Do they crave blood?
Matt: No, they crave some sort of an agent that will prevent the now slight burning sensation.
Travis: Ow. Quick question. Sorry, I kept something from falling in the shop-- really quick reflexes-- it's making my bits tingle. Do you have anything for that?
Liam: You haven't been scratching yourself, have you?
Travis: No, I had that before. Not the same thing.
Taliesin: There's a bucket of water in the corner. You can try that.
Travis: I go over to the bucket of water and I stick my hands in the water.
Taliesin: It'll make it worse.
Matt: It does. The slight burning sensation now has turned into a very vibrant burning white hot on the skin, and you can see bits of the skin start to peel back a little bit, beginning on the edges.
Taliesin: I hand him a small bag of powder. Now you've learned not to touch things if you don't know what they are.
Travis: What do I do with a bag of powder?
Taliesin: I pour the powder on his hands.
Matt: It foams up a little bit in places, but it is neutralized.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: You're a good friend.
Travis: Can I leave now? I go to the kitchen to eat.
Matt: All righty. You easily get another meal mustered for you.
Marisha: I'm going to go make a trip to Gilmore's. Anybody want to join?
Liam: I should probably tag along.
Sam: I'll come, too.
Matt: You're working in the workshop, you're eating, you guys are going to Gilmore's. All right. So as this is happening, Tiberius, you make your way over to the Alabaster Lyceum. You come up to the front main area of the structure itself. It's an arcane college. You make your way to the front clerk, who looks up to you, a nice young fellow, looks like he's trying to work through his credit in school through his training. He's dressed in the ceremonial robes of somebody who is a student, who is currently stuck with the job of working as a clerk. He's like, "Hi, can I help you?"
Orion: Yes, hi, if you do not remember me, I am Tiberius Stormwind, from Draconia. Moreover, Vox Machina, over at Greyskull Keep.
Matt: "Where have I heard that--"
Orion: Well, we told you multiple times before. We met with you using your sigil of teleport-- it's fine. I've come here on a matter of business anyway, so that's neither here nor there. I was wondering if I may procure an address, or number as it were, for a sigil to Kraghammer. I believe the Thunderbrands would have some facility near theirs or on their own premises where their sigil could be channeled through the Circle of Teleportation spell.
Matt: "If you're talking about sigils for teleportation, you would probably have to discuss that with Gatekeeper Xanthas."
Orion: Where is he? I thought that was you.
Matt: "No. I'm the clerk. I run the front of the-- follow me." And he gets up and leads you further into the structure to the central circular room, the white-marbled room that contains all the doors around, and in the center there is the Traverse Junction. This is the place you guys have stumbled into every single time you've teleported back to Emon. And there you see the elven wizard who you recently bothered naught but maybe five hours ago, who is currently setting up some sheets, comes back. "Oh. Hello, again."
Orion: Hi. I'm Tiberius Stormwind, from Draconia. Moreover, Vox Machina over at Greyskull Keep. I was wondering-- and I asked your clerk here because I thought he did what you actually do here-- if I may procure, for coin or perhaps some kind of favor of sorts, the address or number or code or whatever it is that would work for the Kraghammer sigil of my Circle of Teleportation.
Matt: "I get an understanding here that you're seeking access to one of our many sigil-based rooms of transference. Those rooms are currently under very protected lock and key, approval by the headmaster Thurmond Adalum himself."
Orion: Okay, where is he?
Marisha: Oh my god. It's like calling Time Warner Cable.
Orion: Can you take me to him? Where is he at?
Matt: Glances over at the clerk, who goes, "Right this way, Mr. Stormwind." He leads you back to a long, long hallway with arched ceiling. You can see the marble itself has these carvings and sculptures of various dead-looking faces of long-passed mages that either were built or held in high esteem in the halls of this lyceum. At the very end, it opens up into a pretty well-decorated, almost over-the-top decorated office room for the headmaster himself. The interior is lined with large, large 15, 20-foot-tall bookshelves around this oval room with sliding ladders that are attached to them that slowly glide on their own, like they're on some sort of arcane-based pattern that puts them back and forth. There is a large chandelier of brightly colored orbs that sits 35, 40 feet in the air, that slowly rotates on its own that keeps this slowly fluctuating changing color of the room. And in the center there is a circular desk, and sitting there at the desk you can see is Headmaster Thurmond, who is this extremely elderly human male. Shaved face, very short, curved bald head with a little bit of hair in the back, hunched forward and is currently collecting a series of books into his arms. Looks like he's about to get up. And he turns and looks over. "Can I help you?"
Orion: Hello.
Orion: I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Sam: I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Orion: Moreover, Vox Machina over at Greyskull Keep here in Emon. We are the saviors of this town and whatnot. Anyway, that's neither here nor there. I went through this fellow, who I thought was the job of this fellow, but it wasn't either of those jobs, it was you who I've been needing to talk to, I'm assuming?
Matt: "What do you require from me, then?"
Orion: I'm hoping to procure an address or access to the sigils of Kraghammer through my Circle of Teleportation spell and whatnot using your arcane gates. That's about it. (laughter)
Sam: Well put!
Matt: "If you're asking for access to one of our closely guarded sigils for the Thunderbrands, you say, within Kraghammer?"
Orion: Yes, yes. We'll have to speak with them as well.
Matt: "Well, then I will-- just one moment." And he reaches into a pouch and pulls out this mirror, this oval mirror and sets it onto his desk. Reaches underneath and pulls out a small chest. Opens up the chest, and you can see in this chest that there are probably two dozen of these tiny little marbles, all different colors, some different shapes, and he goes, these little labels you can't really see from your perspective. He takes one out, places it in the top of the mirror, and as he does, the mirror all of a sudden shimmers for a second, and what was originally a normal reflection is now this light, glowing blue, slightly glowing water-like surface. He takes it and lifts it up to himself. "Hello. Hello? Hello!" A moment later, you hear this distant voice echoing with this strange warbling filter over it. "I'm coming, what's taking your time. Yes, Headmaster, what do you require?" "Well, there's a gentleman here, dragonborn, who is requesting use of your sigil of teleportation. Do you know this gentleman?" Turns it around, and you can see in there, this is the same long-bearded dwarven individual that met you at the actual Thunderbrand house, and had a bit of an argument with you early in your travels in Kraghammer.
Orion: We've got things for you, this time, like we said we would get for you. In the Underdark. It's really inconvenient, but we have things that we need to get to you quickly.
Matt: "Now, listen here. Last we spoke, you and your friends stormed into our lair, nearly destroyed our precious arcane defenses of our homestead--"
Orion: He was drinking. He's an alcoholic. He's got help since then.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Orion: What is it?
Matt: This is deception. Well, you are an alcoholic, but that wasn't what he meant.
Orion: 20.
Matt: 20. (laughs) He goes, "Either way, we can't just let anyone willy-nilly knowing how to directly appear in the center of our homestead."
Orion: (in same accent as Matt) Of course. Oh, sorry, I started to sound like you. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bring me another accent, aye.
Orion: Of course. I wouldn't expect you to. I'm Tiberius Stormwind, from Draconia. My father Kruvanis Stormwind has helped the Council for over two generations. We come from a noble house, and I give you my word that I will never abuse-- abuse?-- however you pronounce it in your tongue. The privilege of quickly traveling to your stead to do business with you, and there would be no other intrusion otherwise. I guarantee it as my name as a Stormwind.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Sam: Chief negotiator!
Orion: That's 11.
Matt: 11. His head turns to the side a little bit, peering through you with a slight scowl. "Last we talked, the reason we didn't report you to the guard for breaking through our defenses was you promised to look beneath the city and bring back various artifacts you were in search of."
Orion: Ooh, we found one!
Matt: "Did you, now?"
Orion: A couple, yes. And we killed a bunch of those buttholes.
Matt: "Can I see one of these artifacts?"
Orion: I don't have it on me right now.
Matt: "We're done here, Headmaster." And the mirror shimmers and closes suddenly.
Marisha: Wait. No?
Liam: Good try!
Laura: We can bring-- oh, we're not there.
Matt: The headmaster takes the marble out and says, "I'm sorry that didn't seem to go your way."
Orion: It's fine, Headmaster. I'll be back in about 15 minutes with the proper proof that we did procure the things that the man, that needed to have proof, did. Excuse me! And I get the hell out of there. And as soon as I get out of there, I cast Fly on myself, and I Gandalf (whoosh) right back to the keep.
Matt: All righty. You're eating. You're crafting. Are you going with the rest of them to Gilmore?
Laura: I don't know. I guess so.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to the outside of Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Sam: As we walk, do we see Tiberius fly over our heads?
Laura: Actually, I'm staying at the Keep.
Orion: Well, Travis is my target, right? Are you still at the Keep?
Travis: Yeah, I'm eating.
Matt: As far as time goes, you haven't quite gotten to that point yet, for these guys. You get to Gilmore's. You enter the interior. You can see that for the most part, there aren't a lot of people in here. It's getting later in the day, and a lot of the customer business seems to be happening almost earlier, either pre-noon, or around noon. There's no current sign of Gilmore. You do see, across the way-- what's her name, again?
Marisha: Sherri.
Matt: Thank you. Sherri, the mousy helper who runs the shop in Gilmore's absence, or at least runs the first portion of it, with her thick glasses up on her nose, and she's sitting there with her elbows over the top of the main desk. She looks up as you enter, and takes her glasses and pokes them for a second. "Hello? Hi."
Liam: Do you remember us?
Matt: "Right, I do."
Marisha: From Vox Machina? We're sponsored by Gilmore. He put the brand on my armor that my mother gave me.
Matt: "And you should be wearing it proudly, yes? Now, what can I help you with?"
Sam: Well, is Gilmore around?
Liam: Yes, I was hoping to catch up with him. We've been gone a while, and I was hoping to trade news with Glorious Gilmore. Is he not in at the moment?
Matt: "Gilmore's in Westruun, currently setting up the expansion of the Gilmore's Glorious Goods business. If this is important, I can certainly summon him here."
Liam: I'd hate to pull him away from business. I don't want to get in the way of his business. I mean, I am rather sad not to see him, but no, I don't think that would be a course of action we'd want to take. Let him continue to set up.
Matt: "All right, I suppose."
Liam: Can you get a message to him, though?
Matt: "Yes, I can, actually."
Liam: Well, tell him Vax'ildan and friends visited. We're in the city for a week.
Matt: She pulls out a small sheet of what looks like a rough-around-the-edges piece of parchment, and starts the inkwell, scribbling down.
Liam: Vax'ildan. That's with an A, not an E. We're here for a week. I don't know if he's going to be back from Westruun before then, but if he is, tell him to get word to me. I'm very interested in exchanging news for the past few weeks.
Matt: "All right." (foreign words) It flashes and disappears in front of her. "Well then, he'll be receiving the message right about now. We'll pass that on, and whenever he returns, I'm certain he will get back to you and deal with whatever business is necessary."
Liam: Thank you. We're here late in the day; are you still open for business?
Matt: "We are open, yes."
Marisha: I was just curious if you guys had a chance to think about the alchemy workshop that we talked about before, or if you maybe had any alchemy books that came in that I was requesting?
Matt: "It's possible. We haven't completely restocked the shelves, as of late. I know we had some new things come in. I can go check." And as she turns, all of a sudden there's a large, vibrant, white flash of light and a sound from the back room. The beaded curtains shift, for a second, and you hear heavy footsteps. And pushing through the beaded curtain, you see before you, with a bead of sweat on his head, Gilmore! "I'm so glad you came back!"
Sam: Gilmore!
Marisha: Gilmore!
Matt: "I'm sorry. I was out and about, running some business a ways away."
Liam: You didn't have to go to all that trouble to come back here.
Matt: "How could I miss seeing my fine-- there's not as many of you as usual."
Liam: No, we're seeing to different bits of business. I turn back to him, I walk forward with hands out. I walk up to him, take him by the head, give him a good European-style kiss just about here-- right there-- come back, and say, there is so much to talk about. Where can we be alone?
Matt: He looks over at the rest of the group. "Well, I mean--" (laughter) MATT "But of course."
Liam: See to whatever business you need to.
Sam: We'll just peruse, yeah. We'll window shop.
Matt: He walks back through the beaded curtain, giving you this look over his shoulder. As he does, the curtain falls behind him.
Liam: Those beads.
Travis: Oh jeez!
Liam: I walk right in. Follow him in.
Matt: And you can see now, as the glow gently fades, there is a rug that is pushed to the side, and on the floor of his room there is a familiar sigil, similar to the one that you've seen Tiberius scrawl before in some of his spells. That's apparently how he got here so quickly. But he walks in, and he kicks the rug back over it, sits down on the edge of his bed, puts his hands up and goes, "What seems to be troubling you?"
Liam: I walk over and I sit down opposite him, and I say: Before we talk about anything, I feel like I should apologize because although we didn't have any sort of written agreement, you and I are friends, aren't we?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: And I was supposed to help bring your brand wherever we went. And I thought that would be possible. We came back from the Underdark. We had a very hard time, some of the hardest weeks of my life. I haven't delivered on my promise. And I mean to, but I haven't yet. I apologize wholeheartedly. I'm sorry.
Matt: "That's all right. I understand  people grow busy. There are things you must tend to, and that's all right. And I appreciate you being so honest, I really do."
Liam: In addition to that, I am changed, and promises mean more to me, even more than they did before. And I promise to follow through. In the interest of time for the game, DM, Vax tells the whole story of the Underdark, of the horn, of how close it was.
Marisha: Ugh, what is taking him so long, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: While that's happening, the rest of you are left there awkwardly staring about.
Marisha: Did Sherri find my book? Sherri?
Matt: A few minutes go by. Sherri comes back. She brings two books over. "Best I can tell, these may be what you're looking for? I can't quite--" She sets them down. One is a book that is the properties of various liquids, chemicals, and things that are found on this plane and otherwise. It's a good way to locate and identify phantom liquids, should you come across any.
Marisha: That would be good for Scanlan.
Taliesin: He is the source of a lot of phantom liquids.
Matt: The other book appears to have a section about alchemy. It's essentially almost a beginner's guide, but it's a very, very easy-to-follow introduction to a number of various low-level sorceries and the creation of low-level spell components preparing them for use with spell-casting, and there is a chapter on a little bit of alchemy.
Marisha: Okay, how much are these, Sherri?
Matt: "They haven't been priced, yet."
Marisha: I mean, they're-- they're all right.
Laura: Good going, Keyleth! I like it!
Matt: "25 gold, each."
Marisha: 25 gold, each? Oh, come on. I know some university student dropped these off and donated these. Don't kid me, Sherri. Am I doing it right? Do I sound like Vex?
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Marisha: Damn it!
Taliesin: I was about to say, make her do a persuasion roll, it'd be funny.
Sam: Unforced error.
Taliesin: I'm sorry! (laughter)
Liam: I spoke too soon!
Travis: So perfect! So perfect for you.
Matt: She reaches out and takes the books and slides them back, and says, "Well, if that's how you feel, perhaps these can be returned to those university students that perhaps left them by. I should put these in the lost and found."
Marisha: Sherri!
Sam: Sherri. If I may. What Keyleth was trying to say was that she never got a chance to go to college, and that she wanted to get that university experience.
Matt: "Good luck."
Sam: Well, that didn't work. Hey, can you serve me, now?
Marisha: (whispering) Scanlan. Scanlan! Will you buy those books for me, and I'll reimburse you?
Matt: "I can hear you. I'm right here." (laughter)
Travis: Walk away!
Matt: "Yes, I'm happy to help you."
Sam: I was wondering if you had a small box of some sort that could carry a magical item, and perhaps shield it from detection.
Matt: "That? Yes, we do have a couple of those. Hold on." She darts up the stairway in the other room and goes to the second floor. A few moments later, she comes back down with these two small chests-- they're about that big, each. One's a lighter wood color, the other is painted black all over. "We have both of these. They should shield something of this size from most low-level magical detections. These will run you about 200 gold apiece."
Sam: I just need one. You're a woman of the world, and I'm sure you have fine taste, judging by your appearance. It is quite fine, if I may say so myself. If I were a little taller, I would probably ask you out on a date.
Matt: "If you were a little taller, yes."
Marisha: Sherri is sassy today!
Orion: She's full of sass!
Sam: Which one is the fancier of the two?
Matt: "Well, looking at these, this one--" She points to the one that looks like just a casual, wood chest. "This would be easier to hide in plain sight amongst the rest of your furniture. This one, however, would be difficult to locate in a more shaded, or lightless, circumstance."
Sam: Hm. I want ostentatiousness.
Matt: "Then perhaps this one?"
Sam: Yes, please. That. Thanks. Thank you. 200 to you. Also, I know Gilmore is otherwise entertained. Can you try to identify something for me? Do you have that-- I mean, judging by the glint in your eye and beauty in your heart, I'm sure you have many skills I don't know about, but I'm wondering if you could identify this small, red vial with a floating something in it, that I procured quite some time ago! Do you remember that?
Matt: Yes. This vial, if I recall, it has this small--
Sam: Have I tried this, once before?
Matt: No, this is the one that was found--
Sam: Me and Pike found some stuff in somebody's house? I don't even remember, this was a year ago.
Matt: Right. Yes, okay. There we go. And make a persuasion roll, actually, on this one.
Sam: A lot.
Taliesin: Oh, look  a real roll.
Marisha: Shut up.
Sam: Persuasion? It's 35. Wait, 31. 31.
Travis: Matt just visited his mind palace.
Matt: She looks at you, and goes, "You have been good patrons, and you have been much kinder to me than others. We'll put this one on the house. We'll call this on the house." And as she takes the vial, sets it down, and she pulls out another book that she shuffles through, puts it up, turns through a few pages, until, looking through, "This here would be a Potion of Fire Breath. When imbibed, it should give you a temporary time period of the ability to breathe fire, much like a relatively young dragon. This one in particular is fire. There are many different vials like this that pertain to different colorations of dragon, but this one is specifically for the red."
Sam: Thank you so much. Thank you. Well, thank you so much. Two more questions, then I'll leave you alone. One: where can I go get business cards printed up, in this town? It's a calling card? Never mind! Forget it.
Matt: "Like a flyer?"
Sam: Yes!
Matt: "Those can be printed. There is a-- actually, a pretty well-designed print facility not that far up the road."
Sam: Oh, great! Thank you; I'll go investigate that. And one other thing: you know those books that my friend was asking about? Could we maybe make those happen for her? I know that you had quoted her a low, low price of 25. I'd be prepared to pay even more than that for them. And compose you a little song about yourself.
Matt: At which point, for the first time since the entire time you've been in the shop of Gilmore's Glorious Goods, you see a slight grin creep across her lips. She goes, "How could a lady say no to a song? 25 gold! The price stands."
Sam: So I have to pay you and sing to you?
Matt: "We run a business, here, yes."
Sam: All right.
Matt: She pulls the books out.
Sam: I bring out my-- something. (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Sherri baby, Sherri baby, Sherri, won't you come home tonight? Come home tonight? You better ask your mama. Tell her you're without a gnome! Why don't you come home to my keep!
Matt: "Pay for the books!"
Sam: Okay, here you go!
Matt: You can see, her face is flushed and she, (clears throat).
Marisha: I Druidcraft a flower real quick and slip it to Scanlan to give to her.
Sam: Oh! Here you are.
Matt: "Thank you."
Travis: (gasps) Did she blush?
Matt: She's red in the face. At this point in time, the beaded curtains reopen. Have you finished the conversation, or do you want to keep going?
Liam: No. After ten minutes of finishing all that, of telling every tiny detail, if you mind me backtracking, I briefly place my hand on top of his, and say, it was terrible. I've never seen anything like it. Now we're back. We're in our home, and I'm hoping to learn how Uriel is doing, how the city is faring. Is there any news? Things are ill in Kraghammer; they still haven't seen the last of their troubles, but I'm also concerned for our new home here.
Matt: "As far as I'm aware, this city has been doing rather well. Since Winter's Crest just this previous year, trade has been booming, we're opening up pathways all across the continent, we've improved relations with many other distant kingdoms, and I'm opening a second shop! I mean, that's amazing! And who would've thought?"
Liam: And Westruun, how's it going?
Matt: "So far, so good. We're going through the construction process, and I'm making sure that I have a rather supple income of artifacts and oddities that I have to sell at both locations. I have to widen my input of various items and--"
Liam: You're a busy man.
Matt: "Oh, yes."
Liam: Have you any time for leisure?
Matt: "Eventually." You can see, he's a little more worn than you've seen Gilmore before. He's still Gilmore, and he's excited, but after the tale you told him and opening the second shop has been a little rough on him, and his jovial self is a little more wearied. Though he still looks fabulous.
Liam: You seem a tad weary. Is there anything I can do to help you?
Matt: "Just praise the brand. Praise the brand, young Vax."
Liam: That will happen. I did not even mean to discuss this, coming here, but I noticed, coming in, a sigil under your carpet. I had no intention of this, but we need to get back to Kraghammer in a bit of a hurry, and I certainly have no abilities, but do you remember my friend Tiberius? Dragonborn fellow?
Matt: "Yes! Yes, I remember him."
Liam: He needs to run an errand back in Kraghammer. Is there any way you could hook us up with a favor?
Matt: "What kind of favor?"
Liam: I just want to send the lizard to Dwarf Town. Do you think we could make that happen?
Marisha: "Send the lizard to Dwarf Town?" How many more slurs can you have in one sentence?
Matt: "My sigil here is for returning personal use. Did you hear that? There was some strange noise in the sky. This is for my return. As far as outgoing, most other sigils are-- well, they're up here. Looking for that, you're going to have to go to the Lyceum, I'm afraid."
Liam: Understood. I don't want to push my luck.
Matt: "However, if you're going to the Lyceum... I am owed a favor or two. Let me see what I can do, here." And he goes, and he pulls out another piece of similar paper and he writes a quick little note on the side, sends it up in the air, and it vanishes. He goes, "I've just done you a favor. Keep that in mind. You go to the Lyceum, you should have access to one of these sigils. Make sure you choose properly. You only have one."
Liam: I'm pretty magic-stupid.
Matt: "Then don't be the one that does it. Talk to your friend, this Tiberius fellow. He'll know what to do, I'm sure."
Liam: Correct. One last. It's small or it's boring, it's business. I need a dagger. I don't want one for free or anything; I want to purchase it, but we're a little low on funds. The reason Tiberius needs to go to Kraghammer is because we're owed a large sum of money.
Matt: "Right, you mentioned this last time, when you almost opened a line of Gilmore's Glorious Credit."
Laura: Mm-hm. I'm not there.
Liam: What would the credit entail?
Matt: "Previously, we discussed 25,000 gold pieces, the amount of which you were going to retrieve."
Liam: I was going to-- what was that?
Matt: "Retrieve."
Liam: Retrieve? God, I've been in the Underdark so long. What was the deal?
Matt: "The deal was since you did not have funds, and you had to retrieve this money from this 'Dwarf Town', as you so graciously put it, that you would borrow the money, at the time, and then pay me back within a month. Within a month."
Liam: Understood.
Marisha: Wait, is Gilmore trying to say we owe him money?
Liam: No. We almost did that. Correct, DM? That's what we almost did, but we didn't do it. You offered it.
Matt: Correct. You backed out last minute when you realized there was, apparently, hidden platinum--
Liam: I would be interested-- Gilmore? I really just need a quick favor, and I mean to pay you back quickly. I need a dagger for something. Not your best dagger. Not your shittiest dagger, either. I just need something nice. How much would a fine dagger cost? Something that would be good in a fight. And could I pay you back in a couple of days, once Tiberius returns from Kraghammer?
Matt: "If you want something functional, there are masterwork daggers out there. We do have base-level enchantments that give you a fine, honed edge and a balance that cannot be beaten for its price range. For that, I can easily give you one of our base-level enchanted items for no more than, friend discount included, 400 gold pieces."
Taliesin: That's a pretty good deal.
Liam: Can I please purchase three of those?
Matt: "You may!"
Liam: Done.
Matt: "All right! I'll get these right now!" He stands up, and now that there's some sort of business involved, he's completely renovated and recharged. He comes through the beaded curtain again. You guys see Gilmore burst out, like, (laughs) "We're in business!" And he goes into the next room, and back up the stairs, and takes a few moments. He comes back down with an armful of these daggers, and sets them down on the counter. "Three for you! That'll be 1,200 gold pieces, please."
Liam: I reach out and I give his cheek a little bubby-squeeze, and I clap him on the cheek, and say, I'm good on my word, and you're a good friend. Thank you, Gilmore.
Matt: "The least I could do. Pay me back. I'll find you."
Liam: I know you're good on your word.
Matt: "Indeed."
Liam: Keyleth? Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, yes! How'd it go in there? You're walking straight, so it couldn't have gone too well.
Liam: Very good. Warm in here.
Taliesin: That dagger's so sharp, it could cut the sexual tension.
Orion: Those are masterwork daggers?
Matt: They are plus-one enchanted daggers, yes.
Sam: Well, let's get out of here and go. Did you find us any--?
Liam: I'm good. No, everything's good here. Just not everywhere else.
Sam: Let's get out of here, go back to the keep.
Matt: At this point, now, Tiberius, you have coasted over the air, and as you come careening in, you hear (swishing sounds) and look down. Two crossbow bolts whiz past you.
Orion: It's me, you idiots!
Matt: At which you hear immediately, "Oh, sorry!" "Sorry! We're not used to having you bolt in from the skyline."
Orion: I'm in a hurry, sorry! (whoosh)
Matt: As you sweep past Shayne and Cordell, they both change their bolts, and they're both arguing with each other, like, "You should've seen it was him!" "Sorry." "Sorry, again!" You make your way into the courtyard, inside Greyskull Keep.
Travis: Why'd you miss?
Orion: I go into, I rush in to find him eating. (stammers) Quickly, quickly! And I go into the Bag of Holding and I take the item out that we need. What was it?
Travis: Well, we have a bunch of stuff.
Matt: You're not with him, there.
Laura: I walk into the room to see Tiberius throwing things out of the Bag of Holding, I'm assuming.
Orion: I can't, because I have to visualize what it is to pull it out.
Travis: Yeah, what are you looking for?
Liam: I'm using my earring on the walk home. Does it work? I don't know what the range is. Tiberius, can you hear me? Tibs?
Matt: You're pretty out of range at this point.
Travis: What are you looking for, Tiberius?
Orion: I've taken my hand out. When we were in the Underdark and one of the items that we procured while we were scavenging, and we looted it, and we could give it back to the Thunderbrand.
Travis: Oh! Pieces of the enemy? We get paid for it.
Laura: But there were artifacts that they wanted. I remember.
Marisha: They wanted a necklace, right?
Orion: Yes. And we found one or two of them.
Marisha: Found a necklace, who was supposed to go-- hang on, I'm finding it, I'm looking.
Travis: I've got two gold necklaces, two gold chalices, and two rubies.
Matt: It was actually a magical item, one that you may have equipped. It'll say in the description of the item that it has an inscription on the back.
Orion: I don't have it.
Travis: I don't have that shit.
Sam: Whoa, what? It was a necklace we're talking about?
Matt: Protection of some kind, if I recall. Amulet.
Laura: Oh, I don't have that. (gasps) Oh no! What if we gave it to Kima?
Orion: We didn't give it to them.
Laura: But Kima took some armor we found!
Sam: "Amulet of Natural Armor?"
Matt: Look in the description of the item. It should say underneath the name. It'll have the actual inscription written in the descriptor of the item.
Travis: Everybody look at your stuff. I look inside my Belt of Dwarvenkind, and it says "Badass."
Marisha: It's a sapphire pendant that should say, "To Lorna, my love."
Laura: (gasps) Oh!
Orion: That's what I reach in and grab. There you go! Keyleth. I mean, your highness. I like your hair.
Marisha: Thank you!
Orion: It looks cool.
Marisha: Thanks!
Matt: It is enchanted.
Marisha: It's not the one you're wearing, right, Scanlan?
Laura: No, I remember we found it and nobody equipped it.
Travis: I had it in the bag, yeah.
Orion: I take it out, and I put it in mine. Grog, I'm finding out a way, as soon as I can show this to you, fellow. I'm going to go into Kraghammer very, very fast as opposed to slowly, and it is, so we should leave right now.
Laura: Can I go with you?
Orion: Yeah, and I'll cast-- because, who was around, just them two?
Matt: Just those two.
Orion: I cast Fly again at 3rd or 4th level, to cast on them.
Travis: I don't want to go!
Matt: Now, all of a sudden, you're (whoosh) lifted up in the air.
Orion: Yes, but we get there much faster if we fly. And I go.
Laura: And I take off after him!
Travis: What if I want to stay?
Orion: You can stay.
Travis: But I'm fucking floating above my meal! No! This is bullshit. And I'm bouncing off the ceiling and shit. Can I control myself?
Matt: You can. It takes a moment to adjust to it.
Travis: I just start trying to swim down to my plate.
Matt: It takes you a little bit, but you do eventually get control of it.
Travis: (eating noises) This isn't so bad. (farting noise)
Matt: Propulsion does work.
Laura: As we're flying, can I keep an eye out for our party members that are returning?
Matt: Yep. And as you guys coast over, you see, leaving the exterior wall gate to the south side of Emon, you see the rest of your party walking back towards the keep.
Laura: That means we're close enough. Brother!
Liam: Hello?
Laura: We're heading to the portal, Tiberius is working on something. We can get there faster! I'll be back soon.
Liam: Oh, all right. Gilmore has an in  he said we just need to mention his name and we're through. We can send Tiberius through.
Laura: Brilliant!
Orion: Ooh, that gives me a wonderful idea! And then, I'll cast it at 4th level again, and I'll go (pew-pew!) and cast it on--
Marisha: Just because I think it's funny-- Grog is flying over too, right?
Travis: I'm in that kitchen, floating around, farting and eating food. Look, I've got priorities.
Marisha: Okay, well, I see you guys are flying? The two of you?
Matt: So you fly down and cast Fly on the rest of them?
Orion: Right. Come on, follow me!
Liam: Holy shit, I've never flown before! This is amazing!
Sam: I'm flying, too? What's happening?
Matt: You guys are now floating. You guys are floating, as well. You're coasting over Emon for roughly 12 or so seconds before Grog, you drop to the ground, and now Tiberius and Vex, you begin to plummet.
Laura: Why are we plummeting?
Matt: Fly is a concentration spell. You cast it again. Your amulet keeps it up for two rounds, which is 12 seconds, and then the previous Fly spell deteriorates.
Orion: What about my circlet?
Matt: That's what I'm saying. The circlet lets you maintain concentration for two additional rounds.
Laura: Oh, okay! Tiberius, I'm falling!
Orion: I cast Fly again at 6th-level on everybody else.
Sam: I start falling.
Orion: No, because I can catch everybody.
Matt: At that point, now all of you guys are flying.
Orion: You fall in the kitchen, though.
Travis: Well, that makes sense.
Liam: Is this going to stick, Tiberius?
Orion: Yes. It's the same spell. I just really need a nap after this. I really need a nap after this. I go back to gather them all.
Matt: You make your way. Now, all of you following Tiberius, you coast down to the Alabaster Lyceum, landing right through the front area (whoosh), this whole party appears. Catch your feet, and there you see the same clerk looking up. "Ah, I see you've returned."
Orion: Yes. Can we not talk to the middle guy first? Can we go right to the last guy?
Matt: "Down that hallway. Follow it to the very end."
Orion: Thank you very much.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Orion: Follow me, everybody!
Matt: You all glide through the hallway, or walk, if you prefer. The end of the hallway, you open once again into the office, and there you see behind his desk once again, the headmaster Thurmond, who looks around. "Oh, yes. You've returned. I received the note from your friend Gilmore, and you're welcome to utilize one of our sigils."
Orion: Wonderful. That makes me quite happy.
Matt: "To Kraghammer, was it?"
Orion: Yes, but I do not want to use that favor for that sigil. I would like to call our friends, and I brought the item. I bring out the amulet. I want to show our friends in Kraghammer that we actually brought them the thing to get their permission to go on their sigil, and the other continent that we were on is called what?
Laura: Vasselheim?
Orion: Yes. The favor I would like for Gilmore is to get the Vasselheim sigil, please. But let's contact our friends at Kraghammer first.
Matt: "Two notes. There is no sigil in Vasselheim. They have been outlawed and destroyed to prevent arcane intrusion or subterfuge. There have been, historically, many a war's passed in which Vasselheim nearly fell to the sudden appearance of small armies within its walls, and as such, many of these sigils, all of them have been destroyed over the past 1,000 years. However, it was the third war--" And he's going into a long diatribe about the history of Vasselheim.
Laura: You are so educated. Perhaps we could talk later about all of this wonderful history.
Matt: "Certainly. Yes, I'm sorry. The mirror." He pulls up the mirror, pulls out his chest, brings out the same marble again, pops it into the mirror. It shimmers. "Hello? Hello?" You hear another voice say, "Oh, are you kidding me? Really? You again? All right, what are you bothering me with?"
Orion: Using my Mage Hand, I'm like, it's one of the things that you wanted us to get.
Laura: Who are you talking to?
Orion: I can see it. It's fine.
Matt: "What's it say? I can't read it from here. Read it out for me."
Orion: What does it say, Keyleth?
Marisha: To Lorna, with love. It's written right there, Tiberius.
Orion: Oh, sorry. To Lorna, with love.
Matt: At which point, you see the eyes of this dwarf that were very untrusting open wide for a second. "All right. Give him the sigil. Send him through. I'll see you soon." The mirror gives out again.
Laura: Oh, all of us?
Matt: No, the headmaster takes the mirror and puts it down. He points back to the clerk who's in the hallway behind you again, waiting, and says, "Go ahead and bring them to the Junction. Allow them access to the sigil for House Thunderbrand in Kraghammer." He nods. "Of course."
Orion: As he's doing this, I'm writing the sigil that I'm seeing forming in my--
Matt: He leads you to the Junction, and there is one of the doors he opens up on the inside, there is the actual sigil to Kraghammer there. He gives you some time to study it, you memorize it, you get it locked in, and you now permanently know the sigil of teleportation to Kraghammer within the House Thunderbrand.
Orion: Shall we go collect our money now?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: We're all going? All of us?
Marisha: Well, I guess just the five of us, cause Grog and Percy are back at the Keep.
Sam: Would you rather just send Tiberius, then?
Laura: No, we should go.
Marisha: I can go back and check in on them.
Orion: Everybody's here but Grog.
Taliesin: And me.
Orion: Wait, where are you? Oh, you're working. Tinkering.
Liam: I have an errand to run.
Marisha: You have an errand to run? All right, I'll go with Vax--
Laura: It's the three of us, me and you and--
Orion: Okay. Thunderbrands are buttholes, though.
Sam: That's all right. That's why we're taking the heaviest hitters.
Marisha: Wait. We'll address that later. Come on, Vax.
Laura: Persuasion-wise.
Matt: So you guys head back to the Keep, you meet up with Grog and Percy, what about you guys? What're you doing? For, Tiberius, Scanlan, and Vex.
Laura: We go through.
Matt: Well, it's just the sigil. You have to cast the spell.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Orion: Yeah. Is that what you want to do? Is that what's going on?
Sam: It's a spell?
Orion: Oh, shit. No, actually, I need to sleep. All that flying left me a bit exhausted.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Sorcerers, they improvise.
Laura: Wait, you're saying that we cannot go through?
Orion: Well, hold on. Maybe there's a way I could trigger the spell?
Sam: Let's go home and go to sleep.
Orion: Let's get a drink, maybe? It's only been a day.
Marisha: You can cast that sigil anywhere, right? You don't have to be here? We could do it from home.
Laura: Then let's just fucking go home.
Orion: What time of the day is this? It's still afternoonish, right?
Matt: At this point in time, with all the travel back and forth, it's getting close to dusk.
Orion: Great.
Marisha: We'll take a nap and we'll go tomorrow. It's getting late, the Thunderbrands are probably going to bed at this point. We don't want to invade. They're probably just sitting down for dinner.
Sam: They live in the Underdark. There's no real time there.
Orion: My swallow's been crafted at the other place, right? Has that happened already?
Matt: Yeah, it's been crafted for you, yeah. It's not a swallow. It's a quarterstaff with knives attached.
Orion: I'm calling it swallow. On the way back, because we're obviously going to leave in the morning, to do stuff. I'd like to quickly stop at any blacksmith I see on the way back to Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, there are a couple blacksmiths that you know about on the way through.
Orion: Okay. I go to the good one, not the bad one, per reputation.
Matt: Best reputation is Karin, but she's a specialist. She's the one that made Trinket's--
Laura: Yeah, Karin!
Orion: I'll go to her, because she's awesome.
Matt: All right. You go on and approach there. She's currently working away on some custom piece that she's currently working on. She's like, "Hello, can I help you, dragonborn?"
Orion: Yes, I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia; moreover, from Vox Machina--
Matt: "What can I help you with?"
Orion: Oh. Sorry, right. We've done business before. I would like to commission you. And as I'm doing this I'm taking out five of my daggers that I have, and I'm going to hand them to her. I would like to commission you to somehow craft these daggers into a type of bended glaive, if you would. I don't know how long it would take you to do so.
Matt: "What?"
Orion: You see, it's like, it would look like this, but it's--
Sam: Krull?
Orion: Yeah, totally, but the blades are bended, but they're all connected in the center. You could use an iron, or a steel ingot to connect the--
Matt: "I can certainly try, yeah, aye."
Orion: Wonderful!
Matt: "All right. It would take me about two days? And you've already supplied the material, other than a bit of the side bits. I'll say I'll charge you 100 gold pieces."
Orion: 100 gold pieces?
Matt: "Aye, I'm a specialist!"
Sam: You went to the good one.
Orion: What, that's all? I mean, oh yes, of course. Here's 120.
Matt: "Certainly. Thank you. All right, it should be done within the next two days. You're free to come by and check on it if you like, but it'll be done."
Orion: I trust your work. Trinket's armor was fantastic.
Matt: "Huh?"
Orion: Did she do that? I thought that was the same character.
Laura: This is Karin.
Sam: She just thought bear. She just knows bear.
Orion: Bear's armor. The bear's armor was--
Matt: "Oh! You're friends with that one? She was real nice. That bear was adorable. Happy to help with that one."
Orion: His name is Trinket.
Matt: "Oh, is that what it was?"
Orion: I'm surprised she didn't tell you. It's an adorable name.
Matt: "Probably had. It's just been a while."
Orion: This is Lockheed.
Matt: "Oh, you're so cute, Lockheed." You guys talk for a little bit and eventually make your way back.
Orion: I do business with her, and I go back to the keep.
Sam: Are we still waiting for him outside?
Matt: Yeah, you guys are right outside.
Sam: When he comes out, I cast Minor Illusion to make it look like I have a long gray beard. (laughter)
Sam: Can we go home now, please, Tiberius?
Orion: Yes. Sorry.
Sam: Any other stops you'd like to make? The dry-cleaners, perhaps?
Orion: Prestidigitation.
Sam: Oh, that's great. Now let's go night-night so you can cast a spell on us.
Matt: All right, you guys head back to the keep.
Liam: While they're doing that, I stealth away from the group.
Marisha: Can I do a passive perception check to see if I notice him sneaking away?
Orion: I would like to fart. Natural 20!
Sam: It's a huge fart.
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Liam: I rolled a 32.
Marisha: Perception or passive perception?
Matt: For this, because it's not active? It would be your passive.
Marisha: Then that is 24.
Matt: Vax has vanished. While you might have noticed, instead the explosion-like eruption of gas from your dragonborn friend distracted you and gave him the proper getaway. You vanish.
Liam: Yeah, I'm totally down an alleyway, through the alley, onto another main thoroughfare. I grab a random person on the street. Excuse me, I'm looking for a specific butcher. Harold the butcher. Do you know? I think he's in the upper slums. Can you point me toward him?
Matt: The individual you stopped is a younger gentleman, probably in his mid-20s or so, a bit dirty in the face and coming from a day of work, going to the local tavern to finish his eve with some drinks. "I can't say I do. I mean, there are butchers all over town. There's one--"
Liam: Where's the upper slums? Upper slums, please.
Matt: "Oh, that would be north side of Emon. That way." He points you towards the--
Liam: I don't even say anything else. I just walk. I don't know how long that will take me.
Matt: It will take you about, from where you are right now, 30 minutes. All right, so you guys get back to the keep. Grog has eaten his fill.
Travis: I'm asleep on the table.
Matt: Yeah. Passed out. Percy's nowhere to be seen. You, I would like for you to make a tinkering roll in relation to the construction of ammunition.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Ten? You manage to, utilizing material for 20 bullets, only craft ten. But you get ten bullets out of it, as opposed to wasting the materials.
Orion: Is it possible to, before I go to sleep, I have a basic poison potion I've been hoarding. Could I try to dip the tip of one of my bolts in that?
Matt: You can certainly try. There's a difference between poison and disease. They're different. The potion seems to have no effect.
Orion: On bolts?
Matt: It doesn't have any effect.
Taliesin: How many batches of bullets are you going to let me attempt to make?
Matt: For the day, that's what you spent making. Tomorrow, we'll get to whatever it is you want to craft then. You go off and manage to make your way to the upper slums.
Liam: Yes. I see a stunted old woman and stop her on the street and say, Grandmother. I'm looking for Harold the butcher. Do you know where I can find him?
Matt: "Best I can gather, he'd be around that way." She points you, and the breath is awful. She's missing teeth, but her crooked finger curves off to the side, and you can see across the way, next to a homestead or hovel, there is a very humble-looking butcher that is currently in the process of closing shop.
Liam: I'd like to go stealth. I rolled a 20.
Matt: All right. You make your way up there. You can see there's an older gentleman in his mid-40s or so, salt-and-pepper hair, black with a bit of gray on the sides, is currently in the process of closing up.
Liam: Do I see Kynan anywhere? No? And it's a home? It's a business and a home?
Matt: It's hard to tell. It looks like a business from this perspective.
Liam: Okay, I'd like to go around the back of the building and scope it out.
Matt: You look through the windows. There's a dull light on the inside from what looks like a small hooded lantern set up for a bit of interior light, but there's nobody else in the house.
Liam: There's nobody in? I'd like to, at the window, listen and use perception to see if I can tell if anyone's inside.
Matt: You listen for a while. Make a perception roll.
Liam: Yeah, that's 25.
Matt: All right. As you continue to listen, eventually you hear the slamming of wood. You look off, and through the bit of the glass window-- you're peeking from the side-- you see the same gentleman who was closing the shop enter the room where the hooded lantern is. There's a table. He sits down quietly for a second, looks at the lamp, starts cleaning his fingernails a little bit, gives a big sigh, and turns off the light of the lantern and exits the room, closing the door behind him.
Liam: Is it one floor, the building?
Matt: It's one floor.
Liam: It's one floor. Is the window locked?
Matt: You checked the window. It's not locked.
Liam: All right, I'm climbing in.
Matt: You slip in without a problem. You've done this many times before.
Liam: It's a family residence where Kynan lives. Are there bedrooms?
Matt: It's hard to tell, looking around the room here. There are three doors that exit. One that he came through, which is apparently from the front of the butcher shop. This appears to be a central room that connects to wherever else he walked. There are two other doors.
Liam: They're not trapped, are they?
Matt: They're not trapped.
Liam: So I'm going to crouch down and push open the first door. What do I see?
Matt: The door immediately right or the door in front of you? The door in front of you is the one that the man traveled through.
Liam: Oh, no. Not that one. There were two other doors, weren't there?
Matt: There's the door that he came in from when he sat down, and then he left through the door across the way from you, and there is a door that been unopened.
Liam: There's one other door? That's the one.
Matt: Okay. You push open the door very quietly. It makes a little creaking sound, but you stop. Peering inside, it's dark. There appears to be a bed. There's a small table. There's what looks like an old pair of boots that are worn out on the side. It looks like a bedroom that nobody's currently in.
Liam: And there's no sign that this is a youth's bedroom or father's bedroom? What can I glean from what I see in here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. That's better. 22.
Matt: Okay. You take a little bit of time in peering over the materials, looking at the bed size, looking at the boot size, looking at whatever you can nearby. This bed is definitely weathered. It's been used for a long time. There are a couple of small knick-knacks and toys that are discarded underneath that have been there for a while that lead you to believe that this was at one point a boy's room. However, what you do notice is that most of the materials, most of the belongings, anything that you would normally see in a boy's room, anything that would say that a person lives here seem to have been hastily grabbed and taken off.
Liam: And the father went out the other way? All right, so I creep back out the window and I go out the front and I knock really loud on the front door.
Matt: A couple moments later, a voice comes from the other side. "Hello?"
Liam: Hello. I'm sorry, I don't mean to bother you. I know you've closed up shop.
Matt: "I'm done for business for the day. Come back tomorrow."
Liam: I'm actually not looking to buy anything. I owe your son a bit of money. I lost some money in a wager we made on a dog fight, and I was hoping to reimburse him. Do you know where he is?
Matt: The door opens a little bit, and an eye peeks through. You gather there's a slight scent of alcohol from the other side as he starts talking. He says, "I don't know where my son's gone off to. He came in in a huff. We got in an argument. He grabbed his stuff and left. He does this every now and then. He'll be back."
Liam: You think he'll be back?
Matt: "This isn't the first time he's done this."
Liam: I want to leave something with you.
Matt: "You said it was money you owed him?"
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "I can give that to him."
Liam: I take 50 gold of what I have left and I leave it with him, and I take out three daggers. I can hear my sister's voice in the back of my head. I want to use insight on him to make sure he's trustworthy. Oh, that's good. That's 20.
Matt: Okay. There's something about his face that gives you the feeling that he's more interested in the contents of what you're leaving than actually transferring these to the intended recipient.
Liam: Just give him the 50 gold. Thank you. And I leave.
Matt: Okay. Closes the door behind you, you hear a lock. Light goes back out in the room.
Sam: Go in there and kill him. Kill him, shit on his bed, and leave.
Liam: I head back to the keep.
Matt: Okay. All right, eventually Vax finds his way back to the keep. The rest of you are there, at rest for the evening. Is there anything else you want to accomplish before the night's out?
Marisha: I just flipped through my book on the alchemy section for a bit.
Matt: All right. You all find yourself to bed for the evening, rest up for the next morning, and at that point we're going to go ahead and take our break. Five minutes, guys, a strict five minutes because we still have a lot to get through. A lot to get through tonight, don't want to stay late.
Liam: Another nine hours.
Matt: No. See you guys in about five minutes, quick restroom break. We'll be right back. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, from our very strict, very strict five-minute break. We're very good at that. Yeah. That's right. Couple quick things. First off, we just hit 7,500 subscribers! (cheering)
Matt: That's amazing for many reasons. But all of you who are currently watching, be active in the chatroom so you can be included in the next giveaway we're doing. Giveaway's going to include a signed picture of the cast, a signed poster by the cast of the amazing art of our fantastic artist, Kit Buss.
Taliesin: Maybe signed by Kit.
Sam: She's amazing.
Matt: Yeah. So please be active in the chatroom, be part of that giveaway when it gets put out, and thank you guys so much for being so amazing and getting us to that point that's--
Liam: Yeah! You 7,500 people, fucking thank you, man. Thank you.
Travis: But only you 7,500. The rest can fuck off.
Matt: That was in character. All right, cool. Let's get back and see if we can, see if we can roll through some of this stuff. As you wake the next morning, you guys awaken to the dull sound of metal clanging as Percy has already been the first to wake and is back in the workshop. Tiberius, you're well-rested. Everyone's spells have returned. You get to make a beard roll.
Travis: Beard check, please! Three. Five.
Matt: 35? What? Bundlesofkittens, by the way, won. Congratulations to bundlesofkittens. Going to get prizes.
Laura: Adorable.
Matt: 35% does count. As you wake up, you reach up and feel the return of a nice hefty bit of scruff to your chin. Yeah, it's getting pretty thick now. It's a good, like, half an inch to an inch length. And you're starting to get a little, you notice the first time you grew some facial hair it was coming through that weird, creepy translucent color? It's starting to come through with a proper, almost a dark red-brown color to it.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Got a little bit of the Irish thing going on.
Travis: I don't know, I might have to get a cage; the women are going to come running.
Matt: So as you all gather for breakfast, you get your fill, a fine breakfast awaits you, already prepared by your servants of the Greyskull Keep. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Good morning, Vox Machina. Lovely to see all of you.
Marisha: So Grog, you fell asleep in your plate of food and woke up with a beard.
Travis: I know. Some guys are just lucky. (laughter)
Taliesin: Have we checked to make sure it's not a stain?
Travis: Hey, fuck off with your stinging, burning shit, all right? I'm not putting anything else in water. I don't know if you know, Scanlan, but water burns.
Laura: Good job, Percy, now he's never going to bathe.
Taliesin: You may have taken the wrong lesson away from that.
Travis: No, I pretty much got it. In, burn, ouch, powder.
Orion: You're not a chinchilla, Grog, which is a small creature that bathes itself in dust. But you are a human, which water is good.
Travis: I'm not a human.
Orion: Well, you are a humanoid. Which is, water is good. Which, most of you is water.
Travis: (gasps) You always drink water when we drink. Does it burn?
Orion: No, it feels rather--
Sam: Let's get going.
Taliesin: He does breathe fire.
Orion: I'm feeding Lockheed some of my breakfast.
Matt: Certainly. Lockheed enjoys the breakfast. Lockheed is looking healthier. The color is a little more of a deep emerald green, and he appears to have a little more energy this morning.
Sam: Does it shit on your shoulder?
Matt: He hasn't noticed, but there is a slight streak of dried pseudo-dragon poo. You're not aware of it to cast that yet.
Taliesin: Methinks the DM doth speak from experience.
Matt: As a bird owner, he does.
Orion: I'm going to, I rolled, I'm going to do a roll for the day, I think I rolled one for the day, and I'm going to go: Staht. Staht. And I'm going to, I rolled a 14 to try to teach it to sit. Staht.
Matt: (lizard noises) It sits down on the edge of the table.
Orion: And I give it a treat. Krar, Krar, there you go.
Matt: Bites your finger.
Orion: As it's hanging, I put it on my shoulder.
Matt: (lizard noises) It sits there.
Marisha: They get nippy. It's in the breed.
Matt: So! What do you want to do?
Sam: We want to get out of here. Cast the thing. Let's go.
Orion: As I'm having my oatmeal and such, I start to cast.
Marisha: I still think maybe the more talkative members of the group should go?
Sam: Still want to split the party?
Taliesin: I'm staying home, anyway
Marisha: I'm checking in with Tiberius-- oh sorry, Percy.
Matt: At which point the teleportation sigil appears in the center of the floor the way Tiberius had prepared it. It's glowing right now.
Travis: I've got the creature bits so I should go, too.
Laura: You! Take care of my bear, I'm leaving him here with you.
Liam: All right. I got him.
Laura: Oh, Trinket! I love you so.
Matt: Trinket comes up and like rubs his nose against your coat.
Laura: Behave, all right?
Liam: I'm going to feed you so much chocolate.
Laura: That's really bad for him! Don't!
Marisha: It'll be fine.
Matt: The sigil's starting to spark--
Sam: I jump in.
Travis: I jump in, too.
Matt: Okay, so all of you who are going, you leap in. You're staying and you're staying, correct? And you're staying. All right, Keyleth, Percy and Vax. All of you guys step in and all of a sudden there's a familiar whoosh of some sort of dark transference, you feel as if gravity for a moment doesn't exist and your feet find purchase on some sort of a wooden floor. The room is dark. You glance about the immediate vicinity, and for those of you who have low light, there's very little you can actually make out other than the fact this is a basement of some kind, and you are amidst a bunch of sheet covered crates.
Orion: Light! (whoosh)
Matt: As the light fills the room, you look around.
Orion: I cast it on Lockheed. On his tail.
Matt: All right! Lockheed begins trying to shake the light off the tail, so it moves around a little bit.
Orion: Oh, Bensvelk! That means "good" in Draconian. Bensvelk. And I feed him a treat.
Matt: (chuckles) All right! You look around the room, there are about six or seven of these crates immediately visible to you. They have sheets put over them, they're different sizes, some sort of storage room. There is a staircase that leads to the floor above.
Laura: Wait. Do they know we're coming? We're just in the middle of their home now?
Orion: Yes, of course, Vex, they know we're coming. I showed them the amulet, it was how we got the sigil to come here to begin with. It's fine. We're doing business with them. It'll be good.
Laura: Can I perception and make sure there's no traps around us? Just to make sure. We're just popping in, and this is a magic house, am I right? So I can't check for traps worth shit.
Matt: Room looks safe!
Laura: Great. Good. Great.
Travis: Well, good. Let's get out of here.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to the second floor. As you step up to the top you can see there is light emanating from the top of the staircase and a figure moves into the staircase. A stout dwarven figure. This is the same individual you spoke to previously. The dwarf steps to the top and says, with an air of annoyance to the voice. "All right. Waited up all night for you to arrive, and you never did. And you come here and interrupt my breakfast."
Orion: I'm sorry. We thought you would like a night's sleep before we intrude and--
Matt: "It's fine, step up the stairs, please." and he steps out of the way, leads you into the central chamber. This house is unfamiliar to all but Scanlan, who turned invisible suddenly and decided to wander in briefly.
Sam: Yes, I did. My old stomping grounds.
Matt: The classic "I don't know!" Looking about it's very well-kept. It's an old house; the ceilings are taller than you expect for a dwarf type home. A lot of the ceilings are a little low especially for you Grog, this one's built roomy. There's actually a lot of cultivated cave plant life, a lot of boxes that contain various underground dwelling plants and other such funguses. The air itself is mixtures of sweet and pungent. Mixed almost as if there's a spice garden somewhere, and you're not really able to take a beat on what the actual interior would smell like, it keeps changing around you. You're brought to the main foyer area, and the dwarf turns back and he says "All right, you've made your transference. Where's the amulet?"
Orion: I'll open the Bag of Holding. And I'll take it out. Before I actually go over and speak, I'm going to turn to Scanlan and Vex. Is he the same person who pays us for the other--
Laura: No. I should probably go find that guy. Or we can go all together.
Orion: I just didn't want to say the wrong thing this time.
Sam: Sure, don't worry. You will.
Orion: Oh, sorry. Here is the amulet. And I show him. Now, as far as trade, as it was rather taxing to procure this particular artifact--
Laura: Incredibly difficult, he means to say.
Orion: Yes, she's correct. I was wondering if we could, perchance, trade it for a favor of your arcane ability?
Matt: "It's funny, because I already did. I gave you a permanent entry to my own household, my family's household, by offering you this sigil, that gave you entrance to the interior of our well-guarded estate. That was a trade enough. That was what we agreed upon through the mirror."
Orion: That was just to get me here quicker, I thought.
Matt: "So you come into my home and try to extort me?"
Orion: No, not at all! Here's what happened, see. We were on an adventure-- I pull out the carpet out of my Bag of Holding. And this carpet was enchanted once with the ability to fly, and it helped us many times in many adventures. It was de-chanted, I guess, if you want to say it. And we need it re-chanted. And I thought that House Thunderbrand would be a strong enough house to have the ability to do such a thing. Maybe not as it seems. And I hand him the amulet as I'm saying this.
Matt: He takes the amulet.
Orion: And not as a trade, but as a favor for just the effort, or maybe because I'm not strong enough as a sorcerer myself to do it.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: People speak very, very highly of your abilities. Can I assist him?
Matt: It's not going to matter. You keep talking, and as you're explaining this, he's not even paying attention to you. The dwarf is staring at the amulet, looking at the back of it where the inscription is. And you swear for a minute, you see what looks like a tear, gathering in the corner of the eye of the dwarf, who then reaches up and wipes it from the corner and takes the amulet and puts it in the pocket and says, "My apologies. Thank you for returning this. You were talking about the carpet, right?"
Laura: Yes.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "You want it to be enchanted?"
Laura: Well, we've heard very wonderful things about your abilities and not many people can do such a feat.
Matt: "We have done a carpet before. Only one. It's very possible."
Laura: Did it look anything like this one?
Matt: "Not this pattern, no, that one was more of a blue. I mean this can be enchanted, but the materials and the time put into it-- It's a very pricey endeavor. A carpet of this size, especially."
Sam: How much?
Matt: "We're looking at the better part of a year to enchant this and that'll cost you about, time included, that'll cost 50,000 gold pieces."
Laura: Oh my god! I throw my hands up. I just can't. I just can't! How did we not? Oh my god.
Sam: She's very fond of the carpet.
Travis: I put my arm around Vex and try and console her.
Laura: 50? A year! Why?! Thank you so much.
Matt: "Well I mean, there might be smaller ones you might be able to find elsewhere."
Laura: No, I know it's a really beautiful carpet, and it would cost a lot of money to fix up, I understand.
Sam: She loves the hand-woven carpets. It's just very tragic.
Matt: "All right, well--"
Travis: Shall we go get our money now?
Sam: Yes, who's the man we need to see about that?
Laura: Oh, that's the Kraghammer-- We go to see--
Liam: Johnny Kraghammer?
Laura: Johnny Kraghammer.
Sam: Nostoc Greyspine?
Laura: It was Greyspine.
Matt: Nostoc Greyspine. You're escorted out of the House Thunderbrand. Make your way down to the quarry, at the very bottom level of Kraghammer, once again. It's been a long time since you've been in this portion of the world, let alone this city, where you started this leg of your entire journey. You do make your way down into this area to Lord Nostoc Greyspine's proper office, the one where you managed to procure his expensive wine and make this venture the very beginning. You step into the familiar halls. As soon as you enter, you have a brief discussion with the guy at the front, who recognizes you and leads you into the office. There, waiting, behind his desk is Nostoc, who's currently in the process of looking out the window over the entire quarry of his mine. He turns over his shoulder, looking at the rest of you. "Well, I'm surprised to see you all alive. Just assumed you'd all got yourselves killed, like the usual bumpkins who come wandering this far down in the mountain."
Laura: No. We did not die. We, in fact, succeeded in taking care of those creatures. Under-- dark-- carpet.
Sam: She's-- That time of the month.
Laura: Oh! Excuse me. We came to collect the money you owed us for completing the mission you sent us on.
Matt: "Ah yes, of course. Of course. Understood. What was the price we had agreed for that one?"
Laura: Oh, it was 30,000 gold, plus all the extras for the scalps that we acquired.
Travis: I open the bag of holding and go, Here, here's one brain chunk. And I dump it on the floor.
Matt: As a note, I'm pretty sure at practically no point in your adventure to the Underdark did you ever say you were scalping a creature.
Liam: We're above base--
Marisha: We totally forgot about that.
Matt: You completely, in the entirety of that adventure, didn't collect a single scalp from anything you killed.
Travis: I thought I grabbed the brain chunk. I thought I grabbed an arm, too. There was just an arm from the stitched guy, and I just grabbed it.
Liam: An arm is not a scalp. It's this.
Matt: Nostoc also looks at you and goes, "And while I respect your memory, a dwarf's mind is like a trap that you can't escape. I believe the agreed upon price was 25,000 gold pieces."
Laura: Oh it was? That is so weird, I remember 30.
Matt: "I don't even know what you fought. If you're going to collect your money, tell me what the hell you freaking killed."
Laura: Mind flayers! A beholder! Have you heard of a beholder?
Matt: "You fought a beholder?"
Laura: We fought a fucking beholder.
Matt: "Really? And you're all still alive?"
Sam: Well no, not all of us. If you'll recall there were more of us when we came down here. And some of us aren't here because they died.
Travis: I start pretending to cry.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Laura: That's really good.
Sam: 21.
Laura: I start thinking about the carpet and I really do start crying.
Sam: So before you berate us, know that we are mourning the loss of two of our members. And a bear!
Laura: (sobbing) And my bear!
Matt: "Beholder, you say?"
Laura: It was really big.
Matt: "What else did you encounter?"
Laura: Illithid.
Sam: Lots of illithid. A whole city of illithid.
Matt: "A whole city of illithid?"
Laura: We destroyed half of an elder brain-- Part of an elder brain.
Travis: And there were all these dark--
Laura: Dwarves! There were dark dwarves. Duergar.
Sam: They were mind controlled. It was crazy, we're not just making this up. It really happened.
Travis: There were these wrinkled testicles that were walking around on feet.
Laura: He almost died! Just from this one little brain.
Travis: Strange thing. If you're stupid, and it looks at you with its wrinkled testicle face? You go unconscious.
Matt: "I know the creatures you speak of. I've dealt with my share of duergar, though--"
Orion: I completely stayed away from it, because I was terrified.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: (singing) Roll high!
Laura: Are we all rolling? Because we're all talking.
Matt: You were spearheading that part of the group.
Laura: I was? I thought Scanlan was.
Matt: Scanlan already made his roll.
Travis: What about giving her advantage because I was talking about testicles?
Matt: No testicle advantage on that roll. I'm sorry.
Liam: In what circumstance would testicle advantage come into play?
Sam: At Gilmore's.
Laura: That would be 11.
Matt: 11? "Looking at your number, I can see that you've certainly encountered some dangerous things in your travels, taken some losses. And I will say, since you've left, we haven't had at least one excursion interrupting our mine, which has been very helpful. The fact that you've returned with these tales-- I believe most of it. I'd say, given that circumstance, I'd be happy to pay you up to 18,000 gold pieces."
Sam: I am going to cast Suggestion on him.
Laura: 18,000 gold in addition to the--
Travis: He's casting.
Liam: He's doing it!
Matt: So what's the DC? You don't have your hand cone.
Sam: I don't have my hand cone out. 17.
Matt: Natural one.
Laura: Money!
Matt: All right, what are you suggesting?
Sam: I'm going to suggest to him that he is an honorable man and we had a deal. And that he should honor it, to the fullest extent of the word.
Matt: He looks about at the rest of you guys.
Sam: I also, as a cantrip-- oh god, I hope it's not concentration. Forget it. I'm not going to.
Matt: "The Greyspine name holds weight in this city, the last thing I want is that that be sullied by miscommunication. If we agreed to 25,000, I'll pay 25,000. But I hear a single disagreement out there, or a bad word that came from your lips about our exchange here, and I'm going to come for the rest of that money."
Travis: I hold up the duergar's severed arm, and I curl all the fingers in and make a thumbs-up like that.
Matt: He looks back at you, very slowly, as you do this, with a tense stare. (laughs) "All right, all right." And he starts bringing up coin purse, after coin purse, after coin purse, counting it up as he does. It takes him about five minutes or so, and eventually he counts out, at your vision to improve it, 25,000 gold pieces and platinum pieces and pushes it across to you guys. You've retrieved that. No additional funds, as no scalps were collected, but you do get 25,000.
Travis: Do you want the--
Matt: "You can hold onto that, thank you."
Travis: You're very gracious.
Laura: (singing) 25,000 gold in my hands right now. Thank you so much. This won't make up for the lost lives we have suffered, but-- (choking up) It helps.
Matt: "I'm glad. And I'm sorry for your losses. Perhaps you'll be less stupid in the future."
Travis: Probably not. We should go.
Sam: Remember the blood we spilled for your people and your safety.
Laura: Vox Machina! (laughter)
Sam: Oh! I go to give him a business card, but then I realize I never got them printed so.
Laura: Also! Gilmore's Glorious Goods! Great work.
Sam: Yes, Gilmore's! If you're ever overdark, come check it out. It's a great store.
Matt: Like an unexpected web pop-up, he gives you an expression of: where is this coming from? "Get out! Get out of my office!"
Travis: Tiberius, how do we get out of here quickly?
Orion: I start going back to the chamber and I'll do the spell again.
Sam: Can you do it again? Don't you have to rest?
Matt: You can do it twice? 6th-level spell twice?
Orion: No it's a 5th-level spell.
Matt: What? The teleportation?
Orion: Yeah, it's a 5th-level spell.
Matt: I think it is. You're right.
Orion: Yes, very well. And then we'll go back to-- I'll choose Emon.
Liam: Excuse me? As soon as they left, Trinket and I, we left, and I went to the nearest shop and bought a lot of pink ribbon, and I have been furiously tying bows all through Trinket's hair, the entire time they've been gone.
Marisha: Actually I'll help with that campaign. I do some braids, and add some flowers.
Liam: Keyleth has been weaving flowers in, and I have been knotting braids. Started at the head, and then worked all the way down Trinket's back and down the tail. The entire time. Feverishly.
Taliesin: I come up for lunch. Keyleth, can I borrow you for a-- what in good god?!
Marisha: Is it important? Do you need me right now? This is pretty important.
Taliesin: Is Trinket comfortable with this?
Marisha: He's so comfortable! Look, I gave him plenty of treats, he doesn't even know what's happening.
Matt: (sad bear noises) This mournful low, guttural groan. You're pretty sure it translates to, "Why?"
Liam: I feed him a piece of chocolate at that moment.
Laura: Don't give him chocolate!
Matt: He licks it off.
Taliesin: Keyleth, can I borrow you? When you have a moment.
Marisha: Ten more minutes. I'll be down in ten minutes.
Matt: It takes about ten minutes before the keep doors open and the rest of your party returns.
Marisha: And I run downstairs really fast.
Liam: Side note, I let Trinket give me bear-kisses all over my face. Vex never lets Trinket kiss her face, and it's so sad, and I let him just drool all over my face everywhere.
Taliesin: I feel like we're playing out some real-world psychodrama here.
Orion: As this is going on, I want to turn to Scanlan and go, Gnome. I have an idea that I want to run by you. No, your name's Scanlan. Okay. I was going to go and do this, just on a whim as I usually do, but I was thinking that we should speak to Allura, and I don't think I should speak to her alone.
Sam: I'm sorry. I must be asleep. Are you planning something? Ahead of time.
Orion: Yes.
Sam: Wow. That's amazing!
Orion: You know. Like I told Vax, you just have to chill out sometimes, and I'm like, well, maybe I should run it by the man with the mouth.
Sam: Well, you've come to the right place. I do have quite a mouth. Yes, let's go talk to her. Wait, she's the woman you fancy quite a bit, isn't that true?
Orion: Yes. This is more business rather than denied pleasure.
Sam: What do you want to speak with her about?
Orion: Well, as far as I see it, there's no other way to get our carpet reenchanted. I want to confess what we did to her, and hopefully she takes mercy and helps us out with this, as we've helped her out far beyond anything that--
Matt: At this point in the discussion, you guys all look up and see, sitting in the center of the main foyer area of Greyskull, a very mighty bear, brought down low, sitting covered in pink ribbons, looking forward, going (distressed bear noises)
Sam: See? I told you it was a girl!
Laura: Trinket! You look so cute.
Marisha: Oh, I knew she'd love it!
Laura: We need to get these off of you immediately. But you look really, really cute. And I scratch his little ears. How dare--
Matt: You look over, too, there are traces of chocolate smears across the face of Vax.
Orion: Vex. No, Vex. Yes. Stand over-- and I use my Still Image and take a little spell of her--
Taliesin: Say it. Staffie. Just say staffie.
Orion: No, but it's of her, it's a youie.
Travis: But it's with your staff.
Liam: What is the piece of art immortalized upon? A piece of wood?
Orion: Oh. And I open my Scroll of Telescription, I'm like, see?
Laura: Oh look, now I can remember this moment forever. Thank you. Trinket, let's go get you a bath.
Travis: We got so much money.
Laura: I go and put it in the party funds. We got our gold.
Sam: Good job. We can pay back Gilmore.
Liam: For my share? Just my share.
Laura: Are we splitting up all the party gold now?
Orion: Vex? I give her the picture. Now you have a picture of your bear with the silly bows.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Liam: And I take advantage of her good mood and say, I just want 1,200 gold, and I won't ask for any more of it, any of the amount.
Orion: Ooh, yes, I would like the same thing.
Laura: Do you want me to just split up all the party gold right now?
Sam: No, I don't, no. Just give us a quick stipend. Give us each 1,500 and let's move on.
Laura: Everybody gets 1,500. Is everybody happy? Trinket, are you just so thrilled?
Matt: (sad bear noises) He's pulling them out with his claws as best he can.
Laura: Oh, sweetie. Bath time.
Matt: Trinket stands up and heads out to the front courtyard. All right, so it's 1,500 times seven.
Laura: I'll do the math.
Sam: Let's go do our recon. Who's doing it?
Travis: Are we going to kill them?
Sam: No, we're just going to go spy on them.
Taliesin: I'd like to finish my morning crafting before moving into the evening crafting. I'm going to have help. I'm working on project number three.
Matt: Okay. This is probably going to take you the rest of the week. It's an extensive project.
Taliesin: If I have a little help? This is something I've been tinkering with for quite a while, now.
Matt: Right, but it's also the most complicated thing, outside of the gun, that you've constructed.
Travis: We've got a couple more days, too.
Orion: How many days have passed, since we've been doing this? Two?
Liam: Percy, you go to work. We'll figure out everything else.
Matt: It's up to you.
Taliesin: Do you think I'll have time to finish everything that's on my list, if I roll well?
Matt: Probably not everything. You'll have to choose between a couple.
Liam: What if he rolls a 20?
Taliesin: Because I was going to have Keyleth lightning spell to help set the battery for the--
Matt: Right. Well, that is technically an enchantment.
Taliesin: If it just uses it to start a charge?
Matt: Oh, to start a charge? Then you can do it.
Taliesin: Okay. Yeah, I was going to Frankenstein this.
Matt: Okay. We can begin the roll now.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Go ahead and make a tinkering roll.
Taliesin: That's better. 20.
Matt: 20, okay. Not actually doing the charge yet, because you're building the basis of the structure. You help him downstairs in his workshop with the various materials to begin crafting the actual shell of the the item. What else are you guys doing?
Sam: Let's go do recon.
Liam: Yeah, what are we checking out, though? I mean, it's not like the Briarwoods are out in public. We don't know anything about them.
Laura: We need to ask around town about the Briarwoods.
Sam: We need to get into the Briarwoods' estate and talk to them.
Marisha: Well, they're not local. They're coming into town. They're coming into town in five to seven days.
Matt: No, they're arriving now in six days and arriving for the actual feast.
Sam: Where's the feast to be held?
Matt: It's to be held in the palace.
Laura: Shit. We can't do any spying.
Marisha: Not on them.
Orion: All we can do is get gear and do things and we can sleep for a few days.
Taliesin: You can help me in the workshop.
Marisha: Make a plan. Maybe make a plan? We don't really have a plan.
Liam: Can you remind me and the group, the dinner, I know it's with the Briarwoods, but who else? Is it with Uriel or who is it with?
Matt: It's with Uriel, the Council, which is why you guys were invited, also because Percy asked. And the Briarwoods. It is partially to discuss and celebrate the agreed-upon construction of a bridge that goes across the Shearing Channel at the far northeastern side of the continent of Tal'Dorei. There is a large channel where these two large mountain ranges, which are the closest the two continents are to each other, but it's a very treacherous pass of water, so any trade having to be done has had to travel southward, in a big arc around the bottom of the island, or via skyship, both very expensive. This bridge will enable a much faster trade route between the two continents, and Whitestone has essentially been in charge of spearheading the construction of this bridge and making this agreement with Uriel, that would be overall helpful for both continents. And since they've agreed upon this, they've been invited here to Emon for the first time to have dinner with the Council and Uriel to celebrate it.
Liam: We maybe want to talk to Uriel.
Laura: Maybe. Maybe you guys should go, because I want to spend the next few days training Trinket how to roly-poly roll forward and bludgeon people with his armor.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: I mean, the only thing I can think-- Percy. Do you still have an idea of what the Briarwoods look like?
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Marisha: I could attempt another scrying spell. Could even possibly go to Allura for help and try again.
Taliesin: See if Allura will come here, because I want to keep working. And I'll also say we should send word to Uriel that I will not be myself at the--
Sam: Yes, that might be very strange.
Laura: We should maybe send word to him that the Briarwoods should be watched.
Taliesin: The less we say, the better.
Marisha: What makes you say that?
Liam: You think Uriel might be in the Briarwoods' pocket and pass on that we're aware.
Taliesin: It would not be the first time.
Liam: That's true.
Sam: Yes, even if you wear this disguise hat, Percy, how are you going to get into this event? It's a private event. You can't just be some random person.
Taliesin: I will be with you, and if we can let Uriel know that I am coming under a false pretense.
Sam: Yeah, but that's going to arouse all kinds of suspicion.
Marisha: Exactly, yeah, if we tell Uriel you're coming as someone else, he's going to ask why.
Taliesin: He knows that I don't trust them.
Travis: He does?
Taliesin: He does.
Marisha: Wait, who was it that came and talked to us? Who was that?
Matt: That was Seeker Asum.
Marisha: I was going to say, it was Seeker Asum, but he didn't say that Uriel had his doubts, he said he had his doubts.
Taliesin: So let's let Asum know.
Marisha: Let Asum know.
Sam: Why don't you disguise yourself as--
Taliesin: Burt Reynolds.
Sam: What about Vax? He can sneak in.
Taliesin: Will the hat let me choose who I look like?
Matt: The hat, like any Minor Illusion spell, you can choose your appearance.
Taliesin: How much of a shape-change can I--
Matt: I mean, you can look pretty close to somebody else.
Taliesin: Could I look like Grog?
Matt: You could. But as it is an illusion, there is no physical-- so if somebody were to reach up and touch your shoulder, it would just pass through.
Marisha: Right, and your voice doesn't change, so you probably don't want to try and sound like Grog all night.
Taliesin: Well, I was actually thinking of Pike, but.
Sam: Ooh, Pike. You could be Pike. You would be a very big Pike.
Liam: Percival, there's nothing I want more than for you to take Bad News and unload it on every one of those motherfucking shits, but if you're me and I'm nobody, if I'm a ghost, I can help take out one or two.
Taliesin: You'll stick to the shadows, and I'll be you.
Marisha: Not to be-- sorry, you were going to say something?
Taliesin: No, that's actually a pretty good plan.
Liam: How many days left?
Matt: Six.
Liam: Can I ask you a question, DM? I have in the assassin perks. I think it says seven days, I can be anybody. As long as I don't do anything else and I work on getting the right papers, and no one will know who I am, 100%, but it's six days, so am I shit out of luck? This is why I was talking about it yesterday, motherfuckers.
Taliesin: That's okay. It's a good plan. I think this plan is a good plan.
Orion: I think we'll be fine, because I have privilege perk.
Liam: You make me invisible.
Sam: I can also do that. Or he can.
Liam: Yeah, one of you two.
Sam: No problem. I know it's a few days off, but we should have some sort of safe word. Some sort of attack word. Grog, any suggestions?
Travis: Jenga.
All: Jenga.
Marisha: I like that. We're not hired to kill the Briarwoods, and not to be that member of the group that has a golden heart and wants to ruin everyone's fun. I don't want to stand between you and your revenge that you are absolutely owed, Percy, but are you sure this is what you want? Is this going to make you feel better?
Taliesin: I don't know what I want. I want to see them. I want to look at them. I want to see them.
Marisha: Do you want to talk to them?
Taliesin: No. I want to listen to them.
Travis: Then we follow your lead.
Taliesin: I want to see them. I don't know.
Marisha: Do you want us to fucking capture them and drag them back to the cell that we built in our keep? We built it for a reason.
Sam: (whistles) She gambles now. She's crazy.
Marisha: I know, I've been opened up to so many things.
Taliesin: The best I can give you is we'll just have to see what happens.
Liam: Percival, I trust you implicitly. You have earned that trust. Do you believe them to be evil in the purest sense?
Taliesin: I do.
Laura: That's all we need.
Liam: That's all we need.
Sam: We don't even need that much. If you'd just said to kill someone, we'd probably do it.
Taliesin: I saw things.
Laura: Should we prepare? Let's do it! I've been training Trinket, though, does that help?
Marisha: I've been reading my alchemy books.
Matt: Six beard checks.
Sam: I went to get business cards.
Matt: Right. That'll cost you 25 gold for 100.
Sam: I'm going to get two sets. One says Scanlan Shorthalt, one says Burt Reynolds.
Matt: Okay. Both have been constructed without question.
Liam: I repaid my debt to Gilmore.
Matt: All right, debt is paid, mark off that gold.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: How many is that?
Travis: I'm at five total, right? 46. 45. 55. A one. And a 95.
Matt: By the end of this week, you have grown what is a rather majestic full chin-beard. You are probably the first goliath to have facial hair. It's a full, we're talking Portland man.
Sam: Oh no.
Liam: Another thing that I did was go off and get a lathering cream, and the second to last night, after I took Grog out to the tavern, I bought him a lot of drinks.
Travis: I assume dodge.
Liam: I didn't shave off his whole beard. Only half of it.
Travis: I just became the most handsome man in the world.
Laura: Do not shave his fucking beard off.
Liam: This much.
Matt: Make a stealth check. Make a perception check. You just broke a mechanical pencil! (laughter)
Liam: DM? I rolled a natural 20. I have advantage on stealth checks, and I rolled an 18 and a 20. Natural 20.
Matt: Sleeping soundly, drunk, you do not hear the approach of Vax. As you pull out your blade and get ready, I want you to roll a sleight of hand check.
Liam: After the 20?
Matt: One thing to not be noticed. It's another to shave someone's face without being noticed. This is about stillness of fingers, not just how stealthy you can be.
Liam: I'm using Luck. Okay, so I rolled a 21.
Matt: Roll a perception check, Grog. With advantage because this is against your face.
Travis: 13.
Liam: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Why are you so evil?
Liam: Why did he trip me and make me eat shit two months ago?
Taliesin: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Orion: Oh!
Travis: Appetizer of things to come, my friend.
Matt: The crowing sound of a distant rooster. The farmlands that surround the outside of Emon, which are relatively close, within earshot. The morning sun rises, cresting over the eastern skyline of Tal'Dorei. Grog, you come to consciousness, stretch, reach up to rub-- half a beard.
Travis: Half a beard? Like, just one side of my face?
Matt: One side of your face.
Travis: I say in a low, guttural growl--
Liam: You have no idea it was me.
Travis: Vax. I didn't have to wake up to know it was you, motherfucker.
Liam: Make an intelligence check! Make him make an intelligence check!
Marisha: We all know it was you.
Travis: I reach down, I find a dark stone on the ground, and I go over to the bare side of my face and I draw a very beautiful mustache to complete the other half of it.
Liam: He is dumb as a post. Why does he know--
Travis: Because you're the only fucking idiot stupid enough to do that!
Liam: Magic is mysterious! Why couldn't you grow half a beard due to magic?
Travis: Maybe I don't know. Let's say I assume. (laughter)
Matt: However, it is a new morning. Roll a beard check.
Travis: Eight, four.
Matt: No movement.
Liam: Sorry, big guy.
Matt: All right, so as a note, Percy, I want you to make four more tinkering rolls.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: I'm going to give him inspiration for one of them. (singing) Do you want to build a machine gun?
Taliesin: (singing) Why, yes, I really do.
Matt: What have you got?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28, okay. Second one?
Marisha: Oh god.
Matt: Dice going everywhere.
Sam: Inspiration, d10.
Taliesin: I got a d6 from the last one you did.
Matt: d6 is what I gave you.
Taliesin: d10, so I'll roll a d10 with the next one. That one was 20.
Matt: All right. Third one?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: All right, and the fourth one?
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Okay, so over the next few days, you've constructed what amounts to a large, metallic gauntlet. You have taken this gauntlet and wired all through it insulation and metallic insulating tips in what is essentially a small, for lack of a better term, alternator of some kind.
Taliesin: I was going to try to sneak in a few bullets during that time.
Matt: The fifth roll's going to be that. You have constructed this device. The quality seems fair. It's untested technology, just something that's a brainchild of your own, utilizing Keyleth's aid. Keyleth, I'm going to have you roll a wisdom check. Roll that and add five.
Marisha: Well. Add just my base wisdom?
Matt: Plus six, it would be. Sorry.
Marisha: Yes, plus six, so 20 total.
Matt: 20 total. You step out and you set it down in the middle of the courtyard. Keyleth, you summon a storm that slowly gathers above the top of the keep. You guys start hearing sounds like rolling thunder outside and you come and look, and you see Percy and Keyleth are out standing in the middle of the courtyard. Keyleth with her arm in the air as this black, dark storm cloud begins to swirl above the entirety of Greyskull Keep. With that, she brings her hand up and then brings her fist down as a bolt of energy (thunder clap) streaks down from the clouds, slamming into a small object on the ground that then gets flung about 15 feet in a random direction. Tumbles to the ground. You rush over to grab it. You can see arcing over the metal. (electric sparking) These small electric arcs. You reach over and wait a second. You prod it. Pick it up and it's hot. Drop it instinctively. You give it a few minutes to cool off. Pick it up when it's warm enough; you put it on and there is essentially this large, sparking, metal centerpiece that is giving off this low hum.
Marisha: Did it work? Try it on Tiberius.
Orion: Sure. Here.
Taliesin: Touch.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius, make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: No! (laughter)
Orion: No! (laughter)
Matt: All right, you suffer 14 points of lightning damage and are stunned for a round. I need you to go ahead and roll a d20.
Taliesin: Cock-a-dooed. (yelps)
Marisha: High rolls startle him.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. It stays intact from the force of it. A little bit of the energy that was stored in there appears to dissipate. You figure there's only a few applications of this before it needs to be recharged, and every single time it's utilized, there's a low chance that it may detonate, or crumble, or something bad may happen.
Sam: Percy, that's amazing! What do you call it?
Orion: (unintelligible mumbling)
Taliesin: Are you all right, Tiberius?
Marisha: I go over and give him a Cure Wounds.
Matt: You manage to eventually shake off all your muscles that were so locked, tense, give way for a second.
Orion: It's effective.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Taliesin: I call it Diplomacy.
Sam: Diplomacy?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: That's great.
Laura: As we're standing watching that, Trinket comes rolling into the courtyard!
Matt: Let's go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Laura: Oh, why didn't I get more points in that?
Liam: Roll high. Come on.
Matt: I say with advantage because Trinket's been your companion for so long.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Which is close to what you needed because this is a very difficult feat. Over the week you've worked with Trinket and you've worked on a technique where, instead of a multi-attack, Trinket can do what is essentially a trample attack, meaning Trinket can roll forward and roll through anything that's equal to or smaller. And damage everything in that path.
Liam: (singing) Circus bear.
Matt: We'll go over the logistics of that some other time, but Trinket has now learned a roly-poly trample attack.
Laura: Should we call it the roly-poly or the cannonball?
Travis: That's your call.
Matt: It's your call. Call it what you want.
Liam: Roly-poly is cute; cannonball is--
Laura: I think I like cannonball because it's better to shout during the battle.
Matt: The Trinket cannonball.
Liam: Roly-poly!
Orion: For brevity, I rolled six dice. I rolled, the only high ones worth mentioning was a 13, a 15, and 18.
Matt: With a 15 and an 18--
Orion: 17, I mean.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: And the, because they're all negative three. And I attempted to teach to Lockheed to hide and speak and to stay.
Matt: Okay. To hide and to speak. To stay did not stick, unfortunately. You had two rolls that were high enough to get those two in there though. Hide and speak. All right. The morning has come to fruition. You have a few hours before you're supposed to arrive at the palace. You have been notified that this is a very formal event.
Sam: We'll need fancy robes.
Laura: Oh, we have some formal dresses already.
Matt: Roll again, please.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: You manage to construct 20 pieces of ammunition from 20 units of materials.
Travis: We have three fancy robes.
Orion: Oh, and I've picked up my glaive, right? Two days. It was time to.
Matt: You go back to Karin. You now have some kind of a knife-glaive thing.
Orion: Krull! I'm naming it Krull.
Matt: You are unsure how it will work in combat? But it looks neat.
Orion: And I attach it to my coat.
Matt: It just hangs to the side. Careful how you sit.
Liam: Do I still have the finery I wore to the Velvet Cabaret?
Matt: You would, yes.
Liam: All right. So we have to worry about you, Grog.
Travis: Are there any tapestries or curtains in the castle?
Matt: There are, actually.
Travis: I walk up to the prettiest one and I rip it down, and I throw it over myself like a toga.
Marisha: (laughing) It's pretty good.
Matt: It, in a "Foreigner in a Foreign Land" kind of way, could work.
Travis: And I practice my curtsy. Because I've seen Vex and Keyleth do it, so I think everybody does it.
Orion: I do it, as well. I don't know what's going on.
Taliesin: I want to see him roll an athletics check for that.
Laura: Tiberius.
Orion: Yes?
Laura: Could you Prestidigitate this thing and make it look like an actual thing?
Sam: Not for very long.
Matt: That's more of an illusion.
Liam: You pull the hairs out.
Travis: What's wrong with this? I'm from a strange land. My customs are my own.
Sam: Grog, have you washed yourself in water at all this week?
Travis: No. It burns. ORION I do Prestidigitation immediately to get rid of some kind of smell that I'm sure is emanating.
Travis: I freak out running around the room. (screams)
Orion: It's not water, Grog. And I keep casting it on him. It's fine, see. (splash)
Laura: You're fine.
Travis: It must have been that powder you gave me before. It made me immune.
Laura: That's what it was. You're immune. You're definitely immune to water now. Good job.
Orion: What's wrong with what you're wearing now?
Laura: His toga? He's wearing a toga made out of a tapestry.
Orion: Oh, so I'll go and I'll use some of my Dust of Illusion and I'll (pfft) on what he's wearing and shape it into a fancier robe.
Matt: From a visual standpoint, the robe tapers and curls around his form, and comes to look like a nicer robe. The material looks like it's made of almost a reddish silk. The actual imagery of the tapestry slowly fades and becomes just various textures and material. From your eyes, it's less interesting, but from a presentory standpoint it could be passable.
Liam: Don't forget his exotic facial hair, as well. That probably lends to the whole package.
Matt: Yeah, which by the way, you guys do see. It's half giant beard and half scrawled-on charcoal.
Orion: And I notice this, I go  Oh. Oh, Grog. And I use a little bit more of Dust of Illusion. I wipe it. Smear it on there.
Travis: I wipe it away!
Orion: No. Stop! Hey, hey, hey-- I put it on. Actually, I'm going to take it, and I'm going to actually put it in your hand and be like-- put it on your thumb and be like: I want you to smear this where the beard was, and I want you to think really hard that you want it there. Okay? So put it on first. There you go. That's it. And now think really hard that you want it there.
Matt: The dust tends to glisten, and where there was once charcoal outline, a mirror to your once beautiful beard continues, full, as if nothing had happened.
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding and I take out a little goblet, and I pour some ale in it. And I walk over to Vax, and I go, here you go.
Liam: This looks very good. Thank you, Grog.
Travis: You're welcome. Would you like some more?
Liam: No, I don't want to cloud my thinking before we go up against the Briarwoods.
Travis: Probably smart. I'll take that back. I crush the goblet in my hand.
Matt: This creaking metal sound. The goblet is now destroyed.
Travis: Oh no! What happened?
Matt: All right, dressed up, you all make your way to the Cloudtop district as the sun begins to bring itself to the other side of the horizon. As you approach the outside of the Tal'Dorei palace, there are general guards set up to accept guests. They're just there in wait as part of their process today. As soon as you arrive and announce yourselves as having arrived, is there anything you want to do to prepare?
Sam: Well, are you in disguise yet, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes, I look like Vax.
Sam: Cloaked Vax?
Liam: Where are we?
Matt: You guys are nearing the palace right now.
Liam: Nearing the palace? Hit me.
Marisha: I produce a few flower cummerbunds and start pinning them on the party.
Laura: I go in and put my arm through Percy's arm to make it seem like we're twins. I go in with Percy to make it look like we're the twinsies.
Sam: I'm going to cast Invisibility on Vax.
Travis: I hand the Potion of Climbing to Vax and say, don't die.
Liam: No promises.
Sam: You've got one hour until my Invisibility is going to wear off, so find a shadow.
Matt: Do you guys make yourselves known at the palace front?
Sam: Yes! We're friends here. Yes.
Matt: As you approach, you make yourselves known. The guards lead you to the front area of the palace. The sun's just starting to hit the distant side of the water of the Ozmit Sea to the west of Emon. As you guys finish talking to the front guard that you've arrived, Seeker Asum steps out of the front of the palace and sees you. "Very good. Glad you could make it. Please enter. I will wish to speak with you briefly before the event this evening."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Are you missing anyone?"
Laura: Oh, yes. Percy wasn't feeling very well. He ended up staying home.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Laura: 11.
Matt: "Very well. That's unfortunate. His skills could have been of use to me. Come inside."
Laura: I pat Vax's hand-- Percy's hand. What the fuck. This is creepy.
Travis: Call him Vaxy.
Laura: Vaxy.
Taliesin: That will work just fine. Thank you.
Matt: He leads you into the green meeting room you guys have had previous council meetings with. It's currently empty. He sets the guards to the side and brings you inside and says, "All right, so if my little birds speak truth, they should be arriving around dusk, so we probably have no more than 20 minutes before they are here themselves. If you're not aware, they should be referred to as Lord and Lady Briarwood. Their names: Lord Sylas Briarwood and Lady Delilah Briarwood."
Marisha: Sylas and Delilah? (singing) Hey there, Delilah.
Matt: "This is a political dinner. Please do your best not to cause a scene during the meal, as I need that time as a distraction to do my own digging."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Vax."
Taliesin: Yes?
Matt: "You're light of step and quick to fade. Would you wish to join me on this or stay with the dinner party?"
Taliesin: I'll stay with the dinner party. I wish to observe.
Sam: He also has a bit of a cold.
Taliesin: I wish to observe the Briarwoods myself.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: (gritty voice) I wish to observe.
Liam: You've got to go more nasal, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Yes, nasal.
Orion: Yes, you need to go down here.
Sam: Sort of like sandpaper on a chalkboard.
Marisha: I should have done something about this.
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Asum goes, "All right. If we are to do this, I would appreciate a little bit of honesty at the front point."
Orion: Well, I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Sam: This is not Vax.
Taliesin: Asum, it's me.
Matt: "I gathered as much, as soon as you began to speak. Now, I can understand, based on our previous conversation, that you have interest in keeping low key, but know that I am an ally in this. If you're not here, where is the rest of your party. Where is Vax?"
Taliesin: Vax is here.
Laura: He's stealthing.
Taliesin: He's being quiet.
Matt: "Well, Vax, if you can hear me, follow me when the meal begins. I may have use for you. All right, so. The Briarwoods have a very good relationship with Uriel and the Tal'Dorei council, established back before they expanded outside of Wildemount. I've sent two of my best gatherers into Wynandir to seek out more information on them. I don't know when that information will be available; they've only been gone but three days, and hopefully in time, we'll learn more of what their machinations may be. Many of the noble houses of Whitestone were left vacant when the de Rolos passed and were given to friends of the Briarwoods. Whispers that reach me speak of these new nobles, not being highborn, nor affiliated with the gentry at all, so I'm curious as to what allies they've made either before or after taking Whitestone for themselves."
Marisha: What are the names of these people who've taken over White--
Laura: It was the Briarwoods.
Matt: "I don't. The Briarwoods have."
Marisha: I thought they said they had friends.
Matt: "I do not know yet. I've sent folks out there. Those who have been sent to Whitestone have either defected or quit and sent me letters of resignation which is part of the reason I am very curious as to what's going on in Whitestone. Now, I've also found the documentation that delivered the ungoverned lands of Whitestone to the Briarwoods was signed, officiated and cataloged months in advance to the de Rolo family passing. I'm still following the trail but I find the timing far too convenient. With their arrival coming up, please be controlled, remember what I've told you and as more information comes in in the passing weeks I'll bring that to your attention, as well. Be observant, listen, pry what information you can, but do not raise suspicion."
Sam: We will be as quiet as a house mouse. However, if you need us to act, just utter the word "jenga."
Matt: "Jenga."
Marisha: I also make a matching corsage and pin it on his lapel, as well.
Matt: As you do, he looks down at it and goes, "Thank you; it's not my color."
Marisha: You know, that's fine.
Matt: "I appreciate the offer but my theme goes with browns and blacks so as not to be seen. This is a bit bright for my taste."
Marisha: It might have had a more utilitarian purpose, but it's fine.
Matt: "I'm not going to be at the dinner, but thank you."
Laura: Do you have any of your people learning about the Briarwoods? Are they magic users in any way? Have you heard anything?
Matt: "The only thing I can recall as the information of the Briarwoods, at least what's come this way was while they were ruling the lands in Wildemount as part of their kingdom there, Lady Delilah Briarwood was an accomplished practitioner of the arcane arts, a long-trained wizard as far as I know and been through quite a few different schools and had a brief stint here in Emon training at the Lyceum, but that was naught but nine, ten years back? Maybe more."
Laura: Do any of you know, as somebody practiced in the arcane arts, are you good at seeing through illusions? Or--
Sam: Who, me? Who, us?
Laura: Anybody that is, you know, very skilled?
Orion: (chuckles) Of course. I just need to know that one's happening. So it's tricky, is what I'm saying.
Laura: So she wouldn't automatically know. They wouldn't be able to spot immediately that Percy is not actually--
Orion: Somebody would have to have rather powerful abilities to see through an illusion spell like a disguise or such. It's like a rakshasa could see though that kind of thing, per experience. I doubt that the Briarwoods have any--
Matt: At which point you hear, muffled in the distance a (horn noise) this horn sound that seems to be blown as a notification that the arrival of guests has rolled in.
Travis: Are you ready for this, Vaxy?
Taliesin: No. Let's do this.
Orion: Would you like me to cast Fireball?
Matt: Asum goes, "No, please, none of that. Vax, if you can hear me in this room, ten minutes into the meal see if you can spot me and follow me in the foyer. Good luck."
Laura: Great.
Sam: Keyleth, I hope you phoned ahead and gave them your order for a vegan meal.
Marisha: Oh, I always do.
Taliesin: She's vegan. Of course she told them.
Marisha: Exactly. It's on the RSVP.
Matt: Asum leaves the room. Do you wish to stay inside, do you wish to see the guests as they arrive?
Taliesin: Let's go be social.
Sam: Let's go mingle.
Matt: All right. You guys head back out to the front of the palace, the large stairway that leads down into the central road outside of the palace in the middle of the Cloudtop district. The sky itself has now come to a dark purple blue slowly moving over into the distant sunset. The sun has disappeared beneath the sea and you've completed the dusk as the sunset slowly turns gold. A dark wood carriage flanked by four armored men on horseback pulls onto the road right before the Tal'Dorei palace. A young man steps from the front of the carriage and opens the door. Stepping out you see a strong, tall man in the nearby lantern light. Short brown hair frames a very chiseled and handsome face adorned with a well groomed goatee. His clothing is based in blue and black, fitted elegance trimmed with golds and red. A strip of grey fur cresting over one shoulder framing his torso. He turns, extends his hand towards the door, where a feminine gloved hand finds it. A beautiful woman steps out after. Her hair dark auburn and pulled up into a tight braided bun, resembling some sort of a glamorous school teacher almost. Her gown is in the same color scheme as the man, if a bit heavier blue than black, and a long billowing skirt tapers up to be form-fitted across her body, continuing upward to wrap her neck nearly to the jaw. They both turn to face the greeting party, bowing slightly as two of their companion guards flank their approach up the steps. The other two helping the young man who steered the carriage carry their rather large bags behind them. This is Lord Sylas Briarwood and Lady Delilah Briarwood. As you guys are standing here at this point, stepping behind you a hand reaches over and touches the back of your shoulder. You look behind you and there, smiling, is Arcanist Allura Vysoren dressed in a very fine blue gown. You've never seen her quite so formal, but very beautiful type thing. She glances over the shoulders, "It's so good to see you. I'm so glad you all could make it."
Laura: So wonderful to see you. I give her a hug.
Matt: She gives a little hug, too. Glances over at you. "A pleasure, Vax'ildan."
Orion: See? She can see it.
Marisha: Yes, she can.
Matt: What are you doing?
Orion: You look gorgeous Allura, and my friends are just making weird faces right now. It's probably because of how beautiful you look.
Matt: As you guys are having this discussion about 15 feet from you the Briarwoods enter the palace, their guards enter with them. There's been no pleasantry and very much an intended arrival. None of you are recognizable to them, thus they make no intent of introducing themselves.
Laura: We catch any of their eye at all?
Matt: They appear to be looking about and taking in their surroundings but they're both engaged in a mumbled conversation between the two of them as they enter.
Marisha: Is anyone waiting to greet them?
Matt: As you follow where they're going, as you walk into the main foyer area where you stand there, waiting carefully at the back, there are a number of servants that have arrived and have taken some of their bags and help them up the stairs. There is one, the head servant who is there talking to them and you hear him speaking to them. "Wait in your quarters be ready, the meal should be ready within the hour. If you would be so kind as to prepare yourselves, relax, unwind, set up your rooms. You're to stay for a few days at the very least. But we shall call you when the meal is ready." At which Lord Sylas Briarwood turns to him and says, "I greatly appreciate the information. Just come to our room and let us know when the food is ready. Now, come, my dear"
Laura: Can I keep an eye on them as they're walking to their room? Just as long as I can see their mouths moving, I can read their lips.
Taliesin: I also want to scan their entourage to see if I recognize any faces.
Matt: Okay, perception check. Perception check for you, as well.
Laura: Do I have to perceive it? I have a feat that I can read it.
Matt: Oh, you do?
Laura: Yeah, I have Observant  Read Lips meaning I can read lips from any language I can understand.
Matt: That's true. Okay, good to know.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. No, they all appear to be run of the mill soldiers, nothing, no one that catches your attention. The young man who is helping them as they go through seems familiar, but no one that is jumping out at you right now. Someone you may have crossed paths with in the past but nobody that's really been formally involved in your life previously. Maybe a denizen of Whitestone that you've crossed before when he was younger. As they walk up the steps, you keep an eye best you can as they go. You catch a little bit of conversation that seems to speak about how long the journey's been, "That's all right, we'll be in there soon to discuss and we'll be out as soon as we can. We won't stay any longer than we need to." And that's the extent you gather as they continue up the stairway. As the next hour or so passes?
Orion: I flirt with Allura.
Matt: Okay, do you want to talk with Allura?
Orion: I flirt with her throughout the hour.
Matt: Okay, she's grateful for the conversation. She laughs, and she's very attentive to all of you and excited to see you. She lets you know that she's been caught in a little bit of the bureaucracy in the city and despises that. She's taken some time off for herself for about a week or so.
Orion: Actually, towards the end of that conversation I would like to bring up a specific thing. We've been having such a wonderful conversation.
Matt: "Of course, no, of course, Tiberius"
Orion: I think when things settle down a bit, perhaps you and I and maybe Grog, and Lady Kima can perhaps go out. Break bread and have some wine and such on an evening with each other. I believe my friend rather fancies Kima. What say you?
Matt: "Well, that's very flattering, Tiberius. I appreciate the invitation. I would say that particular mix of company might prove a bit awkward."
Orion: Well, of course. If it was awkward, nobody wants that.
Matt: "Perhaps we might-- I mean if you would like to get some tea sometime I'd be more than happy to--"
Orion: Oh, just you and I?
Matt: "Yes. Kima's quite a ways off and I believe she's still in Vasselheim, last I spoke with her, and yes, tea would be lovely."
Orion: Okay, all right, wonderful.
Sam: You walk away.
Orion: I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: He got a date!
Travis: Is that carriage. Is the carriage still there?
Matt: The carriage, as far as you see, is being led off slowly by the servants to a side area of the palace.
Travis: And the armed on horseback that were with the Briarwoods when they came in?
Matt: Two of them are with the Briarwoods, and there are two helping to bring their stuff up to their rooms.
Travis: The four are with them?
Matt: The four are with them, yes.
Sam: I jump up and give him a little high five. Then, as an hour has passed, I beckon to Vax and find a shadowy area.
Travis: Real Vax or Vaxy?
Sam: Real Vax. Because my thing is wearing off, buddy.
Marisha: I've been scanning the crowd. Have I noticed anything over the past hour of any of our people? Any locals, any council members, who may be acting a little shifty?
Matt: Looking about, the council is roughly stepping in and out of the area like they're getting ready for the dinner and arriving from the Cloudtop district.
Marisha: Any of them breaking a sweat? Acting weird?
Laura: Yeah. I want to check out this, too.
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight roll, both of you guys.
Marisha: 22.
Laura: 23.
Matt: The two of you scanning over. Looking over there is Lord Riskel Daxio, he's an elven male, who was the one who is master of trade of the city. He's the one that handled the ordering of your keep when you first had it brought to your attention by Uriel. Allura, of course. Tofor Brotorus is there, the female dragonborn paladin. She seems generally just not happy about the whole scenario and she's not armored, she's dressed in what would be considered formal attire but it's not a dress, it's not a suit, it's this asexual formal outfit that looks like a robe but also like a suit and she does not look to be happy in it at all. Just arms crossed, at the far end, back against the wall just (growling noises) slowly stewing, not wanting to be there. You also see Arbiter Brom Goldhand, who is the master of law. Was previously one of the heads of the guard there within Emon and then was then given the job of being the head of the Watchful Hall. He's the master of law essentially in the city. That's right, Tofor is the master of defense that took over for Krieg after Krieg was slain. So those are the council members. Most everyone else there you see are servants. As time goes on eventually there is the ringing of a dinner bell down the hallway and everyone turns their head and notices and steps over to the great hall of the palace where the feast is to be given to you and other guests.
Sam: As we move, I release and then recast Invisibility on him when I see that there's a moment where everyone's distracted.
Matt: All righty, so you rejuvenate the Invisibility spell.
Marisha: Oh look, Tiberius, they have bananas!
Orion: Oh!
Laura: I can sense you, you dick.
Matt: You're escorted to the hall by Allura. She keeps chatting with you guys and asking questions about how Vasselheim was, and is Kima well? She stayed back there. She asks questions about why Pike isn't here and you tell her the story that she stayed behind and everything. You make your way into the great hall which seats a vast number of people. There are five major tables meant for like large feasts but there is one central square table in the far end that is by this giant hearth. This fireplace is probably a good six feet high and about 12 feet wide. It's a grandiose visual on the far end of this hall, and there's a long table right there set for about 20 people. You don't know if there will be that many there at the table but it can seat that many. At which point, all the different members of the council have their seats around it. You guys find your seats.
Laura: Can we get a feel for where the Briarwoods are going to sit?
Matt: With this many seats set, it's hard to tell, but you gather that they're probably going to sit--
Laura: Are there place cards? (laughs)
Matt: There are no place cards but there are two ends of the table that have two chairs at each end.
Laura: Okay. Can I position myself when I sit to where I can see them? So I can read their mouths, specifically.
Matt: Certainly. You can probably sit on the center or the far end of the table looking in their direction, should be fine.
Orion: Can I sit at the far end of the table at the very opposite end, if not at head of the end--
Laura: That's probably where Uriel is going to sit.
Orion: Oh. Who?
Travis: The king.
Orion: Oh! Not that chair.
Matt: Okay, but adjacent to it?
Orion: Yes. That would be rude, I think.
Matt: Okay, fair enough.
Sam: I assume I sit at the kiddie table because I'm so tiny?
Laura: They've got a booster chair for you, Scanlan.
Matt: They do have adjustments for gnomish guests-- is a way of putting it. All right, after you guys sit for a few moments, another servant steps forward and says, "Please, if we might rise for our guests Lord and Lady Briarwood to join us at the table--"
Sam: I am risen already. I'm standing already.
Matt: Lord and Lady Briarwood now enter arm in arm, slowly walking from the far end of the great hall. They make their way to one end of the table. They both wordlessly sit down, smiling and acknowledge everyone at the table. There's a moment of silence and then another servant says "And would all please attention be given to our sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei the second and the Empress Salda Tal'Dorei." At which point, the sovereign and his wife enter from the same entrance point. Everyone stands up from their chair, waits for them to get to the edge of the table, at which point they nod their head. Everyone gives a low bow. You guys follow suit, following the social graces you're not familiar with but trying to learn as you go. Except for Tiberius, you know this deal. You all follow his lead on this. Eventually, everyone sits down again. Tables are pushed in by servants behind you, you're like 'oh' caught off guard by the whole experience. Uriel looks about the table with a smile, shoulder length brown hair and his chin goatee very well crafted into almost a point now. He looks about the table. "Thank you, Lord and Lady Briarwood, for making the journey across the lands so that we might meet in person, finally. Please, allow me to introduce our dining party and esteemed council of Tal'Dorei." He goes around the table introducing, "Arbiter Brom Goldhand. He is the master of law of our city, and is responsible for maintaining all of these grand people of our fair town in the realm of safety and order. We have Lord Riskel Daxio. He is our head of planning and construction; has overseen many of the expansions of the city, and is a trusted friend of mine. We have the Arcanist Allura Vysoren: one of my trusted advisors, one of the greatest arcane minds of all of Tal'Dorei, and the overseer of all things arcane within our city. We have the Guardian Tofor Brotorus, a fierce warrior and currently the master of defense in our city and hopefully for a long time to come." Tofor gives a (scoffs) sound and everyone is put off by it, but they're also seemingly used to it. "Arbiter Brom Goldhand: master of law. My lovely wife, the Empress Salda. We have here within our midst, as well: Vox Machina, a team of intrepid adventurers who rose up and saved my family's life and very well the city of Emon and have since proven very useful to our territory. Grog Strongjaw, a goliath of interesting dress, but strong of heart and blade. We have Vex'halia, half-elven maiden with a bow as swift as the fastest eagle." Looking next, he says, "We have here Vax'ildan, blades quick and eyes sharp, not a whisper passes his ear. Ah! There you are! Scanlan Shorthalt, a performer known far and wide. A wit as clever as you've ever seen. His songs are whispered through taverns across the land. We have Tiberius Stormwind--"
Orion: I'm from Draconia.
Matt: "Hailing from Draconia, which," he looks across to the Briarwoods, "the kingdom you hail from originally not being far off from Draconia, perhaps you've had some dealings with the Stormwinds?" And the Briarwoods give a nod. "Yes, we have seen them in the past. We've heard many good things."
Orion: We're pretty cool.
Matt: "We have over here, Keyleth of the Ashari, if I am correct on that? She is a denizen of the natural lands and protector of all things nature within Tal'Dorei."
Marisha: Hi.
Matt: "There was one more."
Taliesin: Two, and they could not be in attendance.
Laura: Yes, ill.
Orion: They were running around. They got diarrhea. Isn't that what you said?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "Anyway. Welcome, and thank you." He reaches over and takes a small glass and clinks it with his silverware, the servants immediately muster up and start pulling glasses out and pouring wine into everyone's glasses and the conversation begins to naturally bustle about for this meal. Immediately conversation builds in about Uriel talking across to the Briarwoods talking about the bridge. He says "Now, the Uriel bridge, I don't think the name was necessary, but it's appreciated from my perspective. Now in this union between Wildemount and Tal'Dorei-- do we have a confirmed trade route between the two?" At which Lord Briarwood returns, "This is indeed very true. We are hoping that through this passageway, we'd have means of rather quick trade between this kingdom and yours. Not to mention this would allow for individuals to travel for carried parcels very quickly and we're hoping to establish perhaps a very quick means of communication outside of the arcane for those who cannot afford these various luxuries." Lady Briarwood taps on his shoulder and says, "Yes, and by the way, I don't mean to bring up a sore subject but it's come to our attention that apparently last Winter's Crest, there was an attempt on your life," and the table gets a little quiet for a second. "We're sorry to hear that and wish to express our--" Uriel puts his hand out and says, "No, no, it's quite all right. It was but a paltry attempt, and it was thwarted actually by Vox Machina. They have been tremendous in keeping us safe and I greatly appreciate their aid in overseeing my family's good fortune." Yes?
Liam: While all this is going on, can you describe. Are the Briarwood couple together, seated next to each other?
Matt: They are seated right next to each other at the head of one table across the way.
Liam: I intend to be behind them, but what's behind them, like?
Matt: What's behind them is just open space and servants. There's probably a good 25 servants here that are just like sitting there patiently, lying in wait for--
Liam: And behind the servants is a wall so there's lots of open busy crowded space? Okay.
Matt: And tables. There's like other unused tables in this great hall that are just out there. Four other ones.
Liam: All right. I'm going to drink the potion of climbing that Grog gave me, and I'm spidering up the wall and I'd love, while listening to all this to make an insight check on them just as they talk, just for funsies.
Matt: To inquire about--?
Liam: Just to see if they seem like sacks of shit.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: Luck, oh not that lucky. This is going to be very low. Yeah, never mind, low. Very low.
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance really at all. They're very charming. You were expecting this very dour, dark, evil couple from all the conversation, but they seem nice. They seem earnest. They keep to themselves definitely, they're definitely a very tight couple but nothing about them catches you off guard as being anything instinctively twisted.
Liam: It's very hard to read them upside-down.
Laura: Could I inquire to Lady Briarwood?
Matt: You're saying this out loud? The conversation comes to a halt, she-- "Yes, of course. I'm so sorry, what was your name again?"
Laura: Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "Vex'ahlia. Absolute pleasure to meet you. Delilah."
Laura: You as well. I notice your dress is quite lovely. It doesn't look like a fashion that I'm used to seeing. Where do you hail from originally?
Matt: "We hail from Wildemount. It's quite a ways from here. The continent to the far east."
Laura: Really, I'm not familiar.
Matt: "You should come by sometime. We haven't been home in a number of years, having to tend to Whitestone, but we have quite an elaborate homestead there. We'd love to have you come stay with us if you ever find yourself in that side of the world."
Laura: I would love to visit. How long have you been at Whitestone?
Matt: "We've been at Whitestone for the better part of-- I can't even remember." And Lord Briarwood looks, he goes, "Best I can recall, four or five years. It was an unfortunate mantle to pick up but we've done what we can in honor of the passed de Rolo family."
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Orion: I was just going to ask, you seem such a lovely couple. Do you have any children?
Matt: "We unfortunately do not. It seems it was not in the cards for us to bear. However, we consider many of our esteemed servants and house guests our extended family. So we can leave a legacy, however we can possibly do so."
Laura: Can we insight check as, what they're saying?
Matt: Certainly.
Laura: I mean, I know they're lying out their asses. Fuck. 18.
Matt: 18? Seems pretty earnest.
Sam: Lord Briarwood. Down here, hi.
Matt: "I'm sorry, I--" he snaps and a servant moves a large like pig platter out of the way that was blocking your head from his vision.
Travis: You can move that over here actually, thank you. (chomping noises)
Sam: Lord Briarwood, we may share a mutual friend or acquaintance of some sort. My father was a prominent doctor, and he may have studied medicine with a fellow that you know named Dr. Ripulah, Ripley? Dr. Ripley? Do you know such a person?
Matt: "Yes, actually. Dr. Ripley is one of our esteemed physicians in Whitestone. Yes, recently come into some land herself, although she has been on holiday for some time. Following her own research as doctors are wont to do."
Sam: Are you close with her?
Matt: "I wouldn't say close, but she's been a friend at times, and she was one of the few that came with us from Wildemount over to Whitestone and has helped us restructure and maintain and help facilitate the blossoming of a city without a leader."
Sam: She sounds wonderful. Well, when you see her next tell her that my father, Dr. Jeff Shorthalt, said hi.
Matt: "Jeff Shorthalt, I will be happy to pass that along."
Taliesin: Lord Briarwood, I am not familiar with Whitestone. How did you become caretaker of such a place?
Matt: At which point, one of the other council members goes, "Um." and puts his hand out. "It's all right," and he pats the hand of his wife. He looks over at you with a smile. "We know not if it is connected with the disease, but before all this occurred, we became very close friends with the de Rolo family about ten or so years ago. Actually, the first time we met is an interesting tale, if you want to tell it, please." His wife goes, "All right all right, so they were taking a brief vacation east to Wildemount. Apparently, they had not traveled and they brought their family with them, a whole gaggle of small children. They were coming this direction. Now our homestead is on the western outskirts of Wildemount so one of the first places you traverse before going into the kingdom proper. However, the family, the de Rolo family had been caught in a bad downpour, a storm that had blown in and made travel rather impossible, and apparently they stopped not far from our homestead. They came to our front door asking for shelter for the evening, and we were happy to house them. We gave them dry clothes, food for the night, and well, a rather fast friendship was forged. As we quickly began to notice they weren't just rabble of the street, they themselves were highborn as we were and in a very dire circumstance. So we let them in, they stayed for but a week. We showed them about the western side of Wildemount and let them on their way. And since then we've had many different years we've spent together as families going on various journeys and trips together. But as time went on we got busy on our own and separate ways and we hadn't spoken in a while. They were in the process of discussing the building of the Uriel bridge about five years ago, and we were going to meet with them about pursuing this venture as a joint-- well, when the disease took them. The family passed on. We were surprised that they would've considered leaving Whitestone in our name, and we couldn't say no, at this point. To carry on their legacy, I felt, was important enough let alone the memory of that to carry on the building of this Uriel bridge. I thought I really wanted to spearhead the wishes of Frederick."
Orion: That is so courageous of you. Do you want me to Fireball her now?
Taliesin: A toast, then!
Matt: "A toast."
Taliesin: To gracious hosts.
Matt: "To gracious hosts."
Sam: L'Chaim.
Orion: Gesundheit.
Matt: "So. Uriel," and he looks across the way and says, "one of our largest exports in Whitestone is timber from the forests and woods that surround Whitestone and the Alabaster Sierras. We've had a rising danger in the surrounding woods. It has made it proven difficult to export most of these wooded goods. If it is possible, we would like for you to send some aid, perhaps a small band of soldiers to lead a strike into the woods." Uriel looks across the way and says, "Ah yes, we can definitely discuss that, I don't see why not. We are currently in peacetime and we have a reserve of soldiers we can send your way."
Marisha: I mean, we're also free.
Sam: Oh yes.
Matt: As the meal continues on, more conversations arise. A lot of bureaucratic BS. Anyone want to interject anything or ask any questions?
Orion: Is Allura there, still?
Matt: Allura is there, yes.
Orion: As we're eating I'm going to  By the way, did you ever perhaps finish making that extra earring I gave you several weeks ago? I don't know how long it's been.
Matt: Allura looks, glances over to the side and says, "Yes, it's been completed. No one's come by to take it from me"
Orion: I had no idea, I'll send someone.
Matt: "And as a note, I'm about a month away from completing the sigil in the base mentof your keep."
Orion: Oh, wonderful. Thank you, that's-- so talented. What flavor tea do you like, Allura?
Matt: "I prefer a mint or jasmine, to be honest."
Orion: Noted. I walk away
Matt: You step up and walk away from the dinner table. (chair scraping) Tiberius stands up in the middle of the discussion and walks away from the feast
Taliesin: Lady Briarwood, it is such an act of compassion to take on such responsibility as a house such as Whitestone.
Sam: Tiberius, get back here.
Orion: You said walk away.
Sam: No! Not every time!
Matt: "Well, thank you. This is the first time we've been away from Whitestone in many years."
Taliesin: That's such a spectacular act of kindness and generosity. Would, perhaps, Vox Machina also be of service to you?
Matt: "Perhaps, you seem strong of build and--"
Laura: We are handier than we look.
Marisha: We killed a beholder once.
Travis: Just right out with it.
Matt: "That is an impressive feat, young Keyleth."
Marisha: We should just lead with that.
Taliesin: And we killed an illithid once, as well.
Matt: "Slain a beholder? Uriel, you keep in the presence of some mighty heroes." Uriel goes, (chuckles) "They are proven allies. I mean, if you utilize their assistance. That would be very possible. May have something coming up that I could use them for myself, but we'll discuss in time. Nevertheless, the meal continues." She smiles and looks back at you.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if that look at Percy-not-Percy was--
Matt: You can make an insight check, sure.
Taliesin: Can you? Can you make an insight check? I don't think you can.
Marisha: She looked interesting.
Matt: You're distracted by the pattern, the brocade across her torso area.
Taliesin: You know, you could roll lower if you tried.
Orion: I want to do an arcana check on them.
Matt: What are you checking for?
Orion: If they're armed with anything that has arcane properties.
Matt: Make an arcana check. It's not so much something you can sense, more than you can look for symbols. You rolled a 17? It looks like there are elements of their accoutrements that are, like any of you are carrying on yourselves. There's a choker that's part of the outfit that Lady Briarwood wears that itself does appear to have some tiny enchantment-based markings across it. They are adorned in various protective magic, but so is everybody else at the table.
Orion: Got you. Standard gear.
Travis: Lord and Lady Briarwood, we are, in fact, quite handy. Vax, we also killed an illithid, if I recall.
Taliesin: I think we did. Did we befriend an illithid or kill it? I think we did both.
Orion: We befriended it, it betrayed us, and then we killed it.
Sam: But enough about us. Earlier, you were telling us about a poor family that came down with that disease. I'm just curious, coming from a medical family. What was the disease that they had?
Matt: They look at each other and give a sorrowful look. "We do not know. We were only given the information that the family had passed, but a month or two after it had already occurred."
Marisha: The entire family. All of them?
Matt: "Most of the castle seemed to have fallen to it, as well."
Laura: So dreadful.
Matt: Uriel says, "My condolences, by the way. I understand that's very hard." "It's all right. The least we could do is try to carry on their legacy."
Laura: I know how hard it is to lose someone very close to you. I'm sorry for your loss.
Matt: "It's appreciated." He looks at his wife, and she looks up for a second. "It's all right."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm just a little confused. If the whole family died of disease, weren't you afraid to go into this town, into this castle? Weren't you afraid of contracting this disease yourself?
Matt: "There was worry of such a thing, but before Whitestone castle could be entered, we made sure to send in our best clerics to rid of any existing possible lingering disease, and to make sure to remove any corpses or bodies that may contain it. There was a period of time that we were worried, but after a few months, we came to the conclusion that we were safe, and thus we moved our way in."
Travis: Lucky for you.
Sam: Anyone care for some games of jenga?
Matt: At this point, the dessert has been brought out. It's a fine, almost creme brulee-type dish. It's delicious.
Laura: Are they whispering to themselves, still?
Matt: As part of the discussions, there are a few side exchanges here and there. The best you can make from it is, "Did you notice him?" She says, "Yes, don't worry." And, "Tonight, we'll stay." And those are the only things you can make out from the exchanges back and forth.
Laura: How long do you plan on staying here, Lord and Lady?
Matt: "Well, after this dinner, I imagine a few days, and we'll be on our way. We're merely here to finalize the paperwork for the bridge construction." She looks over and gives a nod to Lord Daxio, who gives her a nod back. "And maybe see the city for a while, and make our way back. It's too hard to be away, and our nephew has been left in charge of this."
Laura: Do you have plans on the morrow? I would love to give you a tour of the city.
Matt: "That would be lovely."
Laura: Wonderful! Should I send word? How should we arrange this?
Matt: "Where are you staying?"
Laura: We are outside of town at our own keep, actually.
Matt: "What's it called?"
Laura: The Greyskull Keep.
Matt: "Greyskull Keep. We will have you sent for when the time is right."
Laura: Lovely. That will be so fun.
Orion: Vex is so into showing people our city.
Laura: Perhaps you can show me some more of your fashions. I love your dress so much.
Matt: "Oh, well it's hard to show you this here. What you need to see is the Wildemount fashion district. It is divine."
Laura: Sounds wonderful.
Travis: I look at Vax and I go, does anyone want any dessert?
Orion: (gulping) I'm having a little.
Laura: Vax? You looked at Vax?
Travis: Yeah. Vaxy. The one that I can look at.
Orion: Do you want dessert now? Would you like this fireball creme brulee?
Taliesin: I'm just fine.
Marisha: (whispered) I don't know what to do now.
Matt: The meal has been now wound down, the dishes are being gathered by the servants, the wine has stopped being poured, and now everyone settles in with sighs of a meal well spent. The other council members begin to excuse themselves. Uriel stands up and says, "My apologies, me and my wife find that rest is in our future. Please, feel free to walk the halls as you see fit. Thank you again, Lord and Lady Briarwood, for joining us, and we're excited to continue this venture. Good night to you all."
Marisha: Hey, you should Hunter's Mark them or something.
Sam: Wait, no, that's Uriel that's leaving.
Liam: What's the gentleman who realized that I was there? Earlier, before we came in?
Matt: Asum? He's not in the room. He's been waiting in the foyer for you.
Laura: He was telling you to meet him in the foyer, a long time ago.
Liam: Oh, that's all right.
Laura: (whispered) You should go spy on their room. Go check out that room. I'll distract them.
Travis: (muffled) Go see if he's still there.
Matt: Lord and Lady Briarwood also stand up. "On that note as well, I think our meal has come to an end. We appreciate your--" and Lady Briarwood continues the sentence, "and we wish you all a fine night--"
Liam: I'm clicking my Boots of Haste and scuttling along the ceiling back towards the door.
Orion: I know a particular spell that it's rather wonderful. And I go blow a stream out and do a cantrip, Control Magic, and start doing a nice dragon fire dance that I know of from my home.
Sam: I play a little flute.
Matt: They both sit and watch for a moment--
Sam: (Star Wars Cantina song)
Liam: Am I finding what's-his-face?
Matt: You make your way out, and he's not there. You don't see him anywhere.
Liam: I'm doubling back.
Matt: Okay, you double back. After about a minute of this, "Yes, well, thank you kindly for that wondrous display. I feel that sleep takes us, and we are going to retire to our quarters. Have a wonderful night, everyone."
Marisha: Are you staying within the castle?
Matt: "Yes, yes."
Marisha: Oh! Fantastic.
Orion: Have a wonderful rest.
Matt: "And good night." And they both stand up, and then they make their way out, through the main great hall exit.
Liam: I'm following.
Matt: Okay. You gather across the ceiling as you go. You watch them head up the stairway to the second floor. They head to the right, down a long hallway, a series of doors. They come up to a door, where there are two guards standing outside. The same guards that led them inside the building, and were riding on horseback.
Laura: Could I Hunter's Mark him before they go in their bedroom?
Matt: Hunter's Mark is technically a minor spell. You could try it.
Laura: I mean they're walking away, when their back is turned, could I do it when they're not paying attention?
Matt: I'd say, make a stealth check. Trying to do this subtly at the table.
Laura: 20! (cheers)
Matt: You Hunter's Mark which one?
Laura: Lord-- no--
Sam: Sylas or Delilah?
Laura: Delilah.
Matt: Okay, you mark Delilah as she walks off. You have a sense of where she is at all times in the vicinity. As you follow them, they go to the door, the guards open the door for them, and lead them into their room, and then close the door.
Liam: Oh, that fast? All right. How close to the door are the guards? Right up against it?
Matt: Not against it, but immediately to the right and left of it.
Laura: I don't know what else to do, you guys.
Sam: Burn their room down. We've got to find Seeker Assam, or whatever his name is.
Liam: I yank off my serpent belt and throw it as far as I can. Not as far as I can. 20 feet, and set it in motion, so there's now a snake in the hall, 20 feet in front of these guys.
Matt: All right. You take it, and you throw the snake. Let me check one thing on Invisibility real fast. Just because--
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah, just, snake flies down the hall--
Orion: If he does an action, it dissipates the spell. It's not Greater Invisibility, so he goes uninvisible, when he does something.
Matt: "Attacks or casts a spell." It's not either of those. It's activating an item. You take the belt (whoosh), fling it (hissing), the snake appears to the side. One of the guards looks over. Looks over at the other guard, he pulls out his weapon and one of the guards steps over to where the serpent is and starts trying to stomp it out, and it nips up and gets some of the armor, and he's just, stomping out the snake.
Liam: So one's 20 feet away now?
Matt: About 25 feet away, yeah.
Liam: 25 feet away, and one guy stayed?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Kill them.
Liam: I drop, and I'm going to bean him on the head, like his name is Kynan.
Matt: Okay! All right. As you leap off the top, you (whoosh) land on the ground. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Liam: Okay. "Advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn in combat yet."
Matt: And he is surprised, because he does not know you're there.
Liam: And I'm invisible, so that's an 18. That is 29 to hit. Using the blunt end! I just want to knock him out.
Matt: Right, okay. Go ahead and roll sneak attack damage.
Liam: Doubled. 12, 17, 23, 24, 26, so 52. Plus-- No, I mean, if I am as skilled a rogue as I am, how could I not just want to knock somebody out, and not unintentionally-- ten. On top of the 52.
Matt: 62 damage will do it. You (whack) right to the side of the helmet, with a dull (thud) sound. Just falls like a sack of potatoes right against the wall.
Liam: Hand on the door. Is it locked?
Matt: The door is currently not locked. You can see the guard you just knocked out, had the key in his hand and was in the process of going to lock the door right when that happened.
Liam: Okay, so I flip my hood over my head, and I quietly go in the door.
Sam: Oh wait, you're not invisible anymore.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: Okay. So. (creak) You open the door and enter the room, closing it behind you. As soon as you enter the room, it's a large guest room. There are two windows across the way with curtains drawn to the side. You can see the darkness of the night sky behind that, and the rest of the low-lit Cloudtop District visible, and the courtyard surrounding the palace. Immediately to the right and left of you, you see two large tables that are covered in black cloths, that are just, tables to be, you know, vases and stuff set up on them. One's clean, one has actual decor on it. There are two wooden tables immediately to the right and left of you. There's a large red rug, central to the floor, that is circular, and on the far corners next to the two windows you see armoires, like dressers, for clothing and such. In the center of the room, you see, on top of the rug, against the wall between the two windows is a large canopy bed, very beautifully carved from dark wood, has a purple cloth silk canopy that drifts down around it. And on the far end, you can see now, against one of the tables, is Lady Briarwood is currently taking jewelry off of one of her arms while Lord Briarwood is right by the bed, holding on to the post, like he's just walked over to that area.
Liam: They're both at the bed?
Matt: They're both at the bed.
Liam: I got a 25 for stealth and it didn't work?
Matt: They're both looking in your direction.
Liam: All right. Oh, sorry. Sorry, I heard a noise in here. I work for the city. I apologize. That was really stupid. As you were. I walk out.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: I'll use my last Luck of the day. Didn't do it; same thing. Nine, 11.
Matt: 11?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Lord Briarwood goes, "Oh, well, that's all right. Not to worry, in no serious rush. Isn't that right, my dear?" And she looks over, she stops taking her jewelry off and turns. "Yes, yes, of course. As you, a man who works for the city."
Liam: Yes ma'am.
Matt: "What do you do for the city, if I may ask?"
Liam: Oh, I'm a guard. I mean, there's not really a name for what I do. I work for Uriel, I just-- I'm security, ma'am, and I thought I heard a noise in here. And I heard a body fall, I thought-- sounded like a body fell.
Matt: They both step a little bit closer. Looking at you--
Liam: I'm backing up as I'm talking, I'm right at the door! I didn't shut it behind me, I just cracked it open.
Matt: Right. Lady Briarwood goes, "You look strangely similar to a gentleman we just had dinner with."
Liam: That's crazy!
Matt: "It's uncanny how similar you look."
Liam: Yep.
Matt: (arcane chanting)
Liam: And I run!
Matt: You get to make a wisdom save, is what you do.
Sam: Jenga!
Liam: Not good. It's an eight.
Matt: You turn to move and your muscles (crunching) tense up, as you're unable to physically move.
Liam: This is awkward, ma'am, I'm just trying to do my job.
Matt: You're halfway through the doorway, stuck in place, as she keeps walking forward now, giving you a curious look. Lord Briarwood comes and flanks you from the other side. (clicks tongue) "You try and flee. I'm merely asking you questions. Come, let us discuss in more private quarters." And you feel the hand of Lord Briarwood slam onto your other shoulder. "Don't worry. You look delicious." And he pulls you into the room as she closes the door behind, and that's where we're going to end tonight's session. (screaming)
Sam: Jenga! We had a safe word for a reason!
Liam: That's cool.
Travis: Hashtag Save Vax!
Marisha: Dude, I think they're into some weird shit.
Matt: That was a very slow tension building episode that turned very interesting at the end. How you doing, Taliesin?!
Taliesin: (yells and groans)
Laura: They're so evil!
Marisha: They're creeping me out, man.
Taliesin: You're making it so much worse than I ever imagined.
Laura: They're totally vampires.
Marisha: Now we're going to have to rescue Vax.
Taliesin: I swear if the Briarwoods are responsible for a party kill, I'm going to feel like such an asshole.
Matt: (laughs) That'd be rough. Well, cool. We'll all be picking up that next week on Thursday.
Marisha: Oh, please, like you haven't rushed into a situation before, Orion?
Orion: No! I never have. I can actually say that.
Liam: Like attacking an inanimate door?
Marisha: Yeah! Or, or launching a Fireball in the middle of a wood house?
Taliesin: Trying to convince an entire army of illithid to follow you?
Marisha: Yeah! Rushing off to Draconia to buy a Bag of Holding.
Sam: Or just today, running off to the, to the sigil!
Orion: Never put myself in danger except for the illithid. Never put myself in danger. The fire thing. Now granted, I didn't know how Fireball worked at the time.
Liam: I'm sorry you're such a nervous fellow!
Orion: I'm just saying!
Laura: Oh hey, what's going on?
Liam: Come on, how am I going to play my second character unless I die now?
Taliesin: Or you could become a vampire! You can be a vampire half-elf.
Matt: All right guys, so! We got a lot of awesome donations tonight. Let's go ahead and rock through those.
Liam: I regret nothing.
Matt: As you shouldn't! That got really interesting really fast.
Liam: Yeah. I regret zip. [end of transcription]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice actors get together and roll dice like we're awesome nerd people, which we are. So, welcome! We're going to do a couple quick announcements here before we kick things off. You want to go ahead and start?
Zac: Yeah, I'm that guy that you can't wait to stop talking so the show can get started. So guys, last week we hit 516 on the sub-train. Okay? And each week, in theory, should grow by itself because re-subs count. So basically, if we break 516 and make a new record, we will do a giant giveaway which includes everything from Heroclix to Steam keys to D&D schwag, books from Felicia, all sorts of stuff. It will be a giant box of wonderful Geek and Sundry-related stuff. So that is if we break 516, so there's a reason to keep that train alive, guys. We are also very close to hitting 10k. We are like 160 away from reaching 10,000 subscribers. How many? 154 away from hitting 10k. Now you guys may remember #noshavetil10k. I have not. If we hit 10k, right when we hit, a straw poll will be released into the chatroom, and you guys get to vote on what my face gets shaved into for the next week of programming on G&S. And it is very unfortunate that that's how we're going to do it. So tomorrow night on Gather Your Party, it will be Stef and Jessica's birthday, we're going to be throwing a birthday party, and I'm going to let them shave my face in whatever you guys vote on, as a birthday present to them.
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: The possibilities are endless.
Zac: Just saying that out loud honestly hurts me. A lot.
Matt: It is thick, too. You can get some nice dimension in there.
Zac: Great.
Liam: Words, shave words in--
Taliesin: You could build a bear in the beard.
Zac: I could build a bear. Yeah. Great.
Matt: Can we shave off bits and then re-apply them to other parts of the face?
Zac: If you want to wear them, yeah!
Matt: Okay! I might do that, yeah.
Zac: And then this weekend, Nerdist is running a 24-hour livestream for Extra Life. You guys may recognize some of the faces that stop by. They are going to be streaming from our set. So, let's welcome them. We'll be hosting it, but I encourage you guys all to head over to Nerdist, twitch.tv/nerdist. This weekend it'll be Saturday from 9AM to 9PM Pacific Standard Time. I will be there the whole time helping out, as well as some of our other Geek and Sundry hosts. So you guys should check that out and help them be part of our team, raising money for Extra Life. And Matt, I wanted to thank you for helping us make Battle of the Bands a success last week. We all know that the voting was rigged and that's why your team won, but it was a valiant effort nonetheless. And if you guys enjoyed that, you should tweet at Geek and Sundry's twitter and let them know, and we will try to do things like that for you more in the future. That's pretty much all I have. Let's get to 10k and get this stupid stuff off my face.
Matt: Thank you very much, Zac. Speaking of shaving, let me take a moment here to mourn the Mercer-beard. Those who saw on twitter. I was trying to hold off until 10k and Halloween for my costume, but due to work, had to shave it as of last night. So, I apologize. I'm in mourning. So please bear with me for this evening, going forward. Couple announcements. Critical Role-related: we have a lot of our party in transit right now. Laura and Travis just flew in from Toronto and will probably be a little bit late to the game. Sam is currently heading here from a session and will get here as soon as possible. Unfortunately, Orion will not be joining us again this evening, but hope to have him back next week for Halloween. So, things will get rolling as they arrive. Thankfully, we're at a situation in the game where I don't think it'll be too halting. We shall see. Next announcement, we're putting out Critical Role thematic playlists. All the players have put together playlists of Spotify songs that they feel encapture aspects of their character and their character's journeying as Vox Machina and in the world of Exandria. So those will be releasing every week, starting tonight at 8PM with Percy, I believe. So Taliesin's playlist will be up available on Geek and Sundry's website and--
Taliesin: Dropping mad jams-- I'm not.
Marisha: They're mad, you're allowed.
Taliesin: I'm going to show you some music.
Marisha: It's good. Go download Spotify right now, so you can go, if you haven't. It's free!
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: It's cancer. It's been a weird weeknight.
Marisha: It has. It's been a long day.
Taliesin: I had a strange day. I've infected friends with Spotify now.
Matt: As you should. Infecting friends is fun. Couple other things. For those who haven't seen it already, the D&Diesel videos went up earlier this week, where we had the wonderful chance-- for me, at least-- to Dungeon Master for a half an hour for Vin Diesel, along with Travis and Laura, and Jessica and Dan of Nerdist ilk. Had a great time, so hopefully you liked it, and if you'd like to see more stuff like that, hopefully we'll have more things coming up in the future in that vein, because we had a good time. Also, along with that, I released my Witch Hunter class, which was a customized 5th edition class that I designed after I ran that game, based on the character I created for Vin. It went up on the website, untested. Feedback is always welcome, and I will be updating it on the website as feedback comes in and balancing is tweaked for it. But have at it, have fun, hope you guys enjoy it. I had a good time creating it, and it's a good time. Also, just a reminder to you guys: our official Critical Role t-shirts are available on the Geek and Sundry website store if you want to wear any of the awesome red shirts that we've shown on the show with our full-on Critical Role logo. Shown in an exemplary dark, fine ink. Those are available for purchase.
Marisha: And keychains.
Taliesin: What if, due to some strange third-arm syndrome, I can't wear t-shirts; is there any way I can show my support to the show?
Matt: Yes, you can. We have necklaces and keychains with our logo as well. Also available on the store. So, you're welcome to check those out.
Taliesin: With my third arm, I need necklaces and keychains.
Liam: Three-armed shirts are coming in 2016.
Matt: Yeah, three-armed shirts will be on the docket. Thank you, Liam, I was trying to get to that.
Marisha: There's a new shirt up. I didn't know that.
Matt: We have a new shirt up?
Offscreen: How do you want to do this.
Matt: We have it up?! This is good news to know. We have now up on the store our official "How do you want to do this" shirt as well. So you can go check that out on the shop. Prepare for the holiday season with your Christmases and your Chanukahs and your Critmases and all that fun stuff to make people look as nerdy as we are. Which is I think part of my goal, personally, through world domination. (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not Liam. Everyone but Liam can look weird. There's no way to help you.
Liam: Can I just interject for a second only because I'm hot as hell. I just want to thank @pupgames on twitter for making me this fabulous stealthy cloak. I'm going to take it off in about two minutes, because it's more t-shirt weather here in the studio. So I'll just let everybody bask in the glow of my absence of light for two minutes, and then I'm going to switch to t-shirt mode.
Taliesin: You're so stealthy.
Marisha: Where'd Liam go?
Matt: It's mysterious.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: All righty. Also, our cast interviews on the Geek and Sundry website are almost over. Orion's went up today and those will be finishing up shortly.
Marisha: But we have Spotify lists to replace them.
Matt: Yep, Spotify lists coming up.
Marisha: So there's still more content.
Matt: If you've missed any of the cast interviews, they're all available on the website. So feel free to check them out.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Marisha, you wanted to follow up on the 826LA news you had.
Marisha: Yes. 826LA, they're in a campaign right now for-- let me try to get all this right-- for LA 2050 which is a big contest that's sponsored by Goldhirsh, right now, and it's all for sponsoring education and a brighter future for Los Angeles. So 826LA and Young Storytellers are actually partnering together, and they're in this contest right now. You have to go vote, and they could potentially win $100,000. Which: awesome. And we've got Critters. I think they'll win. So you have to go vote. I tweeted the link, so the mods, go find it on my twitter, or you can just search #LA2050, and you should be able to find it. So, yeah, go vote.
Matt: Team Hooman, Critters, come up there and make this happen.
Marisha: Also, they just announced they're going to be opening an 826LA-- sorry, not 826LA, but an 826 in San Francisco!
Matt: Awesome!
Taliesin: Another 826 in San Francisco?
Marisha: Oh, is there another, I guess so.
Taliesin: Yeah, because there's one there--
Marisha: They might be opening a second one.
Taliesin: They might be opening-- that would make sense.
Marisha: I think they said they announced they're opening one. I think.
Taliesin: I'm retweeting you right now.
Marisha: Okay. Taliesin's retweeting me.
Matt: So there you go. Follow either of their twitters to get the information.
Marisha: But, go vote. Help them win 100k.
Matt: All right, Taliesin, you wanted to mention something about Tara's--
Taliesin: I do! Tara Platt, who is a wonderful friend of the show and amazing voice actress and extremely fabulous in many different ways; she's a sky pirate, she does all sorts of crazy stuff. She's got an Indiegogo for an interactive book called, and I'm hoping I pronounce this right, Zartana. You should check it out, it's really cool, it's really pretty and beautiful. It's got a very Stardust-y vibe. I've already picked up my copy. So you should go, there's just a couple days left, just hop in and grab a copy for yourself. It's going to be really exciting. And--
Marisha: Yeah, it's like about a g*psy girl, and it's got a bunch of recipes, and it teaches you how to make a bow, and has herb cards and all sorts of cool stuff. I was into it immediately.
Taliesin: For the cool child in your life this Christmas. This would be for the kid who needs something that's not quite outdoors, but not quite a video game.
Marisha: Zartana.
Taliesin: Zartana.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Also, I will be in OniCon in Galveston, Texas over Halloween. So, if you're in Galveston, Texas and it's Halloween, and you want to go to an anime con, I'll be there. And I'll be in costume, and it will be pretty hilarious.
Marisha: And last, but not least, last Thursday while we were here, looking at dead versions of ourselves hanging from a tree, Super Power Beat Down won a Geekie!
Liam: Oh! Mazel tov!
Marisha: Yeah, glad I came here instead of going to the award show. Totally worth it. But we won a Geekie. So, I thought I should say that.
Liam: Well-earned.
Marisha: Thanks.
Liam: You nerd.
Matt: Good on you.
Taliesin: You should wear it like bling. Get a chain for it. That'd be great.
Marisha: Just, once again, like, it-- No.
Taliesin: No. No, never mind.
Matt: All righty, any other announcements anyone needs to make?
Taliesin: God damn it, it keeps happening.
Liam: I'm good.
Matt: All righty. Well then, let us go ahead and get ourselves tuned in for tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. So, everyone, our Sam arrived--
Sam: Samurai?
Taliesin: Samurai?
Matt: We have our samurai! Laura and Travis are in transit, they'll be here as soon as they-- (thump from Sam's mug)
Matt: Well played. So. To give us a little overview of the current story. Two nasty individuals known as the Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, have, for the past five years, been occupying the city of Whitestone, which was once the home to Percival here, after it was forcefully taken from his family, most of which seemingly have been either killed or lost in the process, and he was scattered to the four winds to find Vox Machina. After encountering the Briarwoods in Emon in a scuffle that took place, the Briarwoods retreated to Whitestone, inviting the party to come and say hello. Since then, the party has prepared the best they could, made their way towards Whitestone, and, through some bit of infiltration and subterfuge, managed to sneak into the city itself. They, under the guise of Scanlan's Seeming illusion, appeared to be as common folk as the rest of the poor saps that still live in Whitestone. They scoped out an abandoned tavern, which they fitted to their needs as a base of operations, and also managed to come across a central portion of Whitestone's city structure and history, known as the Sun Tree, a tree once risen to the might of the god of the sun, Pelor, now lies dead in the center of town, and from it hung eight figures that appear to have been individuals killed, hung, and painted up and dressed to resemble Vox Machina as essentially a warning, or a welcome. It's hard to tell when it comes to the Briarwoods. Nevertheless, a message was definitely delivered. The party, retreating back to the tavern, set up for the remainder of the afternoon. Keyleth carved, through her druidic magical ways, through the ground to find some of the roots of the Sun Tree, and began preparing an extensive, time-consuming ritual in hopes of restoring some semblance of life to the entity itself. That is where we left off. While the rest of you have been going about your preparations for the rest of the afternoon as this ritual for Keyleth is an eight-hour ritual and it begun in the early afternoon around 2:00, so this will conclude by around sundown, a little past sundown. While she is down there, essentially meditating with the barren roots of the Sun Tree, is there anything you guys would wish to do, or are you just waiting for her to complete her ritual?
Taliesin: Well, there are options.
Sam: What do we need? We have to get water, right? There was some issue about-- we don't have any water, do we?
Taliesin: Was that an issue?
Sam: I don't remember. There was some wells around.
Marisha: Can I do a few checks while I'm preparing the ritual to see if this is a curse over this tree?
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check, I guess.
Marisha: Not great. Hang on, my ring of protection is in the way. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Honestly, it's hard to tell if it's a curse, the tree itself is just dead. You are very well-connected with the natural essences of the world, the life essence of plants and natural growth. All of your interactions with the Sun Tree are devoid of any response. It seems dead where it stands. But, as you continue your ritual--
Marisha: God, I hope this works.
Matt: Anyone else have anything they want to do?
Liam: Well, couple of things. Grog and I were keeping watch. I forget, one of us was on the first floor and one's on the second. I'm just going to say that I was on the second for now. Because I can't remember. It's probably wrong. I'm going to take all daggers out of my Blinkback Belt except for the Keen Dagger and replace them with wooden stakes that I purchased. And I'm going to spend an hour or so, whatever it takes to-- I've got partial gloves on; I'm going to take that symbol of Sarenrae and I'm going to take as much time as it needs to sew it so that it is fixed firmly to the back of my right hand. I tell Grog that I'm going to go down below and check, and I follow the path all the way down to find-- I think everyone else is down there.
Sam: Oh hi, Vax.
Liam: I step over Scanlan's head and I kneel down by Keyleth and gently place a hand on her shoulder and say: What do you need? What can I get?
Marisha: I don't really know. I don't know if this is going to work, to be totally honest. The tree is dead. Do you have any of that holy water?
Liam: I got holy oil. Not water.
Marisha: Do I have holy water? I don't know if I took one or not. I can't remember.
Matt: If you didn't write it down, it's not in your inventory.
Marisha: I'm pretty good about that. I don't think I took one.
Taliesin: In the meantime, there are options.
Liam: I got two. I remember it. It was two vials of holy oil. I gave one to my sister, and I have the other. If you think it will help, you take it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Do you need me to get water?
Marisha: Yeah, let's get some water.
Matt: Yeah, because as you guys went through the tavern, you found there was no actual water. There was old ale. There were still a few casks of wine. Stuff that was abandoned when whoever previously was the owner of this tavern either left Whitestone or fell to a worse fate. But there was no plain water to drink.
Liam: I'm going to go out into the street. I'm going to find water.
Taliesin: I can show you where there's water.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I lived here my whole life.
Sam: Are you guys disguised?
Liam: Yeah, we all are.
Matt: They're still technically under your Seeming spell, for the next few hours, at least.
Marisha: Yeah, we cannot let that go.
Sam: Does that have a range? No, it just lasts.
Matt: As far as I know, it lasts just for an eight-hour period. I'll double-check.
Liam: Percival, do you want to come upstairs to the window, and--
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Oh, you're coming, too? All right. You're my son, let's go. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it lasts for eight hours and allows you to change the appearance of--
Sam: Great. We're still peasants.
Marisha: Remember, we also have Heroes' Feast up.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Advantages on wisdom throws and whatnot.
Taliesin: Hit point bonus, advantage on wisdom throws--
Marisha: Yeah. 2d10 hit points. Max hit points.
Taliesin: I have my advantages still. So I'm going to lead them to the closest well.
Matt: Okay. Stealthily?
Marisha: I'm going to start-- I've kind of cleared out around the roots.
Matt: It's a lot. It's earth and then giant roots from a very large tree that go past. You aren't at the bottom of the roots. You've met the roots as you were carving through. They go even deeper than where you are right now.
Marisha: Yeah. Can I start carving a little ravine around it for where we're going to start pouring the water?
Matt: If you've already started the eight-hour process of the secondary spell, you would not be able to really interrupt that to be able to continue another spell you've been doing. I could say that you did that as part of your preparation for the roots. That's fine. That's fine. It'd be a small ravine, because you also don't want to--
Marisha: Damage anything.
Matt: You continue your ritual. The rest of you make your way out the same window that you entered, into the alleyway, following Percival. You lead them to the back of the tavern into one of the large alleyways between this chunk of the city. You find there was a grassy area; most of the grass here has turned gray and brittle, as it is starting to push towards the winter months. And even for the daytime, the temperature is pretty chilly. It's probably around 50 or so degrees, 55. Fahrenheit, for our un-American friends. Eventually, you make your way to the nearest well that you've been to. And there is a bucket there. It looks like it has gathered some dust and some cobwebs. You get the bucket, and you let it down, and eventually it finds its way into the water. It's pretty deep before it hit the water. You don't know if it's been just, like, water level, or if this particular well itself is drying up. But you manage to get a bucket up, and you pull it up and check it and it looks clear. You take the water back with you to the tavern. Seemingly uneventful. You guys have managed to stay far enough out of sight. Nothing seems to caught your attention.
Sam: Okay. Should we scout around and see if there's anything else around the hideout that we should be aware of, or any other hiding places, or safehouses?
Liam: I feel like we should probably bring a little more water than one bucket. So we should spend a little bit of time doing that. But maybe my sister and I can have a look around, see if there's anything that we've missed. Outside.
Taliesin: Well, here's the question. There's three lordly houses that we have to avoid at all costs, for now. There's a few shops that if we feel might be in our best interest to scout out. I know where an old weapons depot used to be. We could check the temples to maybe see if we could maybe find some support to begin with.
Liam: Do we trust anyone here?
Sam: We need friends.
Taliesin: There might be people I trust.
Sam: Is there a central meeting place?
Taliesin: There's a temple.
Sam: Is that a place where you can really chat up brand new people? Or is there a pub? I guess it's not really a pub town, is it?
Taliesin: It's not a pub town. And it's a place where you don't necessarily chat up new people, but maybe find some old ones.
Sam: Okay. We could go there.
Liam: Percival, we're on your turf, so I'll follow your lead.
Taliesin: (sighs) If we have just enough time, I'd like to try to go to the temple and the cemetery. Leave, maybe Grog and Vex to guard Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. So, Keyleth, you're staying behind to finish the ritual?
Marisha: I'm doing what I do best. And I focus all my energy on this thing.
Matt: There are two temples in here. There's the temple to Pelor, which is known as the Zenith. Within the graveyard.
Taliesin: Yes, the Zenith is the one I wanted to go to.
Sam: What's the other one?
Taliesin: The other one is called The Lady's Chamber. It's a temple of Erathis.
Sam: That sounds fun.
Taliesin: I don't know anybody there.
Sam: I might!
Taliesin: That's what I'm afraid-- they might know you, so no.
Matt: So the Lady's Chamber, the temple to Erathis, is more central to the city and is partially a courtyard, partially a half-dome amphitheater place of worship. You guys make your way through the city. I'll have you all roll stealth checks if you could.
Sam: We're not trying to hide, are we?
Matt: Well, if you're not trying to hide, then make deception checks instead.
Taliesin: Awesome possum.
Sam: I rolled an 18 for something.
Liam: Can I choose to hide instead of deceive?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Liam: Yeah, I'll hang a little bit back from them.
Taliesin: I was trying to be stealthy, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Although I'm fine either way. 23.
Sam: I'm better deceiving.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 26.
Matt: So we have two folks staying to the shadows, best they can in broad daylight in a clustered city. And one child-looking pauper of a boy wandering through the city alone towards the graveyard. As you guys make your way through, staying off to the side, jumping, or running through buildings and staying off the main path, you walk along the central road to the far eastern side of Whitestone. A few folks come out during the day, some are carrying bundles of textile goods. There's one guy that has a small cart, and it looks like he's bringing tools and stuff either to or from a store of some kind. Gives you a curious look as if he hasn't seen you before but doesn't seem to--
Sam: G'day, sir!
Matt: "G'day!" And just keeps rolling along, the wheels squeaking as he pushes up the road.
Sam: I wish I had a yo-yo.
Taliesin: How about a wheel and stick?
Sam: Oh, the wheel and stick would be good.
Matt: Eventually, you guys make your way to the far eastern side of Whitestone. This is where the boundary wall that surrounds most of the city from a defensive standpoint lies. There is the multiple exit points throughout this wall. You dart around the outskirts of it, being careful to avoid the pattern of the undead giants that are slowly stomping through the city, like these hulking sentinels that walk in a perpetual pattern through the town. You follow the winding path through the thick woods, just on the outside of the wall of the city itself. You sticking to the path in your open way, or do you want to join them in the side of the forest?
Sam: Well, I've got to stick with them, I guess, although I like being a young peasant boy. It's kind of fun. All right, I'll go with them.
Matt: All right. So the three of you dart off into the woods, skirting the outside of the road, but making your way following it to the outside of the graveyard itself. Eventually, you come to the outside of the graveyard. Large iron fence that marks the outside of it. It's rusted from time, small spikes mark the very top of it, about six feet tall, and the gate itself is partially open. With a little bit of breeze that's blowing through, very, very cold breeze that blows through this part of the forest, it's opening a little bit, and (creak) against itself. You push through the gate--
Liam: Wait a minute, nope. Let me look. I'm just going to move in, ten feet ahead, and see what I see.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That is a 23 for perception.
Matt: Okay. You skirt up and look inside. And there's a handful of trees in little clusters here and there, but for the most part this old graveyard is flat land, with just stones set up throughout. The older stones have very little rhyme or reason to their placement. They're sporadically thrown around, fresher ones tend to be more clustered with family names. This definitely looks like something that was put here when the town was founded and has been slowly expanded over time, and it's not uniform.
Liam: I hiss back at Percy  is this the way to your temple?
Taliesin: (whispers) Yes.
Liam: Through here?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You do see, a little ways ahead in the center of this open barren area, there is a stone temple that has, from what little you can see, a bit of stained glass pattern to it.
Liam: Do we knock?
Sam: Is it safe? Should we go up?
Taliesin: We go up to the doors, and give it a tug.
Matt: Okay. Percy walks up to the doors.
Liam: Well, all right.
Taliesin: This is my neighborhood. I feel comfortable.
Matt: Okay. You--
Sam: All right, Papa, let's go.
Matt: You go to the doors of the temple, the large wooden doors. In them are carved this flaming wreath into the wood. It looks almost like the outer ring of the classical depiction of a sun and going across the sky where you can see the waving flames licking the sides of the actual doors. And it is a double door. As you tug on the handle at the front, it gives very little to you. You give a little more of a tug on it, not enough to gather attention, just enough to really see if it's just stuck, or if it's locked. And it appears that the doors are not opening.
Liam: And I look--
Sam: This is what he does!
Liam: It is what I do. This is an old, old type of lock, hold on.
Matt: There is no lock, actually.
Liam: There's no lock? Oh, but I rolled a natural 20. Does that help? Let me get through the door?
Taliesin: Suddenly, a lock appears! Utterly pickable! (laughter)
Marisha: Utterly pickable! It's the most pickable lock I've ever seen!
Matt: There is no lock. It is barred from the other side. There is some heavy wooden plank that is currently set on the other side of the door.
Liam: Oh, where's Grog when you need him?
Matt: So, with your expertise in these sort of circumstances, you know that with the proper placement of a long blade and enough strength and weight put at the right fulcrum point, you can probably shimmy it off, and it may take a little bit of teamwork to do so.
Liam: Okay who's got a-- mine are all very small. Do you have a shortsword?
Sam: Everything I have is short. I can just go in there and open it from the inside.
Liam: Oh, right. I always forget.
Sam: It's not concentration, so I can just jump in there.
Matt: Essentially.
Liam: Don't fuse with a church pew.
Matt: If you're referring to a Dimension Door--
Sam: Correct. It's not concentration, I don't think.
Matt: No, it is not concentration.
Liam: More of a sneeze.
Matt: You can visualize it. It doesn't have to be a place you have seen yet.
Sam: I can say I want to go ten feet in that direction.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Before I do, why are we trying to get in here? I thought it was to meet people. I don't think there's anyone in there.
Taliesin: I would like to find out what happened.
Sam: Okay, good enough for me. I go in.
Matt: Okay. (spoof) With a burst of dark purplish energy, Scanlan steps through the door, leaving no mark or trace behind. On the other side you hear this muffled (spoof) as he reappears on the opposite side, completing his transition. You appear now in the central worship hall of the Zenith temple. To each side of you, you can see there are windows, about ten foot wide, stained glass windows, about every ten feet around this pattern, it looks like three to each side. There are pews set up for the masses to come and sit and worship, but a lot of the pews have been pushed off to the side, set astray, some have been destroyed and ruined. There's a pile in the corner of a number of sundered and tattered pews. There is a red carpet that marks the center that goes all the way to what looks like a raised altar on the opposite side of the room. You can see that some of the stained glass further down has been shattered and broken, and a little bit of sunlight creeps through. You can see there is on the altar a large stone platform. It's hard to see from this distance. Make a perception check.
Liam: (muffled) Scanlan! Open the door.
Sam: We do have earrings. 17.
Matt: There appears to be something on the the altar in the distance, small and scattered about it, but from this distance, it's hard to make out the details. But you hear Vax muffled through the door.
Sam: All right, how big is this thing that's keeping the door shut?
Matt: It's about eight feet wide and about a foot-- eight feet long, about a foot wide and about six inches thick. A big old piece of wooden board.
Sam: A couple hundred pounds?
Matt: I would say it probably weighs about 40 or 50 pounds.
Sam: 40 or 50 pounds?!
Matt: It's wood. It's porous.
Sam: And how high off the ground? Could I touch it?
Matt: You could touch it. It gets to about your head, a little higher.
Sam: All right. I'm going to try and lift it off.
Matt: Go ahead a make a strength check. Athletics! Make this athletics.
Sam: Athletics? Hmm. Not good. 12!
Matt: (grunting) From this position, it's not even budging.
Liam: All right, Scanlan, step back from the door a couple of paces. I'm going to stick a blade through the door.
Sam: It's not going to do much. There's a big heavy thing.
Liam: I'm going to hold on one side, you're going to hold on the other, and we'll do it together. Percy, can I borrow your blade?
Taliesin: I've never used this. I've had it since I created the character and I've never used this blade once. This is the most use it's ever gotten. I pull out this pristine piece of shit (laughs) I don't even remember. I think I found it in a dungeon. It's terrible.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a boarding sword, it was one of those little curved swords.
Matt: Right. A scimitar or falchion.
Taliesin: A scimitar. But short. It was nothing, it was terrible.
Liam: It's all we need.
Taliesin: Yeah so. Get it in there.
Liam: Scanlan, grab some rags or something, wrap it around the blade. You're going to lift on your side; we're going to lift on this side.
Sam: I get the sharp side?!
Liam: I can't get the handle through the crack in the door.
Sam: All right. I feel like there's some sort of spell I could use. All right, let's just do it your way.
Liam: Got that Bigby's Hand, is that what you're saying?
Sam: Yeah, I've got a million things I could do.
Taliesin: Are any of them concentration spells?
Sam: Bigby's is probably concentration, but I've also got a potion of strength.
Matt: As a note, Seeming isn't concentration.
Sam: I thought it was.
Matt: No. You cast it and it lasts for eight hours. You don't need to worry about that.
Sam: No, I want to follow this through.
Taliesin: Let's keep going.
Liam: All right. Can we lift it together?
Matt: (laughs) We can try. All right, so. This is going to be the three of you as a skill challenge, I want all three of you to roll. Not athletics, just a straight strength roll.
Taliesin: One, two, three.
Matt: Add your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 16!
Sam: Plus strength. 12. (laughter)
Sam: Wait, did you get a four? Four? We are the worst! We are the weakest ones. Oh, I cut my hand!
Matt: Which is exactly what happens.
Taliesin: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Liam: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Sam: I'm going to take damage.
Matt: Yeah. First and foremost, you take four points of slashing damage to your hand. You pull back, and there is a line of blood now, beginning to drip off your hand. You shake it amongst yourself.
Sam: Oh, I can't say "God damn it" in here. I'm in Pelor's-- Sorry, Pelor.
Taliesin: Let's use a sword, I want to see how this plays out.
Sam: God bless you. Gesundheit, Pelor. Man, all right. Well, jeez Louise.
Liam: Whip out the purple hand, man!
Sam: Seems like overkill. What about a Thunderwave? Can I do that?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: All right. Does it only affect living things? Or does it affect--
Liam: Wait. Scanlan, are there any windows in there?
Sam: There are. There are windows. Good call.
Matt: It's a blast of thunderous energy in an area, it would affect living and nonliving matter, yes.
Liam: Hold on, this is stupid.
Sam: Are you sure?
Taliesin: We are going to the window. We are going to the window.
Sam: No, let's carry this out.
Taliesin: No! We are going to the window. Please do not destroy the temple of Pelor.
Sam: Three hours later, we are still trying to open the door.
Marisha: It's not even locked. It's just heavy.
Sam: I can Bigby's Hand. I'll just Bigby's Hand.
Liam: Which way to the window? I can walk to the window.
Sam: It's up there. You can make it, but Percy can't.
Liam: I can probably lift that door bar from inside.
Sam: You could, probably.
Liam: With your help, son.
Sam: Yeah, but I could blast it. Would be very dramatic.
Liam: Let's save that for important stuff. All right, where is the window? Which way do I go?
Sam: To the right and up.
Matt: There are windows shattered on both sides. They're broken a little higher up. So you could either continue to break the bottom part of the window, or just attempt to leap through the hole.
Liam: Yeah, I'll attempt to leap.
Matt: Okay, so give me an acrobatics check.
Liam: All right.
Sam: The saga of the door!
Marisha: It's just a door, you guys! It's just a door.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. You get a running start, leap off the side and parkour up between the actual-- there is an extension to the side where another room is attached on each side of the temple towards the back. You leap off that wall onto the small pillar that's holding the side of the window and up through the broken portion of the stained glass, landing, three-point landing, on the inside. You almost land in one of the shattered piles of wooden pews and splinters and jagged pieces of wood sticking out of it. About a foot away from you, and you are like, "Oh, that was close." You see Scanlan across the way. You see the altar to your right.
Sam: Hey! Oi! Your stupid idea cut my hand!
Liam: Builds character. I'm going to stay away from the altar and skirt the wall all the way around it. Mat: Okay, you get to the door.
Liam: I'm going to try to help. Do you want to help me lift this thing?
Sam: With my good hand, yes.
Matt: Have both you guys make strength checks.
Sam: You know what, I'm going to get some assistance. I call my Unseen Servant to assist.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Sam: He is going to lift with us.
Matt: With a brief burst of wind energy, a shimmering form, somewhat humanoid in shape, but still amorphous appears.
Sam: Hi, Darrell.
Matt: (wind sounds) and begins to shove itself up against the bottom of the wooden bar. Make your check, as well.
Sam: That was a six. Is that for me?
Matt: That's for you, and then roll and add five for your Unseen Servant.
Sam: So, five extra to that is 11. Right? No?
Matt: Roll again, add five.
Sam: Oh, I see. Four. So that's a nine.
Matt: The three of you, one mystically summoned from a plane beyond your own, cannot seem to budge this single wooden door! You've defeated beholders. You've slaughtered illithid underneath, in the Underdark, deep in the belly of the planet. But this door bests you!
Marisha: Man, Laura and Travis ain't missing shit!
Sam: All right, I'm doing it. Step back!
Liam: Whip out the hand!
Sam: All right, I summon Bigby's Hand! The mightiest hand that will ever unlock a door, ever! (singing) Bigby's Hand!
Matt: This giant, glimmering, purple fist appears in your vicinity. It grabs the bottom. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Liam: Come on.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Plus eight to it.
Sam: Plus eight? 20!
Taliesin: How do you want to do this?
Matt: With its finger, just goes (ping) and it (thudding noises). The door (creak) opens up and Percy stands there, looking not very happy.
Taliesin: Was it overkill? Because really it took that.
Sam: It took three spells to open this door! Three spells!
Taliesin: It's not overkill if you used what it took.
Sam: Three spells and I injured myself.
Taliesin: We took damage from an inanimate object. Oh god! Get it out of our system now!
Sam: Welcome, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh god! All right, I'm looking around, taking in the damage. Anything that I notice is particularly out of whack from the last time I was here? Other than they're upgrading the locks, apparently.
Matt: Looking about the place, it looks pseudo-ransacked. There has been much force used in whatever destroyed these pews. The glass that was broken, was broken from the outside in. So, definitely seems like there was someone throwing a rock through, or a intrusion from an outside standpoint. As you walk further and look around, the two rooms to the side, the doors are closed. There is the altar on the top, and you do see, there is a couple of small sacks, laid to the side of the altar. What looks to be some low-lit candles, and there are some braziers. One to each side of the altar, and one against each wall. All of them appear to be long dark and out. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: All of us?
Matt: All of you.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: You both, as you approach the far side of the temple towards the altar, you notice the brazier to the right is smoldering ever so gently. Just a very faint glow of ember to it.
Liam: What's the matter?
Taliesin: Reynal?
Sam: Who? Reynal?
Taliesin: Father Reynal? (louder) Father Reynal? Let's check one of the doors. We'll start on the door on the right.
Matt: You step up. You can see now, on top of the altar, there appears to be a couple of glass vials that are overturned, a little liquid spilled. You can see bits of broken glass across the bottom, the one step that leads down from the altar's raised platform.
Taliesin: Can I dip and smell?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. Looking at just the general vicinity of the altar. You taste the liquid. It's definitely somewhat caustic in nature, you can't really determine it. But, just touching it to your tongue, your tongue goes numb for a second and you feel a slight burn. Your nostrils clear out a little bit from the scent. There is some random powders and such that've been brushed off. You get the feeling that the way that all this was treated, it wasn't so much like it was destroyed more than it was hastily packed up. Roll a perception check.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay, looking about the outside of the altar, you do notice that around the brazier that is slightly smoldering there is a layer of ash there, gathered on the inside of the brazier and a little bit on the floor, around its base.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: Someone has been working on something in here.
Sam: It couldn't just be ash from the thing that is burning?
Matt: If you look at the other braziers, there is no ash around it. Most of the ash is contained. The wood ash itself tends to fall; it's a little heavier. This seems to be a lighter shade of ash and it's more of a-- has found its way out of the brazier from just the heat and the air.
Taliesin: I want to smell the ash. Does it smell like some sort of-- is it perfumed?
Matt: You lean down and you take some of the ash in your fingers and smell it. It's not perfumed, but you've had some experience with dealing with various burning materials: this is definitely paper-based ash. You do also notice underneath the brazier there is one sliver of paper that was not wholly burned.
Sam: Paper.
Marisha: (whispering) Paper.
Sam: It's a golden ticket.
Taliesin: "Without sufficient magical essence the distillation is proven to consistently fail. A shame, really. I shall seek an influx of materials elsewhere before I can continue this project. Regarding the weapon, after a year of taking notes from eyewitness accounts, my original designs were faulty and recently cost me my hand. The wind of fortune has seen a shift it seems as Sylas just returned from Emon, having encountered the still-living subject, and had the pleasure of seeing his work first-hand. His unnatural eyes took in much detail. I believe his observations have brought me to the brink of finishing my design. I intend to journey from Whitestone within a couple of months to gather the components needed. But, if Delilah's hunch is correct, the subject is heading here. I may find myself needing to leave sooner than anticipated."
Liam: They're trying to copy your work.
Sam: Copy?
Taliesin: Why?
Liam: For war.
Taliesin: I want to take another look at everything that was on the altar, and I want to see if it looks--
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Testing what's there  I mean, a lot of the material has been scattered and mixed but there are elements that resemble the black powder you've used in some of your constructs and tinkering in the past.
Sam: They're making guns!
Taliesin: Well, we know we're looking for someone without a hand.
Sam: To do what?
Taliesin: To find out who's trying to copy my work.
Sam: Someone who is working with Sylas, right?
Taliesin: Yes. Let's check the rest of the temple.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to go up on the altar. Was there a small something on the altar?
Matt: What you noticed were like some of the glass vials that were overturned.
Taliesin: What's in the pouches?
Matt: Looking at the pouches, it looks like some of them contained phosphorus, some of them contained other alchemical reagents that were used in the research but most have been emptied, and it's just a residuum on the inside.
Taliesin: Checking the door on the right.
Matt: Door on the right.
Liam: Going with.
Matt: (creak) Opens up into what was Father Reynal's room. As the door opens, you're immediately hit with terrible smell of decay. And you can see, shoved under the bed that first appears on the opposite side of the small room, what appears to be the remains of Father Reynal. Long passed and left to fester beneath his bed.
Sam: Can I tell how he died?
Matt: You're welcome to go ahead and take a look. Roll an investigation check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. Looking at the body, it appears that there are a series of puncture wounds. Rapier-based. They're too long, like stiletto, too long to be a dagger.
Sam: Not teeth.
Matt: No, they are inflicted by a weapon, a long thin weapon. And multiple to the torso.
Taliesin: I'm going to search the room for anything else. Search the body.
Matt: Okay. Searching the body, searching the room, it looks like everything of interest has been taken from the place. You find some leftover stale food, you find some candles that are generally used for the purposes of worship here in the temple, but anything beyond that-- all the drawers have been emptied, everything has been taken by whoever was previously setting up residence in this facility.
Sam: Are there any holy symbols or anything that we might take to give to Keyleth to, I don't know. Wasn't she gonna-- I don't know. Do some holy shit?
Matt: You do notice that, throughout the temple, there are images of Pelor, flame-wreathed face, various sun and stars that are set up, but most of them have been profaned, marked on, shattered, or covered in soot. An intentional effort has been made to dampen the power of Pelor in this once-holy place.
Liam: Are there any untouched?
Matt: None that are untouched, but there are some that could possibly be cleaned. A couple of small medallions that are hanging up in the room where the Father lays.
Liam: I'll snag those.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I want to check the other room. The room to the left.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: So much perception. 19.
Sam: 19.
Liam: 20.
Matt: All right. As you walk back into the main temple--
Marisha: Finish. First.
Matt: All right. Your ears catch a faint, distant sound like a strong wind pushing through a mountain pass. This low mournful wail-type sound.
Sam: What's that?
Matt: No wind is moving. There is a stillness to the air.
Liam: Stepping back into the darkest shadows I can see.
Matt: As you guys take in this sense, this sound gets louder and louder. At which point, the air itself gets colder and colder. As you nervously exhale, you can see your breath becoming visible in the air around you. As you all look at each other, you, stepping back into what shadows there are, as it is a very open temple, as it's a temple of sun--
Liam: 32 stealth.
Matt: You find what tiny little alcove you can of shadow. It's not going to offer a lot of protection once you move, but for now you seem to be out of the circumstance.
Sam: I grab Percy, and I make us both go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So, what is that, a 3rd-level Invisibility spell?
Matt: Yeah. You guys both vanish, holding your place on top of the altar, and as that moaning tends to grow louder and louder you can see this shimmer at the doors that are open on the opposite side of the room. It looks like a woman. A form of a woman, but translucent in nature, drifting in, giving off the horrible (raspy groan) sound, as it drifts in and you see it looking around and the features are gaunt as it gets closer. It looks elven by racial nature, but the eyes are just these sunken faintly glowing sockets, the hair wild and matted and floating behind it, its hands reaching out, and as it gets partway through the temple, it looks like it's seeking something, and its eyes fall directly on you two.
Liam: I'm throwing a dagger right now.
Matt: Let's go ahead and--
Sam: Ugh! What if she was a good guy?
Liam: It's a banshee, man.
Sam: What if it's a good banshee? Some of the banshees that I've met have been decent. We're rolling for initiative?
Liam: There's Siouxsie and the Banshees, they're all right.
Sam: I'm glad I used half my spells trying to get into this goddamn place.
Matt: Off to the side there.
Liam: He means well.
Taliesin: He means well. That's a terrible costume.
Matt: You guys are on the altar there.
Taliesin: You were so prepared for me to go to the temple that you built it?
Matt: I built the whole city, because I didn't know where you guys were going to go.
Sam: Jesus, Matt!
Marisha: He does have a pile of maps over there. MATT Shh! Don't look at it.
Taliesin: I'm not looking, I'm not looking.
Marisha: I'm just noting the pile.
Matt: So, first and foremost, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You'll get a surprise round.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Natural 20 for initiative, as well.
Marisha: You finally got a good initiative roll!
Sam: I got a seven.
Taliesin: I got an 11! Together, we can get a Slurpee. I'm weird tonight. I don't know what's up.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Well, I can't do anything.
Matt: All right, well. First and foremost, before anything happens, this entity, as it notices your presence, it begins to transform and its image becomes more horrifying. As you pull your dagger out, I need all of you guys to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: You have advantage!
Taliesin: I rolled a one and then a natural 20.
Matt: (laughs) Nice.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17?
Taliesin: Thank you for the advantage.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: 11.
Matt: With advantage?
Sam: I also always have advantage, so do I get to roll a third time?
Liam: No. Doesn't stack.
Matt: Unfortunately you are considered frightened by this entity. It scares the crap out of you.
Marisha: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Matt: Ah! Then never mind. You feel it shake your form for a second. Its horrible visual presence, for a second, freaks you out, but then you remember the knowledge that your friends are here and you have to serve a purpose and you shake off--
Sam: Not only do I shake it off, I gird my loins!
Matt: Pull them up and get ready. All right.
Marisha: Just for a refresher  you're immune to poison, disease, and fear, and you have advantage on your wisdom throws.
Taliesin: We should do this every time we fly.
Marisha: It's expensive.
Liam: So, do I get to attack and then move into the combat round where I got a natural 20 plus five for initiative?
Matt: Well, you go first. Technically, it's not a surprise round because the creature can sense life and saw them before it happens, so it wasn't ambushed. But you do get to go first, and you do get to go before it. In the use of surprise, I didn't mean to use it in the surprise round fashion. These entities can detect living creatures up to five miles away.
Liam: So, there's no sneak attack damage on this thing, is there?
Matt: If you get to it first, you still have advantage.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Because it doesn't see you. You're still hidden from it.
Liam: 15, so this is a 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. And this gets the sneak attack damage?
Matt: This would, yes.
Liam: All right, here we go. But it's not a critical hit from assassinate because--
Matt: It is not surprised.
Liam: It's not surprised. All right. So, that's a four plus seven is 11. Plus 15, 19, 20, 24, 26, 28?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm just going to keen dagger it three times in a row. Oh, I've got to roll to attack, so that is a twelve plus-- 22?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. Two, and that is six of damage, and then natural 20 on that one. That is three, four, three, plus seven is ten, so 20 for that, if it's doubled for a critical hit.
Matt: For double dice, not doubled modifier.
Liam: Oh, all right, so six plus-- 13.
Matt: Okay, 13, good to know. Awesome. So, out of the shadows, (whoosh) three daggers strike this wailing ghost entity. Each dagger, it punctures, and you see it reacts from the impact as there's a flash of magical energy with each hit. The daggers then tumble out of its form and then blink back to your belt side. It looks like it definitely did some damage to it, but it's--
Liam: You know what, just to be fair, I changed out all my daggers except for one, so I probably couldn't throw the same dagger three times in a row, so I think should pull back some of the modifiers, so I would pull out four, because my dagger is plus two. So the plus two for two of those hits gets taken out, right?
Matt: It would actually, yes.
Liam: So four, minus four.
Matt: So, minus four damage to this other guy.
Taliesin: So truthful.
Sam: So, we're fighting it with wooden stakes?
Matt: Wait so you threw wooden stakes at it as two of the attacks?
Liam: I threw one dagger and two wooden stakes.
Matt: Okay. So, the first dagger hits?
Liam: First was the dagger, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. The two other stakes pass through its form without any other impact. The one dagger does return to you, but the two stakes just clatter in the distance, and the creature seems unharmed by those two.
Liam: Even though they came out of the belt?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: All right.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: It's okay. It's just wood.
Taliesin: You learned.
Matt: So that ends that point. The creature now swoops up to the center of you three and gives out this horrible (roar) this wailing scream that bursts out in the air, you feel like the wind push you back and all of you feel like for a moment you're staring at your own death. I need all three of you guys to roll constitution saving throws.
Sam: Does our meal help us with that at all?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Wait, don't forget you have the additional--
Liam: What?
Marisha: 2d10 hit points on top.
Sam: Okay. 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys, you feel this chilling burst of spiritual energy blast through your soul. And you each take 14 points of psychic damage. Percy, however, as you look at it, it seems like this blast actually forces the soul from your body momentarily. You immediately drop to zero hit points and are unconscious.
Sam: What? No! No, he can't. Oh, god.
Matt: So with that, you see Percy, eyes roll back and then collapse onto the floor like a pile of cold bones. Out. Percy, it's your turn. Go ahead and make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11, okay.
Marisha: That's a good sign.
Matt: Scanlan, it's your turn.
Sam: Very quickly. Should we flee?
Marisha: Get the fuck out.
Liam: In a little bit.
Sam: In a little bit? Okay.
Liam: Without Percy?
Marisha: Well, get him up.
Matt: You still have Bigby's Hand, by the way, on concentration.
Sam: Oh, that's right!
Matt: Let's see how long that lasts, actually. Let me see how long it lasts. Just to be safe.
Taliesin: We haven't been there very long. (whispering) God damn it.
Matt: Up to a minute. So probably would have faded by now.
Sam: God damn it.
Matt: Sorry. What are you doing, Scanlan?
Taliesin: Really, it's the door's fault.
Sam: Shit. I'll just Lightning Bolt her. Him. It. Whatever it is.
Matt: Okay. So you release a bolt of lightning energy right in its direction. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Sam: Oh, just damage?
Matt: You don't have to hit for lightning bolt; it just hits everything in front of it, and you have to try and avoid it.
Sam: Oh, 8d6.
Matt: What's the DC?
Sam: Do I get my hand cone?
Matt: It is a free action to pull it out, so you instinctively-- hand cone, cast the spell-- out the bolt goes.
Sam: So, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Sam: 8d6.
Matt: Does not make its saving throw.
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: Need more d6, or are you cool?
Sam: Nope, that's it. I just need help counting.
Marisha: That's good!
Sam: 16, five, 21, 27.
Taliesin: 28, 29, 30. 34!
Sam: 34.
Matt: 34 points of damage. The lightning blasts through her, not impactful as you think it might be. This entity because it is in an ethereal state, is not as effectively hit by such magics. However, it does take damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I will move back a bit. Away from the thing. And I will-- Oh! We have people.
Marisha: Yay! Percy's unconscious!
Laura: No!
Travis: Keep fighting!
Marisha: It's okay, it's cool.
Laura: We've been listening in the car.
Taliesin: Okay, so you know.
Matt: Scanlan, you move back?
Sam: Okay, and then I can, as a bonus action, still get a bonus? I will heal him, this doofus here.
Taliesin: I didn't do anything!
Matt: Healing Word.
Sam: Okay, yeah. (singing) I'm bring health points back. Yeah! You mothafuckas don't know how to act-- Yeah! That's all I got. (singing) Take it to the bridge!
Matt: All right, so Healing Word is 1d4 plus--
Sam: Yeah, but maybe I should do it at a--
Taliesin: Just get me up. It's okay.
Sam: Just get you up? Okay. 1d4 plus something?
Marisha: Do it.
Sam: Two plus whatever. Six? Eight?
Marisha: I think it's plus your spell level.
Matt: Healing Word will be--
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five, so it's seven points.
Matt: So, seven hit points. You're conscious, but you're still on the ground, face down, loosely fallen over the stuff on the altar.
Taliesin: I don't get my turn until next round.
Matt: Correct. So, Scanlan? Your turn's done? Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, so where is it? I'm just going to back away from it about three steps, while I pull Flametongue Dagger out of my cloak.
Matt: Okay. You're in this room currently.
Liam: Yeah, oh! That, oh, okay. No. So, I'm going to walk, thanks. I'm going to slide up the wall along where Scanlan is. Towards Scanlan. And another thing I realized, I haven't clicked my Boots of Haste, so I wouldn't have been able to do whoosh, whoosh, whoosh, anyway. And I'm still not going to. But I'm pulling out my Flametongue Dagger and now I'm throwing Keen Dagger, Flametongue. First one is 26.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: And the second one is 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. First attack gets 11.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And the second attack gets eight.
Matt: All righty. Both daggers hitting it, you see its form being impacted by each dagger hit. It still continues to come forward toward the two of you. Is that the end of your movement?
Liam: I'm going to, without doing any dash or anything, because I can't, I'm going to move as far as I can just going kitty-corner. Behind Scanlan, walking along the wall.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Absolutely.
Matt: That far?
Liam: Yeah, that's as far as I can get, that's good.
Matt: I think so. All right. That ends your turn. The creature now is going to drift up to the unconscious form, or the now-conscious form of Percy. It's going to swipe at you with its Corrupting Touch. Since you're prone, it has advantage on the attack. That'll be 20 to hit. What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. As its hand reaches down and passes through, as you just come to consciousness, and you start getting yourself up, you look up and feel this cold sensation as its hand reaches through your back and seems to almost grasp your spine. Your whole body lurches from the impact. You take 12 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: I'm back to zero.
Sam: That's two!
Liam: It starts over.
Sam: It does?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm back to zero.
Sam: If he dies once, comes back and dies again, is that two?
Matt: No, he has to fail his death saves.
Taliesin: I just woke up and went, (groans). Passed back out again.
Matt: That ends its turn. Well, no actually, it's going to start moving now. It's going to drift through the rest of its movement this direction. That ends its turn. Go ahead and make your death saving throw.
Taliesin: Yes, 19.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yay, little snitch.
Matt: All righty. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Hey, should we leave?
Liam: No, we should kill this thing!
Sam: Damn it! All right.
Liam: We're not going to be able to run. This thing flew in here on the breeze.
Sam: I don't think Eyebite's going to work against it. So, fuck, I'll cast Bigby's Hand at 6th-level, then.
Matt: (laughing) Okay!
Travis: Has that ever been done?
Sam: I don't have any more 5th-level slots. So, I'm just going to make it even bigger.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I don't even know what it does.
Liam: Fingers going out the windows of the church like Alice in Wonderland.
Matt: All right. Bigby's Hand. With a clenched fist deals an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So if you're going to punch it, it does an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Yes, I think--
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to bitch-slap it, but the forceful hand. So I can just push it far away from us. Possibly to the front door.
Matt: Okay, I see. So it does no damage but it does force its movement.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, and I'll say because you did it at a higher level, it's an additional five feet of movement on that. So, as the hand shoves toward the creature--
Sam: It takes no damage for that?
Matt: The forceful hand it doesn't, no. There's grasping hand and the clenched fist do damage.
Sam: All right, so then I'll just hit it. I'll just hit it hard.
Matt: Okay. So, you bitch-slap it physically hard. Clenched fist. Go ahead and make a spell attack. Go ahead and roll a d20, add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: 14. Plus, what am I adding? Oh, nine. Plus nine.
Matt: 14 plus nine? That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 6d8 force damage because you cast it at 6th level.
Sam: 6d8. I don't even know what those are. That's a ten.
Liam: They look like diamonds.
Sam: There they go. I got one. I'll just roll it six times.
Travis: (singing) Diamonds are Scanlan's best friend.
Laura: No, diamonds are Vex's best friend.
Sam: 24?
Matt: 24.
Sam: Even at 6th-level, that's all it did.
Matt: Yeah. As that happens, the fist clenches and (wham) bitch-slaps the back of the wailing ghost creature. As it does you hear it scream out in pain (screech) as its spectral form is scattered across the air and dissipates.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Thank god.
Sam: What?
Travis: I think you smashed it.
Marisha: You killed it.
Liam: You crushed it.
Sam: But I'm so little and wee!
Liam: Lift yourself up for a victory lap.
Sam: Yes, I lift myself up with Bigby's Hand. Yeah, that was a great idea.
Matt: You toss yourself up a couple times.
Sam: Whoa!
Travis: Meanwhile, Percy's unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit! Percy!
Liam: No, I've got four healing potions. I pour, it's not the best. It's a greater healing?
Matt: So, it's 4d4 plus four.
Sam: I will also sing for him a Song of Rest, which is just another d6.
Matt: If you guys are taking a short rest--
Sam: Yeah. Oh, are we clear of danger?
Liam: We don't know, but I poured the potion into Percy's mouth.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four?
Matt: Yep, you got it.
Taliesin: Four, five, six, seven, nine, ten, 14. Yep. I'm awake. Hurt, but--
Liam: I slap him twice, anyway.
Taliesin: Ugh! Ah!
Liam: What do we do?
Sam: What are we doing here?
Liam: The priest's dead. Is there anyone else, or should we head back?
Taliesin: We should head back. Apparently, any help I thought we'd find here is obviously gone.
Sam: Should we check this other room first, before we go?
Taliesin: Did we not check the other room?
Sam: No.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: Let's check the other room, and--
Sam: Quickly, though, quickly.
Taliesin: We'll check the other room quickly.
Liam: While they check the room, I'm going to go all over the altar and see if there's anything, any hidden door, any trapdoor, anything like that.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Eh. That's a-- oh! No! Wait, I keep forgetting that's a rogue skill. That's a 20.
Taliesin: I was really hoping you missed that part.
Matt: Looking over the altar, it appears to be smooth, solid stone. Nothing catches your attention. You check the other room. This is a small kitchen, essentially, for whoever was running here would make small meals or things to delineate during worship and/or just cook for its own meals when the father was keeping--
Taliesin: Has it been used recently? Is it--
Matt: It does not appear to have been used, you can make an investigation check to gather an idea of how long it's been there. SAM I'm going to look around as well and food and stuff.
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 22.
Matt: Okay. You get the feeling that the last time this was used was a little under a week ago.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Any provisions that we can take? Water, food?
Matt: You find a couple of loaves of stale bread, some dried meats, salted dry meats, like some jerky-ish type things. Things that are meant to last a while. There is produce here, but the produce has long wilted and gone to rot.
Taliesin: I have theories on who's been using this space. Is there anything that would clue me in to who's been using this space?
Matt: It's hard to really tell. You're not too familiar with lifestyles of different individuals. Whoever left the notes, and whoever was dabbling with the vicinity does have a tendency towards sciences and alchemy in ways that seemingly can blend and overlap with your specialty. That's the best you can ascertain, based on the information given.
Taliesin: Now, here's the question. Do we leave them a sign that we're here, or do we hope that they don't notice?
Sam: Well, let's leave them a sign. We're supposed to be sowing discontent, right? So, let's leave a sign that someone was here and fucked up their shit. Do you want me to pee on the altar?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: I take my dagger, and I go to the altar--
Taliesin: Wait.
Sam: No, don't leave your dagger; it's your only one left.
Liam: I didn't say I'm leaving it. Yeah. You want that?
Taliesin: I want that.
Liam: I start-- would you hand me that scrap of paper, yeah?
Sam: Whoa, this is our sign?
Liam: So I start carving this-- Is this Pelor?
Taliesin: This is not Pelor. It's part of the crest of de Rolo.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: de Rolos are back!
Liam: Okay. So, I just start scraping it into the stone with the Keen Dagger.
Matt: Okay. And it gives a horrible screeching sound as you carve into this well-polished stone surface that's used predominantly for worship, or when it was. Given about five, ten minutes in you manage to scrape a design into it that is visually distinct against the smooth surface, and does match the design best to your ability that Percy--
Taliesin: I would also like to drag Father Reynal out of his room and put him at the pedestal.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then before we go, I'm going to the wooden door, and I carve into the door: Pelor lives in Whitestone.
Sam: That's a lot of words.
Marisha: Six hours later...
Liam: It's wood! It took me five minutes.
Matt: Okay. You finish your carving, seemingly without recurring incident.
Taliesin: Like to head back now, I believe.
Matt: Yeah. You guys make your way out of the temple back into the center of the graveyard. The sun is beginning to set. The reds and purples of the night sky are starting to creep in, as it just begins to crest on the far western side of the mountain range surrounding the valley.
Marisha: I have a question. MATT Yes.
Marisha: What's the weather been like since we've been in Whitestone?
Matt: It's been spotty, cloudy--
Marisha: The sun has come out during the daytime?
Matt: Bits and pieces. There is heavy cloud cover that seems to be pushing through. It brings colder weather. It looks like when you first got there, there was some snowfall that happened before you arrived. You've had a few days of sun, but I'd say about half the day is cloud cover.
Marisha: Does it seem to be fairly natural weather for this time of year? Okay.
Matt: And this far north, too. All right. You guys--
Liam: I also grab those wooden stakes off the ground.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little time, because they're amongst a bunch of other broken wooden scraps--
Liam: I grab a couple extra, as well.
Matt: Okay! You find some splintered wood. You guys make your way back into the town. I'd like you all to make a stealth, or a deception check, if you prefer.
Sam: Deception, please. (sings a ditty) I'm just a peasant boy.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13.
Travis: G'day sir.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 32.
Matt: All right. As you guys are making your way back towards the tavern, there is a small group of Whitestone villagers walking and having a conversation. Not heated, but there is a sense of desperate conversation amongst them. And, standing with them you can see there's an older gentleman, mostly bald, long scraggly gray hair that falls past his shoulders, a little bit hunched. He's wearing dark leathers and a cloak that's over one shoulder and drags the ground behind him. And they're talking to him and he's growling to himself and the best you can make out is there's an argument about farming shipments and the inability to make dates and requirements. He shouts back to the remainder, says, "Listen, it is beyond my control. This is what has been decreed by Sir Kerrion. That is how it'll be. If you cannot provide, then taxes will be pulled. If you cannot pay, then there are far worse things we can take. Now, be on your way!" And steps away from the group, looks over and sees a little boy and this in the shadows skulking individual. "You there!"
Taliesin: Yes?
Matt: "You new around here?"
Taliesin: A bit, yes.
Matt: "I don't recognize you." And two of the guards step forward.
Taliesin: I suppose it's our good luck, then.
Matt: "What's your name?"
Taliesin: (sighs) Reggie.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Fuck my life. I know! 21!
Liam: My name's Reggie.
Matt: "Then make yourself useful. Maybe you can make up for some of these lost crops that these bags of shite keep saying they can't do."
Taliesin: I'm actually supposed to be going back for a--
Matt: "I don't give a shit, move on, boy."
Taliesin: Yes, sir.
Matt: He grumbles and keeps on walking. The guards give you a look. One of them spits at your foot, keeps walking on. Eventually, they drift aside. You continue your path back to the tavern where the rest of you are waiting. The sun has now set. Night has taken the sky and Keyleth is on the verge of completing her ritual.
Laura: I'm cleaning my nails as I'm watching her.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye from the second floor. I want to see how much movement in the city there is and whether or not there's any guards by the tree, whether or not the tree seems to be left to its own devices.
Matt: Okay. As you're keeping watch, you notice occasionally there will be one of the zombie giants that will lumber through the center of town. There's a very specific pattern that they tend to follow.
Taliesin: Definitely trying to memorize that.
Matt: And you do notice a couple of other guards that you didn't notice during the day begin to show up. They're humanoid; they're armored. They sneak around. They're humanoid, but their movement is unnatural.
Taliesin: Is there a lot of light in the town, or not very much light?
Matt: Not very much light at all. There's very low-lit points at certain crossroads that've been left up for general visibility for those who have to travel at night, but you gather most people just do not travel at night here in Whitestone.
Laura: Make sure no lights are lit in our--
Taliesin: We've already blacked out--
Sam: I blacked out the windows.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth--
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: You finally complete your ritual. Sweat pouring down your brow, you have your hand on the roots--
Marisha: Can I do something? Something real quick for my final, extra drama? So, as I complete the ritual, remembering that Pelor, and this is a sun tree. I'm going to cast my 6th-level Sunbeam spell as I'm finishing the Plant Growth with the last big essence--
Sam: At night?
Marisha: I'm underground. So, I'm going to take my Sunbeam, and wrap it up with my druid goodness. And shove it in the tree.
Taliesin: You're going to shove it where the sun don't shine.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to kill it. I don't know if it's going to work or not.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Do I get advantage on this? Because of Heroes' Feast?
Matt: I would say no, because this isn't a saving throw and because what you're attempting to do is essentially convert a highly damaging spell into a non-damaging circumstance at the end of an eight-hour endurance match with a ritual. This is going to be a difficult attempt. So go ahead and roll a d20. Add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: I hope I didn't just fuck up by doing this.
Laura: You got it, Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah, you never get arrested or anything, you're good.
Sam: Use the green one. This is you doing greenery.
Marisha: I'm so nervous.
Sam: Natural 20. Easy. Or a six.
Laura: Oh, no.
Marisha: But my wisdom's not bad, so 12?
Matt: You complete the ritual and release the healing energy of your Plant Growth spell. As you release it you begin to concentrate on the sun ray and you begin to see, throughout the pieces of earth around, seeds quickly begin to germinate and small little bits of ivy, greenery begin to pierce out from parts of the earth in your immediate vicinity, as this affects a large radius. There does not appear to be any sort of immediate reaction by the tree. You begin to pull back and concentrate on the spell. You release the Sunbeam forward. In the frustration of the lack of reaction from the tree and the desperation to make sure some effect happens, you release the full force of the beam as opposed to the prequel aspect and you burst into some of the roots, blasting some of them apart and beginning to set flame to part of the under of the tree.
Marisha: Oh, cool. That's cool. Cool story.
Liam: Bucket of water.
Marisha: I'll put it out.
Matt: You guys hear this (explosion).
Laura: That's right in front of-- I pull out my cloaks in my bag and start trying to put out the flames. Keyleth, what? Was that supposed to happen? Is that good? Was this good? Should I stop? I keep putting out the flames.
Matt: You put out the flames. And you notice where the fire had burned aspects of the wood, there is the black char marks across the roots where the flames touched, and the area surrounding the root is a little more of a vibrant brown color. Almost like a little hint of life seemed to have seeped into the root.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: It expands for a moment and you can see a little bit of life return to that localized section of the tree.
Marisha: Ooh! Like starting a fire. (blows air) Go, go! Can I Druidcraft? Come on!
Matt: As you do, there's still these bits of ivy greenery, this long-embedded seeds through years and years and generations of earth layering in here. These long-dormant seeds are starting to come to life and spring through the earth around you. The expansion of the healthier portion of the root begins to spread, and then stop spreading. And you begin to notice all the greenery begins to immediately wither and crumple and turn to ash. And you watch as the vibrant aspect of the roots slowly drain from the bottom up. Like something is pulling the life force out of the roots.
Laura: They're sucking the life force out of the earth.
Marisha: I take some of that holy oil that Vax gave me and I dip my finger in it and start rubbing it along the vines that are growing along the edge of the roots.
Matt: You take the holy oil and place it along the roots, and it soaks into the dry and in some cases now charred aspects of the roots. You wait a moment, and the oil seems to almost burn off and evaporate.
Sam: So, the ground is cursed.
Marisha: The ground is cursed.
Sam: Well, poo.
Travis: Should I try peeing on it?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Perception check?
Taliesin: That thing you hate doing?
Marisha: No, I'm good at perceiving things, I'm just not good at reading people.
Sam: You know what we need to do?
Marisha: That's not bad. 23?
Sam: Hydroponics. No ground, just grow it above.
Matt: The pattern of decay that followed your initial attempt at reviving this vicinity, all had a very distinct downward motion of draining. There was something about the ground, something beneath the tree and where you are that is seemingly taking the life force of the surroundings.
Laura: Oh, my god, what if the vampire thing is right underneath us?
Marisha: I was going to say, can I still see the green being sucked down a bit?
Matt: At this point, all the life force was very quickly drained.
Laura: Can I use my Primeval Awareness and sense any sort of vampiric presence within our very close vicinity?
Matt: What's the radius on that?
Laura: It's a minute. It's up to six miles if I spend six minutes.
Matt: Okay. So you take your time, and you begin to focus and it expands. As you do, focusing on vampiric presence, you feel a fair amount of presence: above, below and further north. And smattered throughout the city. You get the sensation at this point in time that there is much more beyond just Lord Briarwood that have come to be a creature of the night in this city.
Laura: (whispering) That's good. Bad. Probably bad.
Travis: Maybe they're not below the tree, maybe it's just the soil.
Taliesin: The ground is tainted.
Marisha: I'm exhausted.
Sam: Let's sleep.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Laura: We're just going to sleep? Surrounded by vampires, we're just going to sleep surrounded by lots and lots of vampires?
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker for a moment on my glove with that thing I talked about.
Matt: Okay. Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: An intelligence check?
Matt: Yeah, just a straight intelligence check.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. Incorporating this organic organ? Keeping it from rotting is already going to be a feat. In order to incorporate any of its natural charge essence is going to require your workshop. Doing that on the go is too intricate.
Taliesin: I just wanted to think about it. It's fine.
Matt: I mean, it may be functional. It's definitely possible to use what you extracted from the behir to be a way to charge your Diplomacy, but that is something that you'll have to do in a controlled space when you have everything at your disposal. It's a very delicate process to even attempt it.
Taliesin: I think we get it.
Liam: I'll take first watch.
Matt: Okay. You all take an evening's rest.
Marisha: I'm sorry I couldn't fix the tree, you guys.
Taliesin: We learned a lot.
Laura: You even did that awesome fire thing at the end that was really, really cool.
Marisha: Thanks. I was afraid I was going to permanently kill it for a second.
Taliesin: We know it's not dead dead. That it's just tainted.
Sam: Guys, I just want to say that I killed a door and a banshee, so--
Laura: Really?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Nice, Scanlan.
Sam: The door was harder to kill.
Travis: That's some door!
Taliesin: It's okay. I think I figured out what we have to do first.
Marisha: What do we have to do first?
Taliesin: I think we have to kill Kerrion Stonefell.
Sam: Who's that?
Taliesin: It's the one that everyone-- he's the one managing all of the goods and all of the farming.
Sam: Is that who they were talking about today? The group?
Laura: Where is he at?
Sam: Oh, Sir Kerrion. I thought they said something else.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell. He's in one of the three-- I would assume that he's been given one of the three mansions in town.
Sam: You think if we find him, kill him, and leave his body on some sort of public display, it would sow some seeds of rebellion?
Taliesin: I think it would be the beginning. He's who everybody's afraid of.
Travis: We could hang him in the tree.
Taliesin: We could hang him in the tree.
Sam: We could. Grog, could you do something nasty to his body?
Travis: Just say the word.
Laura: Oh, this is messed up.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Do we check the mansions for him?
Taliesin: I think we ask around to see if there's a way to ask around to find out who's in what house.
Sam: Ask around? Let's just go house to house and kill everyone in all of them!
Taliesin: Let's-- Eventually, yes.
Travis: Hello. I'd like to share the news of our Lord and Savior: my axe in your face!
Sam: Yes. We could be Mormons.
Matt: As you guys take your watches and go to sleep in the cold interior, and it is a cold interior of the tavern. As the night comes through, this is your first time really staying the night in the center of Whitestone. Even though you slept in the forest, in the boughs of the trees itself, the temperature grows far colder here, and even with the warm interior, the windows frost over and you find yourselves having to huddle or build some sort of small fire to even keep a semblance of comfort to rest. You all eventually go to sleep throughout your various times. I would like everyone to make a wisdom saving throw. With advantage, because you're still affected by the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Until noon tomorrow, right?
Marisha: 2PM tomorrow.
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: 25.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 23.
Travis: 14.
Matt: Okay. All of you wake the next morning rested as best as can be. Percy, your entire evening was wracked with nightmare after nightmare, imagery you wish to not recall. Whispers and voices familiar, unfamiliar, seeing yourself pulled from your physical self into the heart of this banshee, then wrest from death, barely, cackling in the distance. I want you to go ahead and mark on your sheet one point of corruption.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: What does that mean?
Marisha: Oh no!
Sam: I don't even know where that is on the sheet!
Laura: He could be evil. We could turn evil here!
Matt: As you wake up, you find yourself wracked by those nightmares, a sense of nervousness comes to you. And there's a tremor to your voice now that's uncontrollable. At times of silence, you find yourself impulsively clearing your throat. And with that we're going to take a five-minute break.
Marisha: What the fuck?!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: All right guys, keep this to a stringent five-minute break so we can get to as much as we can before the show's up tonight. So we'll see you guys here in five minutes? All right?
Liam: See you in 17. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone. So, a couple quick things. One, we're roughly 30 to 25 subs away from our next milestone. The milestone, as we do with every 100 subs, the winner in the chat room, as long as you're active in it, gets a package of one of our signed cast photos, as well as a wonderful poster art piece from our artist, Kit Buss, signed by the cast, and that will also be our 10k mark.
Travis: Damn!
Liam: Damn, damn!
Travis: Skittles, motherfucker!
Matt: It's pretty fantastic. So, as soon as we hit that we'll have our next giveaway and a big celebration as we hit 10k.
Marisha: Get yourself a double cheeseburger.
Liam: (singing) Look at the Sun Tree!
Matt: Also, you guys just caught, as that break ended, a quick episode of Omnibus. Omnibus is a new show that shows here every Tuesday. It's helmed by Ian and Hector, some of our fantastic hosts here. It talks about all sorts of things. Not just Batman things. All sorts of things in geek culture and-- what's that?
Taliesin: There's more than Batman?
Matt: There's more than Batman! It's crazy! I pop up there every now and then to answer some questions and talk about some cool things, as well as a number of other cool personalities that pop in and out. Check it out if you're around on Tuesday. It's a lot of fun. All righty. So let's kick back into this. So, a rough morning's rest come to fruition. Percy seems a little worse for wear after the evening's sleep.
Marisha: You feeling okay?
Taliesin: (grunts)
Marisha: It was cold. Did you catch a cold?
Taliesin: No, I'm fine.
Marisha: Is your throat ticklish?
Taliesin: A little ticklish, I'm fine.
Marisha: Do you want some Goodberries? It might help a little bit--
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I'll take some Goodberries.
Marisha: All right. If you suck on them a little bit they act like "logenzes."
Sam: "Logenzes?"
Marisha: Well, shut up.
Liam: Kenny Logenzes.
Sam: Kenny Logenzes.
Marisha: Kenny Logenzes.
Matt: It's a whole business opportunity that was missed.
Laura: Oh wait. Seeming has ended at this point, hasn't it?
Matt: Seeming has ended, yes.
Laura: So, Trinket is a bear.
Matt: Trinket is now a bear.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: And not a donkey.
Travis: And not a donkey.
Liam: But he's indoors with us, right?
Laura: Yeah. I've been laying on him all night.
Travis: Man, that was a good night's sleep. Who do we get to kill today?
Sam: Sir Kerrion.
Travis: How many mansions are there?
Taliesin: There's three.
Travis: Right. One, three.
Liam: Do you know which one he lives in?
Taliesin: I don't.
Liam: Shit.
Sam: Only one way to find out. Burn every house down except for those three mansions and see who runs out.
Travis: I like it. Seconded.
Taliesin: I also think perhaps we should find a new place to sleep tonight. I think it might be best. To mix it up. Keep moving.
Travis: But I've been peeing in the corner.
Laura: That's why it smells like it does. Grog!
Travis: What? Look, it's like they did in the old days, they had chamberpots. I mean, I have my corner. It's my recreation corner. Sorry. Yeah, that's my brand.
Liam: That is ripe. We're leaving.
Sam: You want to all be peasants again? Can we not just disguise ourselves in tattered clothes?
Laura: I have a bear. Do you want to disguise the bear?
Sam: Oh, wait. We could just leave the bear behind.
Laura: In the house.
Sam: He could guard this safe house, and then we could go find another safe house.
Taliesin: Scanlan, cast the spell.
Sam: All right, fine. Seeming it is. We're all peasants and he's a donkey. And I'm a little boy.
Matt: You're a little boy. Jovial boy without a yo-yo.
Taliesin: There's a shop that I used to frequent. We can see if that's perhaps been abandoned.
Laura: All right. I want like a crazy eye in my Seeming.
Sam: Of course you can! I'll give you two crazy eyes.
Matt: (laughs) You now have two crazy eyes.
Liam: That's an improvement. That's nice.
Matt: The majesty of bardic illusion.
Taliesin: So we're going to go to Beyond the Horizon.
Matt: Going to Beyond the Horizon?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: All righty. You guys step out into the day's sun. Today is fairly overcast. Clouds have taken the sky, and there is a bit of a light mist that is falling. Not quite rain, but not quite drizzle, but just a mist in the air. It's a cold day. The ground and most of the walkways and roads are a little damp due to the moisture in the air. Not muddy, just a little bit of a packed wetness to it. As you head over towards Beyond the Horizon, and that lies more in the northwestern quadrant of the city. A little ways around the street from one of the noble houses, so you keep a wide berth. You come to the row of shops that bookended it before, and you go to the curiosity shop to find that the building itself is partially collapsed and ruined. The door is torn off the hinges and left to the side. Part of the ceiling is fallen in.
Sam: Is there a basement?
Laura: Yeah, secret doors? Can I use a perception check to see if there's any kind of secret entrances in the rubble at all? Something that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Do you wander into the building? You guys are still on the outside--
Liam: How collapsed is it?
Matt: The whole building is still standing. It just looks like the front entrance is caved in and the doors were pulled off.
Laura: I'll just old lady walk into the building and look around.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'll go in with her.
Taliesin: Do old ladies lick the air?
Laura: Yeah, she does. This crazy-eyed old lady does.
Liam: Yeah, the eyes, they never go in the same direction; one's always to the left and one to the right.
Matt: Looking about the inside, most of the furniture has been broken or taken. You can see a bunch of shelves set up as this was once a curiosity shop. Empty. Anything of worth has long been taken.
Sam: Oi, Grandma! Any yo-yos in there?
Laura: I'm looking, boy.
Matt: A large scattering of broken glass, and a peppering of stains. Dark, ruddy stains across the hardwood floors you can see spattered in places. Occasional rat seems to crawl out in the distance a little (rat squeaking) sound. But there is no other sign of life within the interior. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: Ooh, with no advantage, right?
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: Oh, until noon.
Marisha: Until 2PM, yo!
Matt: Wisdom check, not saving throw.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13?
Liam: 13.
Laura: That would have been an eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. You take a while pushing through some of the rubble, checking behind the main desk, if you will, as to where most purchases would have taken place. The place is cleared out, and looks like it's covered in enough dust to have been left here for the better part of six months to a year.
Laura: I can't see any kind of like door that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Glancing about, you find what looks to be a small cellar door that opens up in the floor in one of the back rooms. You open it up, there's a small ladder, not even a staircase, a ladder that leads down in there. It's a small room, about ten foot by ten foot. That room is also entirely cleaned out.
Laura: All right. No yo-yos here, boy.
Sam: Thanks, grandmama.
Taliesin: Can we use this as a base of operations in the moment, then?
Laura: But it's half-collapsed, it would not be very protected.
Travis: Yeah, we're fully exposed.
Sam: Let's just take a walkabout and see if there's anything else around the area.
Travis: Do you want to head in one of the directions of the mansions?
Taliesin: Let's head to the closest mansion.
Matt: Okay. So you skirt back towards the the crossroad, the nearest crossroad that heads northward to the very, very far northwest section of Whitestone. There you come to this noble house, which has a nice bronzed fence around the outside of it. Probably about seven feet tall with these intricate spears affixed to the top, almost in a fleur-de-lis type pattern, but looks sharp enough to keep anyone from trying to leap over. The front gate is currently chained off with a lock on it. There is a lawn, but the lawn itself appears to be frost-crusted from the evening's moisture and cold temperature. What grass is there is very gray and dull and currently crisp with a white frost dew. Is a slight hill, and you do see the building itself. It's a very nice building. It's a deep brown. A lot of it appears to be like natural stained wood from the local forest surrounding Whitestone, with highlights of deep green and black. There does not appear to be any immediate sign of life from the inside, but there does appear to be a light coming from the inside, so even at this point in the day, it can be dark on the interior. You can see a little bit of light coming from one of the doors.
Marisha: Is there a mailbox with a name? (laughter)
Sam: Are there guards out front or anything, or is it just a gate?
Matt: It's just a gate, currently.
Sam: Do you want me to go in?
Laura: What if we went to the fields and we asked other peasants how we report to what's-his-fuck. Keron. Keron?
Taliesin: Kerrion.
Laura: Kerrion?
Travis: Oh. That's actually a good one.
Taliesin: I will say, chances that anybody in any of these buildings is somebody we're going to want to take care of is very high.
Laura: So, just bust on in and kill them right now.
Sam: Just, whoever's in there?
Marisha: Is that actually what you're saying?
Liam: And you went from focusing on Kerrion, to kicking in doors?
Travis: Are you feeling all right?
Laura: Yeah, you look a little pale, Percy.
Taliesin: I am a little pale.
Marisha: It's kind of like the game show problem.
Sam: Well, you know.
Laura: Are you sick? Does Keyleth need to cast, I don't know, Restoration on you or something?
Taliesin: I just had a bad night's sleep, that's all.
Travis: Scanlan, go knock on that door.
Marisha: Do you have a fever?
Sam: I'm just a little peasant boy.
Marisha: Is he running a fever?
Matt: He is not actually, he's quite cold and clammy.
Marisha: Ew.
Taliesin: My nice jacket. We can ask around. See if we can manage to ask somebody without arousing--
Sam: Is anyone else on the street?
Matt: Right now, in this particular area, there is nobody on the street. You passed a few folks. A lot of them seem to be traveling southward.
Taliesin: How far are we from the temple? The Alcove?
Matt: The Alcove is a little further east, it's probably about a 15-minute walk. The other temple, that one is about a ten-minute walk south of here. It's closer to the southwestern side of the city.
Taliesin: We could take a walk to the Lady's Chamber and see if we run into anybody there or on the way, and it's only ten minutes out of the way.
Travis: The Lady's Chamber?
Taliesin: Not as exciting as it sounds.
Liam: You know someone there?
Taliesin: (sighs) It's not looking like it.
Sam: I bet it's empty. I mean, it's a temple. The other one was.
Travis: All right, but I thought we were killing somebody in this house.
Sam: I thought so, too.
Taliesin: We'll get to it.
Sam: I can just pop in there and see who's in there and pop out.
Laura: Be killed? Never pop back out again.
Taliesin: He doesn't know what he looks like, anyway.
Sam: I'm just a peasant boy. You wouldn't kill a harmless peasant boy.
Taliesin: I think they would, actually. They already have.
Laura: We saw the tree.
Taliesin: Genuine proof that they are perfectly fine killing a small peasant boy.
Liam: What is there in the way of guards out in the open now, and those giants strolling about?
Matt: The skulking humanoids you saw last night that were wandering the streets? None of them visible. You do take in that far down the road to the east of you there is a large shape looming around the corner in a shadow stretching across the road. And you hear the distant (muffled stomping noise).
Liam: Are we within eyeshot of that thing right now?
Matt: Not yet. It looks like it's coming around a corner at the bend of the road a ways to the east.
Liam: Is there anyone our size, any humanoid guards around?
Travis: No.
Liam: Nothing?
Matt: Currently? No.
Liam: I'm guessing the best time to sneak into any of these places is during the day.
Marisha: Do we want to sneak in, though? You're the only one who knows what they look like.
Matt: It's coming around the bend.
Marisha: Okay, wait. Are the gates locked?
Sam: Let's get out of here. Take a walk, we're going to take a walk.
Taliesin: We're going to take a little walk and let it pass by. Let's go to the Lady's Chamber.
Liam: Lady's Chambers, anyone?
Sam: Towards the Lady's Chamber. We're not going in.
Liam: It's full of prostitutes, Grog. Full.
Taliesin: You'll see. It's not really that complicated.
Liam: What did you roll?
Matt: All right. You guys dart southward across the road, ducking into the alleys of the southern portion of the road, getting out of the visual range of the zombie giant that is making its way down the road, across your path. Heading southward, you dart through the back alleys and keeping free of the main central visual areas of the city, you eventually make your way to the corner that houses the Lady's Chamber. And as you guys see it--
Sam: Have we passed any people?
Matt: If you're keeping an eye out for that, yes. In some of the alleyway, you do pass a couple that are holding some, what looks like either scavenged groceries or some sort of food they have keeping close to themselves.
Sam: Can I go talk to them?
Matt: You can, indeed.
Laura: I'm going to come with you.
Matt: All right. As they're both walking by, keeping the hush, they see you guys step in the same alley. They stop for a second, looking you over, give a nod.
Sam: Oi, excuse me? My papa sent me to send a present, a gift of sorts, to a Sir Keri? Kurion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: Kerrion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: We're just looking to see where we can deliver the gift.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Scanlan's forte. Come on.
Sam: 29. (laughter)
Matt: You both stop and the man gives her a look like he's trying to usher her along, pulling her arm and she goes, "No, honey, it's just a child." Walks up and leans forward and says, "If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you'll find him in the extravagant abode to the southeast of the city."
Sam: The one right over there?
Matt: "No." And gives you a side look for a second and says, "You don't want to go find the Countess there. If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you go to the southeast. Look for the brick building. That's where he stays. Near the farming area south of us. You're not from here are you?"
Laura: We're new to town.
Sam: She's blind.
Matt: "Well, just do what he says. Don't question. All right?"
Sam: Okay. I just need to bring him this sack of presents, or my papa will whip me pretty bad.
Taliesin: TMI.
Matt: "Then perhaps you could do that quickly."
Sam: You're so pretty and clean.
Matt: She blushes for a second, goes like, "You stay safe." And brushes the hair out of your eyes for a second and pinches your cheek a little bit, and there's a look of sadness in her eyes, almost like, what horrible fate befalls this child, if he's not careful.
Laura: I smack him on the back of the head and say: Let's go boy! Keep up!
Sam: I'm her seeing-eye boy. (laughter)
Matt: She rushes back to the side of the man with her and, "See, it's fine. Good luck!" And they both dart off down the alley again.
Liam: Sam Riegel, ladies and gentleman, he played Gavroche in Les Mis. Gavroche, right here, Gavroche.
Matt: On Broadway. Literally.
Taliesin: He is Oliver Twist.
Sam: (singing) Consider yourself! (speaking) Oh, that's a different show.
Taliesin: I was ready! I was ready.
Matt: All right, so. You make your way southward to probably what's the second largest road intersection in this city. Away from the Sun Tree square. You can now see the temple to Erathis here. And it is a large stone half dome amphitheater set up where it's built outward to face the actual crossroads. And there is a courtyard built around it, a small stone wall about three feet tall, that encapsulates this area. There is a couple of trees, but there isn't a lot of grass, most of it's just stonework-- Erathis being the goddess of civilization. You know, it has an interesting duality and disrespect to Melora and all unbridled nature. Things that are controlled and civilized are definitely her realm of expertise. But as you approach, like most of the grass here, it's pretty desolate and dead. Winter is definitely making its way to this part of the city. You do notice that surrounding it, there is dried ivy, and just a general feeling of solemn desperation and sadness. There are a few people scattered throughout sitting on benches, sitting in quiet contemplation. Some of them are clutching small holy symbols and doing a prayer to themselves while rocking in the bench. You do see within the dome, there is a group of about four people that are all sitting, looking up to a man, an older man with a thick, white mustache and receding white hair. His gray robes he's wearing look weathered. You recognize him. While you haven't had too much interaction, not being much of a pious man, in any form of religion from your history, but you do know, Keeper Yennen is the head priest of Erathis here and is currently giving the tail-end of a small sermon to those here. Hearing him, he speaks words of comfort talking of, through these dark days, we must bind together as a community. We have to ensure that our livelihood and our existence is kept, and we look out for our fellow man. There is solace in the friendships and bonds we keep here. And best not to upset those that wish to keep us down. Erathis looks over us. There will be a time in which our salvation will come. And he goes into this very rallying speech and trying to lift the spirits of those around.
Marisha: You said there was 40?
Matt: Four.
Marisha: Four. Right.
Sam: But they're allowed to assemble?
Matt: Yeah. There's four around him in the amphitheater. There are probably another ten or so scattered about the various ground surrounding it, just doing their own private prayer.
Taliesin: Do I have an opinion on Yennen?
Matt: Yennen? From your previous experience and what you've heard is a very-- can be a bit arrogant in his worship, but not in a way that is considered dangerous or impactful to when the de Rolo families were in rule. He does good for the people. Kind of a tool at times. But he practices well and he keeps the people's spirits up for those who worship.
Taliesin: We found him a bit obnoxious to our means and ends on occasion?
Matt: On occasion, but mostly just his personality. Nothing he's done personally. He's not a bad person, by any means. He's just, you know.
Taliesin: He's also not a lapdog.
Matt: Yeah. Strong-willed in his ideas.
Laura: Can we insight check him to see if it seems like he's changed at all, or if he's still that same douchebag or if he's--
Matt: You would have no basis of comparison. You would be the only one that has.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to the little meeting. Is it wrapping up right now?
Matt: It seems like it's winding down. He finishes the discussion about the bonds of community, speaks about this city sprang up from nothing, but has a greater destiny to itself. If not here at Whitestone, one day we will all go past these boundaries, these borders, and create our own cities. There is hope for this. And then begins to go into a couple of familiar prayers tailored specifically to the Erathis way of thinking, and then finishes and everyone looks up, bows their heads for a second and begin to stand up and walk away from the amphitheater as he turns around and begins to clear off one of the back benches for him to sit on.
Taliesin: I'm going to just walk up and start a conversation.
Matt: Okay. You walk up to him, he sits down. "Can I help you?"
Taliesin: Do you think there's any hope for Whitestone? Do you think there'll be a day the people can find happiness again?
Matt: "I can say this. If history has taught me anything, our people are a resilient bunch. There has been much death, opposition, to all the free peoples of these lands. And yet, they persevered and surmounted these odds. I think, though, to some degree a prison this town may have become, perhaps we ourselves cannot see the distant ends. It's easy to misinterpret the means of those that would oppress us. But we can't go too long before the world at large can see the atrocities committed, the terrible entities that walk these streets."
Taliesin: Do you think there will come a day that these people can seize freedom for themselves against their oppressors?
Matt: "I look forward to a day in which there can be a beacon of outside hope. From the inside, I fear many wills have been torn asunder. I'm sorry. Forgive my manners. Welcome to the Lady's Chamber. You are unfamiliar to me." And he looks out at you guys standing at the peripheral of the amphitheater. "Travelers?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I fear the cold winter is looming. An ill omen takes this city, friends. You may stay to give worship, if you will, then I recommend you continue on your way. There is little here but dying tradition."
Taliesin: I have a prayer to give.
Matt: "Interesting."
Taliesin: I pray for a day to come when outside forces can rally the people of Whitestone again. That strangers may come and bring with them salvation, and that the people will seize it.
Matt: "You speak in strange confidence for a traveler."
Taliesin: Look for signs, Keeper Yennen. Look for signs. I'm going to hand him a piece of parchment.
Matt: "Signs of what, I might ask?"
Taliesin: Salvation. Good day to you, sir.
Liam: Act cool. Everybody act cool.
Taliesin: We walk south.
Travis: We walk south. We leave.
Taliesin: And you know what I've left him.
Matt: Yeah. As you're walking away, you hear his voice call out after. "Wait! What does this mean?" He pulls the parchment forward, revealing the symbol of the top of the de Rolo family crest.
Taliesin: That... (sighs) What appears dead may not necessarily be death. And that with the shadow of death over the city perhaps there is life deep underground. Perhaps things that appeared ended and gone are perhaps continuing to this day. And may rise again.
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion check. Give you advantage on this.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Nods his head slowly, looks back at the sheet. Looks back at you with a discerning look.
Taliesin: He's definitely not going to--
Matt: Oh, not at all. You look like a dirty peasant right now. Takes it and hastily closes it and folds it and puts it in the pouch. Steps back over and gathers some of his loose tea leaves-- he was making himself some tea-- and looks about shiftily, calls over one of the other worshipers and begins talking with them as you guys walk away.
Taliesin: Let's head south.
Travis: South it is.
Sam: To the--
Laura: To the house?
Sam: To the house.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell's stately manor.
Marisha: So wait, which mansion were we at?
Sam: The Countess.
Laura: The Countess.
Taliesin: Countess Anna Ripley.
Marisha: Which mansion is that out of the three?
Taliesin: That's the northeastern one.
Marisha: That's the northeastern one?
Laura: And she was which? Who was the Countess again?
Taliesin: I'm assuming if it is who I suspect it is, it's Countess Anna Ripley.
Sam: And who is she to you?
Taliesin: She is a terrible person.
Sam: Wait, she's the one who killed a bunch of your people, right?
Marisha: She's the doctor, right?
Taliesin: She's the doctor.
Laura: Oh, she is the one!
Travis: Do we get to kill her?
Taliesin: I hope so. But let's-- one at a time. If we're lucky, maybe one a day.
Marisha: Well, okay.
Travis: Like a vitamin?
Sam: Like a Flintstone's vitamin. Except it's assassination.
Taliesin: (coughs)
Sam: Do you need some healing? Are you okay?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I'm fine.
Sam: Scanlan can make you feel good.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Travis: (laughs) He can make you feel real good.
Laura: Can I go up and ask Keyleth, outside of his earshot, to maybe cast some sort of restoration on him, without-- He's fighting it. I don't think he's feeling well. Can you heal him?
Marisha: I'm mean, yeah. He's going to feel it once I cast it on him, but I can try.
Laura: He looks cold and kind of slimy, and he's coughing a lot.
Travis: Wow, that's harsh. Looks cold.
Sam: He's probably been up tinkering all night.
Liam: Who are you to talk, Crazy Eyes?
Laura: I know.
Taliesin: I look like like a dirty peasant right now.
Laura: No, that's true.
Marisha: I don't know if my-- I don't know if Greater Restoration will work.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Should only take 20 minutes to get to the house, shouldn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Approximately.
Taliesin: We're not passing anything interesting on the way, are we?
Sam: Any other safe houses? Potential candidates?
Matt: I mean, there are plenty of houses that currently don't show signs of life.
Taliesin: I was thinking mostly of the barracks or the Alcove.
Sam: Yes, but after we kill this thing, we're going to need to know where to go.
Taliesin: Got some thoughts.
Sam: Thoughts? We need a place to retreat to immediately.
Taliesin: The Lady's Chamber.
Sam: It's an amphitheater isn't it?
Taliesin: There's quarters. They'll be able to hide us.
Marisha: What makes you think they're going to hide us?
Taliesin: Hunch.
Sam: Shouldn't we have a backup plan, in case they turn us out onto the street?
Taliesin: Actually, my thought was if we take care of Stonefell, why don't we hide in his house?
Laura: Nobody will know, right? Let's do it!
Sam: That's a good plan. They probably have some good wine.
Travis: I always wanted to be a lord.
Sam: All right. Let's go assassinate someone.
Marisha: Percy? I don't mean to beat a dead horse or anything, but--
Taliesin: If it would make you feel better, you can do whatever you like, but I think it's just a tickle.
Marisha: No. You're sure about all of this?
Taliesin: This has been what I've been working for for years. I'm not going to lose-- I was surprised last time. I've had time to think about it. I'm going to be all right. And I'm keeping it together. I'm not going to pretend that I'm great. But I've got a hold on it.
Sam: They also have technology, now. They have weapons, guns, that they're developing. It could be a threat to many, many other people.
Marisha: Well, that I'm fine with. No, not that I'm fine with. I mean, I'm fine helping prevent that. I'm just more worried about your sanity than anything else.
Taliesin: I've got a hold. And I respect that if you think that I'm slipping, you'll let me know.
Marisha: Okay. You followed me into the fiery abyss, so--
Taliesin: If that isn't a sign that I must be crazy, I don't know what is.
Marisha: Touché. I'll follow you, though. I'll follow you to the end.
Sam: As the oldest among us, I say that he's fine.
Taliesin: Are you actually the oldest among us?
Sam: Well, I assume so. How old are you people?
Laura: What?
Travis: Me?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Somewhere between one and 50.
Liam: Well, I'm 27, but I don't know how old she is.
Matt: And with that, rainfall begins to hit upon the city--
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: The ground immediately becomes thick with mud and sludge as you begin making your way through the city to the eastern side.
Marisha: I go puddle hopping!
Taliesin: This is not a happy place.
Travis: Low key.
Liam: Low key.
Marisha: Oh. I look miserable.
Taliesin: Look wet.
Travis: I take the Dust of Tracelessness to void out any footprints in the mud.
Liam: It's been washed away with the rain.
Matt: You do it. As you walk along, you do, some of the mud shifts behind you. It can be a little conspicuous if you're not careful.
Travis: Oh. Not my normal flower girl routine; maybe it's like the old Shawshank Prison walk. (laughter)
Taliesin: The old Shawshank Prison walk.
Matt: All right. The Alcove is a little ways north. It would take some time. You're pushing at like 10:30 in the morning at this point, around 11AM. Are you going straight to the supposed homestead of Kerrion Stonefell?
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: We're going straight there?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We're going straight there.
Matt: All right. You bee-line it. You're all getting cold from the wet rain that is now soaked through your clothes. You make your way, and this home is a deep, red brick in construction. This house was not here when you lived here. It looks like what house was here has been demolished and rebuilt with sturdy masonry. It's a two-story building. There appear to be two guards currently set outside. Two regular leather-armor looking, more thugs than guards, but they're just both keeping under the overhang at the front porch to keep dry and grimacing at the weather. There is a gate around it. This gate is more for purpose than visual presentation. It's a black iron, nasty, jagged, rusty-looking gate. Not too dissimilar to the one that surrounded the graveyard. It's about a 20-foot walk from the gate entrance to the front step of the actual building itself. How do you want to approach this?
Taliesin: Let's walk around the back, I think.
Liam: As we walk up, I'd like to trail back by Grog in the rain. The killing's going to start soon. It's not going to stop. We're going to protect them. All of them. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, big guy?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Vax, you have your daggers back, right?
Liam: I got them all.
Laura: I put a couple arrows in the holy oil that we have.
Matt: All right. Each holy oil is essentially three--
Laura: Oh, can I just dip one arrow in, then, right now?
Matt: Mark that off from one of your holy oils, you have one of three uses of that, and that that arrow does have a holy oil essence.
Sam: Percival? If we get in there, what are the chances that this gentleman, Sir Kerrion-- Korean--
Taliesin: You can mispronounce his name. It's fine.
Marisha: Sir North Korean.
Taliesin: Sir Starbucks, yes.
Sam: Sir Starbucks. What are the chances that he's going to be in a coffin? Sleeping?
Taliesin: 50-50.
Sam: Okay. All right. Good to know.
Travis: Would it be worthwhile to maybe say that the little boy and the old lady were caught hoarding crops and we brought them to this guy, see if we can draw him out of his house?
Sam: Ooh, that's a cool plan. I like that plan!
Marisha: It is raining.
Sam: Oh, wait, but I would be bait?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, fine.
Taliesin: Let's take a long walk around the house to see if there's a way in through the back.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: It's dark. It's raining.
Taliesin: And I can't imagine that many people attempt to infiltrate this house.
Liam: How dark is it?
Matt: I mean, it's overcast, but it's getting closer to noon. Even though you can't see the sun, and it is dark clouds overhead, it is still a general universal storm light. Darkened daylight.
Travis: Once around?
Marisha: Does it look like it's going to pass soon?
Matt: No. It looks like it's probably going to be here for most of the day at the very least.
Sam: The rain will dampen the screams from inside. So we go around once? Once around?
Matt: Okay. Perception checks all around.
Sam: Perception check.
Liam: I'm looking specifically for ways in the building other than the front door.
Sam: I'm looking for clouds because I rolled a two.
Travis: Four.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 20.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right. I will say above 20s, you guys notice there is a cellar door outside the building that descends beneath it. There's no indicator as to whether or not it's attached to the house or if it's just an exterior cellar that you can enter from the outside. You do also see there are a number of windows around the household that are all currently closed that lead into the interior. You're uncertain if they're locked or open. There's a little bit of light from the inside.
Marisha: Like candlelight?
Matt: Like candlelight or lantern light, the darkened exterior has made most of the sunlight that would warm a building or light it up from the inside has been cut off by the rainstorm. So, there is a necessity for internal lighting.
Marisha: Is there any sign of windows that are blacked out?
Matt: No, but you do notice that one of the windows to the far back side of the building where most of the light's coming from-- occasionally the light does seem to shift or a shadow moves past it. There's movement within that room nearish that window.
Sam: They're watching TV.
Laura: Probably. I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Sam: Ooh, thank you!
Marisha: Are we going through the cellar?
Sam: Is our meal still affecting us?
Taliesin: Until two.
Sam: Yes! Let's go in quick!
Laura: Is it possible to see what the movement is, who it is inside that window?
Matt: Not from this 25 to 30-foot distance from the building and you guys trying to be inconspicuous.
Liam: There's nothing between us and the building?
Matt: There is the gate. The gate, and what looks to be a few rocks and a couple small trees that are on the actual grounds of the house surrounding it.
Laura: Is the cellar door hidden from view of everything or is it out in the open?
Matt: Which one?
Laura: The cellar door that we saw.
Matt: The cellar door is out in the open, buttressed against the back of the house. It's up against the ground on the side. It has two doors that open up and lead into the cellar below.
Laura: Does it look like anybody can see us?
Matt: From where you're standing? No. You're going to be hardpressed to get across without being in sight of somebody if someone were nearby.
Marisha: We're between a fence, right?
Matt: You're on the outside of a fence.
Travis: Do we want to try to draw them out or get to the cellar? Either way, those two thug guards are going to die.
Marisha: There are guards?
Laura: There's two guards.
Sam: There's two guards.
Matt: They're currently not in visual range of you. They're guarding the front of the building. You guys moved around back. So you don't see the two guards currently on the opposite side of the house.
Travis: What's the fence made out of? Is it the spear-y shit?
Marisha: Is it poky up top?
Matt: It is poky. yes.
Travis: It is poky.
Matt: It's not super sharp poky, but there's iron rods.
Travis: So, I could throw Scanlan over.
Liam: If you roll a two, you can get hurt.
Matt: Yeah, if you rolled poorly, it's going to deal some damage.
Sam: Should we do a diversion for the guards?
Laura: They can't even see us, though!
Sam: Yes, but once we go through the fence, they might. I don't know. All right, you want to sneak in?
Taliesin: Let's try to sneak in and leave the guards there unless they notice us and then we'll just (thwip thwip).
Sam: All right, sure!
Travis: How do we sneak in past them?
Taliesin: You want to try to pull one of the wrought irons off, maybe?
Travis: I'd be down for that.
Sam: If I puffed some smoke, would it draw attention to us?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Okay, then never mind.
Taliesin: It's raining. We can make a little noise, it'll be okay.
Liam: Where are the guards in the front?
Matt: They're currently on the opposite side of the building. If you guys are looking at the back. They're in the front of the building guarding the front door.
Liam: Inside the gate at the house?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Want me to heat up that metal bar for you?
Liam: We still have to go over and in.
Travis: Sure.
Laura: Let's just up and over the bar, athletic it. Acrobatics it?
Liam: Grog, can you bend that shit open?
Matt: Your donkey's still there beside you.
Laura: Fuck!
Liam: Yeah, well, if Grog can frigging make a hole in there--
Travis: Can I try and Lou Ferrigno those bars?
Matt: You're more than welcome to. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: The bar that he's--
Taliesin: Lou Ferrigno-ing.
Marisha: -- Lou Ferrigno-ing, I'm going to cast Heat Metal.
Sam: Is that going to burn his hands?
Marisha: Put on some gloves.
Travis: I don't have any gloves.
Marisha: Spit in your hand a little bit. Grip and bear it.
Sam: It's raining. It'll be fine.
Matt: So, you cast Heat Metal on the bars and a certain area of this gate begins to glow with a dull orange to become a brighter orange, and portions of it going whitish-hot in places.
Sam: Why don't you just hit it with something?
Laura: Wrap your hands.
Marisha: You can use your axe.
Matt: The rain, by the way, is puffing against it and evaporating as it impacts the now-heated metal.
Sam: But that'll be loud!
Marisha: You do you! You do you, Grog.
Travis: I rolled a 23.
Matt: 23? Okay, you reach over and grab it, your hands smoking on the-- use the pain! Use the pain and pull down the bars. You get a large portion of the gate to actually bend downward into an arc, causing the whole gate to fold inward on that side, making it much easier for anyone to pass through. However, you do suffer nine points of fire damage from the burn and your hands are currently scalded.
Taliesin: Now we can get Trinket in!
Liam: That's a hangnail on his pinky toe.
Travis: It's all right.
Marisha: I go ahead and I cast Healing Word on his hands.
Matt: Okay. So it's 1d4 plus six. She's rolling it.
Marisha: Ooh! 11.
Travis: Hey, back to full!
Matt: So, the scarring stays for a bit. You do smell the burning flesh, but there's no lasting wounds on your hands.
Taliesin: You can check to see if there's a lock on the cellar door?
Liam: Yeah, sure.
Travis: We gotta make it across the lawn first.
Laura: Well, we're in the back of the house.
Liam: Well, we're all just walking very quietly.
Laura: We're stealthing.
Matt: So, everyone make a stealth check.
Taliesin: We have advantage?
Matt: No, everyone gets plus ten to their stealth. You have disadvantage on the stealth check, though.
Sam: Plus ten.
Matt: Yes, plus ten to your stealth roll.
Sam: 17.
Travis: 23.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 32.
Marisha: 34.
Taliesin: 26!
Matt: All righty. You guys all keeping low and quickly darting across the grass field. You make your way, pattering across the somewhat slick grass. The rain is a little warmer than the frost that kept the grounds frozen as the morning came to. So, it's a little slick, but you make your way to the back of the building. You're still loosely out in the open, in a weird way, so you don't want to be out in the open for a long period of time. This isn't a safe place. You're currently, apparently made it to this side of the building unnoticed. But you don't want to stay here very long because you are visible to anyone who's on either side of the gate exterior.
Liam: I'm going straight to the cellar door.
Laura: Up against the wall of the building.
Liam: I give it a little (clunk) to see what I feel.
Matt: It is locked. It does gives resistance.
Liam: I get to work.
Marisha: Do your thing.
Laura: I feel like it's been a while since you've done this.
Liam: Did what?
Laura: Lockpicking.
Liam: I already did it earlier when you weren't here. 14, that's 27.
Matt: 27. You reach over, without even looking. You grab the lock; you're familiar with this kind of lock. (clicking) You take the lock off the chain. The chains fall loose against the opposite side of the, or the inside of the door. You pull it open. It's dark inside. You can see the dry stone steps that lead down below the building as rain starts darkening them with drops that are hitting them.
Liam: I lean my head in really fast and just see if I can hear anything, and roll a one.
Laura: Could I stealth in a couple of steps look around and see if there's anybody in there, or hear anything?
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: No, I said it's good! It's good! Let's go! Right? You agree. We're never wrong!
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. Listening to the inside. The smell's a little musty, like a cellar you'd expect. But a little bit of dust and untouched earth. There's nothing down there; no movement, no sound.
Laura: It's clear, let's go! Ish!
Matt: You all drop in. Darting into-- which is good, because you notice around the corner one of the giants is turning the corner. You all dive inside, close the cellar doors. Bringing you to the interior.
Laura: I wonder if they're going to notice that fence.
Sam: They might.
Matt: You hear the pattering of rain across the wooden doors of the cellar. You made your way down underneath. And it is pitch black. There is no light source down here.
Liam: I pull out my Flametongue Dagger.
Matt: Okay. A little bit of flame causes enough candlelight to see the surface. And it is a wine cellar.
Travis: I have Darkvision.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and use my flaming hands.
Matt: Okay, so with an instant of will, all of a sudden flames burst around-- [no audio]
Matt: -- is a small ladder in the corner that seems to lead up to a latched door that leads to the interior of the house.
Laura: I got up to it and listen.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I don't hear anything, you guys. I think it's fine!
Liam: My ears are bigger than yours. Let me have a listen. Get down.
Laura: Yeah! Your ears are huge compared to mine!
Liam: Definitely, look at them!
Matt: Your sister assures you she heard--
Laura: There's nothing there!
Liam: I don't hear anything, either. I think we should just bust in.
Sam: Okay!
Travis: Wait.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly!
Marisha: Wait, hang on! Grog just said wait!
Liam: I keep forgetting the rogue skill, so really I rolled a 20.
Sam: Wait, what? You rolled a three and it becomes a 20?!
Liam: For perception, I can no longer roll lower than ten, unless I roll a one. But if it's a two or nine, it's actually a ten for me.
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: Rogues are pretty cool.
Taliesin: That's crazy.
Laura: Yep, rogues are awesome.
Travis: Rogues are whatever.
Matt: So you put your ear up to it and listen carefully. And you hear pacing footsteps creaking against wood no more than maybe four feet away from you.
Liam: Is that one person?
Matt: One person stops and then moves again, then moves again almost like there's pacing, and you hear low voices. It's a conversation; there's two voices. You hear one voice very muffled, but it seems to be similar to the voice of the gentleman that came across you guys on the street that actually briefly talked to Percy the day before.
Liam: The old guy; the balding guy?
Matt: The balding guy with the long stringy gray hair.
Liam: He's just reporting in. He's his frigging money collector.
Matt: The other voice you don't recognize, and it's too muffled for you to make out anything. About four feet from you, not over the cellar, but off a ways to it. You're not certain where this doorway leads to, the level of muffling you can hear through the floor leads you to believe that they're not directly above you.
Liam: Not directly above. All right. There's nobody right above us, but there's people in the house.
Laura: They might be close.
Travis: Just to be clear--
Liam: No, they're on another floor or in another room.
Travis: Before we start  we're killing everything, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Do we want to send one person out sneaky and then have a code word like Cheeto if it all goes wrong?
Marisha: Last time we did that, it went really well.
Travis: Did we do that before?
Liam: No, we didn't send anyone, I just--
Taliesin: Let's just go one room at a time.
Sam: One room at a time? We have to get up through this latch and there's people right above us!
Liam: Scanlan, you or me? You want to go invisible, or do you want me to creep in?
Sam: I think you should have some fun, too. But before we do anything, do you want me to send a cloud up there of gross smoke to smoke out the area?
Liam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Taliesin: Let's not let them know we're here.
Laura: Wait, before we do this. Keyleth, can you maybe make the gate outside not look like it's all bent to shit?
Liam: Zombie guards aren't going to-- giants are stupid.
Sam: It'll be fine.
Liam: They're stupid. I mean, there are the guys out front.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: It's fine!
Sam: What could go wrong? This is a stealth mission. We'll be in and out of here in six minutes if we do this right. Let's go! Go, go!
Marisha: Wait, are you going in? Are you infiltrating?
Liam: I'll go up and see what I see. Just above us, not far away.
Marisha: I touch Vax's shoulder and I cast Enhance Ability and I'm going to give you dex saves-- what do you want?
Liam: I'm good on that.
Marisha: What do you want advantage on?
Liam: Not dexterity. Constitution. I'm feeling a little weak.
Marisha: All right. Constitution.
Matt: What's this for?
Marisha: Enhance Ability. So I think it's called Bear's Constitution or something weird.
Matt: Advantage on constitution checks. Those are different from saving throws.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Checks.
Matt: But it does give him 2d6 temporary hit points, but those do not stack with the current temporary hit points you have. Constitution would not be of much benefit to you.
Travis: We could just set a fire down here.
Marisha: Okay. Do you want dex or anything?
Liam: I'm pretty dex-y already.
Marisha: Instead, I say, good luck.
Sam: Bonne chance! Vive la résistance!
Travis: All right.
Liam: I'm going to check and see if it gives at all or if there's anything to it.
Matt: (creak) It gives.
Liam: It gives. All right, so I'm going to go up.
Travis: Invisible or not?
Liam: No, stealthing up. All right. So, okay, hold on, I get advantage. 23.
Laura: Wait, no. Plus ten because Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 33.
Matt: 33. You move it up, without a sound, dart up, catch yourself and lower it down carefully. Dark interior, you use your Flametongue Dagger to look inside. You are inside of a closet of some kind, a ten by five closet. There are coats and outfits around you. You can push them aside. This looks to be like a small storage room that has been repurposed as a closet of some kind.
Liam: I am listening intently and feeling through as many pockets as I can find around me.
Matt: Easily enough. As you put your ear to the door, they are talking immediately on the other side of this door. You are a room adjacent to it. You do manage to pocket from a few of the coats about 47 gold pieces in total.
Marisha: Who leaves that much in their coat pockets?
Travis: Dead people, that's who.
Liam: Can I make anything out through there?
Matt: You make out conversation. It seems to be between a voice you don't recognize and the gentleman earlier you met, basically saying, "With everything that's going on now, it's honestly very frustrating that these people wouldn't do their share of the bargain. I, myself, I've been doing my best to keep them in order, but at this point in time, I think we need to do another show of strength in order to keep them working as hard as we have been." Another voice calms him down and says, "Don't worry, don't worry. Keep it under control. At the very least, we should have to be ready, prepared. If what Lady Briarwood says, we should be having visitors any day now. And I would hate to be caught flat-footed. So, we're going to go ahead and gather our arms, going to make sure that we outfit the place the best we can. Traps, alarms, whatever is necessary to make sure that we are not caught off-guard." (laughter)
Marisha: This is about to be hilarious!
Matt: You guys came at just about the right time.
Liam: I'd like to-- everybody hold.
Sam: Hold?
Laura: Hold.
Liam: I just want to wait for one minute and see what progresses.
Matt: Okay. The conversation continues. The older gentleman begins talking about, "I don't like the idea of there being any sort of conflict on our home turf. I wish they would just meet them out, head them off, cut them off at the head. Why did we invite them in here? That seems to be a dangerous circumstance."
Liam: While they're talking I say  we've got two gentlemen up here.
Sam: Two gentlemen!
Laura: Okay. I start climbing the--
Liam: I think it's time to start killing.
Sam: Grog up first!
Marisha: Places everyone, places!
Laura: Grog up before me.
Travis: It's opening night and I'm so excited! (laughter)
Matt: Stealth checks all around.
Laura: Plus ten!
Liam: Send up the goliath.
Marisha: That's good!
Travis: 29!
Sam: 18.
Laura: Plus ten!
Sam: That was plus ten.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: 34.
Matt: All righty. You all slowly make your way up. There's not enough room for all of you inside this room, this storage space.
Laura: Grog first.
Matt: Grog, you go up, you push open the door into the next room and it is a-- for lack of a better term, a music room. There's a few couches around, there's a piano set up.
Liam: Oh, it went closet to music room?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh, we're opening the door?
Matt: You guys are opening a door to a room next to-- the wall you were listening to is the room next to you. This opens up into a room adjacent.
Marisha: A music room! How regal!
Matt: So, as you push out into the room, it's dark in here. The only light that's coming in is from the nearby window. A little bit of sun's coming through from the rainstorm. You can still hear the rain pattering on the window and the second floor above you, there is no sound from the rain hitting the roof from this distance.
Liam: Dart my eyes around. Is there anything that's useful in here?
Matt: Not particularly; it's mostly decorative. Few vases, some books on the shelf. There is a door that is partially open that leads into hallway. A hallway that seems to connect the two rooms.
Liam: Which way are the voices coming from?
Matt: Yeah. The door is the opposite of the window and the room that you're in is adjacent to the room that the voices are coming from. The closet is in between the two.
Liam: Oh, between the two. So it is out, door, hallway?
Matt: Yes, out, door, hallway, and then the room where the speaking is coming from.
Sam: Do you want me to create a diversion of some sort? No?
Laura: Just run in, surprise him.
Sam: Are we going to go around?
Liam: So, we're stealthing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I pull both of their hands and I say--
Sam: Who's they?
Liam: Grog and Keyleth. I start pulling them through-- that's all right. Out the door. Along the hallway towards the voices.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Matt, that's a lot of maps you have down there.
Laura: Really? Really?! I'm offended. And I'm hurt.
Marisha: I look back at Vex and I just go--
Laura: I give you the worst evil eye I've ever given anyone.
Liam: Too bad one's going that way and the other's going that way.
Sam: As they go, I quickly lock eyes with Grog and I give him a quick little inspiration. (singing) Blood, glorious blood! Grog's about to take some. Dead dudettes and dudes, Grog's about to make some! (laughter)
Matt: All right, so take a d10 inspiration die. So, the three of you move on ahead. The rest of you-- Trinket is unable to climb.
Sam: Oh! Can I? Trinket  stay. (laughter)
Laura: I smack the back of your head again. And it's hard because I'm angry right now.
Travis: Do you have any of your rings on? Turn them inside and (impact noise).
Marisha: It's the mom slap, exactly! It's the grandma backhand.
Matt: All right, the three of you stand at the double doors. You moved around to the hallway. Is there a change to this arrangement that you would like? You currently have Grog, Vax, and Keyleth at the front, and three of you in the back.
Laura: Yeah, I want to stealth in behind Grog after they go into the room.
Matt: All right, so there you are. I'll put you on the side of the door there. You hear the voices from the other side of the door conversing and talking back and forth. Scanlan, Percy.
Marisha: Oh my god. Someone say something cool!
Matt: What's the plan?
Liam: I put my hand up in the air.
Sam: de Rolos, roll out!
Liam: And I click my boots together. (click) Feel that adrenaline rush.
Travis: I rage.
Liam: And I kick the door as hard as I can and go right in!
Marisha: (scream and cheer)
Taliesin: (scream and cheer)
Sam: (scream and cheer)
Matt: (impact noise) The door swings open, both of them slamming into the sides of these two bookcases. Immediately, you see behind the desk here and standing in the center.
Liam: It's Kiefer Sutherland.
Matt: You see the older gentleman in these long robes immediately spin his head and see, essentially, a troupe of armed villagers, peasants, dirty faces come rushing in. all fucked up eyes and all. Rushing into the room. They both turn, looking completely caught off-guard by this. You do also see in the room, there are a few guards that are just waiting off to the side. There's a couch area, there's a fireplace.
Marisha: Of course. Damn guards.
Matt: You guys get a surprise round.
Marisha: That's right!
Matt: So, let's go ahead and roll initiative to get the order of things here.
Travis: Advantage on initiative because I have that thing.
Sam: Are you alert? Do you have Alert? Is that what it is?
Travis: I have Feral Instinct.
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Which I forget sometimes. That's better.
Sam: (sing with the battle music)
Laura: (sing with the battle music)
Matt: All right, so 25 to 20?
Travis: 20!
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Sam: 16!
Laura: Whoa! Look at you, Scanlan!
Sam: Better figure out what I'm going to do!
Matt: So, Scanlan is 16. 15 to ten?
Liam: 13.
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 13.
Liam: Half-elves!
Matt: Ten to five? Is that everyone?
Laura: That's all of us.
Matt: That's everyone, yeah.
Marisha: Bitches gonna die!
Matt: All righty! First, surprise round from all of you guys, catching them off-guard. Up first is Percy.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to pull into that empty-- Oh, I've got a button, don't I? I'm going to pull into that corner right there?
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: And I'm going to take two shots at that soldier in the corner, that guard.
Matt: Okay. The guards, you can see, are wearing dark studded leather armor, no cloaks. Both have rapiers or stilettos, daggers on their sides. They look at the sudden intrusion and begin going for their weapons. You caught them off guard.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit.
Taliesin: That's just a d10, where are my d10s? That's nine points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Another shot to him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That's a misfire. I'm going to do a quick repair. And that's fine.
Matt: Does the repair take an action?
Taliesin: No, it takes a--
Matt: Okay, so you're fine. It does not break. Cool. That's your turn. One shot off. The blast rings out. As you fire the pepperbox, it misfires, and you quickly throw one of your tools in the air, catch it, and with one swift movement you unblock the passageway, click it back up into its place. Out of the corner of your eye, you turn, and for the first time in five years, you see, standing behind the desk, Sir Kerrion Stonefell. Visually, nearly the same as the last day you saw, except maybe a bit of white on the sides of the hair. Armored with a nice set of relatively ornate leather armor, blue hues and blacks. The hair itself is this tousled brown. There's a boyish charisma to him, if he wasn't such an asshole. And the moment you see him, there's this boiling rage from within just to have that moment of sight.
Taliesin: If you're lucky, you die last.
Matt: There's a look of complete confusion, as he has no idea who any of you are. You look like paupers that literally burst into his office. That ends your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I hear him say that he has to die last, and in my rage, I race forward to that fuck in the middle of the room and I swing my Firebrand Warhammer at him twice!
Matt: All righty!
Travis: I would make to make this first one a new feat called Great Weapon Master.
Matt: All righty!
Sam: What does that do?
Matt: Minus five to hit.
Travis: I'm going to use my-- no, not on that one. That misses.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: A two! So that's 11. Yeah, that misses.
Matt: That definitely misses. As you swing in, (nervous yell) just ducks out of the way, and even though he's older, he reacted pretty quickly. Your weapon slams into the ground, splintering some of the wood. You peel back for a second attack.
Travis: That makes me even angrier. And now I'll use inspiration. 18... minus five, 23!
Matt: 23 does hit! Plus ten damage.
Travis: Okay. Plus eight is 13, 17, 27!
Matt: 27 points of damage, ooh!
Travis: Plus four for the fire damage, but still the 27 total.
Matt: So, as he ducks out of the way, you bring up the hammer a second time and (whack) smack him right square in the chest. (grunts) The wind escapes him for a moment and the flames lick across the front of his chest. He catches himself on the table between the sofa and chair behind him. Gets back on his feet. Looks to you for a second and pulls out two short swords.
Travis: That's the best thing you could have ever done.
Matt: "I don't know who you are, but you're going to regret this!"
Laura: What does Grog look like?
Matt: Grog looks like an oafish butcher. Tubby on the sides, an oldish, middle-aged looking man. Scruffy beard. Scanlan does his best on that one. Whatever other visual you want to--
Sam: Potbelly.
Matt: Huge potbelly. Grog, that ends your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. In theory, it is a surprise round. So you may have had advantage on that first strike, so go ahead and roll it.
Travis: (screams) 26. Minus five is 21.
Laura: 23. No, you're right.
Travis: Yeah. 21.
Matt: Roll damage again. We'll say this is an additional third strike in reaction to him pulling his blades out.
Travis: 32.
Sam: Jesus! God!
Matt: (wham) The hammer slams him a second time and he almost drops his weapons. The actual end table he's resting on shatters beneath him and he, (grunts) has to get back up onto his feet. Looking genuinely fearful now. That ends your turn.
Travis: You dropped your toothpicks.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay, so he's been attacking the old guy.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Those two flanking the big boss are just guards, right? They're just standard-issue guards?
Matt: Best you can tell, they're both in studded leather armor. They don't look like guards, like armored, they look like thugs that are essentially there to watch.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to run in the room.
Matt: About how far in?
Sam: Make a left. I'm sorry, turn right, away from the action. And then I'll look at the guard behind and to the right of the big guy.
Matt: That guy there.
Sam: The good guy-- the bad guy.
Marisha: You got it.
Matt: That guy there?
Sam: No, this guy over here. And I'll Dominate him.
Marisha: Is that also a guard? There are three guards?
Taliesin: There are three guards.
Matt: All right, you're going to attempt to Dominate Person.
Sam: Yes. I pull up my hand cone and I say, (singing) You're as cold as ice! Willing to sacrifice your boss! And so I tell him to kill his boss. (laughter)
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Wisdom. He rolled a 17. That's a fail.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: He is currently Dominated by Scanlan.
Travis: (singing) Cold as ice!
Matt: Good to know. So, as he pulls his heavy crossbow out, loads it, and aims it towards you, looks over his shoulder for a second, and trains it on his boss. Sir Kerrion looking confused by this whole circumstance.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: That ends your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, take your surprise rounds now.
Laura: Can I go first so I don't do any damage to you guys if you guys go in?
Marisha: I'm also probably going to do a ranged spell.
Liam: What are you guys talking about? Kill him!
Laura: I want to go in, peek my head in and shoot-- first, I'm going to shoot from my Longbow of Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to use-- it turns into three arrows for one of my attacks, so it's three more attacks, potentially?
Matt: Well, it's two additional attacks against the one arrow. So you'd get four attacks in one round, essentially.
Sam: Good god!
Laura: Okay! I'm going to do that! I'm going to attack him, the guy.
Matt: Which guy?
Laura: The bad guy.
Matt: There's two bad guys in there.
Laura: The one that's in charge. Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion? All right, go for it.
Laura: Yeah! 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Laura: Okay, so I make an attack for all three arrows.
Matt: Correct. That was one of them. You fire it, it splits into three along the way, and you roll for each attack on each arrow.
Laura: Oh, that one doesn't hit. Well, probably not. 13?
Matt: No.
Laura: 18?
Matt: 18 unfortunately does not hit, either.
Laura: Jeez Louise, what a waste of a storm arrow.
Matt: And you still get a fourth attack with your second--
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Hunter's Mark?
Laura: That was the wrong thing. I can't; I'm going to Hunter's Mark him after this first one because it's a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Laura: What am I doing? 14, 15, 16, and then plus another d6, so it's basically like Hunter's Mark, right?
Travis: Nobody knows what you're doing. (laughter)
Matt: So the first arrow does an additional lightning damage.
Laura: 19 is the first one. And then I attack again. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him now. Can I do that?
Matt: You haven't used your bonus action, so yes you can. Two eyes going all--
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29 does hit, yes.
Laura: I'm so confused right now.
Liam: Us, too.
Laura: I know. 14 on the second one.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. So your arrows split, two of them embedding into the actual desk itself and exploding with a burst of electricity. A third one strikes him in the chest and you can see it stick in the armor and (boof) jolt him for a second. He backs up a little bit, catching himself on the edge of the desk as the final arrow comes and strikes him in the shoulder. He cuts off the shaft of the arrow as it hits (grunts) out of anger and frustration.
Laura: I totally shit the bed on that one, guys, and I apologize. I had things I wanted to do.
Sam: After she does that, I say  that was my grandma! (laughter)
Laura: That's right, boy!
Matt: This little boy.
Travis: Adding to the confusion.
Matt: Do you want to move at all? You would've had to move into the room to do that shot because you were outside in the hallway.
Laura: Huh?
Matt: You were in the hallway when that happened, so I'd say you'd have to be in the room to shoot them. Where would you want to be?
Laura: Oh, just right inside the door.
Matt: Right there in the door?
Marisha: What kind of armor is Sir Kerrion wearing?
Matt: Best you can tell, it looks like a very high quality studded leather.
Marisha: Studded leather?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can I say I peeked in to shoot and then went back around the side of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Keyleth, Vax.
Liam: Is it up to us?
Matt: You guys are the last ones to go.
Liam: Go.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to cast Call Lightning. And I'm going to bring down a bolt. Here we go. This way. Right in between Sir Kerrion and this guard so they both have to save from it.
Sam: Take that, Sir Korea!
Marisha: Yeah!
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell.
Matt: As a thing of note, a storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that is ten feet tall with a 60-foot radius centered on a point you can see in the air.
Marisha: Oh, so it's going to--
Matt: The room won't fit it, unfortunately.
Marisha: The room won't fit my storm cloud?
Taliesin: That sounds like a great song.
Matt: It says if you're in a room that can't accommodate the cloud, it can't appear.
Marisha: Pooper muffin. Okay. Well, then.
Matt: If you want to consider your next move, Vax can go.
Marisha: Yeah, go Vax.
Liam: I am running straight towards what's-his-name, Kerrion? Is at the desk, so I just run right towards the desk, I step against the desk, leap up in the air and go (stabbing sound) into his shoulders.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah, no, I'm on the desk in front of him, going for his chest.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First, and I get advantage on everything is a-- It's a 30! And this is surprise attack, so it's a critical hit plus the sneak attack damage. This guy is going down! One plus seven is eight-- what gets doubled?
Matt: Just the dice.
Liam: Just the dice? But not the sneak attack damage?
Matt: No, the sneak attack damage, as well, but just the modifiers don't get doubled.
Liam: Okay. So that was-- okay, two plus seven is nine. Nine, ten, 11, 12, 18, 23, 29, 33, 66 for the first attack, darling.
Sam: 66?!
Liam: 66! Here comes the second dagger into him at advantage.
Marisha: 66?!
Matt: Surprise rounds.
Liam: Is 28, so that obviously hits. And that is seven. And then the third dagger comes down. Is 29, and that also hits. So I've shanked his ass, that's an eight. (stabbing noises)
Sam: That's 15, is 70-- is 81.
Matt: Yep. 81 points of damage in one round of combat. As you land on the desk, your daggers bypass the armor and they find their way through the top of the armor and sink past the clavicles into the deep portion of the chest. He (choking noise) from the impact and you hear him choke and blood splatters up from his throat. He reaches up and grabs your hands and lifts them off out of the wound. You see a gout of blood pour from the wound as you reach back and stab him a third time with the dagger as you catch yourself on the desk. He reaches up and kicks you, forcing you to get back on your feet with your daggers at the ready. The blood's beginning to pour. It's not a mortal wound, but it's looking really bad for him. He's not on death's door, but that definitely took him down a few pegs.
Liam: I give him a Vex wink.
Matt: (laughs) He looks at you and growls. Draws two rapiers from his side.
Travis: Two rapiers?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: He draws two rapiers? Do we get any indication by what we just saw if he might be a vampire or something?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: I can make an insight check? Ooh, yeah! 27.
Matt: 27. Nothing yet has given away any sort of essence of that. He doesn't look particularly pale.
Taliesin: He's also aged. He's a bit peppered.
Marisha: Yeah, he has aged.
Matt: He definitely looks wounded and unhappy.
Liam: Can I ask a technical question?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: According to Assassinate, any hit I score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit. Any hit. So are the two subsequent attacks--
Matt: After the first hit--
Liam: That's sneak attack. This says, "in addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit."
Matt: Right. Okay.
Sam: Any? He wouldn't be surprised after the first one.
Matt: I'm usually under the impression that after the first hit, they're no longer surprised. They know you're there.
Liam: Okay. Okay. Got it.
Travis: (grunts) Ow! (grunts) Ow?!
Liam: Well, I thought they were like 0.3 seconds apart, so I thought it was so fast.
Matt: That's true. I'll allow it.
Travis: Oh!
Taliesin: What?!
Travis: Double what?
Liam: Double the last two attacks. Which were much less.
Sam: It was 15, so it becomes 30.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, he's not happy. Really not happy. Okay. All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: All right, I'm going to do some fun shit. So seeing Vax go up and get next to Lord Kerrion or whatever the shit his name is. I'm going to go and turn into a dire wolf this time. Mixing it up from Minxie.
Taliesin: That's like a normal wolf.
Marisha: But slightly bigger.
Taliesin: But dire.
Marisha: But dire. It's white, a wintery wolf from the mountains that I'm from.
Matt: You are now filling up the entirety of the double-door frame right now.
Marisha: I'm going to rush and use my pack tactics and flank Lord Kerrion.
Matt: At your size, you can't quite get to him, unfortunately. You can try and move around this way, maybe. You will probably take an attack of opportunity from this guy, but you can try and move around.
Marisha: Oh, from a random shithead? Yeah, let's do it.
Matt: What's your movement?
Marisha: 50 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that. You move around and you get over there.
Marisha: Is that flanking?
Matt: It's not flanking, no. Yeah, it's not flanking per se. I mean, you're adjacent to him. You'd have to be on opposite sides to flank.
Marisha: I know, that's what I was trying to get. All right. Well, then, since Vax has that guy, I'll go for this guy. Take him out.
Matt: Okay. So you move into that guy there.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: That is the most peasant-looking direwolf ever.
Matt: Yeah, this little peasant girl just went (growls).
Marisha: Ooh, that was a 19 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Marisha: Okay, 2d6 plus three. That's not great, four, five, six, seven, eight piercing damage, and then do I also-- oh, and he has to make a DC 13 strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
Matt: He rolled a 12.
Marisha: (cheers) So he's down.
Matt: He's knocked prone. How much damage was it?
Marisha: Not a lot. What did I say, six?
Matt: Six points of piercing damage?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: He's knocked prone. (impact sound) Falls on the ground.
Marisha: Do I get my fiery stuff for that?
Matt: What attack was it? Was it bite?
Marisha: Bite.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. Okay, he's down.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All right. That ends the surprise round. Now we're at the top again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take one step forward. I'm going to shoot that guard once, one more time.
Matt: The one over here?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Fuck it, I'm going to try sharpshooter. And that's 14, 15, 21 to hit?
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: That'll do 19 points of damage. Actually, that's more than 19 points, because it's a fire shot, so 19 plus two, so 21 points, with two points of fire damage in there.
Matt: 21 points of damage. All right, (gunshot sound) you fire. There's a burst of flame that gouts out the side of the pepperbox, (impact sound) blasting into the chest of the guard off to the side. He's thrown against the wall from the sheer force of it. Reaches down and grabs his chest and looks at it, and you can see there's this red crimson across his hand, as you've actually blown a piece of his leather armor open and you can see the wound in his chest. There's a little bit of blood trickling out of his mouth, and he looks angry at you.
Taliesin: I'm shooting him again. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's 17.
Matt: 17 hits.
Marisha: Nice.
Taliesin: That's 21 points of damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage, nice. (gunshot) You blast him, this time on the other side of the shoulder, you can see now this armor is now torn open exposing the wound here and his arm's now hanging to one side. He's (grunts). He's looking in severe pain and barely hanging on at this point.
Taliesin: Fall, damn it. Shooting him again.
Marisha: Kill him!
Taliesin: That's 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit. It hits.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Eight points of damage. All right, this is the final one as he's looking at himself; he's like (pained noises), angrily looks at you, picks his crossbow up and aims it at you. Before he gets a chance to, you aim your third shot, (gunshot) firing, hitting him right in the center of the head, (impact noise) blasting out part of his face, his body spins, and then he falls over into the plant in the corner, slumped over it there.
Taliesin: I finish walking almost into the corner over there, right next to him, about there. Spend an action surge, taking three more shots at Kerrion.
Sam: Whoa.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Damn.
Taliesin: This is a sharpshooter round.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 19, 26 to hit.
Matt: 26 hits.
Marisha: Do you crit on a 19?
Taliesin: I don't crit on a 19.
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Oh, that'll do. 24 points of damage plus a point of ice damage. So, 25 points of damage.
Matt: Plus an additional d6 points of damage for that.
Taliesin: Yay! Because he's an asshole. That's six more points of damage.
Matt: So, as you go around and fire from the barrel, the shot fires out. And as you recoil you guys, for those who are noticing off to the side, this dark smoke's beginning to slowly pour out of Percy's body, out of his eyes and his ears and the hand on the gun. There's black smoke beginning to emit from his body and beginning to envelop the gun arm.
Sam: What?
Marisha: We all see this?
Matt: For those who are paying attention, which right now would be pretty much just Scanlan and Vex.
Sam: You're weird.
Taliesin: So you don't see shit. Shut up.
Marisha: I'm not crazy! No, and I'm at this guy's throat.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a quick reload, and I'm going to fire again, with Sharpshooter, and I'm going to do a head shot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So, I'm going to attempt to make him have issues doing things. Natural 20. (cheering)
Travis: The golden snitch strikes again!
Marisha: Yeah, it did! I can see it from here!
Matt: Damn!
Taliesin: I swear it's-- yeah.
Matt: With the additional d6, by the way.
Taliesin: What?
Matt: With the additional d6.
Taliesin: Does the d6 double or does it not double?
Matt: All dice rolled double. Then add the modifier.
Taliesin: This is going to be angry.
Marisha: Yeah it is!
Liam: Gunslinger warlock.
Taliesin: So.
Marisha: That's pretty "grood."
Taliesin: 42 points of damage. Of fire damage. 42 points, and that's with 5 points of fire damage. 42 points.
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) The first blast hits and you can see the cloak is blown off the shoulder and set aflame and actually burns to cinders in the corner. Sir Kerrion looks down and is like (grunts), and is looking very, very curiously. The second shot rings out (gunshot), and at this point now the smoke is wreathing your entire arm, the gun isn't even visible, it's just this giant column of smoke. (gunshot) The second shot rings out, this time hitting him in the side of the neck and the shoulder, blowing a chunk off of it so part of the bone is now sticking out it's like (noise of pain). He reaches back with his arm and is like with the rapier up, clutching it for a second and leans over and looks back over and is (pained panting) "Ripley."
Taliesin: Just as an action, as a bonus action, I'm going to remove my hat, and I'm just going to say: Drop it.
Sam: Will this take an action?
Matt: To drop the spell? You can do it on your turn.
Taliesin: On your turn, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I think that's next.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: He thinks it's Ripley. He thinks it's Ripley with the gun! Ripley's building guns!
Laura: It's Ripley that's doing the guns!
Marisha: Fucking Ripley!
Matt: So. That finishes Percy's turn. It is now Sir Kerrion Stonefell's turn. Kerrion's going to use a bonus action to use Second Wind.
Sam: Oh no, that's some sort of healing thing isn't it?
Taliesin: That's healing. It's not much healing.
Marisha: Wait, who's doing what?
Sam: He has 6,000 health points.
Marisha: Kerrion's healing? Is it a regeneration thing or is he casting a spell?
Taliesin: No, it's a fighter action.
Matt: And that was with the head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, it was with a head shot. So that means he has disadvantage on attacks for one round.
Matt: And deals damage, right?
Taliesin: And deals damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm a good boy.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is going to, in the circumstance, is going to move this way just to hide alongside Vax, and since you're on top-- his both rapiers out, and you just jammed your daggers in, is going to do a flurry of four strikes against you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: With disadvantage on all the attacks.
Travis: His clavicles sticking out of his shoulders.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I'll use Uncanny Dodge for the first one that hits.
Matt: 16, the first attack?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right. Rolled a one on the second. That is a 21 on the third attack. And, no, that's a 14 on the fourth attack. That disadvantage just-- swinging wide, gets one hit on you.
Travis: Get that clavicle; be working.
Liam: Yeah, Uncanny Dodge on that attack.
Matt: That is eight points of piercing damage against you.
Liam: So, four.
Sam: Ooh! That's nothing!
Liam: That's nothing.
Matt: That finishes Sir Kerrion. Sir Kerrion is now going to--
Sam: Turn invisible.
Matt: He's actually going to take a step back towards the wall. You get an attack of opportunity.
Liam: All right. I throw a dagger in his face.
Matt: All right.
Liam: That is a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That is eight points of damage.
Matt: All righty. Steps back and slams his fist against the wall (thudding).
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Wait, who did that?
Laura: Kerrion.
Travis: Kerrion.
Laura: He's calling in backup.
Marisha: Wait, he's calling in backup? Shit.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, that ends Kerrion's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I keep smashing shithead that's in front of me!
Matt: Okay, go for it!
Travis: That's 24. These are just regular.
Matt: Yeah, 24 hits.
Travis: Oh, I should roll the other one first. Again, 24.
Matt: 24 hits. Are you going into a frenzied rage?
Travis: Regular rage. 23 on the first one.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And 12 on the second.
Matt: Gotcha. (whack) Is this with the fire damage as well from the hammer?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yeah. so the hammer strikes across the back, the broadside of his shoulders and back. (grunts) Looks up at you and looks over at Sir Kerrion being annihilated behind the desk and is trying to nervously gauge his circumstance. Second strike smacks him upside his body and he's like (panting) and he's trying to take in the surroundings and figure out a plan. All right, are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: It is now Master Vouk's turn.
Sam: Who?
Matt: You have not heard his name yet, but it's his turn.
Travis: The guy I've been smacking.
Taliesin: Mr. Rogaine.
Laura: I'm picturing him as what's-his-name in--
Taliesin: From Harry Potter.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Yeah. I know, me too.
Travis: Mr. Filch?
Taliesin: Filch. Filch on steroids.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's going to use a-- okay. He's going to use a bonus action to disengage from you. He's going to back away just one step that way. Use his action to--
Laura: He has magic?!
Marisha: Oh, he's going to Dimension Door out.
Laura: But Mr. Filch doesn't have magic.
Travis: Yeah, he's a squib!
Laura: He's a squib! Squibs can't do magic.
Travis: He knows this. He's making origami.
Taliesin: Don't you get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Actually, instead, he's not going to use bonus action to disengage, he's going to use a bonus action to use Misty Step. Vanishes, reappears over by the wall. Uses the action to cast a level three Invisibility on both him and Sir Kerrion Stonefell. So they are both considered invisible at the moment.
Travis: With the Missy Elliot step, I don't get an attack?
Matt: Not from that, unfortunately; it's an immediate teleport. So he just vanishes from in front of you.
Travis: What the fuck?!
Matt: We'll say, for the purposes of this, they are both currently invisible. And that's going to end--
Taliesin: That soldier hasn't attacked yet, either.
Matt: Correct, his turn hasn't come up yet. Now it becomes Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Oh. Well, I can't see anyone who's alive who I haven't Dominated already, except for the guy under the dire wolf. I will remind all my fellows to keep one alive to spread our terrorist message and I will run out to the hallway and say, Vex, get inside. Because I know reinforcements are coming, I cast Stinking Cloud out into the hallways.
Matt: Okay. Stinking Cloud appears. What's the radius on that?
Sam: (singing) Stinking Cloud!
Matt: I think it's a 20-foot radius, isn't it?
Sam: It says 90-feet range, let's see here. 20-foot radius.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you just filled this entire hallway.
Sam: Yeah. Will it seep into the room as well?
Matt: You can keep it localized to that area, you'll just be in your own cloud.
Sam: Oh. Well, can I stop just short of the door?
Matt: You stop just short of the door and fill this whole area with a Stinking Cloud.
Sam: Sorry, Vex.
Taliesin: You can hold that action until she comes into the room.
Sam: Okay, I will hold that until she comes in the room.
Matt: Okay. So Stinking Cloud is not yet up. Okay.
Sam: Laura's next, I believe.
Matt: So, next round. You are up next.
Sam: And I will inspire her, as well.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Do you want a d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. (singing) Vex be nimble, Vex be quick! Vex jump under limbo stick! Now you don't know how you're going to react because Vex has an attack! Oi!
Travis: Amazing! How?! God! I don't get it!
Matt: You take your d10 inspiration. Confused, but accept the inspiration. A chuckle in the middle of a hearty battle is always worth a little inspiration.
Laura: All right, so I go in the room.
Matt: You step into the room. At that point, you trigger your action to release the Stinking Cloud. You want to stay there? You're just outside of the radius.
Laura: Yeah, I stay in the doorway. Actually no, I back-- well.
Matt: What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, I'm staying right there. I can't see; is there a soldier right there next to the invisible guys, or is it just the invisible guys?
Travis: On that wall, it's soldier being eaten by Keyleth, and then invisible.
Sam: There two invisibles, and then another soldier who I have already Dominated. He still hasn't had a turn?!
Matt: Surprise round, and they're lowest on the initiative count.
Laura: Actually, I'm going to do Lightning Arrow because that gets everything within ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on the soldier on the ground.
Matt: Which one?
Travis: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Laura: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Matt: I will say you don't really have visual on him from that position.
Laura: Can I move to a place where I get it?
Liam: Do a bank shot off the ceiling.
Matt: Now you can see, yeah.
Laura: Awesome. Let's do it from there.
Matt: Okay, go for it. You have advantage on the attack roll because he is prone.
Laura: Nice. 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 damage to him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then anything within ten feet has to make a dex save.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that including your brother?
Laura: Yeah, that's everything within ten feet.
Travis: It's also including invisible guys.
Matt: If it's ten feet, he's not there. It'd just be Keyleth and Sir Kerrion.
Marisha: 22. 21!
Matt: Makes it, 21, actually, exactly.
Laura: 19 to little prone soldier.
Matt: Okay, 19. As it snaps and it bursts, the electricity shockwaves out, he shakes and on the ground takes in the effect. The blast seems to-- is it half damage if they make the save?
Laura: To the little prone guy?
Matt: No, it's to anybody within radius.
Laura: Anybody within radius takes 1d8 if they make the save and then 2d8 if they fail.
Matt: Okay, so roll 1d8.
Laura: One.
Matt: Okay. So one damage to you, and one damage to Sir Kerrion.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: You see a spark of energy around the invisible form as it wavers in place.
Travis: That's good; at least he (electricity noise) around some.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Vax?
Liam: I saw that spark in the air and I start knifing right into it.
Matt: All right. Was that the last thing you wanted to do with your turn?
Laura: Yeah. Does the Hunter's Mark damage him, the invisible guy, still, if he gets hit with anything? Or is it just if I attack him with an arrow?
Matt: I think if you attack him. That was more of the burst in the vicinity.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So, hearing him go (grunts) and seeing a spark right in front of me, I start knifing at that point.
Matt: All right. At disadvantage on all the attacks.
Liam: Disadvantage? But I get advantage, so it cancels out.
Matt: Why do you get advantage?
Liam: Oh, no, I don't. I'm sorry.
Matt: Disadvantage on weapon strikes because he's invisible.
Liam: The first one misses. That was it. So, the first two were terrible. That's terrible. That's also terrible. I whiff. I just (whooshing).
Matt: Yeah, you're swinging in the area, and you can't get blades to find any of his physical person. You're striking and arcing across the wooden wall behind him, causing these giant gashes. All right, that ends your turn.
Liam: Still bleeding!
Matt: Unless you want to stay where you are right there?
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stay there.
Matt: You probably would've had to move up there to attack him. Oh, you're just throwing the daggers, right?
Liam: I back up. Is Keyleth on the desk?
Sam: No, she's next to the desk.
Liam: And I'm on the desk? No, I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Okay, so you're just throwing the daggers from the desk? Okay, that ends your turn. Now, Keyleth.
Marisha: Looking up and noticing that Sir Kerrion is gone and Vax is blindly stabbing into the distance, I'm going to drop my wolf form and cast Faerie Fire in that radius.
Matt: Drop your wolf form.
Marisha: 20-foot cube.
Sam: Mark that shit.
Marisha: Right here.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Realizing my party members are clearly stabbing at something.
Taliesin: I like it when he has to go to the book. Makes me feel like there's, perhaps, things he doesn't know.
Sam: Faerie Fire is an underused thing. It's really cool.
Matt: Yeah, so both of their forms all of a sudden are outlined by this sparking purple halo that shows you directly where they are.
Sam: Yes!
Matt: All right. So that's your turn? You going to move anywhere?
Marisha: I'll back up a tidbit.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Just back up a smidge.
Matt: Okay, as you back up an invisible form that just got revealed swings out at you with a rapier, an attack of opportunity.
Marisha: Yeah, sure, whatever.
Taliesin: But, he's--
Matt: At disadvantage on the attack. He has advantage on her because he's-- although--
Marisha: I can see him now.
Matt: You can see him, that's true.
Laura: This is confusing!
Matt: Faerie Fire kind of made this weird.
Travis: To the books again!
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Faerie Fire always makes it weird.
Taliesin: Ain't it the truth? Man, that Faerie Fire.
Matt: Just a minute, folks. Lot of overlapping effects, here, because everyone has magic.
Sam: Now's a good time to go to the store and check out Critical Role t-shirt--
Matt: Yeah, it doesn't benefit from Invisible. It's at disadvantage. It has disadvantage on the attack. That is--
Sam: Brand new t-shirt for sale, guys.
Matt: And 15.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Yeah, so (whoosh) as you back up. All right. That ends your turn. Now, this guard gets up, (grunts) gets his crossbow, aims it up and, looking around the room, aims it, this would be-- seeing his friend turn on his boss briefly after you shouted that song at him, is going to turn the crossbow on you.
Sam: On me?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That's going to be a 16 to hit?
Sam: I don't even know any more. No one's attacked me in a while.
Taliesin: It's your AC.
Sam: It's 17.
Matt: 17!
Sam: Well, it's 15 plus two because I've got some thing on.
Marisha: You've got the amulet on.
Matt: All right. So, as it comes towards you, you just duck out of the way and it passes and snags into the wall behind you (arrow landing sound). No hit. The thug is then going to drop the crossbow on the ground and rushing up, pull out a mace that was hanging from the side of its belt and engage you right there.
Travis: I thought he was coming for me.
Sam: I thought so, too. That would have been good!
Matt: This guy is going to attempt to make two attacks against Master Vouk Strono. Has advantage on them because Faerie Fire. That hits. And, two attacks with a mace. That is 18. Yeah, hits with both. (whack whack) With the mace both times.
Marisha: Is that the guy who you charmed? Awesome.
Taliesin: Nice.
Sam: Wait. Who's this?
Liam: The guy you charmed.
Sam: That's not my guy, Matt.
Matt: That guy?
Sam: Oh, that guy there is, yeah. Oh wait, he's attacking my guy?
Matt: No, he's attacking the guy that's invisible. (laughter)
Matt: Doing a total of 16 damage with his mace. (whack whack) Bludgeoning. He's now going to try and make the saving throw to shrug it. What's the DC on that?
Sam: On my spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. Yeah, he does not make it. Still under control. That ends the thugs' turn. Top of the round. Percy, you're up!
Marisha: Go Percy, go Percy, go!
Taliesin: Sharpshooter against Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion, okay.
Taliesin: Do I have advantage on that because of Faerie Fire?
Matt: It does not benefit from invisibility and you have advantage. Yes, you do. Vox Machina: broken. (laughter)
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Marisha: That was with advantage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Pooper.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 does hit.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15. (gunshot) You see one blast hits the wall and causes part of the wood to splinter outward. The second shot impacts the partially invisible form. You can see a splash of blood across the desk in front. Partially spattering across Vax and one of his guards.
Taliesin: Third shot with ice. No sharpshooter. Natural 20!
Travis: What?!
Marisha: Percy rolls!
Travis: What the hell?!
Taliesin: It's making up for my gun failing four times.
Travis: Whatever, you possessed Voldemort.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: (laughing) Smoke arm.
Taliesin: Six, 16, 25, 31 points of damage. 31 points of damage with four points of that being ice damage.
Matt: So, Percy  how do you want to do this?
Travis: He said that weird.
Marisha: This against Kerrion, right?
Matt: This is against Sir Kerrion.
Sam: Wow! How do you want to do this? That's the logo that's on the shirt that's for sale right now.
Taliesin: Oh, stop it.
Travis: Is this the name on one of the barrels?
Matt: Percy.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this!
Sam: Too late.
Matt: Currently visible, at your disposal, Sir Kerrion. You have enough of a shot to finish him off. The smoke is pushing you, "Vengeance. Vengeance. Vengeance." Repeatedly echoing in the back of your mind. How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I'm going to put on the mask, since he still doesn't know who I am.
Matt: Okay. You pull the mask down, the bird-beaked element to the mask now wreathed in smoke, resembling, very closely, the entity that made the original bargain with you.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to him. Yeah, there's no way to drop the illusion. That's such a damn shame.
Sam: Oh wait, you told me to!
Taliesin: I did.
Sam: I could have; I didn't. Fuck! (laughs)
Marisha: Could you do it now, for flavor?
Taliesin: That's fine. The mask will do. I'm going to take one last shot. I'm going to look right at him, I'm going to catch his eye. This is for the de Rolos. And let me say: you were the one I was least looking forward to.
Travis: That's some cold shit!
Matt: With that, the little bit of wreathed magical energy you can barely make out an expression of horror on the face before the resounding blast sound rocks the room. The actual bullet itself a trail of black smoke behind it as it impacts the front of Sir Kerrion's face. The entirety of his head caving inward as the back splatters across the scarred wooden wall behind him. The body slumps to the ground immediately. You guys all glance over at Percy. You don't even see Percy, you just see a humanoid entity made of black swirling smoke energy with the peaked beak of his mask poking through.
Marisha: Not 100% sure what's going on. Can I take my Faerie Fire concentration that I still have up and move it over top of the black smoke figure?
Matt: Can you move a Faerie Fire?
Marisha: I don't know; can I move a Faerie Fire?
Matt: I think when you use it, it just stays where it was. Could be wrong, but I'm pretty sure that's how it works.
Marisha: 20 feet; is he in it, perchance?
Matt: From there, it's 20 foot, no. Not from where you placed it right on him, unfortunately. That's okay. Yeah, no, it just happens once.
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: With that, you recoil from it and the voice echoes in the back of your head, going "Yes."
Taliesin: I'm going to drop the gun.
Matt: You drop it (impact sound).
Taliesin: Remove my mask. Run to find something metal, something sharp, anywhere on the table. And just start scratching off the name on the gun. I'm just going to go to a corner and just start scratching the name off.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He's disturbed.
Matt: Okay, that's your turn.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is gone. Annihilated. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Percy's having all the fun. And I start smashing that fuck that's looking at Vax.
Matt: Right there, okay. So you move up to him, (whoosh) swinging the hammer wide.
Travis: Might as well make these great weapon master strikes, just for fucking why not. That's a 15.
Matt: 15 just hits.
Travis: Yeah, that's awesome. And the second one-- Yeah, that's pretty good. 28 minus five. 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: Okay. 15. 20 is the first one, with the fire damage. Oh!
Laura: Actually that's 30.
Travis: Yeah, 30 is the first one. Plus 10. And 13, 16, 26 for the second one.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, you can see, it's pulled out its mace and is swinging it in a wide arc towards Vax. As soon as you rush up, it looks to you out of the corner of the eye, drops the mace and before the mace can hit the ground, your hammer actually swings around, hits the mace, and then both your hammer and the mace slam into the side of his head, pushing him down onto the desk. Stunned, blood spatters across the wood as he's (gasping) twitching on the table, already done. And you swing the hammer, lift it up, (impact sound), like Gallagher performance, the head just (explosion noise). (groaning)
Laura: This is disgusting.
Liam: Happy Halloween, folks.
Travis: Great weapon master.
Matt: Vouk is currently looking very--
Sam: He's Vouk-ed.
Matt: Yeah, he's Vouk-ed. All right. Is going to cast Haste on himself and is going to run, dropping invisibility, and leaping through that window.
Laura: Doesn't the guard get a--
Matt: The guard gets an attack of opportunity, and Keyleth does. The guard has advantage. A three. No, the guard misses, with a mace.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Laura: Yeah! With your fire hands?
Marisha: No, it's with my staff, I'm assuming, right? Unless I wanted to deck him in the face.
Matt: No, this would be with your staff.
Marisha: This is with my staff, okay.
Matt: You just (whack).
Marisha: So it's five, so that's 11. I don't attack a lot. 13 damage.
Matt: 13 damage?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. As you smack him at that point--
Marisha: I just clothesline him. I see him running, I'm like (grunts).
Matt: It brings him exactly to zero. (cheering)
Matt: You whack him right in the face, knocking the teeth out, and he just falls to the ground. Unconscious and bleeding.
Sam: Good, yes, keep him alive.
Matt: All right. That ends his turn (laughs). Wow. Man. Surprise rounds, man. You guys are nasty. All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan's up?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: All right. I go run up to the guard I have dominated, and I just-- Is he still dominated, can I change the domination?
Matt: I mean, you can cancel it, but otherwise he's just--
Sam: I mean, can I change it from "kill your boss" to--
Travis: "Kill yourself."
Sam: To "give up"?
Matt: Yeah, you can tell him. You can't tell him to attack himself.
Sam: No, I will tell him--
Taliesin: You-- Oh, go ahead.
Sam: No, what?
Taliesin: I was going to say, tell him to go tell anybody else in the house everything's fine.
Sam: Oh. Ooh! That's good.
Travis: Yeah, because we should kill the more powerful guy.
Taliesin: Tell him that everything's fine.
Sam: Okay. You there, guard! Go tell everyone that everything's fine. Go into that Stinking Cloud out there and tell all your friends that everything's hunky-dory.
Matt: Technically, Stinking Cloud is a concentration spell.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: So if you were to maintain concentration on that, you would lose your Domination.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: So it's your call. Which one do you want to maintain?
Sam: The domination.
Matt: Okay. So the Stinking Cloud fades from the hallway.
Sam: Stinking Cloud is concentration?
Matt: I believe it is. Spells like that usually are, if it's to maintain--
Sam: It is! I never wrote down a C next to it.
Matt: This is where that circlet would come in handy.
Taliesin: Can I run over to Kerrion's body?
Matt: You will be able to shortly.
Sam: You mean the thing that Orion took from me? Yeah, the thing that I needed? Yeah.
Matt: It's all right. He's used it pretty well a couple of times.
Sam: Yes, so I tell him to go warn his friends-- not warn his friends. Tell his friends that everything's fine. All is good.
Matt: Cool. Good to know. That ends your turn. Is anyone going to take any specific actions?
Laura: I want to loot the bodies.
Taliesin: I'm running over to Kerrion and just going to rage loot him.
Sam: I'm going to go to the desk.
Matt: Okay. While you guys all do that, the guard leaves the room. You hear a few whispers in the hallway, a conversation with a person unseen.
Liam: I walk towards the door.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Sam: A giant attacks.
Matt: The conversation fades and the guard walks back, seemingly job done. Also is going to make a wisdom saving throw. That is a 17?
Sam: 19.
Matt: He remains dominated. You guys now-- For the moment, the threat seems to have subsided. At the moment. You're still in the house and there's still, apparently, things in the house. Whether it'd be guards or other individuals in the house that are on edge as they heard a series of gunshots ring out, screams, and other sorts of cacophony. The fact that this is even right now being handled is a very lucky series of rolls on his part.
Travis: I want it said that this one should die. He has magic. He's too strong. They could set better traps.
Sam: We can interrogate him, though. Get crucial information. He's an officer.
Taliesin: I can't talk yet.
Matt: So you're going through Sir Kerrion's body.
Taliesin: I'm taking his swords, and I'm going to use his sword to get that deep gouge into the gun.
Matt: He has two rapiers, so it's like holding a stiletto.
Taliesin: And anything he has on his body, I'm taking it.
Matt: He has a potion of greater healing on him. Never got round to actually using it.
Taliesin: And once there's a good gash in the name, I'm going to sit down and breathe.
Matt: Okay. As you finish gashing the name out on the side of the metal and start breathing, you can see the name itself begin to glow with a slight dull purple glow and burn away from the metal, leaving just the scratch marks. From his body, you have two rapiers, regular rapiers, studded leather armor that is enchanted with a plus one bonus, and that potion of greater healing. So you can mark those down.
Laura: I'm keeping a very strong eye on Percy right now.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Anything on the desk, papers of any sort?
Matt: Going through the desk? Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: It's a lot. Yeah, it's tons. It's 27.
Matt: Yeah. You find wax seals, you find parchment, you find pocket change, about six or seven gold pieces just left in there. On himself though, on his actual person, on Sir Kerrion's body, you find about 320 gold pieces as his own personal fund. Looking through the desk, you find mentions of the bridge plan to move between the two continents. To go across the channel to Wildmount. Basically plans, the discussion, a lot of what they were planning to do with Emon.
Marisha: Someone write that down.
Sam: I got it.
Matt: You also find a small notebook that just has some hand notes of his.
Sam: I'll take it.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down.
Travis: I start tying up unconscious guy on the floor.
Matt: He's currently-- He's got to zero hit points, he's bleeding out.
Marisha: What about the dominated guy? He's about to save from it. Domination, he can save from it at any second.
Travis: No, I know. I thought we wanted to interrogate--
Matt: Which he does not; he's still dominated.
Liam: I take a rag out of my pocket and I roll it up and I shove it into Kerrion's mouth while Grog is tying him up.
Taliesin: Kerrion's dead.
Liam: I thought he was out.
Sam: Vouk's.
Travis: The balding guy.
Liam: Balding. All right.
Travis: We tie him up, he shoves a rag in his mouth, I put one hand on the top of his head and the other hand under his chin. Should we bring him back just a little so we can ask him some questions?
Marisha: Vouk?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, but what are we going to do about dominated guy? Can we tie him up, too?
Laura: Yeah, tell him to go sit in a corner, Scanlan.
Marisha: He could save from that any second. We need to like off him or something.
Taliesin: There'll be time for that.
Liam: I got it. Could you tell him to look in the corner?
Sam: Turn away, look in the corner, Blair Witch style. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, this is so wrong.
Matt: Doesn't make his save.
Laura: Oh, terrible.
Sam: Grog, do you want to?
Laura: No, this is so wrong.
Travis: What? We're asking questions. We got to bring him back, just a little bit.
Sam: Are you on Vouk's right? Or whatever-his-name?
Travis: We're on Vouk.
Liam: Can we put him to sleep, or anything short of me knocking him out?
Sam: I can put him to sleep.
Liam: Put him to sleep, then.
Sam: But I have to drop my thing first.
Laura: Just knock him out.
Liam: I'll do it. I'm really good at knocking people out.
Marisha: Just knock him out. Knowing what's coming, I'm going to Druidcraft some pretty kaleidoscope-y flowers in front of his face. Pretty image before you die.
Matt: All right. He seems momentarily confused before the blow of the-- Are you hitting him with the blade or pommel?
Liam: Oh, pommel.
Travis: Before we knock him out, should you make sure that whatever he tells people is truly fearsome? But not too descript about us?
Sam: Well, he already told his friends in the hallway--
Travis: That everything was fine.
Sam: That everything's fine. So now we're just knocking him out.
Marisha: While all this happens, I'm going over to baldy. Lord Vouk or Mister Vouk and pop a Cure Wounds potion into him. How far down is he? He was just at zero. I brought him to zero.
Matt: Yeah, he was unconscious and he was making his death saving throws. I was treating him for that circumstance. When you go straight to zero like that, you know--
Marisha: Yeah. All right, I'll pop a Cure Wounds into him.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The guy in the corner? Scanlan, could you go stand next to him and tell him a joke?
Marisha: I was giving him pretty flowers.
Liam: You're standing next to him?
Marisha: I gave him pretty flowers to look at.
Liam: You walked over and gave him pretty flowers?
Marisha: I Druidcrafted from a distance.
Travis: Are you standing next to him?
Sam: I walk next to him and sort of distract him with a little soft shoe tap.
Liam: Thank you. That's what I needed. I got an 18. Sorry, I got a 29. And that is eight plus 14, 22, six, seven, 32.
Matt: 32. He is (impact noise) from barely damaged to nothing. He goes immediately unconscious in the corner, face down, in the middle of a bookcase.
Marisha: I drop 18 points of healing into Vouk.
Matt: Okay. (gasps, chokes)
Travis: The rag's in his throat. You are going to listen very carefully as my friends ask you some questions. You'll shake your head yes or shake it no.
Laura: What are we going to ask him?
Sam: (laughs) Percy?
Taliesin: I'm not available right now.
Sam: All right.
Liam: All right.
Liam: Come on. Come with me.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Where are the Briarwoods?
Laura: Where are the Briarwoods?
Liam: You've got to do yes or no.
Laura: Are the Briarwoods--
Sam: -- in the palace?
Matt: (muffled moaning)
Liam: Yes or no.
Sam: Just nod or nod.
Laura: This is really smart. I feel good about this.
Travis: Should we take the rag out?
Laura: No.
Sam: He can do spells.
Liam: I just want to remind you that my friend over here can split you in half like an apple, right?
Travis: I nod his head yes.
Matt: (muffled murmur)
Liam: Have you seen the Briarwoods this week?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Liam: Do you like working for them?
Matt: (sounds uncertain)
Laura: Do they know we're here?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Are they in the palace?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: Sometimes.
Laura: Do you know where they are?
Matt: (negative grunt)
Liam: Do they have pointier teeth than most?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: (sounds sad)
Sam: This is mumblecore.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Is your life worth giving a little information?
Matt: (affirmative grunting)
Liam: We want to know how to get into the palace without a problem. Got any advice?
Matt: (eager affirmative grunting)
Liam: Now I just want to remind you. He can take your head off, your knees off, your cock off, anything, in half a second.
Travis: I just give a little squeeze.
Liam: I'm going to pull the cloth out.
Sam: I cast Blindness on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Don't know if he's blind.
Matt: Suddenly he goes (muffled panic noises).
Sam: Oh, he's blind. He's blind.
Liam: I give him a pat on the cheek.
Matt: (whimpers)
Laura: Oh, now I feel bad.
Liam: I'm a big fan of efficiency, so I'm going to pull this rag out and you've got about 30 seconds to start talking about something useful. Otherwise, my friend is going to make you about six inches shorter.
Travis: Yeah. I'm going to turn your head into a dreidel.
Liam: So we're going to start talking now, yes?
Matt: (grunts in agreement)
Liam: In three, two.
Matt: (gasping for breath) "Please don't kill me. I can show you a secret entrance into the castle. I know a way in."
Laura: It's not guarded?
Matt: "I don't think so. They've closed it off. If you can find a way through, they won't expect it."
Taliesin: Is it the one in the forest?
Matt: "There is one, yes, yes, in the forest. Look, I can bring you to their project room under the castle, what they're working on. Please don't kill me."
Laura: What is the project room?
Sam: Are they working on explosives?
Matt: "They've been-- They've been working on something. It's hard to describe. I've only been there once. It's beyond my interests, but it is part of the reason they even took this place."
Liam: Lord Briarwood is a vampire.
Matt: "Aye."
Liam: What the fuck is Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "She's powerful, I'll give you that. She scares me more than the two of them."
Laura: Is it hard to talk with no teeth?
Matt: "It's more difficult than expected, aye."
Travis: I start to tilt his head and I'm like showing us won't work, we need a location.
Matt: "It's under the castle. It's under the city. All the caverns are there. I can show you how to get there, I've been there. They've taken me."
Laura: Do you know what they've done to the ground here? Do you know why nothing grows?
Matt: "Stuff grows. It's how we do the farming."
Marisha: Stuff doesn't grow, though. Not like it should. What did they do to the land?
Matt: "I don't know. Maybe it has something to do with what they're doing under the castle."
Marisha: And what exactly are they doing under the castle?
Matt: "It's an excavation, or they're building something. I don't know the details of it."
Liam: You've no idea what they want?
Matt: "Comparatively, I'm just a peasant to them. I work with-- well, I worked with Kerrion."
Taliesin: How long have you worked with Sir Stonefell?
Matt: "Five years."
Taliesin: Were you here when he took the castle?
Matt: "Yes, yes. I was part of the incursion."
Taliesin: Good. You're very lucky. Because you're going to live if you show us-- And I bring out a map.
Sam: He can't see anything.
Taliesin: I know. Drop the Blindness.
Matt: He hears the crinkling of paper.
Taliesin: Drop the Blindness.
Sam: All right. I drop Blindness and I drop Seeming.
Matt: (scared, fast breathing)
Taliesin: Look at me. Look at me. You're going to show me where on the castle is the secret entrance. Do you know who I am?
Matt: "No."
Taliesin: You will. Mark it on the map.
Matt: He looks down at his bound arms and legs.
Travis: I take his head and I shove his nose and his face right above the map. And I say: use your nose.
Matt: "It's right--" He spits and puts a little droplet. It's loosely in the area of the western side of the mountain that the castle is built on. Roughly around the entrance where you escaped when you and Cassandra left Whitestone, five years before.
Taliesin: I know where that is.
Travis: That means we don't need you anymore.
Matt: "No! I can show you-- I can show you where their project is. The tunnels. You need me."
Travis: He'll set a good trap.
Laura: I just want to ask, when do the Briarwoods come out?
Matt: "Not often. They don't need to. Kerrion does the work for them. Did the work for them."
Sam: Those giants. Who controls them?
Matt: "Lady Briarwood does. She's the one who made them."
Travis: It's all over the room.
Marisha: She's the one who made them?
Taliesin: Can I propose something to you?
Matt: "She's strong with necromancy, she is."
Liam: I shove the rag back in his mouth for a moment.
Taliesin: Mark his face, take his tongue, let him loose.
Sam: His eyes, too?
Taliesin: No, just his tongue.
Travis: His tongue?
Taliesin: Mark his face.
Travis: I stick my two fingers inside of his nose, crank back on his nose, reach in, and rip his tongue out of his mouth.
Sam: I cover Keyleth's eyes.
Taliesin: That was a bit more than I was--
Travis: You said take his tongue! That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Natural 20?!
Taliesin: Natural 20, really? I'm feeling like such a bastard right now.
Matt: There isn't even a slow scuffle. You just reach in and (wet ripping noise, pained scream) You immediately jam the cloth back in. The cloth begins to slowly soak with blood. You hold almost a pound of muscle: a now motionless tongue in your hand, bloody at its base. These tears are running down his face. (muffled sobbing and coughing)
Travis: Is that good enough for your message?
Taliesin: I take my gun. I'm going to shoot it very gently-- I'm going to shoot into the ground to muffle the sound. I'm going to take the heat of it, and I'm going to cauterize it. His tongue, so he doesn't bleed out.
Matt: You pull the cloth out. (pained cry and choking sounds)
Taliesin: I'm going to mark his head with the still-hot gun.
Matt: (noises of pain) He starts screaming in pain as you're burning what into his head, the symbol of the de Rolo family?
Sam: It's a very complicated symbol. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to do it. And then, I say we let him run out the front door and we set fire to the house.
Travis: I'm good with that. I've got this.
Sam: Where are we going after this?
Marisha: Whoa!
Travis: No. I like that a lot.
Marisha: You would, though. You would.
Sam: Trinket's downstairs. We should leave Trinket.
Travis: Have we forgotten that this entire town is full of evil, undead vampire people?
Marisha: Have we also forgotten that this entire town is looking for us?
Taliesin: They don't know we're here.
Marisha: They will after we set fire on the house and send a man screaming through the street with your symbol on his forehead.
Sam: They don't know where we live.
Marisha: They will! They're going to go, "Hm, let's look at the burning smokestack of a house and start there."
Taliesin: He's going to be missing by morning. They're going to know.
Travis: We've got the guy painted all over this room. They're going to find out one way or the other. Might as well do it with a little showmanship.
Sam: We're trying to make everyone know that we're here.
Taliesin: We're trying to start a rebellion.
Marisha: (voice cracking) Yeah, but-- yeah.
Travis: Come on, be the Mockingjay, Keyleth!
Taliesin: (giggles) Don't make me laugh. This is dark shit.
Travis: It is!
Sam: We can stay the night before we release him and burn it down.
Taliesin: Fair.
Sam: Although there are a bunch of guards around.
Marisha: We can't stay the night.
Laura: We can't stay the night.
Sam: All right, just burn it, then. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Hang on. Fellow half-elves, you look as horrified as I feel. What do you guys think?
Laura: I feel like it's a little stupid, since we have nowhere to go.
Sam: We can go back to our old hideout. We have the tavern. No one's found it.
Liam: Percival, I know what you've been through, to an extent.
Taliesin: I don't even know what I've been through, to a certain extent, but yes.
Liam: We came here to wipe out a scourge on this city. Careful lest you become the scourge you've come to destroy. These people have eaten shit for five years. I'm not saying that man was innocent, but he's had a hard road. Everyone here has had a hard road. I am maybe willing to overlook what's just happened for all the hardship you have had, but careful how you are walking.
Sam: Hey, wait a second here, Vax. That was an enforcer. He kept the people oppressed. He worked for the Briarwoods and punished all of these farmers for not bringing enough taxes and enough tithes.
Liam: Are we to turn into Jack the Ripper because of it?
Sam: Well, that's what a rebellion is.
Travis: I do like ripping.
Taliesin: There's no pretty way to do this.
Laura: I'm fully in support with burning down a house, I just feel like it might backfire a bit.
Marisha: Look, I agreed to start a rebellion and let the people have their uprising, but I'm with Vax. I was trying to tell you this before we even came here, Percy. You don't want to become the thing that you are so desperate to seek vengeance on. How are we any different than the Briarwoods, at this point?
Travis: We're not fucking vampires. Look, what are our options besides burning the house down? I'm open to other ideas.
Sam: We can just leave it as a symbol of our terror.
Taliesin: I've marked him. I'm willing to walk away.
Travis: And where do we stay?
Sam: Somewhere else.
Travis: The tavern? Do we have to find another building?
Taliesin: I know a barracks. It's not too far away.
Liam: I agree with you, with burning the house down. Let's find anyone who's in here and get them out.
Taliesin: I think they'll get out when the house catches on fire.
Liam: Your soul doesn't need to be forfeit, Percival.
Taliesin: (sighs heavily) Things are more complicated now.
Sam: Percy, is that last barrel for you?
Taliesin: No. But, if it was, would I tell you?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Why are things more complicated, Percy? Clearly, we all just witnessed what just happened.
Taliesin: That was unexpected.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I'd agree with that, yeah.
Taliesin: (sighs) That's a longer conversation.
Sam: These guards aren't going to stay out for long. We should set fire and get out of here.
Liam: We burn the house down, and we find a place to hole up for the night.
Laura: Hey, buddy. How's it going?
Matt: He looks over at the body of Sir Kerrion, which is still slumped against the wall.
Liam: Percy, we need to have that longer conversation soon.
Laura: Soon, but not now. Let's go.
Marisha: Let's get out of here. All right, we're setting this damn house on fire?
Laura: Let's do it.
Travis: I take the tongue-less one, and I throw him out. I keep him bound. He's bound amongst the chest and hands. And I throw him out the window. Bye, motherfucker!
Matt: He falls out into the rain, (boof) falling on his side. (whimpers) He's being rained on, and he's trying to struggle with his bindings.
Travis: He'll get up. His feet are free. His legs and feet are free. I'm picturing chest and arms.
Matt: Okay, then he gets to his feet and starts running.
Sam: Grog, can you carry this unconscious guard out on our way out?
Travis: Sure. Do I kill him first?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body?
Sam: Sir Kerrion's body?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body to burn with the house?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Are we?
Taliesin: Let's take him, too.
Travis: We might as well leave him out on the front step, or something. I'll grab Sir Kerrion--
Sam: Can you carry both of those fuckers?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: He threw one of them out.
Sam: No, there's the unconscious guard and the body.
Travis: I'll grab unconscious guard and the body.
Liam: He weighs like 600 pounds.
Marisha: I'm going to say  All right. Well, if we're going to light this damn house on fire and make it a symbol--
Sam: You have fire hands.
Marisha: We're at least going to make it cool and make it the message that it's supposed to be.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: I turn into an eagle and I fly to the roof.
Matt: Flying out the window that you just shattered.
Marisha: Give me your symbol.
Taliesin: I give her one of the parchments.
Matt: You fly up. The rain is coming down on you. It's a little hard to fly. You get up to the top of the roof.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere.
Matt: You transform into yourself again?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: We're all going to start going out the way we came.
Travis: I throw unconscious guy and Sir Dead.
Marisha: Hope you guys were ready to get out.
Laura: I open up a bottle of wine and take a giant swig.
Matt: Okay. As you guys head back down to the cellar?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all head back down to the cellar. You throw them both out the window, including the body of Sir Kerrion (boof) out into the yard. You head back down into the cellar.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere, and I start moving it around on the roof and start drawing the shape of the de Rolo family crest on the roof.
Matt: Okay. It will take you a few minutes. You now see, as you're finishing the symbol, Vouk running to the front of the building, and you hear the voices of two guards going, "Master Vouk? What happened? Tell us. Unbind him!" "Yes, sir." And the two guards at the front of the building are talking with him. You finish the symbol.
Marisha: And I take my Flaming Sphere, and I throw it right at the feet of where the guards are.
Matt: Okay. You're on the roof, so you don't see them, but you know they're off to the side of the roof, so you can roll it off the roof down to them. They both freak out and react and seem to get into a defensive position. They start arming themselves, and you hear crossbow bolts being set into place.
Marisha: I run over to the edge where the cellar was, and I go, (whispering) Grog. Grog!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Come to the side of the roof!
Matt: You guys make your ways back down through the cellar, where Trinket's waiting patiently. (bear grunts)
Laura: Hey, buddy. Let's go.
Travis: Hi, Trinket. Get out.
Matt: You guys come out of the cellar now.
Marisha: (whispering) Grog! Hey!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Catch me!
Travis: Okay!
Matt: Catch Keyleth. You guys are now out in the open, still during the day, rain pouring down.
Laura: Running toward the woods? Where are we running?
Marisha: Get the fuck out of here.
Taliesin: Let's head back to the inn. Let's try the barracks. We'll try the barracks.
Matt: The barracks are attached to the castle.
Taliesin: Shit. Okay.
Sam: Back to the tavern, then.
Taliesin: Back to the tavern for now.
Laura: They're going to notice--
Matt: Stealth check real fast, guys.
Marisha: I was going to say, do you have Pass Without a Trace, can you summon any more spells?
Laura: I don't. I mean, I can cast it right now.
Matt: If you want to quickly, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, before we move.
Matt: Stealth checks?
Sam: 19.
Liam: Did we get the Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: So, plus ten, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: 34.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 25.
Travis: 21.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Sure enough, both guards rush around the corner. You guys have already leapt over the fence. However, they see the fence. "The fence is bent!" And they go rushing toward that direction. You guys have already disappeared into the various alleyways, making your way back towards the inn in the center of town.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace, I mean, Dust of Tracelessness.
Travis: Okay, yeah, just throwing it down behind us.
Matt: Okay. They're giving chase. They're hearing the sounds of your footsteps a little, but eventually their sounds fade. You do hear in the distance a bell start going off.
Taliesin: We're going to go into the basement.
Matt: You start seeing people emerging from their homes, hearing the bell. And, you would know this, this would be a warning bell for whenever a fire breaks out in the city. You see smoke beginning to rise up, even through the rainstorm. The fire is fighting the rain. But the smoke is black and it's starting to fade. You gather the building itself did not catch fire enough to burn into rubble due to the rain, but you've probably left a very visible mark on the roof.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: People begin to gather from the outside, and you see folks running past the alley as you make your way back to the tavern that you currently have as your base of operations. You all make your way in safely from the rain. Take a deep breath and come to understand that you've definitely started the motion of whatever it is you're intending to do. We'll see how it plays out in the near future. We'll call the session there for the night.
Travis: Shit got hairy.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Laura: That was dark, you guys. Super dark.
Sam: I found seven gold.
Taliesin: I have a sword, now.
Travis: It's October.
Marisha: Speaking of Percy and his crazy storyline--
Taliesin: So that's about to happen, yeah.
Marisha: I'm guessing by now if you go on the Geek and Sundry website, you can find his playlist.
Taliesin: Music to burn a house to. Music to violently murder people to.
Marisha: I was gonna say, music to murder to. Go check it out, it's great.
Taliesin: Music for a midnight murder. There we are. Actually, I have some art that I would love to-- can I put on the--
Matt: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: Taliesin art.
Taliesin: Yeah, I drew pictures. Just in case everybody wants to see, this is the terrible thing we keep carving into people and things.
Marisha: Or burning on rooftops.
Taliesin: And then this is actually the de Rolo family crest. Just another fancy thing.
Matt: Very, very cool, and well done, sir.
Taliesin: Thank you. I drew a picture. So that shit happened.
Marisha: Glad I'm not the only one who thinks you're crazy anymore.
Taliesin: I think I'm crazy now. It's gonna be interesting.
Marisha: You're all crazy, we've all seen it. Now we can handle it as a family.
Zac: Yeah, y'all's fucked up.
Taliesin: That got way darker than I was expecting.
Zac: Yeah. I'm sure that won't have any negative repercussions whatsoever.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I hate you, Matt.
Laura: Hey, man. Did we hit 10k?
Zac: Yep. (cheering)
Zac: 10,060. Currently Starburns is winning.
Marisha: Starburns! Do it!
Taliesin: Starburns! Do it!
Zac: Here's what they forget  Jess and Steph are the ones doing it. If anyone's watched Jess and Steph's craft show, it will most likely end up being just a shaved face. If you think Jess and Steph can pull off Starburns, you're lying to yourself, and it will just end up being a clean shave.
Taliesin: I got a straight razor, we could go for this. You trust me, I mean, you know. I can get in there.
Zac: Moving on.
Taliesin: I can Sweeney Todd that.
Zac: Okay, so. Tonight, guys, we're just gonna be reading off the names and we're gonna knock through 'em pretty quick.
Matt: We're trying to keep time down for weeknights. All right, guys, so we have donating tonight to Extra Live, we have Connor Brown, Steven Sudeban Davis, Ravi Persuad, Mitchell DeFow-- sorry if I ruin any of these names, guys, by the way-- Tom Revely, Caleb Popum, Michael Holloway, George Rinn, PumpkinSpiceThisBitchTheFourth, Anonymous Donator, we have Patrick Toro, the Lost Tigers, Rebecca Case, Lewis Letter, Emma returns, Emma Engquist, I hope I'm not ruining that too bad, Pernil Ilfsen-- that's a cool name-- Arthur Gibbs, another wonderful anonymous donator, Maxine Poloquin, another great anonymous donator, Christian Huntlee, James Bell, John Reap, Killer Penguin, Monica Dahl, Kayla Ernest, Tim Pearson, another great anonymous donator, PumpkinSpiceThisBitch twice more--
Zac: Well, one's the original and one's the second.
Matt: Oh, it carried over, I see. I see. The original and the second. There's a third one in there, probably. Guys, thank you so much. It's really incredible, each one of you that donated to help Extra Life. We really appreciate it.
Zac: Since this weekend is the 24-hour Nerdist Extra Life stream, starting next week we'll go back to 826LA and get those donations rolling back in for 826--
Marisha: But in the meantime, don't forget to go to LA2050 and vote for 826LA so they can win 100k.
Zac: I would also like to throw out there the other-- it currently looks like it's a race between Starburns, Freddie Mercury, and Fu Manchu.
Laura: Oh, I like Freddie Mercury.
Taliesin: Starburns' really kinda rocking it for me.
Marisha: I was gonna suggest-- we had the Hunger Games reference, so what was his name? Kerrion or whatever? The Gamemaster in the first one?
Zac: There is no way Steph and Jess have the ability to do something like that.
Matt: I almost wanna see the tristache. Tristache is when you shave the handlebar, and then a smaller handlebar, and then a smaller-- (laughter)
Zac: Poll's out. The poll's out, dude.
Sam: Is the Hitler on the poll at all? (groaning)
Taliesin: You're a terrible person! That is the worst thing I've heard yet.
Sam: The Charlie Chaplin.
Zac: We also have a video to show you guys from a community member about their own D&D Extra Life stream they're doing this weekend, so we are going to show that to you guys here once you guys sign off, so.
Matt: Fantastic, thank you so much.
Zac: Stick around tomorrow for Jess and Steph's birthday, where they cut my fucking face up. (cheering)
Matt: That's gonna be worth its own weight in gold. Well, all right, guys, we'll be back next week for our special Halloween episode of Critical Role. We'll see how the story progresses darker and darker down this hole of horror and moral conundrum. (laughs) I'm excited. I hope you are too. Once again, guys, thank you all so much. Our love to the Team Hooman, Critter crowd out there, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week.
Travis: Damn straight!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons, while Liam curses at me a few seconds before we start the show to try and throw me off. It's worked once before.
Taliesin: Cock goblins.
Matt: It'll probably work again. (laughs) Welcome to the show. So yeah, for the returning friends, thank you for coming, and for new folks, welcome to the chaos.
Travis: Get the fuck out.
Laura: Don't say that.
Matt: It's already so hostile here tonight. So I guess first and foremost, let's see if we can get through these announcements pretty quick. First and foremost, a reminder, me and Marisha will be in Colorado tomorrow at the Colorado Anime Fest. We'll be guests this weekend there, so if any folks are coming out, we'll look forward to seeing you. We'll be flying over bright and early tomorrow morning. Taliesin, you're also--
Taliesin: I will be in Phoenix, Arizona at the Amazing Comic Con, and if you follow me on Twitter, @executivegoth, I will actually tell you where I will be at the convention at various times.
Matt: So you can stalk him.
Taliesin: You can stalk me. I'll be very stalkable. E-stalk.
Marisha: It's like Santa Tracker, but Taliesin Tracker.
Matt: Yeah. Waldo Tracker. Why has nobody done that yet? Give it some time. Let's see. Also, I guess, tonight we're going to be trying out this new table camera here on the side to give you a separate view of the battle. We can switch around as we're finding our way through the amorphous betterment of our program.
Liam: Can we work in like a Wolf Blizter hologram? Like they have on CNN as well?
Matt: I'll put that on the wish list.
Liam: On the table, next to all the guys.
Matt: Only if it's actually Wolf Blitzer, though. If we can have him running through the battlefield, it'll be great.
Taliesin: Just his head, floating.
Matt: But yeah, so you can head to the Geek and Sundry Amazon wish list, the link should be in the chat, for other things they're looking for to hopefully try and improve this experience and bring it to you guys and be even better going forward. So you can check that out, and this camera's our first leap in that direction, so you can let us know how you think it works and bear with us as we still figure this whole thing out. Let's see. Also, next week, most of us will be at Wizard World Portland. That's our first Wizard World, you can check out the website for information about our events and signings and tickets and stuff like that, so go check it out, please, we look forward to seeing you guys, and we'll see you up in Portland next weekend. What else do we have going on?
Liam: Well, you know, we have an ongoing relationship with Wyrmwood Gaming, which you can find on the internet. They make beautiful boxes for holding dice and stuff, and if you use the code "critrole," "critrole," you will get free shipping. They have all different kinds of woods, they're lovely. And then also, hey, this is an impromptu announcement, but Kurtis Wiebe just announced on the Twitters, Kurtis Wiebe is the writer for the comic book Rat Queens.
Laura: Amazing.
Liam: We all are addicted to it. He works with Tess Fowler, who's the artist right now, and basically their outfit and our outfit are in love, and Kurtis announced on Twitter today that he is going to be shoving Vox Machina in there in some way, somehow, and we're very excited.
Laura: We're making a cameo appearance in Rat Queens, you guys!
Taliesin: Our first cameo.
Sam: I want to be the rat!
Matt: (laughs) You would, wouldn't you? So stupid excited for that. Can't even. I can't even. It's so dumb. So dumb. Life is dumb. Life is dumb. But yeah. So, we got that going on. I can't think of anything else. If anything else comes up, we'll throw it in there in the mid-break, but in the meantime--
Sam: Oh yeah, I want to give a quick shout-out to my charity of choice, the Pablove Foundation.
Matt: Yes!
Sam: I talked to them today. Their minds were blown by all the gifts that people have sent in and donations in the name of Critical Role and the Critter community. They didn't quite understand what the Critter community was, but I enlightened them, and they're so jazzed by you guys. And they appreciate not just the donations and gifts, but also, they said that the Critters have been writing long letters and telling great stories and stuff, and they're super excited.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Sam: So keep it going to those charities. The Pablove Foundation.
Marisha: Yeah, should we go off and do a shout-out of each of our charities?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Taliesin: First Place for Youth. I'll have a link up to my Twitter in about five minutes. They help kids get through school, they help kids who are orphaned and having issues get their stuff together and become fabulous teenagers like we need in this world.
Marisha: We do. And of course, Sam is with Pablove Foundation.
Sam: The Pablove Foundation.
Marisha: Pablove Foundation, which is amazing. I chose the Nature Conservancy. They're great and they protect the lands and the animals that is very important so we can keep having a beautiful green world.
Liam: I chose the Planetary Society, just in case the green world dies, and it promotes exploration of space, and the stuff like that.
Laura: I chose My Friend's Place, which is an awesome, very similar to Taliesin's, it's an awesome place for teenagers that are runaways or living on the streets. It gives them a place that they can crash and really help get their stuff together.
Matt: 'Sup, Jewel-face?
Travis: I am the Vision. (laughter)
Matt: Donate to the Vision.
Travis: Yes, I have Operation Supply Drop, which is a great charity service that delivers fun where there is none to soldiers that are in combat overseas. It delivers gaming systems, games, brings some much-needed levity to areas of high intensity and overall warrior badassmanship, and I'm very proud of that.
Liam: What a variety of charities.
Marisha: Yeah, that's a good stretch of charities.
Matt: My charity.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Matt: I got one too, guys!
Marisha: Sorry. I sometimes forget about you, because you're on that side.
Matt: I know, it happens.
Liam: You're god!
Matt: Hey, no, overlooked my entire life, it's nothing new. My charity is First Book, which brings reading materials to underprivileged children and helps people become more confident readers and youth that don't have access to programs to help promote literary adventure and really delving into the amazing thing that is reading. Thank you guys for helping us support that, it's been really fantastic.
Marisha: All things that are important for the future.
Matt: So important. More than you'd give it credit for. Yes.
Marisha: And of course, as always, Critical Role always supports 826LA.
Laura: Yes, continually.
Marisha: Continually. They are our sponsored charity of choice, and of course look up 826, there might be an 826 in your area. And you should go to their storefronts. They make great date locations, as Taliesin always says.
Taliesin: Yes, great date.
Laura: Oh, they really do, that is a really good place.
Matt: Find a date. Take them there.
Marisha: Find the date first.
Matt: Tell them Critical Role sent you.
Marisha: Don't try and find dates at 826. That gets-- that's bad. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow, you took that to a dark place. You took that--
Matt: Anyway. So. So. Let us go ahead and delve into tonight's game proper, folks. So, to get you up to speed, Vox Machina, the intrepid band of adventurers you see before you, after a series of adventures, had found their way back to their central city of Emon, in the center of the region of Tal'Dorei. After a ceremony in which the leader of their city, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei, was announcing him stepping down, the town was suddenly under siege by a group of extremely powerful and dangerous ancient dragons that call themselves the Chroma Conclave. After tearing the city asunder in many places, three of them flew off into the east under the instruction of the fourth and possibly largest and leader of the group, that has recently been found to be called Thordak the Cinder King, who currently resides in the center of the city of Emon, claiming that his mercy is only for those who worship him and essentially feed his greed and hunger. As such, Vox Machina, narrowly escaping the battle, a couple of encounters with these dragons, including one above their Keep, are housing a number of survivors who have made their way out of the city and are currently residing in Greyskull Keep for protection. You guys went into the city to see if you could find any other allies and friends that may have survived this encounter. You befriended a member of the Clasp, named Garthok, who walked amongst the rubble and proceeded to show you the secret entrance he knows to the Clasp, of which you may be trying to inquire about information. On your way to that area, you passed by Gilmore's shop, Gilmore being a good friend of the group and a powerful magic practitioner and creator of magical items and artifacts and a number of glorious goods. His abode, however, smashed and currently a pile of burnt wood and rock. Looters were currently poring through, and you attempted to get them to leave the area alone. It came to blows, and with many of the looters falling in battle, two of which were kept locked away. You discovered the location of where they were hoarding the massive amounts of gold and artifacts that they had acquired from the rubble. You then found the secret compartment in which Gilmore's teleportation sigil was locked beneath his shop, where the remaining family of Tal'Dorei, Salda and the three children, as well as Gilmore himself, wounded and barely alive, having saved them. You found that Uriel, the Sovereign, did not seemingly survive the encounter with the dragons, and Gilmore nearly fell going back to try and make sure that you guys were okay, barely escaping with his life. You managed to save his, and taking the children, Salda, Sherri, and Gilmore back to Greyskull Keep, some of you splintered off to try and acquire the goods that were taken from his store, however, they apparently had already been stolen from the location they were being stored in, or been delivered already, you're uncertain as to what became of them, but you get the sense that it was probably best that you chose Gilmore over the gold at first glance. Making your way back to the Keep, you've sent Gilmore up to rest for the evening, some of you have then found your way down into the temple of Sarenrae, where a number of the escaped refugees from Emon currently try desperately to cling to their memories, to try and keep the shakes at bay and contemplate what the next step is for survival in this now partially ruined city. That was where we left off. So. What would you like to do?
Sam: Kill all the dragons and save the day.
Matt: Good! Roll for it.
Laura: Oh, that was a good roll. See?
Taliesin: Natural 20. No, no.
Marisha: Good show, guys.
Laura: I rolled five natural 20s before the show even started.
Sam: That's a great, great idea.
Laura: So it's all going to be terrible.
Sam: Why are you rolling before the show?
Travis: She feels like she's got to "warm up" her endless army of dice.
Laura: No, I just have to figure out which ones I want to use that night.
Travis: You have five d20s right now.
Laura: I know, and they're all useful. No, I've got six out here.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, definitely all useful.
Taliesin: This is, by the way, for anybody tuning in for the first time at home, this is how we express that we have no idea what to do.
Sam: Where are we?
Taliesin: We're at home.
Matt: You're in Greyskull Keep.
Sam: And Gilmore's with us?
Matt: Gilmore's with you, he's been brought upstairs--
Liam: And did Pike's holy visitor fix the keep, or is the keep still effed up?
Matt: Actually, in the short time in which her visitor, this angelic deva-like entity that was brought forth from Sarenrae's sphere of influence, did manage to repair entirely the damage that was sustained to the Keep from the battle with Vorugal out in your courtyard. So yes, Greyskull Keep is now back to being intact and rather fairly polished. The stained glass is affixed and corrected.
Liam: It must look so strange next to the ruined city of Emon.
Matt: It's far enough away, but--
Laura: Little strange.
Marisha: So what time is it? It was nighttime, right? Or was it midday?
Matt: It's about midafternoon at this point, maybe pushing into the evening.
Taliesin: Is Kima still around?
Matt: I'm sorry, what was that?
Taliesin: Is Lady Kima still around, or?
Matt: Lady Kima's been in Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Oh, not Vasselheim, I'm sorry. Allura. I'm on the wrong page.
Matt: Yeah, she and Drake went.
Marisha: Remember, they turned into shooting stars and they flew away.
Sam: Is Clarota still here with us? (laughter)
Laura: We're off to a good start tonight, guys.
Matt: In your hearts. In your heart of hearts.
Travis: No, not even there. That piece of shit. Where are the majority of the people? Are they in the dining hall and in the--
Matt: They're scattered between the dining hall and the temple to Sarenrae. Partially because, one, there's enough space there, two, it's a place of sanctity, it's a place of hope, and Pike is currently bringing people-- not preaching to them, per se, but offering comfort in their current area of misery and worry. So those are pretty much the localized areas. Occasionally one of the kids might begin wandering the halls, a parent might chase after them, trying to draw them back in, but respectfully, no one's wandering the house filling their pockets, they're all still happy to be alive at this point.
Laura: Well, that's because we don't have anything, because Scanlan's troupe stole everything anyway.
Matt: There's that, too.
Sam: We bought new silverware.
Travis: Sure we did.
Sam: Maybe it wasn't my troupe, maybe it was our new guests, the people fleeing for their lives.
Travis: I was going to say, are there any new people that have come into the keep while we've been away? Can I ask one of our guards that?
Matt: Sure, yeah. Shayne, who's out front, currently strolling through the courtyard, comes up to you, and as you ask her, she goes, "Well, we've had a few other refugees come in and ask for entry, and we patted them down to make sure there were no weapons and tried our best to keep an eye on them since they arrived. Seems like most everyone's keeping either into the city or keeping fairly underground."
Travis: Nobody's sticking out to you, though, no shady individuals, nobody sweating more than is necessary when being threatened by a big fuck-off dragon?
Matt: "Not yet, but I believe Jarett's keeping a close eye."
Travis: Jarett--
Sam: That guy. Man-crush?
Travis: No. (laughter)
Sam: I wonder, in all prudence, should we go around to the 'fugees, the refugees and do a quick--
Laura: Insight check?
Sam: -- scan, alignment check or something?
Travis: Lauryn Hill is shaking her head.
Laura: Do we have anything that can sense people's alignment?
Sam: Pike might.
Marisha: Yeah, I can.
Sam: Can you do a mass, a mass sense alignment?
Marisha: Mass sense alignment?
Sam: Is that a thing?
Marisha: No, I'm saying I could do some insight checks on people.
Sam: Oh, I'm talking about your magic.
Marisha: No, I'm not Pike.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Pike's with us, though, right? She could do an insight check.
Sam: Is she with us?
Matt: Pike is with you. She is currently helping folks inside the temple. But you could go ask her to.
Liam: Use the skull to wish to know everyone's alignment. Problem solved.
Travis: We'll kill everyone. Kill everyone.
Sam: Maybe we should just kill one of them to make an example.
Laura: This is terrible, what is happening?
Liam: This isn't the real game, the game hasn't actually started yet.
Matt: So. Glancing about the populace of scattered refugees throughout the general vicinity of Greyskull Keep, I will pick two of you who wish to be the main surveyors of the crew.
Sam: Is this insight?
Matt: This would be insight, yes.
Laura: I'm on it.
Marisha: I'm on it with Vex.
Matt: Okay, so Vex and Keyleth, both you guys roll insight checks, please.
Laura: See, this is why I shouldn't have this many dice, because I don't know what to choose. Okay. 21.
Liam: Insight?
Marisha: 22.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys spend about ten, 15 minutes or so scanning through the crew, asking a few questions, helping a few folks out while keeping an eye on reactions around the general vicinity. No one sticks out to you as being either hiding their intent, shifty. There are a few folks that are aloof from the whole experience, who seem to be either in a state of shock, or discomfort based on their current surroundings, but nothing in a way that strikes you as nefarious or worrisome.
Liam: And are they all strangers, other than the people we brought back with us?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: They are strangers?
Matt: Yeah. There's a lot of people that live in Emon, and none of them seem to catch your eye.
Liam: Yeah. Is anyone still badly hurt?
Matt: Most of them have had their wounds tended to. There are a few that have general scars, some from elements of frostbite on their skin, who were caught in the blast, who were salvaged after Vorugal left. There are a few that have scrapes and bruises from fleeing from the town, from collapsing debris from different buildings and such, but no serious injuries. A few bone fractures here and there that have been set and bandaged.
Liam: I'm going to spend the first bit of time at home helping Pike, doing whatever she tells me to do, really, to help the people here.
Marisha: Is there any deceased that need to be tended to?
Matt: Well, there are a number of deceased in the front courtyard, people that were frozen and shattered as part of Vorugal's attack, which at this point, most of them have been taken care of by the guards and given a proper burial on the outside of the Keep, a few yards away, towards the inside of the one of the hills. They haven't been left to thaw, if that was what you're worried about.
Marisha: That's what I was worried about.
Taliesin: Red meat. Red.
Laura: Gross.
Liam: Way to go dark. Way to go dark.
Taliesin: I thought that's what we were doing today.
Matt: Cost-effective. A number of the refugees have also helped the guards as well, transporting the bodies of the deceased and making sure that they're properly interred in the nearby countryside.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: What are our options here? First of all, do we know Gilmore's status?
Laura: Yeah, we need to get him settled in, make sure he's all right.
Liam: Well, he's gone up, he's resting.
Marisha: Yeah, we put him to bed already.
Liam: He's in Percival's room, I think. You said you would sleep in your laboratory.
Sam: And when we last left things, there was one plan to go into the tunnels of the thieves' guild and try to see if there's any more--
Laura: Yes. Actually, Garthok.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Garthok is waiting for us down in those, so we can go look at the Clasp and talk to them and everything, because he's told them we're on our way.
Sam: And to what end, again? We're going to see if there's any random diplomats left over?
Taliesin: They're the only functioning organization left in the city at this point.
Liam: It's true, they're a double-edged sword, though. I mean, they should not be trusted, we cannot trust them, but they are an infrastructure under the city. They may have more of an idea what's going on than we do. I'm the best to speak to them, but I'm not on good terms with them, and I've never really talked to you about this, but you were marked at one point, a long time ago.
Laura: What?
Sam: For death?
Liam: Actually, yes.
Laura: Why? What did I do?
Liam: I'm sure I don't know. The reason there is a brand on my back is because I interceded. Some other schmoe died instead of you. You might be a bit of a sore point with them. I don't know. They might not remember, but I don't think that's true, I think they'll remember.
Marisha: How long ago was this?
Sam: What did you do?
Laura: So many things.
Liam: Before we met, when Vex and I were on our own.
Sam: Was it because you farted that time?
Laura: You didn't think you could mention this? All the times we've dealt with the Clasp? You didn't think it was worth mentioning that I almost died?
Marisha: She's already been down there. She's already been down there! You think they're going to recognize her now?
Liam: We're going down to talk.
Laura: We've been down there to talk.
Liam: Right. All right.
Laura: That's why you don't keep secrets.
Taliesin: Well, I say that we organize a group. Let's not get overexcited about the sudden realization that some of us can be a bit iffy. We've all had a moment, probably within the last three weeks. I'm not saying I don't.
Travis: I haven't.
Taliesin: Yes, oddly, you and Pike seem to be immune.
Travis: It is a virtue.
Taliesin: But let's organize a group, and let's at least open relations with them at this point.
Marisha: Well, hang on, hang on. What are we going to say to them when we get down there? What are we going to offer them?
Taliesin: We are going to offer them our services in getting this city back to a functioning level. They don't want a city ruled by a dragon, we don't want a city ruled by a dragon. It's in their interest to help us clear the city.
Liam: They're going to look out for themselves, and you're probably-- I'm sure you're right, they want these dragons out, but they will do-- they will preserve their own existence, and there's a possibility that bowing before these beasts will preserve their existence.
Taliesin: Not long-term, and these are groups that think long-term.
Marisha: Wait, are you talking about us bowing to the Clasp, or the Clasp bowing to the-- okay. Sorry, there were levels.
Liam: And yes, we've been down there, we've argued with them, but we're talking about going down there and making an alliance, an ongoing alliance, and shit might come up, that's all I'm saying.
Taliesin: Let's make it a business deal. We're talking about making a political decision. This is politics.
Travis: What if they leave? What if they leave the city, or what if they turn us in to the dragon to save their own asses?
Taliesin: They could. I doubt they'd leave, that's a terrible waste of an investment.
Marisha: You're essentially relying on the underbelly of Emon to restore it.
Taliesin: I am, I'm relying on greed, it tends to be exceedingly reliable.
Marisha: In your experience.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: In all experience, let's be honest.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Travis: Said the greedy one to the greedy one.
Liam: This is one option, are we sure we don't want to seek help--
Sam: Yes, what are our other options?
Taliesin: I'm curious as to other options.
Sam: We know why the dragons are here, right? Ish?
Marisha: I really feel like it might be necessary for me to also reach out to the Air and Earth and possibly even the Water Ashari. It might be difficult because I haven't been there yet. To see if they've had any other tears through the other elemental planes.
Taliesin: That would be quite wise.
Marisha: We can also seek to employ their services.
Travis: Scanlan.
Sam: Huh?
Travis: What about you becoming a spy?
Sam: I've been thinking about that, long and hard.
Marisha: Have you?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: What are your thoughts?
Sam: Most of what I do is long and hard. And my thoughts are still: fuck you, no way, fuck off.
Travis: So what you're saying is?
Sam: Maybe. (laughter)
Liam: So you're saying there's a chance.
Travis: Your shining moment--
Taliesin: Nothing is ever going to top the triceratops, really.
Sam: Maybe the triceratops could kill all the dragons.
Travis: All right. So we reach out to the Ashari.
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Sam: How's your homeland?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Sam: Do we need to find out?
Taliesin: I would love to.
Sam: You can transport there instantly.
Taliesin: I can. I just can't get back instantly.
Laura: You need Keyleth.
Taliesin: And I figure that they would have sent somebody at this point if things had gone-- they have an instant transport to us if they need to find us.
Sam: True.
Laura: Unless they don't know about the stone and the only one with the stone--
Taliesin: The Council knows about the stone.
Travis: Or there's no one left to send.
Liam: Yes, if things went south--
Taliesin: We would've heard.
Marisha: I can scry twice today.
Taliesin: That would be lovely.
Marisha: I can do it two times. So we need to pick where it's most important to check in versus where we might want to pop in and say hello.
Taliesin: Whitestone is also somewhere we could arm ourselves more completely against something like this. We're going to have to start--
Travis: With what?
Matt: As a note, too, Pike can also scry as well.
Laura: Oh, good. Because I would like to check in to Vasselheim as well.
Sam: How do you kill a dragon? Do we need a dragon? Can we get a dragon that hates these dragons? Is that a thing?
Laura: You know, there is the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Wait, what are we talking about dragons? Do other dragons hate dragons?
Sam: Yeah, could we find a dragon who could fight for us?
Laura: Well, there's metallic dragons.
Liam: Don't get along with chromatic.
Sam: Do we know any metallic dragons?
Travis: Yeah, where are they?
Marisha: We would have to go to Vasselheim and maybe--
Taliesin: My Aunt Edna.
Travis: What?
Taliesin: She's a dragon-lady, I don't know if that's the same thing.
Marisha: Like, oh, like she-- little ceramic dragons, she likes collecting them?
Taliesin: I was mocking him, yes.
Sam: So, wait, the Slayer's Take, what?
Laura: Well, it's an organization made to hunt massive creatures, isn't it?
Liam: It's a horde of fucking ass-kickers, is what it is.
Taliesin: We fought a dragon-- we killed a dragon for them.
Marisha: They're also rooted in Vasselheim, which is--
Sam: It's safe.
Laura: Yes, but-- If everything else is under attack, Vasselheim is inevitable.
Sam: Yes, but they're protected.
Laura: For a time.
Liam: Allow me to play tiefling's advocate. If we leave now and allow the Clasp to take hold and form some sort of new shadow government, without us having any part in it, it's out of our control completely. It won't be in our control at all. But maybe if we speak to them now, we'll have a better idea of what's going on. I'm not sold on any idea yet, but if we leave now and let things play out, it's entirely out of our hands.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? We can scry, between Pike and I, four times. So we can make four phone calls today.
Sam: Not phone calls, just a look.
Marisha: Yes, look home. No, we can peek through a window. And we can try and go visit the Clasp.
Sam: Okay, well, let's scry it up, then. Who are we calling? Whitestone, Vasselheim, center of Emon?
Taliesin: Whitestone and Vasselheim, I think. Definitely.
Marisha: And I want to check in with--
Travis: Can I object to checking the center of Emon, right? Because that's where the Cinder King is?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Didn't it, like, ruin magic when we did it to the beholder, didn't it see us and laugh and we were like, augh, it hurts my brain--
Taliesin: He's got a point. You've got a point.
Sam: You're pretty smart, Grog.
Marisha: We don't need to scry into Emon.
Travis: I remember.
Liam: We're talking Vasselheim, yeah? Whitestone. And you can do it another two--
Marisha: You know what, let's go talk to Pike, because Pike might possibly have some sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim as well that might save us a scry.
Taliesin: It's possible that Vasselheim might be our next stop after we secure everything here.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Oh, Pike! Oh.
Marisha: I can also teleport us once today, if we decide to go anywhere.
Sam: Thanks.
Marisha: Pike!
Sam: Pike! Pikey!
Matt: Comes out, a little bit of dirt on her brow, looks like she's been busy handling some of the folks--
Sam: I reach out and brush the dirt from above her forehead.
Matt: She smiles and pushes your hand away. "Yes, what, yes?"
Marisha: Pike, do you have any sort of spiritual connection with Vasselheim? Do you feel-- you know how--
Matt: "I do. I do. Why?"
Marisha: Okay, can you check--
Sam: Can you scry?
Marisha: Can you see if they're okay? We want to scry and check in with a few places.
Matt: "Of course, of course, no worries." She ushers you guys back into the temple.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And then gets a little nervous when she starts thinking about it and walks up to the central platform of prayer and takes out her holy symbol. Her armor's off right now, by the way, she's in her ceremonial robes. Because it's hard to clank around in armor amongst a bunch of refugees. Sits down and focuses for a second, and pulls out some salt, and begins spreading it into a small triangular shape around her, and then pulls her holy symbol out and closes her eyes, and for that moment, you can see a beam of sunlight come through the roof, the glass roof of the temple, which then refracts into multiple colors that slowly dissipate around her. You can see, everyone else that has gathered in the room falls quiet, and watches on as there is this tiny little visual miracle. And she stays there for a moment. A few more moments. Probably about 30, 40 seconds pass before the light slowly retracts back up through the glass, and she stands up and turns around and goes, "Vasselheim seems fine for now. Untouched from the dragon's scourge, at the very least."
Marisha: That's good.
Laura: That's good.
Taliesin: What of Whitestone?
Matt: "Oh. Yes." She gets right back down into position with an air of begrudging acceptance. Focuses for a second. Spends a few more moments in her scrying ritual before stepping back, and turns slowly to you, Percy, and says, "Whitestone seems fairly overlooked by these dragons as well. The town rebuilds. People seem to be going about their lives. Possibly none the wiser as to what's transpired this side of Tal'Dorei."
Taliesin: We'll send word, at the very least.
Laura: It's all over the water. Maybe the dragons haven't gone that far.
Taliesin: It's far north. I'll make sure to send word.
Matt: "Okay." One of the kids starts crying, and she goes, "Oh, hold on." And goes over and starts tending to one of the children who has like a knee brace on, and is currently aching, and she goes to help calm him down. "Shh, shh."
Liam: Do you think you could look in on Syngorn?
Marisha: Of course.
Laura: Mostly to see, you know.
Marisha: I step up to the table, and begin my scrying ritual, checking on Syngorn first.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: We need like cups and string or something.
Sam: We do. Or a walkie-talkie. He's saying, Syngorn is gone.
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: Millions dead.
Laura: Millions. It's very large.
Travis: Remember to shop at Gilmore's Ruined Rubble. (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, he didn't even get a new franchise before it was--
Taliesin: For all your reclaimed wood needs.
Travis: Oh. Well done. Well done. That was nice.
Taliesin: The best was watching Laura go, "Oh what a great i-- ooh."
Travis: And endless supply of pavers and gravel.
Sam: Gilmore's Building Supplies. (laughter)
Travis: All your home improvements.
Matt: Back to your regularly scheduled D&D game.
Sam: What did you see, Keyleth?
Marisha: Syngorn is gone. And I don't mean destroyed, I don't mean burnt. I don't mean that it's rubble, I mean it's gone. The city is gone. There's, like, a huge chasm, a huge empty spot in the middle of the forest where Syngorn once lied. Lie.
Sam: Lay. Did it look like it was destroyed to nothing? Or transported somewhere?
Marisha: Like that. Like transported, like the city was lifted out of its place and was teleported elsewhere.
Sam: Could it have been-- I don't know how your scrying works-- could it have been some sort of a magical block? Not real, an illusion of some sort?
Matt: I would like Vax and Vex to both roll a history check.
Laura: Any kind of advantage on that? For growing up there or something?
Matt: Nope, that's-- you get to roll this because of that.
Liam: History?
Taliesin: Should have stayed in school.
Liam: Didn't help.
Laura: Eight.
Liam: 15.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Can I take a roll just for being a nerd?
Liam: All out of luck.
Matt: Are you proficient in history?
Taliesin: I am proficient in history.
Matt: Sure, I'll let you roll.
Taliesin: I want a nerd roll. 24. Book reading!
Matt: Okay. Being the astute researcher, the indoor kid growing up. Yeah. There aren't a lot of books that made their way north about pure elven culture, especially wooded elves, that comprise the entirety of the Syngorn nation.
Taliesin: I speak Elven, so that's good. (laughter)
Matt: It has rarely come into play, but because of previous wars, terrible devastation, and the need for the elvish culture to protect itself, and to maintain its existence, you do know that there have been instances of large enchantments on places of cultural importance that would bridge between here and the Feywild. And as a defense mechanism, essentially, would cloak and/or shift those locations.
Taliesin: They've gone into hiding.
Marisha: How can you be sure?
Taliesin: I can't, but there's reason to believe so. It's what it points to.
Liam: What points to what? What are you talking about?
Taliesin: Historically, elves have, in times of great stress, taken important sites, important places, people, and either cloaked them, hidden them, or moved them into the Feywild until such time as the danger has passed. There is precedence for this. They've gone into hiding.
Laura: Great.
Liam: That's one more thing our father failed to impart to us.
Laura: (laughs cynically) At least he's safe.
Taliesin: Most likely.
Marisha: I need to check in on the Air Ashari. I'm going to spend my last scrying.
Matt: Okay. As your vision separates from your current place of origin, you find yourself drifting up into the clouds and speeding through the air. The location itself is blurred, though recalling the origin of where you originally came from, you pass by columns of black smoke to your left, you assume somewhere related to Westrunn's current location.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: Eventually, the clouds part, and you find yourself thrust down upon the earth amongst the center of the Air Ashari tribe. You can see the thin leather constructs that make up a portion of your people's hovels and buildings. You can see the nearby chasm-based windfall that pours through constantly with a gentle whistling sound that forever is marked as the chorus that guides you all to sleep every evening. There, you can see your people amongst various conversations, going amongst their various daily duties, seemingly untouched, unscathed, and unaware of what recent events had transpired.
Marisha: They're okay.
Matt: That is the last of your scrying capability for the day.
Taliesin: You didn't have to know that. Big girls don't scry. Sorry, I saw it on Netflix.
Laura: Wow. Wow. Hit after hit after hit today, Taliesin.
Liam: You know, just because you can, doesn't mean you should.
Taliesin: I know. I know. Coffee hasn't kicked in yet.
Marisha: All right, they're okay. They seem unaware, which is very disheartening on a few levels.
Taliesin: Well, they'll know soon enough.
Marisha: Exactly.
Taliesin: We are going to need transport.
Sam: To where?
Taliesin: Ah. I don't think we're going to win this fight staying here, I think we're going to have to rally power, I think we're going to have to rally allies. I don't think there's enough here for us to win.
Laura: Can we relocate all of the refugees staying in our walls? Can we bring everyone through the Sun Tree? Keyleth? How long does it stay open?
Marisha: Six seconds.
Taliesin: We can go in shifts. This is not something that's going to be solved tomorrow. We can take a week, and move people.
Liam: That's true. And there's 50 to 100 refugees, you said, something like that, right?
Matt: At this point now, in your keep, surviving, you're looking at the 30s.
Liam: 30s?
Sam: But there's hundreds more inside the city walls. Thousands.
Taliesin: We're going-- we're not going to be able to empty the city.
Laura: But we can at least get these people out.
Taliesin: We can get these people out. And we're going to need-- and I apologise for the brightness in my voice-- I think we're going to need an airship.
Laura: An airship sounds wonderful, Percy, but--
Liam: You mean like the one that crashed?
Taliesin: Like the one that crashed.
Laura: One dragon attacking it and it's down.
Taliesin: We're going to need to move quickly, though, from city to city, and we're going to need to get word.
Marisha: Well, moving quickly from city to city-- I don't know.
Taliesin: We may have to steal an airship or something.
Sam: You're going to steal a plane?
Taliesin: I'm making a plan. I'm thinking of a plan.
Laura: You keep thinking, there.
Taliesin: It's working.
Marisha: Well, I mean, I've recently discovered that that misty Wind Walk spell that I cast on all of us is not great for battle, but is great for travel. And that lasts for eight hours.
Sam: What does? Who?
Marisha: Remember how I failed and almost killed us all?
Travis: Shit the bed. Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Thanks, Grog. What I learned out of that was it's not great for battle, but it is great for travel. It lasts for eight hours. We can move 300 feet per second.
Laura: Wonderful. We get the refugees out, we go to Whitestone, we talk to them there, we use the Misty Walk thingy and go to Vasselheim, talk to the Slayer's Take. This is perfect. Problem--
Sam: Are we going to check in with the Clasp? I really like Percy's idea about stealing a plane. I'm just throwing that out there.
Taliesin: There is an empty airdock that's currently not being used in the city.
Laura: Do we need a ship right now, darling? I understand the joy in it.
Taliesin: We don't need it now, but we're going to be-- need to move--
Sam: We could take all of these refugees with us. Don't you understand? We would be helping humanity.
Marisha: I'm with Vex. You all honestly--
Laura: -- believe a dragon wouldn't notice a giant airship flying out of the city?
Sam: Not if we hide it with some-- some smokescreen action of some sort.
Liam: Guys. This is an RPG, not a JRPG. (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to live like Teddy Ruxpin. This is all I've ever wanted. (laughter)
Laura: We need to talk to the Clasp first.
Sam: All right, let's go talk to the Clasp. We'll ask them what they think about--
Laura: Plus Allura and Drake are coming back. We need to talk to them as well. Find out what's going on in Westrunn. And then we need to get everyone out.
Marisha: I can transport some of us via plants today. I will have to sleep if we want and study to do the Misty Step again.
Laura: I've got a plan.
Taliesin: We have time. This is not a one-day plan.
Laura: Here's a good plan. This is a good plan, though.
Liam: Here it comes, everybody.
Laura: Open up the tree. Send a bunch of refugees through.
Marisha: Shove a bunch in.
Laura: Shove them through as fast as possible. Percy. You go with them. We keep the stone. You go through. You talk to your sister. You bamf back with the stone.
Marisha: Let Whitestone know what's going on. Because they're going to freak out if like--
Laura: And then we talk to the Clasp together.
Taliesin: I think that's a good plan.
Marisha: They will freak out if 20 refugees pour out of the Sun Tree. And they have no context.
Travis: Do that first.
Marisha: Okay. So wait, are you going to go on your mission while we go talk to the Clasp?
Laura: No, we're going to wait for you. So can we get the refugees together?
Matt: All right, so as you go into the temple and get Pike's attention, you begin to round up the refugees, which as a statement, historically, is already unnerving. You begin to push them all together in a group and tell them what?
Laura: Well, we comfort them and tell them  all right, obviously Emon is not a safe place to be right now.
Matt: "No, that's true, that's true! It's terrible here!"
Laura: It's dangerous, and we want to keep all of you as safe as possible.
Matt: "Yes, and thank you for taking us." Everyone starts cheering.
Laura: We have a plan.
Sam: We probably can only take a few. It should be women and children.
Laura: We're going to take those of you who need the most attention first, and we're going to bring you to Whitestone, which is a city that has not been affected by dragons at all. It has much need of people who can do an honest day's labor, and you can earn a wage and find a living there, for the time being, and if at some point in time you want to come back to Emon when all of this is done, of course you're more than welcome to.
Liam: There is opportunity.
Marisha: And no dragons!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: I'm rolling the gold one! 20?
Matt: Okay! A couple of folks currently, (muttering) "I've never been to Whitestone! Is it cold?"
Laura: In the winter.
Matt: "It's winter!"
Laura: Then it could be a little chilly!
Sam: Bundle up! We'll give you some wool blankets for the trip!
Matt: "Okay?"
Liam: There's definitely no vampires there. None.
Matt: A couple of kids go, "Vampires, sir?"
Laura: I like that we're sending to them to the place that's got the orb of death.
Matt: "What was that? What'd you say?"
Sam: No, nothing, she didn't say anything.
Laura: I said, "You might be able to see your breath!"
Matt: "Winter! Right! Okay, let's grab our things!" And some of the folks start getting their things together. Packing up their things-- what they had on their back, essentially, as they rushed here. Shake a few out of their shell-shock, and they all gather up towards the center of the Temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: Percy-- stone. To go through the--
Taliesin: I already gave it to Keyleth.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: DM question? How many do you think I can fit through in six seconds?
Matt: We'll find out!
Marisha: If I put them in like a line, and we're like, "Go! Go! Go!"
Matt: That's up to you guys! How do you want to do this?
Liam: They can't get-- no one can get cut in half, can they?
Laura: Well I assume, as soon as we see it start to shrink, we stop! We cut off the line.
Marisha: Well, what we should do-- here's the thing that I'm worried about. We don't want, like, a kid to go through, and then they get separated from their mom.
Travis: Well, everybody's got to grow up at some point.
Laura: Anybody with children. How many children are here?
Matt: I'd say you have seven children.
Laura: Children with their moms go-- and families go first.
Liam: Well, we were saying that the terribly injured, the people with the worst injuries--
Laura: All right, those people first!
Liam: Yeah, those people first.
Travis: Yeah, because they'll go through real fast.
Liam: And then with kids-- But they need attention now! They need--
Sam: Hey! We're going to be doing this every day for several days.
Taliesin: Hey, I've got a weird theory. Let's not send people with injuries yet, so that perhaps Pike can stay here and take care of them for a little bit?
Laura: Oh! Good call, okay! So the injured can stay.
Travis: Can't we put them on a wagon? Can't we like put them on a wagon, down and like--
Taliesin: We don't want to lose a wagon to Whitestone.
Sam: This is just how Schindler did it, by the way.
Laura: What!?
Sam: He debated it for a while, and then-- (nervous laughter).
Liam: No words! No words!
Travis: And the room goes silent, and the mug comes up.
Laura: Okay. So not the injured. Families first. How about that?
Taliesin: We'll count to six, and then we'll put the rope down, and when we hit six, we pull the rope, and it'll hold everybody--
Sam: Wait, there's a rope?
Laura: As soon as we see it start to shrink, I'll hold the people back.
Taliesin: Yes, hold the people back.
Laura: So Percy, you're first, everybody follow through. So any families here? Families?
Matt: Some of the kids raise their hands, some adults go over and they grab kids' hands and stand next to them. "Yes."
Laura: Are you really respons-- I can tell when you're lying, sir. Are you responsible for that child?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: 26!
Matt: Ha! Two of those people are definitely just taking a kid's hand in hopes of getting through first.
Travis: I walk in and start cracking my knuckles behind Vex.
Matt: "Well, I mean, I can wait, no worries! Eh--"
Laura: Child, where's your parents? Do you have one?
Matt: "They haven't shown up yet."
Laura: Oh, dear.
Sam: Leave them here, in case the parents come.
Laura: Okay. Then you would stay and wait for your family, potentially?
Liam: You can stay with Pike, for now.
Matt: Pike comes over and pats him on the shoulder. They're the same height, so it's easy.
Marisha: Let's do completed full families who are comfortable relocating.
Laura: That can move. Here we go.
Matt: Altogether, completed full families, there are two.
Marisha: How many people?
Matt: It'd be a total of eight people.
Laura: That's good! That's a good amount!
Travis: Yeah, think about it! One one thousand, one one thousand--
Laura: And then, any other like single people that can move fast?
Marisha: Yeah, a couple single people? To bring up the rear?
Matt: Okay. You have about ten more people that raise their hands.
Taliesin: We can get that many through in six seconds.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Laura: Get ready to run, people.
Marisha: All right. So let's go to the tree. Percy, you're going to lead. Percy, you're going to lead. We're going to put the eight up front, with the ten, 15 stragglers behind. I tell them all: all right. As soon as you see that tree start to part, run! Run your face off! I tell that to the crowd.
Taliesin: And keep running. So that you make room for everyone behind you, we don't want like-- it's not the bottom of an escalator. Whatever that is. It's a thing I've been working on, it's going to be great.
Marisha: Don't stop in the tree, you will create terrible congestion.
Laura: Everybody comfortable with the plan?
Sam: Can I inspire Keyleth for this?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay, I will perform a limerick for her to inspire her. I know an airheaded young druid / whose plans are more gassy than fluid / when the battle starts / she turns her pals into farts / they see danger and pass right through it!
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. I love it. It's so like me.
Matt: Take a 1d10 inspiration die.
Travis: I hate to be the detail-oriented one about this whole thing, but should somebody be counting as soon as she starts so we put down an arm at six?
Laura: You count in your head, Grog.
Travis: You really don't want me to do that.
Marisha: Maybe with my inspiration, I can get a few more seconds in there?
Matt: We shall see. I'll say for the sake of this, go ahead and roll a wisdom check.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: A d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Oh, that's not good.
Sam: You've got inspiration if you need it.
Marisha: Can I add my inspiration to this?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. That helps a lot. What am I adding? Just my straight wisdom?
Matt: Yep, wisdom modifier.
Marisha: My modifier? 19 total.
Matt: 19 total, okay. So as you all gather around in the center of the temple, Keyleth, you step up to the outside of one of the two front trees to the temple, one of the ones you guys usually use to transport to and from here. As you focus in and reach your hand out and touch the outside of the tree's bark, with a rough tearing sound, the tree bark widens into an oval-shaped doorway that is immediately visible. On the opposite side, you can see before you a lightly snow-dappled landscape that is the central market of Whitestone.
Laura: We put blankets on everybody, right?
Matt: From what you had.
Marisha: Go! Go! Now, run, go! Go, Percy, go!
Matt: Who's pushing?
Taliesin: I'm already through.
Matt: Percy's through. All right, are you guys just letting them go at their own rate?
Travis: (shouting) Move your fucking asses!
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Marisha: It's like a football line.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. With that, everyone goes, (startled noise) and starts charging through wildly. The crowd starts pushing through.
Marisha: I'm trying to hold it.
Liam: No severed limbs, no whammies!
Matt: Okay. All of the rest-- the family people go through, the young folks push through. You manage to get a total of 23 people through. (cheering)
Matt: Some folks who weren't even planning to go on this were so driven by the sudden shouting Grog voice echoing from behind that they charged forward Black Friday-style, and managed to escape the tail end of the spell tapering the doorway off.
Liam: "I regret nothing!"
Sam: Well, I hope Percy comes back soon.
Marisha: I've got the gatestone.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: I'm going to get everybody organized. Everyone, please follow me. We're heading towards the main castle.
Matt: They're all looking around.
Taliesin: Welcome to Whitestone.
Matt: A gentle snowfall is coming down. The sky itself you can see is covered in light, white clouds. Just enough moisture to carry the little snowfall that's happening. There are folks in the center of the town that are surprised to see this arrival, but recognize you and cheer a little bit. "Hey! Percival." (laughter)
Taliesin: Thank you for that smattering of applause. Golf claps, please. Golf claps.
Matt: The refugees all gather up behind you, and you guys walk towards Castle Whitestone.
Taliesin: We make our way to the castle.
Matt: The guards greet you and lead you inside. And within a few minutes, Cassandra comes down from the upper floor. "Percival, you've returned."
Taliesin: Things are not going well. Have you heard any news of Emon and what has been transpiring there?
Matt: "No, we've been focused on restoring our city. Why?"
Taliesin: Yesterday, we were attacked by a group of chromatic dragons. The city is destroyed. There's no simple way to say this, but we're under siege. We were afraid that Whitestone would be destroyed, as well, but it seems that they have passed over you so far, but we fear for many cities' safety. I was hoping that it would be all right if we moved a small number of refugees through to Whitestone for the time being. Less than a hundred, I imagine. These are the first 20-some-odd that we've pulled through.
Matt: And she looks behind you, looks to the crowd, snaps her fingers. Some of the guards step forward, she goes, "Please, if you would make sure to find any of the various unoccupied buildings are provided to these refugees. Thank you." And the guards nod, and begin gathering the group and sending them back into town, and she gives you a look back and says, "For better or for worse, we happen to have a number of vacancies in the city due to recent events. But--"
Taliesin: Oh! Well, yes. Nothing I-- Anything I should know about?
Matt: "No, just-- We've lost many in the struggle against the Briarwoods. But yes, they will be provided for, I assure you."
Taliesin: So I will let you know to stop all business with Emon for now. Be very wary, prepare the city for a possible dragon attack. Things are looking dark.
Matt: "Yes, yes."
Taliesin: And if it's possible, any research-- any energy that can be put forward towards mounting some sort of defense against these creatures would be greatly appreciated.
Matt: "Right, right, well, we had a few individuals that were researching the ziggurat beneath the city. Two left a while back and we had one arrive just the other day."
Taliesin: Who arrived the other day?
Matt: "I cannot recall his name-- Realm Seeker, Realm Seer-- I'm not--"
Laura: (whispering) Eskil Ryndarien!
Taliesin: Please bring me to him.
Matt: All right, Cassandra leads you down into the city again, and one of the houses has been provided, she knocks on the door, the door opens and you see stepping out, an older gentleman who you've heard of but not really had an encounter with since-- no, actually you encountered him for the final ritual that took the phylactery from Grog's chest.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: But this is Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, the archmage that basically was one of the folks who lived within Westruun and was called to Whitestone as part of research--
Taliesin: That's some pre-stream stuff, everybody.
Matt: As the door opens, he comes out, eyes adjusting to the light, and you can see the interior is very dark. He's one of those live-in-lightless-territory types of person. Comes out with his round spectacles around his nose, his robe is disheveled, bundled over his shoulders, he goes, "Yes, if I may be of service--?"
Taliesin: We've met! You look very familiar.
Matt: "Quite! Yes we have. You're with those S.H.I.T.s, weren't you?"
Taliesin: (laughing) Ah, yes.
Matt: "Unfortunate title you've chosen--"
Taliesin: Long gone, thankfully, long gone. We're Vox Machina--
Matt: "Good! Vox Machina, glad you took my suggestion."
Taliesin: Yes, thank you for that. (laughing)
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: Well, first of all, how goes the research into the--
Matt: "Frustrating, to say the least. It appears that this entire--" and he walks back into the house, expecting you guys to follow. As you enter, immediately you're hit with the smell of sage and other burning herbs, and you can see there's a vast number of books that are strewn about the table in front. The fireplace in the back is pouring smoke up into the roof area and soot's starting to gather on the stonework on the outside. Looks like there's two or three different kettles going off with different types of tea. It's complete chaos in here, but he seems to be in control of most of it, at least. He goes, "From best we can ascertain, this is some sort of a magical siphon device. It has prevented us from utilizing any sort of ritualistic endeavors in ascertaining its nature, it's quite perplexing. I'm hoping to either head over to Wildemount, or perhaps return to the Cobalt Reserve and perhaps find some historical information about such an object, but nothing in my current--"
Taliesin: Well, sir, I have some bad news for you. I hail from Emon, which has been attacked by chromatic dragons--
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Taliesin: Dragons have declared war on civilization. A group of dragons have destroyed our city, and they have destroyed other cities as well. We are in desperate need of powers to defend ourselves with-- So I would be very careful and send forward-- Send word ahead of yourself before you travel anywhere, it may not be there by the time you get there.
Matt: "Well, I guess it's good that I moved my tower before I left."
Taliesin: Things are looking grim and I would ask while you-- If you intend to remain and work on your research on this anomaly beneath our city, perhaps thinking as to how it may be turned into a weapon for our use against these creatures would not be out of the realm of question, and any information you do have of the chromatic dragons would be invaluable. Any research that can be done. We are at war.
Matt: "This is very disconcerting news. I will do what I can. Unfortunately, I'd have to get back to the Cobalt Reserve. That's where most of my research is completed."
Taliesin: That's Westruun?
Matt: "Let me see. Jeckt--" And he snaps his fingers, and you can see his manservant, Jeckt, who you've met before, slicked-back darkish red hair, mustache, very prim and proper-type manservant, well-dressed, steps out of the shadows. "Yes, my lord?" "If you would be so kind, prepare me for travel, pack up this--"
Taliesin: Westruun is no more, sir.
Matt: "Well, that's really frustrating!"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Really."
Taliesin: Extremely aggravating.
Matt: "Yes. I am unhappy with this circumstance! How am I supposed to do my research without a place to do my research?!"
Taliesin: Well, we hope that you will find our winters here quite solitary, and convenient on that level. Things are looking grim.
Matt: "Well, you can say that again."
Taliesin: I must go. I have other work to do to start preparing--
Travis: Peace!
Matt: "Yes, yes go! Do your thing!"
Taliesin: Good day, sir. And good luck to you.
Matt: "Should I find anything, how will I-- whereabouts-- Where are you?"
Taliesin: We don't know yet, but we will be returning here.
Matt: "That does not help me. I will do my best."
Taliesin: Cassandra will be able to get a hold of me if necessary.
Matt: "Ah, Cassandra. All right! Someone of use around here."
Taliesin: I am going to go find my sister and make my way to the stone.
Matt: He doesn't even say goodbye to you. He's completely flustered. It's funny. For everyone who's taken completely by the horror of the situation, he just seems really perturbed about the--
Travis: Inconvenience of it all.
Matt: Yeah, it's so inconvenient. That library was very helpful.
Taliesin: Why isn't the internet working! (frustrated noise)
Matt: Basically. You find your way to Cassandra again. She's waiting outside of the room. "I hope he's been helpful, brother"
Taliesin: No, he wasn't helpful, but it was very helpful the way he wasn't helpful.
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: It's a strange, strange--
Matt: "He's a very strange man."
Taliesin: Everything's going to be all right.
Matt: "I hope so."
Taliesin: Thank you. I will return very soon. We will, again with your permission, hopefully be using Whitestone as a place to regroup and prepare ourselves.
Matt: "Is there worry that these dragons might come here?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "How will we stop them?"
Taliesin: You'll hide. I have thoughts, perhaps of a weapon. I don't know. But we're going to find a way to stop them.
Matt: "We have to."
Taliesin: I'm not good at being the bearer of any bad news, but this is very dangerous and I don't know what we're going to do.
Sam: (whispers) Steal an airplane.
Matt: "Neither do I."
Taliesin: (whispers) They don't have an airplane.
Matt: "Stay safe, Percival."
Taliesin: I shall return soon.
Matt: "I hope so. We'll do what we can in the meantime to see to your refugees and hopefully try and prepare ourselves."
Taliesin: There will be a few more through, possibly tomorrow, with word.
Matt: "All right. We'll be prepared. Thank you." She reaches out and puts her hand on yours, again, and looks you sternly in the face and goes, "Be careful."
Taliesin: I will.
Matt: "You're all I have left."
Taliesin: And Cassandra, I'm proud of you. You're doing very well here.
Matt: "There's still a ways to go, brother."
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Matt: She hands you the gatestone. And with that, there's a slight popping sound as you're in a very soft bit of bluish-purple light. Your body slowly subsides and fades into nothing before it (poof) vanishes out of existence. As you guys are back at the keep, suddenly, who has the gatestone? As you're holding it, it begins to shake in your hand and give off a warm light.
Marisha: I think our reservation's ready.
Sam: I'm telling the, what, seven remaining refugees?
Matt: You have about eight or nine.
Sam: Sorry you didn't make it through. It doesn't mean that you'll be here forever. We'll get you there tomorrow. No big. Don't worry about it.
Laura: More food for you guys, which is A+.
Matt: At which point now, there's a slight smell of burnt cedar before the air itself begins to sound like a light hum or vibration as suddenly Percy's form (poof) appears in the center of the room next to your gatestone. Both of the stones you guys are holding all of a sudden become white-hot, and you instinctively drop them before they tumble to the ground.
Laura: Hey! They work!
Taliesin: They hurt. Good to know.
Sam: That's great. Did you see your sister?
Taliesin: I did, everything is fine up there, the research continues. They're happy to take people.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Taliesin: So, and they are prepared for more. They're also happy to be a base of operations as we put things together.
Laura: And you told them to make preparations in case something happens?
Taliesin: Whatever preparations one can make for something like this, to be prepared to hide. (sighs) For now.
Liam: In the worst-case scenario they can go underground.
Taliesin: Worst-case scenario, they can go underground, yes.
Laura: They need to start hiding food.
Taliesin: They have to grow food, they haven't really recovered that yet. There's also a--
Marisha: Hopefully I hooked them up there.
Taliesin: I have one of those terrible ideas I get on occasion.
Sam: What is it? I love it.
Taliesin: That thing beneath Whitestone could be a weapon.
Sam: How?
Travis: Ooh, that's true.
Laura: Anything touching it disintegrates.
Travis: Yeah! Like a dragon.
Sam: Do you shoot it at something?
Taliesin: I might be able to turn it into a projectile.
Laura: How would you turn it to a projectile-- are you okay, Keyleth?
Liam: It is a fun idea--
Taliesin: A long-term idea.
Marisha: Just choking on Percy's idea.
Taliesin: I can make an antimagic missile.
Marisha: What-- a magic-- a magic missile? An antimagic missile?
Taliesin: An antimagic missile.
Liam: One plus one plus two plus one.
Laura: One plus two plus one plus one!
Sam: That's a great idea.
Taliesin: I've been-- I've been mulling it over.
Sam: Could we fire it from an airship of some sort?
Taliesin: Yes, I have-- that's actually part of the idea.
Marisha: Percy, when I tried to touch that thing it was like it was sucking me in. I don't think that thing and me touched. How are we going to turn it into a projectile?
Taliesin: I have thoughts, I'm going to follow them through, and it may require some experimentation in the future, but I think perhaps--
Marisha: At the cost of possibly your life?
Taliesin: I take my life into my hands any time I build something. I think that a non-magical approach to containing it might actually work. I think the problem is--
Laura: Well that's good, because it cancels out any magic--
Taliesin: I think the problem is that we keep trying to magic our way out of something that denies magic, and maybe I can engineer our way out of it.
Marisha: Have they found anything out, did you get any updates?
Taliesin: A little bit of information, there will be more later. I'm going to take a look at all the data and see if it's possible.
Sam: Should we go visit the Clasp?
Travis: Oh, please.
Taliesin: I'm trying to be more open.
Travis: Yeah, let's go!
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this time? It's pretty close to dusk, the sun is getting close to the mountain line, you probably have another hour of daylight.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: To the Clasp?
Travis: Yeah, they're probably nocturnal anyway. That means they're around at night.
Taliesin: They're not turtles, no.
Marisha: Did you learn something new, Grog?
Travis: What?
Matt: All right, you guys heading back into Emon?
Sam: Everyone? Some? All?
Taliesin: I think Pike should stay behind to take care for--
Marisha: You seem to have reservations--
Sam: Vex, are you okay going down there? You're marked for death by these people.
Laura: I've been down there several times without knowing that.
Sam: I know, I feel like it might put you on edge.
Liam: She's not marked for death, she was marked for death, it's just awkward. It's awkward. I'm not a full-fledged member, they don't like me. I don't like them!
Laura: Maybe I can become a member.
Liam: Maybe you can.
Taliesin: This is politics, you're not supposed to like them.
Liam: Well, let's go, then.
Travis: Yeah! What he said.
Matt: You guys taking the tunnel or you walking in?
Laura: Taking the tunnel, we're taking the secret entrance--
Travis: Oh come on, we're never even-- we've not even walked in yet.
Laura: Garthok showed us the secret entrance, he's waiting for us and having them prepare our way, this could get bad.
Matt: No, are you guys walking through your tunnel to the city, is what I'm saying.
Laura: Oh! That! Yes. Cool.
Liam: We're not going to walk in the open.
Sam: What are we doing?
Laura: We're taking our secret tunnel into the city.
Sam: Okay. It puts us in the wrong side of the city, but it's okay.
Laura: What else are we going to do?
Marisha: (coughing)
Laura: How you doing there? You okay?
Marisha: I'm good. Mm-hmm. Sorry. I got a piece of chip stuck.
Taliesin: No, I'm going to leave one with Vax.
Travis: What is it?
Taliesin: I'm giving Vax my gatestone.
Liam: That's a good idea.
Taliesin: I'm giving you the other one.
Liam: For now, it's a good idea, I won't hold onto it forever.
Taliesin: He's the one who's going to get stuck in a room alone if they decide they don't like him.
Liam: Can we call this the Jenga stone? In moments of need.
Taliesin: Jenga stone. Remember, it takes about a minute to work.
Liam: Do I need to spend a little time with this?
Matt: No. However, it does work only once a day.
Liam: Once a day?
Matt: After another long rest you'd be able to use it again.
Liam: All right. Good to know. All right.
Sam: Into the city.
Laura: In your pants.
Matt: Like you do. Half-elven storage space. You guys find your way back into Emon, utilizing your secret tunnel entrance, coming up through the false outhouse once again. You leave the chain behind, locking it up, and make your way into the city.
Laura: Cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Matt: All right. You guys, I'd like you all to make a stealth check.
Travis: Come on, giant blue nut ball dice. Natural 20!
Laura: Aw, it fell out of my hand. I don't think it should count if it fell.
Matt: Nope, too bad.
Laura: Aw, that's mean. Oh, I get advantage!
Sam: Oh, and we get a plus ten, right?
Taliesin: 33.
Sam: 15.
Marisha: 35.
Liam: 38. LAURA 35.
Travis: Natural 20.
Sam: Wait. With no judgment, is Trinket coming?
Laura: Trinket is staying with Pike.
Sam: That's a fine decision.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Hell hath frozen over.
Matt: Placing Trinket over here.
Laura: Oh! He's crying! I'm crying.
Matt: So as you guys start dodging between the alleyways, making your way towards the north side of Emon, alongside the ruined interior of the Cloudtop District, you instinctually begin to-- and I'd say-- who else has proficiency in perception?
Liam: Right here.
Matt: All right. You guys all start noticing there are what looks initially like flocks of birds moving through the sky. Some of them are heading down into parts of the town in the distance. As you continue to push forward, one set of four in particular start heading overhead. You look up and you can see a small cluster of about five or six flying creatures. Not dragon-sized, by any means, but either a very, very large bird or something of that degree. You can't make out the details, as right now as the sun's beginning to set, a lot of it's dark against a red-orange sky. You keep yourself at bay, waiting for them to pass.
Marisha: Oh, waiting for them to pass?
Matt: Unless you guys want to do something else.
Laura: As a dragon-favored enemy, could I guesstimate what those winged creatures are that would hang out around dragons?
Travis: Could you determine if they're wyverns?
Matt: Yes. They are actually indeed wyverns. Wivverns. However you want to pronounce it. Both work in my world. It's fine.
Liam: It's pronounced 'jif'.
Matt: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: I will fight you. But yeah.
Sam: They're diving into the city?
Matt: You can see a few that dove into city and stayed there. And one group goes overhead, and continues onward.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Pushing forward, deeper into the city, you make your way through the Temple District, and start pushing through Abdar's Promenade once again, retracing your steps from the day before, dodging through open areas as fast as possible to stay within the shadows. All of you go darting into one of the alleyways. As you turn behind you, you can see your tiny-legged gnomish bard friend, keeping up as best as he can before his foot hitting a divot on the ground and (slam) falling face first on the ground, making just enough noise--
Sam: Sorry. Sorry.
Matt: You hear a little screech in the distance. (screech) And coming up on the rooftop, you can see, perched up there, appears to be one wyvern that is looking over down at the currently toppled gnome, and on top of the wyvern, you see something riding it. Something that is holding reins on the edge, something humanoid is glancing over, just a little enough of a shadow, to see.
Sam: He sees me? I see him?
Matt: He looks down at you, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will cast Hold Person on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't know what he is, but I want him to stop.
Liam: And Scanlan's the only one-- we all see it?
Matt: You all barely see it looking over the edge as Scanlan's there, left in the middle of the main walkway. That is going to be a natural 17 on the will save. That'll be an 18. What's your DC?
Sam: Well, it's 17, but the hand-cone makes it 19.
Laura: Ah-ha!
Sam: Do you think I had the wherewithal to use it?
Matt: With having you fallen on your face, I'd say probably not. Since it wasn't specified, that would be a DC of 17. So the creature seems to rear back for a second, shake its head, and you get a little bit of a look at the features at this point, too. And it is humanoid, but you can see its outer body is not fleshy, or smooth, it is scaled and bumpy. You can see ridges across the back of the head, and in one of the hands, looks like some sort of a spear. Immediately as it rears back, it puts its head up and goes (guttural gibberish).
Laura: The creature?
Matt: Yeah, riding on the back of the wyvern.
Laura: Those are the things that attacked the airship!
Sam: Yes. Possibly.
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative.
Taliesin: This is going to be fun.
Laura: I think you should turn it into a bunny, Keyleth! Turn it into a bunny.
Marisha: Jesus Christ. I can do that today. Just rolled shitty on my initiative.
Liam: Not too good.
Sam: (singing) This is the music that plays when we fight!
Matt: All right, so! Scanlan, as you were running across the thoroughfare, you tripped and fell that way.
Sam: That's me!
Matt: The rest of you had come into this alley over here. Currently, looking over the top of this rooftop, is this wyvern and its rider.
Marisha: I love that the rider is like (derpy noise).
Matt: (imitates derpy noise) It's fine.
Marisha: Go home, rider, you're drunk.
Matt: That's going to be-- 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 26.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. All right, 20 to 15?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18, let's see. Vex. 15 to ten?
Sam: Yikes.
Matt: Ten to five?
Sam: Eight! No, seven.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Taliesin: Wow.
Liam: Uno!
Matt: Plus?
Liam: Oh, six, thanks for that.
Matt: So you would be-- actually, technically, Keyleth, is next to you.
Liam: That was so crushing, to see the number on the die.
Matt: Aw, sorry buddy. It happens to the best of us. All righty. So. Currently with this guy up on top of the rooftop, Percy, you are first.
Taliesin: Quick question, is he in flight, or is he just sitting on the rooftop?
Matt: Just sitting on the roof, perched on the edge. You can't even actually see him, everyone else who's near the front can see, the few that made the check. You've got a little bit of movement up there, but you're just out of view with the building-- you're right in an alleyway.
Taliesin: There's no easy way up onto the roof, is there?
Matt: Aside from a well-placed acrobatics check. You could try.
Taliesin: That would be my whole movement, too, wouldn't it, though?
Matt: Most likely.
Taliesin: Nah, let's see.
Travis: And how high is the roof?
Matt: I'd say it's about anywhere from 16 to 20 feet tall. It's two-story, but it's not extremely well-built.
Taliesin: I'm going to try to get a vantage point where I can at least get where he's only three-quarters cover. So I suppose I'm going to head south down the alley to see if I can get a--
Matt: Pushing to these guys?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so one-- You can get to about there if you want to.
Taliesin: I can get a good look at him there.
Matt: You can see, yeah. He'll have half-cover from there.
Taliesin: Half-cover's fine. So, if I were to knock him prone, would he fall off the roof, or could I try and push him off the roof? These are my--
Matt: For the wyvern, or for the rider?
Taliesin: The wyvern.
Matt: You can try. It's hard-pressed, he's sturdy on the side, knocking him prone might fall over onto the rooftop. Who knows if it'll slide or not. It's your call. What do you want to try?
Taliesin: I'll try knocking him prone, and see if that does it.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: Actually--
Sam: Do it!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's either that or try and push him off the roof, which could be pretty funny. I'll try and knock him prone.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: All right. So I'm going to use Bad News, because that's funnier.
Matt: Okay. So (whoosh) you whip out.
Taliesin: Take a shot. That's a 28 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Taliesin: And that's a wing shot, so you have to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Against 18.
Matt: Well, this is the wing or leg shot, right?
Taliesin: Wing or leg shot. I'm sorry, that's a-- Actually, I'm sorry, I have the new sheet.
Matt: Yeah, new sheet on that one. Updated that.
Taliesin: Strength saving throw. Sorry, strength saving throw against 18.
Matt: Okay. That's a natural 19 plus four for strength, so that's a 23 on the save.
Taliesin: Motherfucker, but he'll still take some damage.
Matt: Still takes damage though, go ahead and roll.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him, too, because eff that. I was not quite prepared for this. 2d12 plus six, four, eight, 14 points of damage.
Matt: 14 points of damage, nice. All right.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take a-- reload, take another shot and try and knock him off the roof.
Matt: Go for it. The same shot?
Taliesin: Same shot. Ugh. That's a three, so that means I--
Matt: Misfire.
Sam: Clank!
Matt: So, first shot of Bad News, (explosion noise) echoes, the sound of the blast rippling through the nearby alleyways, the blast hits the wyvern in part of its arm, sending a spray of blood as it shrieks in pain. As you can see its rider is moved to the side, and you see a second head behind the rider from the reaction of movement. Looks like there's actually two of these creatures riding on the back of this creature. As you go to reload, bring Bad News up again to fire a second time, you pull the trigger and there's a (thump) sound, and you can see now a stream of smoke pouring out the back of the gun itself, and you're a little worried what this is going to do if you don't fix it soon.
Travis: Look down the barrel!
Sam: Yeah, that'll work.
Taliesin: I can use my-- I actually can't do-- Am I going to panic and try and fix this?
Matt: Next turn? That's your movement, that's your three attacks, do you have a bonus? Anything?
Taliesin: I can-- I'm going to, I'm going to throw an action surge and see if I can fix this.
Matt: Go for it. Go ahead and make your tinker check.
Taliesin: Yes! Yeah, 14.
Matt: So you spend your action quickly trying to fix the gun and get Bad News back. You manage to clear the barrel, get the pellet out, as the rest of the team starts coming up with their turns. That'll be the rest of your action. Okay, finishes Percy's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn until it gets off the roof and maybe comes down to the ground.
Matt: Okay, okay, good to know. Let's see here. It appears that my-- Taliesin, could you do me a favor and hand me that box next to the fridge there?
Taliesin: Sure.
Matt: Thank you. All right, so Grog, as you're doing that, the blasting sound of Bad News that echoed through, you all of a sudden start hearing other shrieks in the distance, like a call to arms of a number of other entities.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: As you see a multitude of other winged creatures begin to arise in the distance.
Taliesin: I shouldn't have gotten him that box, should I?
Marisha: Was that in the box?
Travis: Yeah, we could always run, too.
Taliesin: Could.
Sam: How far are we from the tunnel system? Far.
Matt: You're a ways. Probably a good 25-minute run. There's another one on the roof over here. And there's one on this roof here. Each one of them with their own riders, as well.
Laura: Shit.
Matt: Now. All right, so for this turn, this one leaps off and swoops down here to where Percy is while both of its riders leap off to the side. One that leaps off and rushes over to Scanlan on the ground, and this other one that gets right up next to Percy. This one goes flying forward and lands in the center to about there. Two of its riders leap off. This one stays up in the air over this way in a flanking position-- or in a visual perspective with two of its riders on its back. Put them there.
Liam: For clarification, does this count as turns, or are they, since they're coming late to the party, or this is just them in position?
Matt: This is them now entering the fray.
Liam: Are they into the initiative order, just gameplay talk?
Matt: Yeah. Well, this is the initiative I rolled for them after being called by the guy who was already shouting out into the air.
Laura: Oh, right, right, right.
Matt: You didn't see them before, given your perspective. These guys leap off over here-- over there. Okay. So we have, first the wyvern that swooped down on you, Percy, is going to go ahead and make an attack with its bite and an attack with its stinger as a multiattack. So that first strike, that is going to be a-- The bite, 13?
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: The stinger, however, is a 19.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my Amulet of the Shield and up my AC for that attack to 23, so.
Matt: Yeah. So that will miss. So that uses the Amulet. Good to know. So the stinger goes to strike you after the bite misses, and as you grasp your chest, you can see now an arcane barrier shines in front of you and completely ricochets the stinger out into the air to the side as it reacts angrily. The other giant humanoid lizard creature that's coming towards you with a giant heavy club is going to attempt to slam you with it.
Laura: There's so many things!
Matt: Twice. Well, it's going to attack you with its club, that's going to be a 17.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: And then it's going to try and slam you with a spike shield. That is 15.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: So that guy starts swinging at you loosely.
Taliesin: I'm sword out. Yeah.
Matt: All right. Attacking you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh. Shit.
Matt: The one that's on the ground there. All right. So it has two attacks against you with advantage.
Sam: With advantage?
Matt: Because you're prone. You're on the ground. That'll be a 24 to hit.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Matt: And the spike shield is going to be a 24 again, actually.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: So as you're on the ground, it slams you with a shield for 12 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Why didn't I bring Trinket?
Sam: I know! What's wrong with you?
Matt: The shield slams you for eight points of piercing damage. So a total of 20 points of damage as (whack) slams you into the ground twice.
Laura: I thought this was a stealthing mission!
Matt: It was until he rolled a 15 stealth.
Sam: Blame me, blame me.
Matt: Those wyverns are too far away for combat. The other guys are just assisting the scenario here.
Liam: Percy shot at them.
Matt: Okay. There's one fellow over here that is a bit far away who steps off. Instead of holding the same clubs and shields or other various hack weapons, he's carrying a gnarled staff.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: Steps forward and sees the weapon that you fired twice and had been fixing, this large metallic dangerous entity, looks forward and begins hissing under his breath (hissing gibberish).
Sam: Do I see this?
Matt: You do.
Sam: I'm going to release my--
Matt: Though you are being slammed on the ground. I'd say make a perception check, actually, to see if you see this.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Because you are currently--
Sam: 19!
Matt: Yes, actually, I will say you do see this.
Sam: I will release my Counterspell.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: I assume he's casting something.
Matt: He is, actually--
Travis: Or has a terrible cold.
Sam: And I will-- I will sing at him, (singing) And you still haven't hit what you're aiming for!
Matt: That's a second-level spell, it is dispelled immediately. As he'd attempted to Heat Metal on your weapon, you can see as the metal begins to glow for a moment and you could feel the heat welling in your hand, all of a sudden the spell (crack) is shattered, like the sound of thin glass in the distance as Scanlan shouts to intercept its arcane ability. That is going to end their opening turn. That brings us down to the initiative order. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, I think Grog was before me.
Matt: Oh, right, Grog, you're holding your action first.
Travis: Right. Can I barrel down through the alley now that someone's on the ground, and race towards the one that's nearest Percy?
Matt: I'll say sure. Usually, going forward, if you hold your action, that's just your action, not your movement, you still move to the situation, but I'll let it stand for this, it's fine.
Travis: I'll remember that going forward.
Matt: Yeah. So you're going to tear down to this guy there?
Travis: Yeah. I would like-- and I would like to swing twice with Craven.
Matt: Go for it. Still maintaining your bonuses from last game, by the way. You haven't taken a short rest yet.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Travis: Yes indeed.
Laura: He's so strong from the last game.
Travis: Plus-- That's 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: And a 14 on the second one.
Matt: 14 does not hit. This is the Great Weapon Master?
Travis: No, these are regular attacks.
Laura: You didn't rage yet?
Matt: Did you rage?
Travis: Yeah. Oh! No, I did not.
Matt: Do you want to rage as part of your bonus action to this?
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay. Figures. All right, so as your bonus action you go into a rage before you strike. Go for it.
Travis: 12-- 22? Oh, wait. Yep, 22.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. The second strike missed.
Travis: Oh, that's right. 22, that's it.
Matt: 22. So you rush forward, slam the sword into the side of the lizard creature. It puts its shield up and it manages to block most of the blow, but it still slides off and slams into part of its neck area. It shoves the blade out. However, it fails its save.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Take a strength point off of it and add that to what you have now. What's your strength currently?
Travis: 22.
Matt: So it goes up another plus one to attack and damage. If it became 22, it does.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. Grog, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Is there anywhere I can stand that I get a good cone shape? Or am I all blocked in?
Matt: You can try to move through. You might get an attack of opportunity from the guy that's attacking Grog.
Laura: Okay, how high is the roof next to me?
Matt: It's about 16, 20 feet.
Laura: Could I acrobatics that shit up?
Matt: You could try to. Go for it.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Parkour!
Laura: Hold on. Oh! 31?
Matt: With that, you look over and see the rooftop up there. You leap off each side, Ninja Gaiden-style. Hop onto the rooftop with a solid view of the entire battlefield before you, including the one flying creature up there.
Laura: Oh, okay. Then I'm going to Hunter's Mark the magic user.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And I'm going to Conjure Barrage in a cone to get as many of those fucks as I can.
Matt: Okay, so it's a 60-foot cone. Right there?
Laura: Yeah, sure. Sorry, Scanlan.
Matt: You will hit Scanlan, as well.
Sam: Oh, balls! I'm a little man!
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: 3d8.
Matt: Yeah, roll 3d8 damage.
Sam: 3d8 damage?
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: It's not that much. 16, and then an extra d6 on that guy. An extra six.
Matt: Okay, so does he make his save? He does not.
Sam: Do I have to make a save?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: What kind of save?
Matt: This would be a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: And I'm on the ground. That's a nine.
Matt: You take 16 points of damage from that. That's a fail, and a success. So 16. The wyvern makes that, so half that for eight. He fails. All right, cool. Got it. So as you go forward, leaping up on top, you mark the one guy, turn around, and release a torrent of arrows that sprays into the center of this open pathway of the city. I believe that ends your turn.
Laura: Yes, it does.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, me?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Balls. Shit. I'm on the ground. If I stand up, that's my action?
Matt: It's half your movement.
Sam: That's half my movement. Okay, I'll stand up. He doesn't get to hit me, right?
Matt: Not unless you move away from him.
Sam: Okay. Which riders are still on their beasts?
Matt: These two are the only two that are still on their beasts.
Sam: I will ignore the guy next to me and I will Hand Cone it up, and I will-- he's got two riders?
Matt: Yeah, they have these ramshackle-- you can see now with a closer look, these leather kind of saddles? But they're mostly thrown leathers that are strapped to its back, and there's two of them holding onto these knobs in front to stay on.
Sam: Two riders?!
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I guess I'll Dominate one of them. The main guy.
Laura: Can you Dominate the beast?
Sam: He's not a person.
Matt: There's Dominate Person and Dominate Monster. They're two different things.
Sam: I'm going to dominate the guy in front.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Maverick, not Hollywood.
Travis: It's Maverick and Goose!
Sam: Well, at the end, it was Hollywood.
Travis: No, it was Merlin.
Sam: Merlin?!
Travis: Yeah. Tim Robbins.
Sam: Merlin was the teacher, the guy who spun out. Hollywood was the guy who was his--
Travis: You don't want to do this with me.
Taliesin: This is the first conversation I've ever been in in this group where I feel young.
Matt: The rider's screeching down while it's holding on, and all of a sudden it shakes its head for a minute and looks down at you, eyes connected, and you know that this entity is waiting for its command.
Sam: Can I only give it one command per turn?
Matt: You can give it a basic command and it will follow it through, unless you wanted to directly control it.
Sam: Well, I've got two things to do. He's got to get rid of that fucker on his back, and also other things. Let's go for the big kahuna. I command him to ride his beast to attack the one below him. The wyvern below him.
Matt: Okay. All right, good to know. And do you want to stay where you are? Do you want to move?
Sam: No, I don't want to move because he'll hit me. That would be bad. Who hasn't gone? You haven't gone.
Taliesin: Vax hasn't gone--
Sam: Vax hasn't gone? Oh my god.
Laura: No. because he rolled a one, remember?
Liam: Yup!
Sam: Okay. I will inspire Vax with my inspiration. And I will say: This is ground control to Major Vax, you've really made the blade. And the papers want to know whose blood you spilled!
Matt: (laughs) All right, take your d10 inspiration die.
Liam: d10. Yes.
Sam: Rest in peace.
Matt: All right. That's Scanlan's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: So I'm having trouble seeing the battle map. Grog is right against a wyvern, right?
Matt: Grog is against a lizard-like creature--
Liam: Oh, so not against a wyvern?
Matt: No. That's a little bit away. But Percy is next to it.
Liam: Oh, so Percy is right there?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Liam: And Scanlan's next to the magic user, right?
Matt: The magic user's over here, that's been Hunter's Marked.
Liam: Scanlan's up against a dude, right? All right, so what I want to do is slink up behind Percy, reach over-- oh, no, I want to click my Boots of Haste, is what I want to do.
Matt: Did you use them during the battle against the looters?
Liam: I don't think so.
Travis: I don't remember him doing it.
Liam: No, I didn't. No I didn't, I definitely didn't, because I remember kicking myself for-- I definitely didn't. Okay so, click, everybody starts moving slower around me. I want to-- so Percy's against the wyvern, I want to reach over Percy's shoulder and stab the wyvern, and then I want to throw another dagger at the dude standing next to Scanlan.
Matt: On this side there, you mean?
Liam: Yeah. Well, I can't tell, I can't see shit-- is that over Percy's shoulder?
Matt: Because right now you're being blocked, you can't quite get to the wyvern unless you move around the building that you left.
Liam: But I can go around it, yes, let's do that. I'm going to stab the wyvern in the butt, and then I'm going to throw a dagger from my other hand at the guy standing next to Scanlan-- I've got a question for you. Because both of them have somebody who's running interference, do I get sneak attack damage on both?
Matt: You only get one sneak attack damage per turn.
Liam: Just per turn?
Matt: Once per turn.
Liam: All right. So I'm going to use sneak attack damage on the wyvern if I get it.
Matt: Go for it! So first strike against it, as you (whoosh) whip around the side of the building, blades out--
Liam: 25!
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And then for the dude by Scanlan gets a-- word, 19.
Matt: Yep. If you have both blades out, you get a third attack too, don't forget.
Liam: I do. Oh-- yes. So the third stab will go back at the wyvern.
Matt: Okay! So the sneak attack against the wyvern, first strike.
Liam: Yeah, and the last one was a 24 total, so that hits as well. Okay! So that's two, one, yes. That's 14, 17, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29 into the wyvern.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And then the jerk over by Scanlan gets seven.
Sam: Yes!
Liam: And then the wyvern takes another, the Keen Dagger, takes another nine.
Matt: All righty. So, as you rush around, you stab the wyvern on the back of its haunches and you see it shrieks in pain (screeches), looks over its shoulder and starts biting its tail, its stinger swinging about, but you avoid it, fling the other dagger to the side and then jam the other side of its haunches with your other hand. It's definitely aware of your presence now.
Liam: Did I use up all my movement?
Matt: Nope!
Liam: Knowing that it can swat at me, I'm going to try to go right back around where I came from.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'm wearing the Cloak of Displacement.
Matt: Okay. It's going to swing at you with disadvantage.
Sam: Just call it cloak number seven.
Matt: That's a two on the first roll, so yeah. That misses you. (whoosh) Its stinger swings out towards you and you duck underneath, it slams to the side of the building, breaking part of the wood, you can see splinters fly out to the middle of the road. That ends your turn?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. How far away am I from this guy, like-- roughly how many feet?
Matt: Roughly--
Marisha: The guy who's in the air, flying.
Matt: I'd say about 60, 65 feet.
Marisha: Beautiful. I want to move up and around-- here-ish.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, I've got this thing in the way. Back a little bit-- scoot back. Is that still in your path?
Sam: No, he's my guy.
Marisha: He's your--? Oh. Well, I'm not going to fuck with him. I'm going to-- you Dominated the guy?
Sam: I Dominated the guy.
Marisha: Should I turn the wyvern into something else?
Sam: I don't know. I don't know.
Marisha: Should I Polymorph him? Yeah, I guess he's Dom-- you are Dominating that guy. Is there anything else that's flying? He's the only one that's up in the air left, right?
Matt: Yeah, all the other wyverns have landed and let their riders off on the sides.
Marisha: So you commanded him to attack the one below you, right? I'm going to turn that wyvern into a-- chicken!
Matt: This one?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Okay. What's the save on that?
Marisha: Poof! He has to make a wisdom save.
Matt: That is a seven!
Marisha: Fail!
Matt: And with that-- (laughs) The wyvern-- (laughs) Twice now--
Marisha: (laughs) This is my favourite game, you guys!
Matt: The bane of wyverns everyone-- (swoop, chicken noise). As both the riders tumble off, slamming into the ground (sound of impact). That would be-- Okay, ten points of damage to the wyvern, which kills the chicken form entirely. It turns back to a wyvern on the ground, taking the excess three damage.
Laura: Yeah-- (laughs) Keyleth.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: Shit! (laughs)
Matt: What?
Sam: Do I keep hold of my guy?
Matt: The riders fall also, they both take an additional 14 points of damage to each of them from the fall.
Marisha: They all took damage-- and they're on the ground now.
Matt: Let's see if it takes damage and makes a new saving throw against the spell. Does not make it, so it is still Dominated.
Sam: Oh. Okay. Thank God.
Marisha: I didn't fuck it up this time.
Matt: But they are all-- all three of them are considered prone for now. They are all knocked prone.
Marisha: Cool. That's my turn.
Matt: All right, ends Keyleth's turn. At the top, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. Where am I, I can't see--
Matt: You're right here, you're blocked in between the two buildings, the mouth of the alleyway, with a wyvern and lizard creature right there, standing before you.
Taliesin: Okay, I have no advantage on any of these bastards at the moment if I were to attack. Okay, that's fine. And how would you describe-- these are like scaly people?
Matt: This up close and personal, they are humanoid in build, they have, you know, stand up upright, they have long tails, ridges across the head, they're bigger than an actual human and they're very muscular, and the more you look at it, you can see that their clothing, they have tattered cloth and leathers that have been haphazardly dyed in blood and gore to all be a very, very deep red color. And they're pretty uniform across what they are wearing.
Laura: They're an army.
Sam: Team colors.
Taliesin: I think you've got that one guy covered at the moment, so I'll concentrate on the--hmm. Tough call, tough call. You know what, I'll have a little fun. I'm going to pull my sword and I'm going to take a slash at the guy who's involved with--
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: Oh shit, I forgot to use my bonus action. Can I pop in a quick bonus before that?
Matt: For what?
Taliesin: Hex him.
Matt: You've already hexed today. You used it in the battle versus the looters.
Taliesin: Oh, it's--
Sam: Same day.
Taliesin: That's right. Still the same hour. It can only do it once a day, right? That's all right. That's fine, I can just do a little thing. So, just add to this, would he be described in anywhere on his little D&D card as something with a dragon keyword?
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: So I'm just going to do normal damage to him?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay. So--
Matt: Wyverns, however--
Taliesin: All right, just checking. I'm going to do nine points of damage, slashing damage, to him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'm going to turn to the wyvern, and take two slashes at the wyvern.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: First is-- ew. 14?
Matt: 14 hits.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: They're sacks of hit points, but they don't have lot of armor to them.
Taliesin: That's 19 plus-- 26 points of damage.
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: And second shot-- 13, 24, yeah, that hits. Ten, 17, 18, 19, 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 twice in a row. So with this you pull the sword out, as soon as you see it in the proximity of the wyvern, the blade itself almost seems to shimmer with this gleam of green on it, like the metal almost seems to bend and wave with your movements. And as you turn back around to slash at the wyvern, the blade cuts through it like butter, there's not even resistance, it goes right through its flesh. With each slash of the longsword, you can see large chunks of its muscle coming visible as parts of its body are now being pulled from the muscle and sinew. It shrieks in pain, you can see it angrily now starting to get ready to rake at you pretty heavily. That end your turn?
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah, I'm going to continue where I started on, shitfucker out in front of me.
Matt: Okay! (laughs)
Travis: But I would like to go Great Weapon Master and I would like to use Reckless Attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Wow, wow. Wow.
Sam: Reckless.
Matt: Roll your first attack against him.
Travis: That's a 31.
Matt: Roll damage on that.
Travis: 25?
Matt: 25? He fails his save, so you get another plus one to your strength, and that swing just cleaves it in two. It goes (whoosh) right through its midsection, it (gurgles). It tumbles off, falling to the ground.
Laura: Oh my god. Grog.
Liam: Grog is full juicing.
Travis: I told you he'd open up to me! (laughter)
Matt: You can move in now with your movement and do your next attack, if you'd like.
Travis: I'll go ahead and take care of that wyvern that's next to me.
Matt: Go for it, all right, so now you get your next attack.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Does his strength go up to 100 eventually?
Matt: It's double your first dice roll--
Travis: 19-- oh, so the 2d6 was nine, plus five is--
Matt: So 18.
Travis: Plus 11.
Matt: So 29, plus two additional die rolls.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Okay. So we're at--
Matt: 39.
Travis: 39.
Marisha: 39.
Matt: And then one more? Because you roll 2d-- it's twice, because of Brutal Critical.
Liam: Jeez, you got like Tetsuo arm, it's like five times bigger than it should be.
Travis: Four. Four for those two, do I plus five to that as well for the--
Matt: Well, plus ten for your-- you already added that for your--
Travis: Yes, 2d6 plus five on each one and the--
Matt: No, it's just the additional 2d6 each time.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So yeah, with that you turn around after hacking its friend, leaping forward (grunts), foam at the corner of your mouth, your eyes bloodshot and angry. You take the blade and sweep it down, and it plunges itself right into the wound that Percy had left open with his sword swing, finding no resistance before it comes all the way to the hilt in the body of the wyvern, which shrieks for a moment (screeches) before its breath stops and its body falls limp.
Sam: Yeah, one down!
Matt: Does make its save, though.
Travis: Oh, yeah, and on Great Weapon Master on a crit or killing an extra hit, but I guess I--?
Matt: As a bonus action! For the record, going forward, if you're frenzied raging it doesn't really give you a benefit, but if you're not, it does help. So in theory, you could if you wanted to try and chuck it.
Travis: (laughs) Just throw it? Don't throw it?
Matt: What are you going to do, Grog?
Travis: I'm good, I'm good.
Matt: Ends Grog's turn. All right. Now these guys both get up, currently no longer on the wyvern. Did you want to give it another kind of a thought, if you see it land?
Sam: Get on the wyvern and kill the other one.
Matt: Okay. This guy gets up on the wyvern, grabs its reins, pulls it forward, and jams it with its spear as it leads it inward. It runs forward and is going to take a swing-- It's going to take a swing with its stinger at the one behind it. It's confused and figuring out what's-- why is it doing this, it's more of like-- this might work once. That is going to be a-- 17, it hits! That's going to be 11 points of damage, does it make its save? It does not make its save, that's an additional 24 points of poison damage on that one. So that's 35 points of damage, one wyvern to another. (laughs) As this guy immediately whips around angrily.
Sam: You have pleased me. (laughter)
Matt: Both of these guys go charging forward here.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan!
Matt: It's going to pull up its javelin and chuck it at you, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yeah. That is going to miss you at a 12. It (swoosh) throws, the javelin arcs past you. This one over here is going to come forward and it's going to take a javelin as well out and chuck it right at you, Grog.
Travis: Heh, you're dead.
Matt: That is a 20 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: You take ten points of piercing damage, reduced to five, as you basically (impact)--
Travis: (snapping noise)
Matt: (laughs) Snap it off and grin in its face.
Travis: Let me return that favor in a second.
Liam: Grog is on god mode.
Marisha: (laughs) Save game plus.
Matt: (laughs) --now it sees the danger that you're in, looks at you, sees you hack through the center of one of the wyverns, intensely looks at you and begins casting another spell.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: Like it is wont to do.
Marisha: Is it?
Travis: Come on, smart Grog.
Matt: All right. So, Craven Edge, as you're holding it, all of a sudden the handle becomes white hot and you immediately take six points of fire damage just holding it.
Sam: Grip it harder! (groan)
Matt: Fire's biting through. Three attacks against you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, God.
Matt: Currently two of which are flanking you, so they're going to have advantage on the attacks. So that's a natural 20 on one of them. This guy is-- 18. That hits. And then this guy here without the advantage-- still hits with a 17.
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words on the last guy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to just-- (plays flute badly) to distract him.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll a d10.
Sam: d10. Which one's ten, I never remember. This one. Nine!
Matt: Okay! So he rolled a 17 plus seven, that would've been a 24, that brings him to 15, which I believe misses you. So the last strike, as he swings towards you, the shrilling tones, it causes him to reach up and grab one of his lizard-like ear holes and (snarling) the swing goes wildly over your head. However, as you duck down, you look up as you see the shadow come down of two large clubs that (boom boom) over the head of your tiny gnomish form. That's going to be-- (groans)
Sam: Oh, that's not a good sound.
Matt: Oh, and they also get bites after this, too. All right, so you take 12, which would double to 24-- Oh, no, sorry, 12-- 20 points of bludgeoning damage from one. You take 12 points of damage from the other. So 32 points of damage total. And they're both going to attempt to bite you as well, with advantage.
Sam: A bite with advantage!
Matt: That is a 20 on the first one.
Sam: That's the damage it does?
Matt: That's to hit. And that one's going to -- double 19, so they both hit. So you take another 20 points of damage total of piercing damage as they both start tearing into your body.
Laura: 52 points of damage just then?
Sam: (rasping breath)
Laura: No, Scanlan!
Marisha: No, you're still up, you're still up! I thought you said you had 55!
Sam: I did.
Laura: 52!
Marisha: It was 52 total.
Laura: You have three points left.
Sam: Ah! That was close, guys. I saw my mother! Then I saw myself at math class, failing.
Matt: I need you to make a bunch of concentration checks here.
Sam: Oh yeah. Okay.
Matt: To maintain control over it, yeah.
Sam: Advantage on concentration checks.
Matt: Yeah, so just roll two at a time.
Sam: Two whats?
Matt: Two d20s.
Sam: Well, I only have one d20.
Matt: Adding your constitution modifier to it.
Sam: How many-- oh, for each thing that-- constitution modifier. Holy God. Okay. I'm counting both of those, the first one's only 12.
Matt: 12, that'll work, because none of them-- only one of them did 20 damage and it's minimum of ten, so as long as you get above a ten with each one, you're fine.
Sam: Okay. So I got to do two more?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, that's 16 plus two.
Matt: Okay. Another one.
Sam: 17 plus two.
Matt: Another one.
Sam: Two plus two.
Matt: You have advantage on these.
Sam: Seven plus two. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Nope.
Sam: No good. No bueno.
Matt: With that, you lose your concentration on the Domination spell. As that fades--
Laura: That's okay. The other wyvern is still mad at the first one, so that's good.
Matt: So that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh man. Okay.
Matt: You see Scanlan being tossed around on the ground, and then you see streaks of blood in the air as one of them tears a big chunk out of his shoulder.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He looks up at you briefly, his eyes half-open.
Laura: Scanlan! I got you!
Sam: No, no, I know you did. You shot me on the last turn, I remember. Yeah, you got me good! You got me good!
Laura: I shoot from my Bow of the Sky Sentinel.
Matt: Sky Sentinel, I believe, did you use that last battle?
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you did.
Laura: I did, but I only used my burning thingy once, so I can do that. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. So I'm going to move my Hunter's Mark to one of the guys around Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Do you want to say the most wounded of them?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: That would be--
Laura: Or the least wounded of them, actually.
Matt: The least wounded would be this one.
Laura: Okay. And then I'm going to shoot-- I'm going to shoot arrows.
Matt: All right!
Laura: All right. I'm going to shoot through my Blazing Bowstring on that guy and the guy in front of him.
Matt: Okay. Right there and there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Blazing Bowstring, and then regular. Go for it.
Laura: Okay. So I forget how to do that. I roll to attack. Why is this so hard?! Okay, 18!
Matt: 18 hits.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to roll damage on that one, which is ten plus my normal eight. 12, 14 plus six for Hunter's Mark. 20 plus six for sneak attack, bitch!
Liam: Did you just call the DM a bitch?
Laura: No, I was calling that guy a bitch.
Sam: Matt does not deserve that kind of language.
Laura: 6d6. So that's 25 damage against the first guy.
Matt: 25 damage? That's just enough. Say goodbye to him. That sneak attack was just what you needed, that was the last bit of damage.
Laura: Yay! Okay, so the second guy is another 18.
Matt: Another 18? That hits.
Laura: Actually no, that's a 20-whatever. Yeah. Okay. 14, 15, 16. Do I get sneak attack on him, too?
Matt: Can only sneak attack once per turn.
Laura: Dang it. So 16 damage against that guy.
Matt: 16 damage, okay. So this arrow-- The first one hits it in the neck and he gurgles and falls to the ground and bleeds out on the floor next to Scanlan. The other one, the arrow strikes it in the middle of its shoulderblades and it arcs up in pain, but it's still standing. Though it's having to really move around with much pain in its face. That end your turn? You going to stay up there?
Laura: I'm going to-- yeah.
Matt: Staying up on the rooftop, sniping down. Good call. That brings us to Scanlan!
Sam: It's my turn?!
Laura: Take a potion! Heal yourself!
Sam: Oh yeah! If I had a potion, that would be great! I will do Thunderwave-- Thunderwave at third level.
Matt: Thunderwave at third level, all righty.
Liam: Dissention in the ranks.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, so that is 4d8 thunder damage to all the ones on a failed save. So, their constitution saves here. Is this through a hand cone?
Sam: Sure, man.
Matt: Figured-- both fail!
Sam: What is it, 4d8?
Matt: It's 4d8 thunder damage. They are pushed ten feet away from you.
Sam: Did they all fail? Did they both fail?
Matt: Yes. This pushed this way. This pushed that way.
Sam: Ten. 17!
Matt: 17 points of damage to each. Okay! They're blasted backward, barely catching themselves on their feet. And from the impact, you can see what little bit of red-colored leather armor they have on is tattered and destroyed. You can see blood pouring out of the sides of their earholes where the thunderous blast possibly burst their eardrums. And they're both like, shaking their head. All right.
Sam: Bonus action, I will Healing Word myself--
Matt: (laughing) Okay.
Sam: I can do that at higher levels? Yes?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I'll do it at a level four.
Matt: (laughing) Okay.
Sam: And I will sing to myself; sadly, pathetically, (breathy) I get knocked down, but I get up again. Ain't never going to keep me down. (laughter)
Matt: All right! So that is 4d4 plus five healing to yourself.
Sam: Okay, 4d4 plus five-- That's 14 plus five.19.
Matt: 19. So you heal yourself 19 hit points. That ends your turn. Up next, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to scramble up to the top of the building that I'm right next to.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure. No problem. Yeah, way high. 20-- 33.
Matt: Yeah. You parkour up the side, land on top of the rooftop. Leap across and you're now at the edge.
Liam: Is that Percy right there?
Matt: That's Percy right there.
Liam: Okay. Oh, who's right directly in a row, away from me? Yeah, I can't tell. It's a bad guy?
Matt: It's a bad guy, bad guy. Bad guy, bad guy, bad guy.
Liam: I want to run, actually, and I want to jump off and land next to Percy. Yeah. I want to run straight by and I want to stab the dude. I'm going to run forward, yeah. Stab that guy. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, exactly. That is 20.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Sam: Run, run, run. Stab. Run, run, run. Stab. Those are the two buttons on the Vax video game. (laughter)
Sam: Run and stab.
Liam: Nine.
Matt: Nine damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: (grunt) You shank him in the side and he tumbles over. (cheering)
Liam: Run towards Scanlan, and I want to grapple him. Hopefully he just takes it. No, not that far. One square back. Right there! Grab him. And I'm using my bonus action to dash and then drag him backward, behind Grog.
Matt: It's an action to grapple someone who would be against it, are you letting him grapple you?
Sam: Oh, hell yes.
Matt: I'll say for the sake of the--
Liam: Right, two actions and a bonus action, mix them around, Matt!
Matt: Yeah, it's fine, because he wants to. You rush forward, you grab him, and you're dragging him back this way?
Liam: And then back-- yeah, right behind Grog, and I drag him behind Vex and Grog, back by Keyleth. (airplane noise)
Matt: Okay. I'll say that's about as far as you get because you have a bit of movement taken away, even though you are hasted, because he's not too heavy, but he's still a gnome.
Liam: Right. Dash-- hasted, I can go very very far.
Sam: Your hands are so rough and masculine.
Liam: I spank him on the ass and say, you're welcome, shorty.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to push my way through the crowd a little bit. Can I have that laser pointer?
Liam: Yes, you may.
Marisha: Thank you. Okay. (grandiose voice) And now with all of the rage, thinking about all--
Sam: "I turn someone into a chicken."
Marisha: I-- boof! Boof! Boof! I want some feather-down pillows for our loft. I channel all of my Fire Ashari ancestors. And I cast my 7th-level Firestorm!
Sam: Oh god, we're all going to die.
Marisha: So as I concentrate, enraged at the sight of dragons, I have ten--
Sam: (whispers) Did you get me away from-- because I--
Marisha: Yes, you're fine. You're fine. No, he didn't get you away because he knew this was happening, it just happened to work out. So ten ten-foot cubes-- They all have to be connected. Exactly, I'm going to start here and I'll work my way over. They're ten-foot-- remember, they're ten-foot. But they're attached. So they're bigger than that.
Matt: Three-- well, they're ten foot by ten foot, which is about this size.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Matt: Right, so it's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, get the wyvern.
Matt: You can get all of them there.
Laura: Oh my god, that guy is going to be so--
Liam: Grog's going to bite his head off.
Matt: What's the DC on this?
Marisha: They have to make a dex saving throw or they take--
Matt: Right, right, but what's your DC on it?
Marisha: Oh, my spell DC? 19.
Matt: Fail, fail, fail, they're not very dextrous. Fail, fail, fail-- Fail! They all fail. (cheering)
Matt: So that's 7d10 fire damage to each of them.
Sam: Why don't you use that all the time!?
Marisha: I just got it! I just got it when I leveled.
Liam: You've got to be careful with friendly fire, and we're all out of the way.
Marisha: So a giant, fiery chasm splits open.
Matt: The ground bursts open, rocks being torn asunder as giant columns of flame-- boof, boof, boof, boof, boof-- out of the ground, completely engulfing each one of them in this sudden conflagration of red and orange and yellow flames and molten magma.
Marisha: 24. 24, that was four-- 24, that's good, so 27, 36, 30-- 42 points of fire damage. (clapping)
Liam: Phew. Gingers, man. Gingers.
Marisha: My hands light up.
Matt: Each one of the lizardfolk-type creatures in the flames, you see them shriek for a second before their forms are turned to ash in these blasts of fire, each sub-woofer-like, guttural impact as the ground cracks open like (explosion noise) scatter amongst--
Marisha: So they explode? Popcorn?
Matt: Yeah, each one of the wyverns themselves, you can see the flames emerge around them, and as it recedes they have burn scars and their flesh is cracked and peeled against the fire wounds that now tear across the front of their body. They're all looking fairly hurt by that.
Marisha: And then, I take a bow. (laughter)
Marisha: And I'm-- exhausted a little bit, little single tear as I think of my ancestors-- And that's it.
Matt: All right, end of your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to start walking towards that wyvern at the bottom there-- Yeah, that way, I'm not going to get quite close enough to get into the reach of that jerk over there--
Matt: So you can go here.
Taliesin: Yeah. While I'm walking by him, though, I'm going to nail-- I don't even know if I'm really going to-- going to shoot him three times while I'm walking by, because that's funny. With Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay. So first shot against them?
Taliesin: It would be seven, 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on him.
Taliesin: That's-- 1d10, what did I do with my 1d10s, because I wasn't thinking-- here we go. That's 26 points of damage.
Matt: (explosion noise) You take his head right off as you walk by, without even looking. (explosion noise, pained squawk) And you can see the lower jaw gets blown off and it falls to the back on the ground.
Taliesin: Since I've got two more shots, I'm going to start shooting at that one dragon-- that wyvern, as I'm--
Matt: Right there? Go for it. Two shots on the wyvern.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter again.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Pew!
Taliesin: That's a nine, yay! So that's 16?
Matt: 16 hits.
Taliesin: And I'll roll the second one, just to have it. That's nine. Nah, nine'll miss. Thankfully will not-- that's great. 26 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. This one (explosion noise) the bullet hits inside of its body, you can see a little (splurting noise) of blood squirt out--
Taliesin: And I'll get as close as I can get to him in this round, also, I'm going to spend my movement walking straight towards him.
Matt: (heavy walking noises) That's the rest of it there. Okay. That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh! Yeah! I leave one of those to you guys, and I run at the two wyverns on the left.
Matt: Getting in the middle of the fray? Against them both?
Travis: Yeah, against them both!
Matt: There you go! Grog charges, and they're both-- There you go!
Travis: Here's hoping these puppies go-- That's 24?
Matt: 24 on the more wounded one?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, that hits him.
Travis: Can I swing at the other guy?
Matt: If you want to.
Travis: Yeah, let's divvy it up, I don't want to give anybody too much love. Five, four, 26?
Matt: Hits, so roll damage on each.
Travis: 11, 22, 32?
Matt: They're both Great Weapon Master? Okay, 32 damage?
Travis: 32 on the first.
Matt: First one, you carve through him with the blade (whump).
Laura: Nice.
Matt: Makes his save.
Travis: Five, ten, 21, 31, 31.
Matt: 31 damage? Okay. This one you (whoosh) streak across with Craven Edge. Makes its save. You leave a large wound across the front of its jaw and it (choking noise). However, you did kill one, so you do get to use your bonus action for an attack because of your Great Weapon Master feat.
Travis: Do I have to roll for the hit?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's 31?
Matt: With the minus five?
Travis: Sorry! No, no, never mind, sorry, what's 31 minus five?
Liam: 26.
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: Hits, yeah, you're good.
Travis: Okay. Three, seven, 12, 30. Oh, 22, 32.
Liam: He's covered in ichor.
Matt: 32. This time (whoosh) you swipe through the second time with the blade, this time carving off part of its wing, and you see that one of the wings is half-curled and keeping up to the side, it's hobbling around its legs, looking like it's on death's door, but still keeping itself. All right, is that the end of your turn?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: All right, (wyvern noise) in there, and this one stays there and is going to unleash upon you, Grog. It's going to bite and tail attack against each of you with the stinger against you, Grog. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And natural 20 on the stinger, okay.
Travis: Well, I have resistance against poison, so that helps.
Matt: That does help, actually, so it'll just do regular poison damage against you. So you take 11 points of piercing damage, reduced to six from the bite. And the stinger deals-- That's 12 points of piercing damage, reduced to six as well.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The stinger, however, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: All right. Ugh, 12.
Matt: That's a failure. Actually, it would have been an additional 12, because it was a critical hit on the pierce, so you take 12-- so a total of 18 damage so far, and then, as part of the poison, you take 48 points of poison damage. Because you have resistance, that is reduced to 24.
Sam: Hey! That's nice!
Matt: All right, you have poison resistance from the belt, right? Yes. All right, so there you go. The other one coming up against you, Percy, strikes with its bite. That is going to be a 20-- 16?
Taliesin: 16 misses.
Matt: 16 misses. That is going to be a 22 for the stinger.
Taliesin: Stinger hits.
Matt: Okay, stinger hits you for six plus four, ten points of piercing damage. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. 20.
Matt: 20, you succeed. No poison.
Taliesin: So I took ten points of--?
Matt: Piercing damage. Correct. All right, it's looking rough on both their ends. They're just fighting to the end at this point. All right, that ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the one fighting--
Matt: Moving it over?
Laura: Yeah. Percy.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I'm going to first attack the one fighting Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16?
Matt: 16-- does hit, yeah.
Laura: Yes! Okay.
Matt: Don't have a whole lot of armor. They just got a lot of hit points.
Laura: 17 plus sneak attack-- 18.
Matt: 18. So Grog, as you're thrashing about with the blade at this creature, eager to get that final hit, you reach back with Craven Edge before an arrow (impact) into its face and it (burble, thump) collapses to the ground.
Travis: Aw! (laughter)
Laura: And I shift my attention over to the one fighting Percy!
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that is 30, no, 28?
Matt: 28 hits, go ahead and roll damage with the extra d6 for Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Nine, ten, 11-- Where's my dex? 17.
Matt: Gotcha. 17 points of damage. second you (whoosh) pull out the second arrow, (whoosh) release it and it strikes the side of its body, and (pained squawk) it still seems to be standing. It hurt it, but didn't leave it in any dire straits yet. That ends your turn, are you staying where you are?
Laura: I'm staying where I am!
Matt: Okay, Scanlan, you're up.
Laura: Actually, I'm going to jump off the roof and rush over to Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. So leaping off, make an acrobatics check.
Laura: 24?
Matt: 24-- Scanlan, at the start of your turn, as you're getting ready, all of a sudden (impact) in front of you, spooking you momentarily, you see Vex lands on her feet and looks down at you with a look of concern and wanting to make sure you're okay.
Sam: Oh, hi, thanks for checking on me. Could you move for a second? I'm going to kill this thing. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, so I'll-- I can't do much, because I'm far away and I don't want to kill Percy--
Taliesin: It's not going to live through me anyway.
Sam: That's true. I will Wand of Magic Missiles him.
Matt: Okay, using how many--
Sam: I'll use six of my seven.
Matt: Oof! All righty. So go ahead and roll proper damage on that.
Sam: Okay, the first, okay, so is that 6d4 plus one?
Matt: This would be Magic Missile, cast at level six, technically, I'm pretty sure--
Sam: Well, it's weird, because my--
Matt: So it would be-- it would be 6d6 plus six.
Sam: 6d6 plus six?
Matt: Oh, I'm sorry. 6d4 plus six. Bleah.
Travis: (chuckles) Heh, math.
Matt: Hey.
Sam: Sorry, it's close.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: One more? 12 plus what? Six? 12 plus six. 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. The missiles (impact noises) slamming into the side, arcing off and swirling around Percy to hit it, anime-missile-streak style, hitting it from all sides, you can see chunks of its body being blown off from the force of the arcane casting. It still stands, though it is dripping from multiple wounds and is having a hard time.
Taliesin: I got this.
Matt: Ending your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: I think so, I mean, I'm okay. I'll heal myself a little bit more with another level one Healing Word.
Matt: Go for it, take your d4 plus five.
Sam: Okay. Seven more points-- yay!
Matt: You're up.
Liam: I'm going to start walking towards it and dagger, and dagger, and dagger.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First is 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Liam: Second is 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is a 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: So, we get--
Matt: This is Sneak Attack.
Liam: Ten for the fir-- Sneak Attack? Is it near something?
Matt: Percy is in melee range with it.
Liam: Okay, so the first is ten plus-- wah!
Laura: Oh no, dice down!
Liam: Ten plus 16, 23, (growling) 29, 36, 39, 41 for the first dagger.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Liam: I will aim for its open mouth as it's going "huah." And pin its tongue into the back of its skull.
Matt: As you step forward, your first dagger, you pull it out and aim it and over-the-hand toss it as it rears back, ready to bring its fangs out to sink down into Percy, the dagger vanishes into its throat, and you see its face go lax for a second. (wet coughs) It begins trying to cough, and as it does, you can see bits of blood and gore from its throat being hawked across the ground. It takes a few steps. Percy steps out of the way as it heads towards you before it rears back and (choking, thump) and collapses onto the ground. You can see the blade still sticking out the back of its head, towards the back of its throat, before it appears at the side of your belt.
Sam: Sorry I made a noise, guys, sorry.
Laura: Next time, stealth. We should get inside.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: We should hide.
Taliesin: We should-- we should take what we can and we should also hide the bodies.
Laura: Good call.
Taliesin: Let's bring everything inside.
Marisha: I go down to the wyverns and I start going for those stingers.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: If you can do this quickly, Keyleth, because we need to hide these bodies.
Matt: It's going to take you a while to do it.
Liam: Can I assist with my Keen Dagger, and help her under her instruction?
Laura: Let's get them inside.
Liam: We're going to drag the wyverns indoors?
Taliesin: Drag everything indoors.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait-- these stingers are on the end of tails?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Grog, can you chop off their tails and we'll take the tails with us?
Laura: No, we've got to get the wyverns inside. If anything flying overhead sees these bodies, they know something's been attacked.
Sam: Aren't half of them burned to a crisp anyway?
Taliesin: Not crisped, just scorched.
Marisha: There's some ash. I go ahead and I do a cantrip, Gust, and start spreading out the ash.
Matt: Okay. It still looks like someone emptied a bunch of fireplace ash pits into the center of the walkway where there once were lizardfolk.
Laura: I'll have the bag.
Travis: What for?
Laura: Just the Dust of Tracelessness.
Sam: I give us cover. I'll blow my Horn of Fog.
Laura: I start putting the Dust of Tracelessness down on the ground so it looks like nobody's been here.
Matt: Low fog sound as Scanlan blows the horn. Fog fills the vicinity and you guys begin tossing Dust of Tracelessness around--
Travis: I go grab the humanoid figures and I throw two over my shoulders and then I get one in each hand and I start dragging them toward a door?
Taliesin: Any-- inside. Just inside.
Travis: To an "any inside."
Liam: I'll get the door for you. (door creaks)
Matt: All right, you guys pretty quickly manage to move what you can out of the way, we'll say over the next few minutes the fog is there. Under that cover, you begin to drag the wyvern bodies into the alleyway, into the shadows. If you want to go ahead and make some checks here to go ahead and see if you can harvest.
Marisha: Yeah, okay, let's do different ones. Okay, so first one, I'll definitely take advantage, so, since I have advantage-- not that much better-- 14. The first one.
Liam: Would it help if I gave her my Keen Dagger for the rest of it?
Matt: I would say, given the circumstance, all it would do would offer her advantage, which she already has, so it wouldn't make much difference. So the first one, it's been a little too damaged in battle and you aren't able to really draw any poison from the stinger for the first one-- what's the second one?
Marisha: Second one, 15 total.
Matt: 15's what you needed. You manage to extract just enough of the wyvern stinger poison for possibly a single dose, so you can mark down a dose of wyvern poison.
Marisha: Okay, I'll give it to-- I'll give that to Vax. Do you have poison? Or do you-- Vax or Vex-- I give it to one of the twins. Here, twins. You fight over it. Fight over it.
Laura: Is it good for you?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Two more, maybe I can-- 14-- Okay, well, the second one I rolled a 25.
Matt: Okay, so that's a second dose of wyvern poison.
Marisha: That I give to Vex. Last one-- I'll take that 15, with-- 26.
Matt: All right, so you have three doses of wyvern poison that you've managed to harvest from these creatures; you guys can distribute as you see fit.
Taliesin: Anything else to loot from these schmuckuses?
Matt: They don't carry much gold, and what they have, you envision, probably went to the entity that rules Emon. And as you're looking over the bodies of the few of the lizard men here, you see they didn't just wander their way in here. And you remember mention from Allura before that there were lizardfolk worshipers of Thordak years ago. Apparently, once the city's been taken, Thordak has, or at least the worshipers of Thordak are also moving in. So, taking this time to harvest poisons, looking over the bodies, you can see the consistency between their red, crimson-dyed leather materials, and you get the sensation that while this was a small skirmish group, this is probably the new policing state of Emon. So. With that, we'll take a quick break for the restroom. We'll pick up here in just a few minutes, guys, if you want to hang tight. And we'll see you here shortly. Jumping back in-- As the party re-gathers themselves after the battle with these lizardfolk and the wyverns in the center of the city of Emon, you slowly make your way back through the streets towards the north, passing through Abdar's Promenade, finding the building that was previously brought to your attention thanks to Garthok.
Laura: Should we take a short rest, though, before we head down to the Clasp? Because some of us have taken some hits--
Taliesin: We'll take a breath in the--
Laura: Okay. Before we head down?
Taliesin: Yeah. In the basement.
Matt: So you guys find the building that was brought to your attention; you head down into the same cellar, keeping tabs on the external trap that was brought to your attention by Garthok last time. You make your way inside. There's the same barrel in the far corner; you pull the top off and there, indeed, is a ladder that leads down underground.
Laura: This is why I left Trinket. Because he wouldn't have been able to come down here anyway. Just so you know.
Travis: Hey, search that shit, Vax.
Marisha: He's very claustrophobic.
Liam: So we've just got ladder down. That's it?
Marisha: Well, hang on, let's heal up. I need to hit dice it up as well.
Liam: Well, I'm fine, so while everybody is--
Travis: I would not like to take a short rest.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I lose all my Fancy Feast if I do.
Liam: Just do some push-ups. Just do some push-ups while I check this ladder out. So I'm going to check for any traps on this ladder or anything.
Travis: Oh, yeah yeah yeah! Can she heal me instead?
Laura: I'll heal you. I'm going to heal you--
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay. Looking at the barrel, there are no traps currently set, and it's not locked. The only traps were on the outside of the cellar, from what you knew previously, and as that mechanism had already been shown to you by Garthok, so that was easily disabled.
Liam: I'm not going to go crazy, I'm just going to go to the bottom of the ladder-- in I go.
Matt: Okay. So while you guys are taking a rest--
Liam: 30 for stealth.
Matt: You drop down the ladder. As you head down what probably comes to about 15, 20 or so feet into pitch black-- it's completely dark down there. Do you have any light source, or do you want to--
Liam: I have a Flame Tongue Dagger.
Matt: Okay, so you pull the Flame Tongue Dagger. It puts out a very, very low candlelight, opens up the vicinity to you as your feet splash down into very, very shallow, a couple inches, shallow water. Looking around you, you are in a subterranean sewer system. The smell hits you as you hit the bottom of it. This is the entire underbelly of Emon, and there is the slight sound of trickling water that's rushing through this tunnel you're currently standing in. The ladder drops close to about a foot above the floor before it comes to a complete stop. Looking to your right, it descends a little further down on that side, and you can hear-- make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay. To the right of you, what should be the eastern tunnel, you can hear the sound of trickling water growing louder; it's almost like this stream meets another. As you listen to the left, and the stench is pretty rough in this part, to the left you can see in the tunnel is a very, very faint dim, yellow light that is shifting ever so slightly in the distance as it curves around out of view. It is level to where you are now, actually, slight incline for a little bit.
Liam: (quietly) Vex'ahlia-- There is a long tunnel down here and there is a bit of faint light. I have Percy's fancy rock; I am not planning on doing anything crazy, but I think I should--
Laura: You don't have the-- the rock doesn't work until we sleep. You don't have anything.
Liam: Well, technically I do still have it. Regardless, I should go ahead and, if there's anyone to talk to, I should talk-- I'm not going to go yet, I'm going to wait 'til you guys have rested, and come down to-- it's pitch-black down here, I'm not running ahead. I'm better at this shit than you and the rest are, so take a rest, I'm going to sit here--
Laura: You're better at talking than the rest of us are?
Liam: Sometimes, Stubby, yes.
Laura: How will I know if you get into trouble, and your hands are tied--
Sam: Do you need me to come?
Laura: We can all hear you. (laughter)
Liam: Stubby, could you come down here for me?
Marisha: Hi, Vax.
Laura: Hold on just a moment. Mind the gap.
Matt: You splash down into the sewer system.
Laura: Eugh, fuck, it smells down here.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Do I have to step in the water?
Liam: Probably. Come here.
Laura: Yes?
Liam: All right so, before all these guys-- you were being stalked by someone, I don't know for what reason, I don't know who the person was, I don't know what they wanted with you.
Laura: Stalked?
Liam: Someone wanted you, and I don't know who. The Clasp was going to get you for them, and I stopped that from happening. I followed you one night, or rather, followed this person following you, and met the Clasp. And I made an exchange for your life.
Laura: What?
Liam: I went and got someone else. And--
Laura: And said it was me? No--
Liam: Not immediately. You're almost on it. They told me to get a body, I got a body. A living body. A child rapist. And brought him to the Clasp, and they brought out a stick-- really it was made of human tongues.
Laura: A stick. Of human tongues.
Liam: Yes. They touched it, and he turned into you.
Laura: What the fuck?
Liam: And they took that guy. For whatever. And in exchange for your life, I have this, and they are allowed to call on me when they want. So, I know that we've run in and out a couple of times, but we're going in. You can talk my fucking ear off in a moment, all right? Just shut up for a second. We are going to go in and try to form some sort of alliance or working partnership, this is different than running in, smashing some shit and running out, all right? So keep the cloak up, hang back, don't say a lot, and you can talk my ear off later.
Laura: Okay, I will do that, I want to know that tongue guy, that looks like me-- is he dead or is he alive now? They gave him to some stalker, some stalker!
Liam: I don't know why you were wanted, I don't know what it was about, all I knew is that they were going to take you away and I wasn't going to let that happen and I took some fucking piece of shit and traded him in.
Laura: So there could be at this moment in time another person that looks just like me parading around the world?
Liam: Well, if I had to wager on it, I'd say that he's in a dungeon in a rubber suit, but I don't know where, no.
Laura: Well, thank you. For, you know, doing that-- (nervous laugh)
Liam: I never told you because it's creepy as fuck.
Laura: Was it the Clasp here, was it the Clasp in Westruun?
Liam: It was in Westruun.
Laura: Well, these guys probably don't know me.
Liam: Probably? Probably.
Laura: I'll put my hood up--
Liam: Stay at the back.
Laura: I would like to find out who the guy was that wanted me, though. That's kind of weird. Thank you. For everything. thank you. You always have my back and I know it.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: And for that, I won't say very much.
Liam: You do you, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Everyone can come down.
Matt: So as you finish your short rest, you all progressively find your way down the ladder and to the subterranean sewer system. The choice is to travel to the east or western side of the tunnel.
Liam: Sounds like there's, I don't know, drainage or something coming from slightly up in that direction.
Laura: I'm guessing towards the light, is where they are. Scanlan?
Sam: Oi?
Laura: Do you have something that can make disguises? Don't you have like, not the mustache, but something that can really change my looks?
Sam: How do you know I'm Scanlan? I could be in disguise, but yes I do.
Laura: Could I use that?
Sam: You would have to attune it to yourself-- is that right?
Laura: Oh, it takes like a little bit?
Sam: Oh no no no, requires attunement. What do you think?
Liam: Well, that's not a bad idea, but it means we've got to sit in this stank.
Sam: I can instantly make us, with Seeming, I can instantly make us all look different. Or just you.
Laura: Or just me. How about just me? I've got a question, though. Here's the thing: if you think that they know what I look like, don't you think they know what you look like? Because you look just like me. So what difference does it make if I'm there or not?
Liam: I don't know if the person who wanted you was part of the Clasp. I don't know who it was. It's parading you around in front of the people who made an illicit deal with me.
Laura: All right, all right, all right. Seeming, how about that?
Liam: It could be fine. I don't know.
Laura: Okay! Seeming?
Sam: Yeah, no--
Laura: Please?
Sam: (smarmily) It's pretty high-level stuff--
Laura: Scanlan, what if I heal you?
Sam: What if I-- ooh! I cast Minor Illusion and give her a moustache. What about that? Is that pretty good?
Matt: A fancy, fancy moustache that you cannot wipe off your face!
Travis: Hey, that's very handsome.
Liam: I don't think that's going to be enough. It's not quite enough for our purposes.
Sam: All right, I dispel it.
Laura: How about a limerick as payment, Scanlan?
Sam: A limerick for you?
Laura: For you.
Sam: Oh! You're going to give me a limerick?
Laura: I'll give you a limerick. Hold on. I've been preparing it--
Liam: She's multiclassing a third time.
Laura: Have you heard tale of Scanlan the Bard? / Or Burt Reynolds, if you look at his card. Always tries to get laid / Sometimes with ladies he made! But I still respect him, 'cause rhyming is hard. (laughter, cheering)
Sam: That was excellent.
Liam: Second firestorm of the night.
Travis: Where's the extinguisher?
Matt: I will give you a d6 inspiration dice for that.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Wait-- me or her?
Matt: Her.
Sam: Wow. That's impressive. Here's the hat. You can use it--
Laura: Oh, thanks, Scanlan.
Sam: In about 20 minutes you'll be able to use it.
Laura: I take off my circlet, I guess, and I put on the hat.
Liam: How 'bout that smell, everyone? Eh?
Marisha: Did you live in this?
Liam: I never lived--
Marisha: Did you deal with this!? Oh, oh, that's good.
Liam: I'm, like, a distant cousin to all this. (laughter)
Matt: In the time it takes for you to take the Hat of Disguise and go ahead and attune to that, you guys are now prepared. What path would you like to take?
Sam: Towards the sounds, yes?
Matt: Well, you have the sound of water rushing to the right, in the darkness, and you have the sound, or, yeah, the view of slight moving light to the left.
Liam: But did you say, on the right, is it going down, or is it coming down?
Matt: The water is trickling downward; the water continues sloping downward this way. The opposite direction is where the light is. The little bit of light you see in the distance.
Taliesin: I say we follow the water.
Liam: Follow the water down or follow the light?
Marisha: Follow the water towards the light. Right?
Travis: Jesus, what the fuck are we doing here?
Liam: This is like the Underdark again.
Sam: I abstain.
Laura: Let's go towards--
Marisha: Towards the light.
Taliesin: I'll do whatever they say.
Marisha: Are we going towards the light or towards the rushing water?
Travis: Light.
Marisha: All who vote "light," say "aye."
Taliesin: Aye.
Laura: Aye.
Travis: Aye.
Marisha: All who vote "water," say "aye."
Taliesin: Aye.
Marisha: To the light.
Matt: So you guys head-- left, or--
Liam: Is there any-- I'm sorry, one last question. Is there any Thieves' Cant on the walls at all?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I look, too?
Matt: You know what, yes, you can.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: Is there any poo on the floor?
Liam: 31.
Laura: Oh, he doesn't need my help.
Matt: Looking along the walls, you start heading in that direction, you do see a few markings that basically say 'sanctuary' in Thieves' Cant, in the direction of the light.
Liam: All right. Confirmed.
Matt: You guys continue onward?
Liam: Yeah, I'll lead the way. Yeah, we sat here for 20 minutes in the stank.
Matt: Yes. (clears throat) So, you guys continue forward up that tunnel. Eventually, as it curves around, the light-- you can see-- it's shifting, because it appears to be a distant fire light that is the source in this vicinity, and as you turn the corner, as the tunnel slowly curves around, it opens up into a large central sewer chamber, though most of it is dry, and you can see there is a large mound of dirt in the center that seems to rise above most of the water that has collected along the ceiling, and there are a series of platforms constructed out of wooden scaffolding at different levels all throughout this chamber. Some of it looks a little rickety, some of it looks very old, but various states of moisture rot. (offscreen sneeze)
Matt: You hear a sneeze from the distance from one of the-- (laughter)
Matt: As you look and see a series of small bonfires throughout the room that are currently lit and surrounded by figures. You see a ramshackle tent city, and/or a series of small, wooden hovels that have constructed here. You see a number of figures that are huddled around these bonfires: cloaks, hoods up, generally keeping warm in what is a relatively cold, subterranean area. You guys, glancing over here, as you're first looking, and you can see a few of them appear to be laid up and hurt, and there appear to be at least a few individuals that are heavily bandaged or have slings on. As you guys step into the room, not being very stealthy in your arrival--
Liam: We could have been, but I use a bit of sign language from the Cant, and let them know that I'm part of the Clasp?
Matt: Okay. A few of them stand up, hands on the side of their hilt, and stop there for a second before one individual steps out of the shadows and puts his hand up, putting it down. You recognize this to be Garthok.
Sam: Garthok!
Matt: He says, "Don't worry, they're with me. I'm glad you made it. It had been a while. I was afraid maybe you wouldn't come."
Sam: We got held up by some wyverns. I almost died, it was crazy. We're here now.
Matt: "It sounds like it. I'm sorry to hear it."
Sam: Hey. It's all right.
Matt: "I'm glad you stayed alive." And as he starts to talk, the group of individuals standing about ten feet behind him separate as another figure pushes past them. Pulling the hood back, you can see a man about six feet in height, average human height, long, blond hair that trails past the middle of his back over a dark grey cloak. Fine features at one time; he looks older, you can see the weathering in his face and the various wrinkles and lines from years and years of living in this atmosphere.
Liam: You said "human", right?
Matt: Human, yes. He has a red-tinted monocle over one eye.
Sam: Ooh! I like him already.
Matt: As he steps forward, the rest of the Clasp put their hands off to the side of their weapons. He pushes aside Garthok to the rest of you and says: "So, you are the ones called Vox Machina, am I correct in this assumption?"
Sam: Yes, you are.
Matt: "Hmm! Trusted of Uriel, executors of Modeth the Traitor. One among you is a member as well, I'm told."
Liam: I step forward.
Matt: "Then you are welcome here. I am Spireling Shenn--"
Sam: (whispers) Spireling Shenn?
Marisha: (murmurs) He's a Spireling!
Matt: "Master of networks and information--"
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Ooh!
Matt: "--of the Clasp of Emon. Excuse the mess, we lost a portion of our territory and are currently caught in mid-adaptation. So, what can I do for you?"
Liam: Well, you know who we are.
Matt: "And you know who I am, now."
Liam: Yes. And you know my spotty track record with the Clasp. But that's all past now. The city's in ruins. You're looking at the right hand of Uriel.
Matt: "Uriel is no longer with us. You are a hand to nothing."
Liam: Of course. We're looking for what to do next with this city. I don't think any of us wish to be the pets of the beast that's now roosting in the heart of Emon.
Matt: (chuckles) "No, that does not do any of us any good. Business has ground to a halt, and we've lost a few good patrons in this unfortunate circumstance. We lost our entire northern tunnel structure as soon as the creature attacked the Cloudtop District."
Liam: Well, I'll be honest, our first thought was to flee this city.
Matt: "Safer."
Liam: But before we make that decision-- yes, it is-- we know that you're the next best thing to a government in Emon.
Matt: "Hmm."
Liam: And we want to know what's left behind.
Matt: "Well, we're seeing to our own. We're going to see how many of our allies still lie within the city. Going to reach out to our friends across Tal'Dorei and see how much of a network we still stand to keep. Then we call in a few debts, reach out to some friends and, ah, we see if we can find some way to supplant this red thing."
Liam: Can I insight check?
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Not good. No. Nine.
Sam: Nine, you said?
Liam: Nine. The plan now is to lay low and hide?
Matt: "Well, for now, I have a number of operatives topside who are currently trying to get as much information on the red one as possible. The piles of wealth are growing, and it looks like the beast is building a damn home out of the district."
Taliesin: The city's going to need a black market.
Matt: "Oh, I am aware, and we are preparing for that. However, it's still fairly fresh, and individuals aren't willing to release any coin when all of it goes to the pouches of the thing that sits on us. Word has gotten back that Westruun was also hit rather hard in the night. And these creatures have continued eastward ever since-- no further word on their whereabouts. So we're put in a reactionary position, which I loathe. We're used to being ahead of the rest of the curve."
Taliesin: Well, here's where we could help each other.
Matt: "It would appear that could be a possibility."
Taliesin: We need this city to stay alive. We need the citizenry to be fed, and we need people to know where they're going to get their medicine and when they're going to get their food. We understand it's going to be tricky. We need information, we need spies, we need to know what's happening in the city, and you need people like us to stay out of your way.
Matt: "That seems like a fairly top-heavy trade in our direction, if you ask me. There are many ways to get people out of our way."
Taliesin: There are ways that we can benefit each other.
Matt: "I would love to hear it."
Sam: (whispers) I would, too.
Taliesin: We have safe haven-- and please, by the way, stop me if you feel I'm being too broad.
Sam: No, go for it.
Taliesin: We have our keep that is untouched by the dragon's attack-- we have a safe haven.
Matt: "Hmm. How is this keep accessed?"
Liam: We can get to that.
Taliesin: There are-- options.
Liam: We also have strong connections to Whitestone.
Laura: And Vasselheim.
Sam: And to The Slayer's Take-- that's what they're called, right? Yes? There could be a formidable force that could come to protect the city or drive out the dragons.
Liam: We're proposing a short-term solution-- you want to get back to a position where you can grease the wheels and make money. That's not going to happen anytime soon. But you can't take care of these beasts on your own. And neither can Whitestone, neither can we.
Taliesin: But it is very likely that we will be the thing that is dropped upon it from a great height, and the most cooperation we can get, getting into a position of power over this beast, the happier we'll all be.
Matt: "Hmm. Let's say we do this, let's say we go forward with this alliance. You get out of our way, you promise resources from Whitestone, perhaps? They have quite a few unique contributions they could make. The Slayer's Take-- I have not had many dealings across the Ozmit Sea, but are you referring to, ah, Vasselheim?"
Sam: Indeed. They are a mighty force.
Matt: "Now, that is a tough nut to crack, that city. If you're connected in Vasselheim, perhaps we can talk."
Laura: There's no guarantees you'll be able to get in anywhere.
Matt: "There's no guarantees we'll be able to provide food or medicine-- it's dangerous times, my dear."
Laura: It is. But the sooner these dragons are defeated, the sooner business can get back to usual.
Matt: "Of course."
Laura: Ow. I mean-- (fake coughs) eh.
Sam: I know I'm getting a bit ahead of ourselves, but once the dragons are gone and the city's returned to normalcy, what is your ultimate goal? To hold power or to remain in the underbelly?
Matt: "All the real power lies in the underbelly, my friend. I have a proposition for you, then. We will do this. We have many channels and secret tunnels throughout the city, and we could very easily deliver food, medicine, shelter, even, to the wired and poor and downtrodden folk of this town, be the subterranean heroes of Emon. Out of the goodness of our hearts, of course. However, once this creature is toppled, and the city is brought toward, I gather you would have the ear of whoever comes to power in this city."
Sam: We may very well be the person that comes to power in this city.
Matt: "That is helpful. And I imagine you also have some presumably powerful connections in Vasselheim. We would be interested in beginning a sect of our fair trade in that distant, all-too-- how do I put it? Xenophobic cityscape?"
Travis: What?
Matt: "If you agree to be our seed in that stubborn garden of a town, you have our aid."
Marisha: Can you give us a moment? (softly) Please?
Matt: "My patience grows thin."
Marisha: (whispering) Can we talk about this for a second, guys?
Matt: He adjusts the monocle on his eye.
Marisha: Do we really need them? Are they really providing us with enough to make this worth our while, to where we essentially want to open up the Pandora's Box of crime in Vasselheim? Do we want to be responsible for that?
Travis: Well, I'm all about Pandora and her box, but I don't think we really need this. It's not worth all of that. Especially if we're going to Vasselheim.
Marisha: I feel like we just took one pretty top-heavy deal and traded it for an even more top-heavy deal not in our favor.
Taliesin: Oh no, I'm not-- I feel the urge to further discuss this. Also, to be fair, we're not representatives of the Clasp; we couldn't, technically speaking, open-- All we can do is-- I think, the most fair thing to do-- to offer in exchange for this is perhaps some trade with the materials that are available in Whitestone and maybe a promise of keeping a blind eye towards their business until the finished reconstruction of the city. Let them reestablish themselves until the city is properly completed.
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: You need an underbelly. Underbellies are function. Underbellies function for this very need: the fact that we can actually get food and medical supplies into the city right now if we need to. Less than 72 hours after such a devastating attack, there's no other system--
Liam: If the Clasp were to vanish, something else would take its place.
Taliesin: They're inevitable.
Laura: But I don't want to introduce them to Vasselheim, no.
Taliesin: At the cost of people starving or not starving.
Laura: We're already here, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm down for joining them and letting them join our cause, and using their infrastructure, but beyond that--
Liam: Can I use perception to make sure that we're really private right now?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I join in?
Liam: 22-- Oh, 22, plus can I use my inspiration on this?
Matt: When'd you get that inspiration die?
Liam: I got it in the wyvern fight.
Matt: It would've faded by now, unfortunately.
Liam: Okay, so 22.
Laura: 33.
Matt: 33? You're far away from the crowd. However, Spireling Shenn has been very concentrated in shifting his attention from each person that is currently speaking in this conversation.
Marisha: He's reading our lips.
Laura: I turn my back to him and I say, he can read our lips as well as I can.
Taliesin: Of course he can, which is why I'm not saying anything that I wouldn't want him to hear anyway. I just don't want to promise anything we can't deliver. I don't think we could deliver Vasselheim; we're going to be busy! We have too much on our plate as it is.
Laura: I don't think they'd listen to us anyway, honestly.
Taliesin: I'm going to offer what we can give, and see if that's enough.
Sam: We have to have something to sweeten the pot.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: What are you offering, money?
Laura: Offering to sweeten the pot-- we're defeating a fucking dragon! Let them get back to normal.
Sam: We can't promise that! The dragon could very easily kill us!
Laura: We could say-- They certainly can't do it without us. And we can't do it without them. But we'll be bringing in other armies with us.
Marisha: I agree-- it's joined forces at this point, that's all we can offer them. A place to fight at our side.
Travis: You're still assuming he's going to keep his word, too.
Taliesin: Let me go back to him. (deep sigh) Shenn.
Matt: "Yes, hmm."
Taliesin: I propose a counter-offer. I just don't feel comfortable offering Vasselheim; I don't think that we could necessarily deliver, and we, honestly, have a lot to do.
Matt: "All I'm asking is an introduction to a handful of key figures in the city, no more than that."
Taliesin: Well, I will not promise that now. What I can promise right now is some access to materials from Whitestone, which-- and I show him my gun hilt, which is embedded with the gems. I can see what's still lying around, and we can make a deal. I can also promise that for the reconstruction, once this has been dealt with, which is in everybody's best interest, until such time as there's a functioning government in this city, you will be treated with the respect appropriate of a group of people who are helping keeping the city functional.
Matt: "You act like that hasn't been our treatment for the entirety of this city's existence. You think your council didn't have dealings with the Clasp for many years before this happened?"
Taliesin: Of course they have.
Matt: "We helped make this city function. All we're offering is this service to other places that maybe don't have the right guidance to achieve their true greatness. All I ask is an introduction. Beyond these other. Far after the fact; don't even need to worry about it now. Who's to say what changes from now to then?"
Laura: Who would we even introduce you to?
Marisha: We don't even know anyone.
Sam: Yes, we do. We know some high-ranking clerics. We know the Slayer's Take. We met a bunch of people up there.
Marisha: In a zealot city? You want to go to a cleric and be like, "Hey. Thought you might want to meet the underground mob boss."
Matt: "We don't have to worry about that now. Just a simple handshake, and it's all done."
Taliesin: I'll put something forward to the group. If they prove themselves honorable, if they prove themselves faithful and capable of keeping this city afloat, then we will speak to whomever they wish us to speak to precisely of what they did. No more, no less.
Matt: "If this is an issue of morality, I would like to remind you that, one, we've let you escape after murdering one of our leaders, only upon learning that he himself was an immoral individual."
Liam: You're welcome.
Matt: "Also, we went against our word as an organization by letting you take a war criminal that had already paid his way out of the city."
Taliesin: And for that, we are grateful.
Laura: And we gave you something very powerful in exchange.
Marisha: And you got to keep that man's money.
Taliesin: That was business.
Matt: "It was business, but business that was persuaded by the actions of good people, and bringing justice. We want society to thrive."
Taliesin: I'm willing to kick this ball down the field.
Travis: What?
Matt: "So. Not wasting any more time, shall we make this a fine, healthy city once again?"
Taliesin: This feels a fair deal to me, and it means that we can leave knowing that the city will, in fact, still have a populace while we're gone.
Marisha: You seem used to selling your soul, Percy.
Taliesin: It is the job of ruling.
Sam: If we come back and learn that you have made a deal with the dragons, you'll be the first to die, not them.
Matt: "Oh. I would only hope that would be the case. I wouldn't be caught dead dealing with such a selfish entity."
Sam: All right, then let's do this. Keyleth, shake the man's hand.
Taliesin: You don't have to.
Sam: You've got nice soft hands.
Taliesin: Vax?
Travis: It should be Vax.
Taliesin: This is not the worst deal I've ever heard.
Marisha: You just don't know that yet.
Matt: "I have things to do."
Taliesin: I have met the devil. That's not him.
Laura: Don't do it.
Marisha: Percy, you make me so nervous.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: "I haven't all day. My arm grows weary with impatience."
Marisha: Vax?
Sam: Would you like me to sing to give you some extra strength for that arm?
Taliesin: Vax, I will make the deal if you're not up to it, but I want your blessing.
Liam: You know what? Keep your deal.
Travis: Yeah! Attaboy.
Sam: We're going to leave the city abandoned?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: With no one to protect it?
Marisha: We are not abandoning it. We already discussed it. There's more than one way to cut through this knot.
Liam: I don't think you're going to let this city fall, anyway. If this city dies, you've nothing.
Marisha: I agree.
Liam: If the parasite hasn't a host to feed on, the parasite dies. No, thank you.
Marisha: Percy? I'm sorry, but I think our methods of being rulers might differ. I don't think I need to sell myself for the greater good.
Matt: "Very well. Unfortunate as it is. Step forward."
Liam: Is this a whisper?
Matt: No, this is him asking you to step forward. He steps really close to you, and he takes you by the shoulders and turns you around to face away from him. Do you resist?
Liam: I'm going to roll out of his hands forward to my friends.
Matt: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: 28.
Matt: 28. You tumble away from his grasp, and he (grunts). "Very well. I know your face now, at least. And the rest of the Clasp will know you are a false member, now. You are not welcome in these tunnels ever again, and if we see your face amongst our kind, it will be our word that you are to be taken on sight. It's a shame you've marked yourselves our enemy this day. I wish it wasn't this way. But to step up and confront us with such disrespect for all the patience we've shown you in previous years is just-- it irks me. Stinks of a lack of civilization. So please be on your way. We'll do as we do. You do as you. Now be gone." And he turns around, flicks his cloak, and steps back into the group. The rest of them keep their hands on their belts and wait for you to leave.
Sam: I look at Garthok and say, "Even you?"
Matt: Garthok actually gives you a very stern look and pulls his blade an inch from the side of his scabbard.
Travis: I wouldn't do that.
Matt: At which point, you can see 25 more Clasp members step out. Even wounded ones as they are, all stepping up and gathering. There are now 35 to 40 of them starting to form out of the shadows, forming a semicircle around you entirely.
Sam: Don't do it, Grog.
Taliesin: Absolutely not.
Marisha: Let's go. Come on.
Travis: A fellow can't smile every once in a while?
Laura: We'll just back up.
Taliesin: I take a bow, and I turn my back to them and walk out.
Laura: I do not turn my back. I walk backwards the entire way out, with an arrow notched.
Travis: I stay next to Vax.
Sam: I say, party on, Garthok. And then we leave.
Laura: Keyleth? Darling? Could you maybe make a wall of stone and close off this tunnel?
Marisha: Unfortunately, no.
Liam: Save a thought for the people of Emon, if you've any room left in your narrow minds. And I back out.
Marisha: I end with, hopefully, you will realize there is a far greater enemy at hand than the personal squabbles between us small people. And I also step away.
Matt: The Spireling's not even in view at this point. He's disappeared amongst the rest of them.
Marisha: I'm sure he can hear me.
Matt: Possibly. As you guys exit and find your way back up to the surface, as the last of you makes it outside of the entranceway, you immediately start hearing this slamming and breaking of stone from underneath you, and you gather pretty rapidly that this entrance is being entirely removed for possible entry.
Taliesin: I would like to point out, since you had such noble intentions towards my position on things, this is your ego at work here. I may be many things, and I may be a deal-maker, but I never forget that when I rule, I rule these people, as well. I'm not better than them. And you may think you're better than them, but this is what it creates. It creates enemies.
Marisha: No, Percy. The difference is, I don't think I'm better than them.
Taliesin: They certainly think you do, and they are not pleased.
Laura: This mark. Is it magic? Can they trace you through this mark?
Liam: I don't answer. I walk over to Keyleth. Can you still do the thing with your hands?
Marisha: (fire noise) That thing?
Liam: I rip my shirt down. I want you to burn it away. Now.
Marisha: Vex, do you have an arrow?
Laura: Of course.
Marisha: I hand it to him. Put this in between your teeth. (sizzling noise)
Matt: (sizzling noise) Searing white pain through the back of your eyes, Vax, as Keyleth presses her palm into the center of your shoulder blades. You can hear the sizzling and cracking of skin, and smell the burning of Vax's flesh in the air in this cellar. Make a constitution check.
Liam: Seven.
Matt: Seven. You break through the arrow with your grip, and actually give out a very loud, painful scream out of reaction.
Liam: Like you do.
Laura: Similar to when you hit me in my arm.
Matt: Kind of. A moment passes. Keyleth, you pull your hand back, and where the Clasp symbol once was, there is a hand mark burned into the back of the shoulders.
Travis: Vecna. (laughter)
Liam: It was you.
Travis: Kill her now!
Matt: What would you guys like to do?
Sam: Well, that was a bust.
Taliesin: That could have gone so much better.
Travis: Vax, I think you made the right call, and I don't think very often.
Sam: Or very well.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Thank you, Grog.
Taliesin: I think we could have gotten out of there with at least the hintings of an alliance, as opposed to just--
Laura: Straight up--
Taliesin: Bitter enemies. This was a disaster.
Travis: Sometimes you have to walk away from a bad deal to find a good one.
Sam: That's not a thing.
Taliesin: That's not a thing. Where did-- you didn't read that--
Marisha: I got what you were saying, Grog.
Travis: When it rains, the sun is shining.
Laura: That's deep, Grog. I like it.
Travis: Stew on that.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on--
Liam: No!
Laura: I already did it. Too late! I fucking touched you, fucker.
Liam: Does that take the scar?
Laura: It just takes the pain away.
Matt: Cure Wounds? What it does is prevents infection. It does heal you for the hit points you would have lost for that. I'll say it nullifies the damage you would have taken from the burn mark. It does not alleviate you from the scarring. It's not as graphic as it would have been, had it been left to heal on its own, but it does muddle the Clasp symbol somewhat.
Liam: Okay. Thank you.
Sam: Shall we go back to our keep?
Travis: We could just kill them all now.
Liam: There's hundreds of them, Grog.
Taliesin: (splutters) No, we can't.
Travis: I saw, like, 40 or 50.
Liam: Yeah, there were another 160 in the rafters.
Taliesin: It would do no good. Who would be bringing food into the city in the first place?
Liam: They're going to go on doing the same thing they would have done with us or without us.
Taliesin: They're doing it without us, though.
Marisha: But Percy, do you honestly think that after all of this was done-- do you want to be beholden to those people?
Liam: And I don't believe they are going to bend the knee to Thordak. I don't believe it.
Taliesin: They're not going to, no. Of course not.
Liam: And that was all I, personally, was worried about.
Taliesin: I wanted people on the inside keeping us informed, and we just lost a very powerful spy network.
Liam: I think the only people on the inside right now have scales.
Taliesin: Everybody needs something.
Laura: Can we go back to the keep?
Taliesin: We are not going to bother. We're going to go and we're going to find a way of killing these things, and we're going to hope for the best in this city. That's what we're going to do.
Matt: As you guys are heading back, I need stealth checks from everybody.
Laura: Stealth check. Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Fuck! Natural one.
Taliesin: Oh my god, really?
Marisha: Natural one.
Laura: Then what's the point of anybody rolling?
Liam: 27.
Sam: 19.
Laura: 37.
Travis: 29.
Taliesin: We have a plus ten? 33.
Matt: All right. You guys push southward through the city, finding your way. At this point, the sun has set. Night has come in, and occasionally you hear the flapping of leathery wings overhead as a number of sentry groups of wyvern riders go tearing through the city. At one point, you hear a similar (raspy cry) sound, and you hear other ones begin rising up off the rooftops, heading in your direction, Keyleth. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: The minute we see that, I'm going to push her against the wall, and I'm going to Minor Illusion a shadow right over her.
Matt: Okay. Make a new stealth check with disadvantage.
Laura: Add ten.
Matt: (chuckles) It's a natural one on their end.
Marisha: Oh, good.
Matt: As long as you didn't roll a natural one.
Marisha: No, I didn't, I rolled an eight, plus a seven, plus ten.
Matt: So, at that point, they (whoosh), one swoops down and lands on the edge of the roof, and you see it curling down. And takes off again, and they continue on, out of the way. You wait a few moments before silence takes the night once more, and you press on heading southward. (laughter)
Laura: Nice.
Sam: Good job, Percy.
Marisha: Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: One day you're going to stop being afraid of me, by the way, and I hope that day comes soon.
Sam: Before we go to the keep, do you want to swing by the place?
Taliesin: The place?
Sam: The place with the airships.
Taliesin: There's no "swinging by," that's a caper. That's an entire thing, that if we're going to do--
Sam: Just to go there and look?
Travis: The showroom is fucked. It's broken.
Taliesin: This is one of those things that we're going to have to get everybody on board before we even start talking about it, so probably a good night's sleep.
Sam: All right.
Laura: We need to sleep. We need to get up in the morning--
Taliesin: And then we'll talk about an airship. I'm really on board with the airship.
Sam: All right.
Laura: I think we need to go to Vasselheim or Whitestone.
Travis: Vasselheim.
Liam: We don't need an airship to do that.
Laura: No, we don't. But we also need to find out what's happening with Allura in Whiterun. Westruun. All those cities.
Sam: All right. Back to the keep then, I guess. When we get there can we check in on Gilmore and the queen?
Matt: Yes. And as you return to the keep, Pike has been taking care of the rest of the individuals, and she's been seeing to Gilmore's side. Gilmore is fast asleep, dealing with the tail end of a fever that has broken, after the healing from the day before. Earlier in the day, I should say. It also appears that Salda and the children have been in and out, keeping an eye as well. Pike, as you enter, looks up to you with a smile, and says, "He'll be all right. He's going to pull through."
Laura: That's wonderful.
Matt: "I should probably stay with him for a bit. Make sure he's okay."
Liam: Is he unconscious still, or just sleeping?
Matt: He is asleep, currently, yeah. "He's been conscious throughout the day while you were gone, but he's got to rest a bit more. He's still had a rough few days."
Travis: It's dead on.
Taliesin: Just needs headphones.
Matt: I just need headphones, and to brush against the mic occasionally. Especially during really really impactful story moments.
Liam: "What? What?"
Matt: So you guys find yourselves resting for the evening. You take to a night's sleep.
Laura: You going to sleep, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, you got to sleep.
Travis: I got to sleep.
Matt: If you don't sleep you're going to start getting levels of exhaustion for the next day.
Travis: Oh. Okay.
Matt: All right. So you lose the strength bonus. Everyone, you can get half of your hit dice back.
Travis: That's a lot of--
Liam: As the sun goes down? It's been down and everyone's going to their rooms? I go to Keyleth's door and knock on it.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: I open the door. Hi.
Liam: Hi. I don't want to be alone tonight. Do you?
Marisha: I haven't been wanting to be alone most nights. And I let him in.
Matt: Okay. So, we--
Laura: Bow-chicka-wow-wow!
Matt: Jump forward to the next morning--
Taliesin: That wasn't the kind of ship I was hoping to get. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think we can all fit on that ship.
Matt: So, next morning, you all wake up; full hit points, get back half of your max hit dice that you spent. All your spells back.
Laura: I give Scanlan the Hat of Disguise back.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You sure you don't need it?
Laura: Yeah, fuck 'em.
Sam: All right. Keep up those rhymes. Not bad for a first timer. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so. What's the plan?
Sam: You know, Vex, I don't want to be alone right now. (laughter)
Laura: I take his face and I push him down on the ground.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Do we have a plan?
Taliesin: I suppose our plan is the Slayer's Take next?
Travis: Yeah, Vasselheim.
Sam: How do we get there? Wait, we have to get rid of all the 'fugees.
Laura: Yeah. We need to go to Whitestone, then.
Taliesin: Well, here's the question is do we want to head towards Vasselheim from Whitestone?
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: So we'll all go. We'll take the last of the-- I can't believe I'm going to say this-- the last of the 'fugees.
Sam: Yes. Ooh, la la la.
Laura: Wait. All of our guards, and our servants, as well. I don't want to leave everyone here.
Sam: We're abandoning the keep?
Laura: I don't know what else to do. If dragons attack, our five guards aren't going to be able to do anything.
Liam: One dragon crashed in the roof of the building.
Taliesin: Accidentally smushed.
Liam: What are the cook and the maid going to do?
Taliesin: Make it breakfast.
Liam: Jarett's pretty badass, but I don't think he can handle that.
Travis: Dragons get hungry.
Sam: When we come back, our keep will be gone.
Taliesin: And we'll be able to build it back up.
Marisha: It'll match the rest of the city, Scanlan.
Liam: Percival's the lord of Whitestone. He's got a castle!
Laura: We find a new keep.
Sam: But my room is just the way I want it.
Taliesin: I'm sure that some lucky dragon's going to come and shit in your bed. It'll be fine.
Sam: All right, if we're going to leave the keep, I'll need a moment in my room.
Liam: You'll find another room bathed in self-loathing. (laughter)
Liam: It doesn't need to be here.
Taliesin: It takes a good month to bathe a room in that much self-loathing.
Sam: You look like you're glowing this morning.
Liam: That's ridiculous.
Sam: I've never seen you quite so chipper.
Taliesin: Let's gather what we need, make sure that Gilmore is ready to move, as well. We'll bring everybody through to Whitestone.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I guess we should go tell the guards that they probably will have to leave, if they want.
Taliesin: And that they can come work in Whitestone.
Laura: Well, I don't want to force them to, but of course they're welcome to.
Liam: Why don't you go ask the guards? I'll go talk to the kitchen staff.
Laura: All right.
Travis: I know who she's going to talk to.
Laura: He's the captain of the guards, anyway.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you speak with the rest of the keep's staff, including the guards as well. Jarett for the most part is like, "As long as I'm still getting paid, we're more than happy to go where you need us to be. If it's further away from dragons, I am okay with that."
Sam: Don't you need your tools?
Taliesin: I can pack up my kit, and I've also technically got a reasonable workshop back in Whitestone.
Matt: Okay, so you gather your materials, you prepare at the tree in the center of the keep, you say your goodbyes--
Sam: Before we go out there, I go to my room, I take a dump on my bed--
Matt: You've used it at the temple of Sarenrae--
Sam: No, it's not a potion. Just a straight-up poo.
Matt: Just a straight-up poo? Okay. Marking your territory. I respect that.
Sam: I hang a note on the gate of the keep.
Travis: Shitting on your own bed?
Sam: I don't want anyone else to use it. And with a butter knife, I put a note on the gate to the keep that says, "If Kaylie comes, go to Whitestone. P.S. If my painting is delivered, please forward to Scanlan Shorthalt, care of Whitestone."
Matt: All righty.
Travis: "Mind the poo."
Laura: I leave a note for Allura, and tell her we've headed to Whitestone, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I don't say Whitestone. I say, "the place where we sent you originally," so she knows where it is.
Matt: Okay. Notes are placed. Spell is prepared?
Taliesin: I've packed everything that could possibly be used to make anything dangerous.
Matt: Okay. You have your supplies at the ready. You all gather in the center of the temple of Sarenrae. Keyleth?
Laura: Not yet, Keyleth!
Taliesin: We'll be back.
Marisha: What's wrong? Are you ready, Vex?
Laura: I mean, it's the first time we've had a home in forever, and we're leaving it.
Sam: Can you make it disappear, or something?
Laura: We can go. It's nothing.
Marisha: I can put Hallucinatory Terrain over it, that'll last a bit, but not long enough to make it worthwhile.
Laura: It's just stone.
Liam: We've done it once before. We can do it again.
Taliesin: It will be built back better than before. That's what we do.
Laura: Let's go.
Matt: The portal opens outside of the tree, and all of the refugees start rushing through. You guys give chase, following over to the opposite side, where Whitestone waits. You all emerge from the Sun Tree in the center of the familiar town.
Liam: Fucking cold!
Matt: It is chilly. Not as snow-dappled as it was when you first arrived. A little has melted, and the clouds are a little bit more open; you can see some of the blue sky above you. It's actually a beautiful day, if a bit chilly. As you emerge, you can see there's a few individuals in the center of the town, including a couple of the original refugees that seem to be waiting for the rest to come through. They greet you as soon as you arrive, and rush up and grab a couple of people that they had met at your keep. Some come forward and say, "Thank you. I'm so glad you made it!" They shake your hands. You've arrived back in Whitestone. So, do you guys want to wait here for the day, and then make your way to Vasselheim?
Sam: Do we need to talk to anybody here?
Taliesin: Just to set up to make sure that the queen and her children are taken in at the castle.
Liam: I imagine you'll fill your sister in.
Taliesin: I will. I'll fill my sister in on how they're to be taken care of. Make sure that Gilmore is taken care of.
Sam: We may want to stock up on potions and stuff before we leave.
Laura: Yeah, buy as much as we can.
Taliesin: There's a shop.
Matt: There is, but you guys have cleaned it out.
Laura: Buy stuff in Vasselheim.
Matt: They have not had an opportunity to restock. Their main providers have been killed.
Liam: Do you think that with the time that's passed, Cassandra has found any of the belongings of the Briarwoods? They were pretty snazzy.
Taliesin: We can ask about that.
Matt: You approach Cassandra, who is happy to greet you once you return. "Did you have a question?"
Taliesin: Vax?
Liam: We need to kill some dragons, and we are out of everything. You've been here a while. Have you found anything of the Briarwoods? Any store of treasure or potion or anything of use?
Matt: "Well, the personal effects you all retrieved when they were defeated. What remnants of income or gold which they'd kept was put in with the rest of the Whitestone treasury when they took over."
Liam: Not so much interested in gold as in means of protection or healing.
Matt: "They weren't really specialized in healing, I'm afraid, and what bits of protection they had, you've already taken. But if gold is what you need, we can probably spare you some."
Laura: I mean, I'm not going to say no to the gold.
Taliesin: Obviously, we'll sieve the coffer a little bit because we're going to need it for the mission.
Laura: So very generous of you.
Taliesin: Also, let's re-employ our castle guards as the Emon royal guards in the meantime, and they can serve the queen and her children.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: "That can be very easily presented. Oh, here we are!" There's a small chest with a lid that she hands it over to you. Actually, puts it out and your hands are already out. "All right. 2,000 gold from our coffers. It's not much, but we have to keep the city running."
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: And a small amount of the green gem, if that would be possible, that's left over from the mining operation.
Matt: "Of the glass?"
Taliesin: Of the glass. If possible.
Matt: "Yes, certainly."
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm working on something.
Matt: "Very well." It takes a few minutes for that to be retrieved from down south of the tomb in the mausoleum, but nevertheless, you get four half-dollar-sized pieces of residuum glass.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Matt: Four shards of residuum glass. "I hope that's of aid to you. Apology for the confusion. We have quite a bit of individuals to find homes for, and get them running."
Taliesin: Gilmore will be of great help.
Matt: "Yes, as you've told me."
Taliesin: (laughs) I'm sorry to drop this all on you, and I'm thankful.
Matt: "I'm thankful that we even have an opportunity to offer aid to somebody. That's thanks to you, so it's nothing on us."
Taliesin: It will not be the end of it, sadly.
Matt: "That's all right. Whatever we can do. Anyway, good luck."
Taliesin: I'll be off in the morning.
Sam: How are we getting to Vasselheim?
Taliesin: We can teleport.
Laura: Yeah, teleport, right?
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: Just pop on over, yeah. We sleep for the night, and then we go over to Vasselheim the next day.
Liam: Let's have dinner.
Laura: Hang out in Whitestone for the day.
Taliesin: I'm going to work on that little project.
Liam: Whitestone and chill.
Taliesin: The thing I was trying to attach to my gun but wasn't working, I'm going to try to attach it to my boot instead.
Matt: Interesting.
Taliesin: I can draw you a sketch.
Matt: All right. While the rest of you guys are attempting to rest, I need you to make a tinker tools check.
Liam: Tinker tools. This goes in here.
Taliesin: That's better. 22.
Matt: 22. You've affixed it to your boot. We'll see if it works.
Taliesin: And I've got one working piece? I know each individual build, I have to build the--
Sam: The nubbin.
Taliesin: The actual device itself has to be built for individual usage; it's not auto. I'm going to try and build one and see how it goes.
Matt: Okay. So total cost for the materials on that will put you at about 300 gold.
Laura: What?
Sam: 300 gold.
Taliesin: I'm working on something.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: I mean, it's your city.
Liam: Are you borrowing 300 of your gold from the money you loaned to Vex?
Taliesin: Since the day I've met her, I've given her every bloody dime I've made. So, yes. I no longer even think about it anymore.
Laura: And I love you for it.
Taliesin: She's practically the royal treasurer. She's just happier that way.
Marisha: (laughing) "She's just happier that way."
Matt: All right. You find an evening's rest. The next morning comes uneventfully. You find yourselves refreshed. I'd say at this point, you're all at full hit dice after two nights of rest; you're fine. So, on to Whitestone, Keyleth?
Laura: Vasselheim?
Travis: Vasselheim?
Matt: Sorry. You're in Whitestone.
Liam: We were just here!
Matt: You recall you've seen a number of trees. The largest you've seen in Vasselheim would probably have been on the outskirts of--
Liam: Where we fought the hydra, maybe.
Marisha: We camped out in a few trees outside of Vasselheim.
Matt: Do you want to stop outside the city or within the city, is the question.
Marisha: Whatever's closest.
Travis: No. No magic in the city.
Laura: No magic in the city, remember?
Matt: No arcane magic. Divine magic is a different thing. There's plenty of divine magic within the city.
Laura: Oh, is there a teleportation circle? Do we have one in Whitestone?
Marisha: There wasn't a teleportation circle to Vasselheim.
Matt: There are no sigils to Vasselheim. Part of their defense process is preventing any secret intrusion in that regard.
Taliesin: We'll teleport to the outside of the city and perhaps sleep at the temple of Sarenrae.
Matt: There's the Abundant Terrace.
Laura: We always have rooms at Slayer's Take, remember.
Taliesin: We do always have rooms at Slayer's Take.
Marisha: What's the Abundant Terrace?
Matt: That's the section that Melora looks over. That is where primarily most of the farming, food--
Marisha: Yeah, let's go there.
Matt: That's where you know there are a number of orchards and things that are kept in that vicinity. If you wanted to.
Marisha: That's right outside the city?
Matt: It's within the city. It's one of the five quarters. I won't say quarters. It's one of the five areas.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Quarters.
Laura: Is Gilmore staying here in Whitestone? Yes?
Matt: Yeah, unless you want to try and bring him with you.
Laura: No, it makes sense to leave him here, right? Where do you want to stay, Gilmore?
Matt: (laughs) You're approaching Gilmore. He goes, "To be perfectly honest, I'm not quite feeling 100%, and let's just say I'm not a huge fan of the zealot type."
Laura: Understandable.
Matt: "Vasselheim doesn't really jangle my dingles."
Laura: You've got a whole bookstore devoted to you here.
Matt: "This is true."
Taliesin: I would appreciate your help in restarting the economy of Whitestone, to be fair.
Matt: "Well. (sighs) Guess it's not too late to open a new branch of Gilmore's Glorious Goods, since my other, possibly, two no longer exist. (sighs) I was so close to opening. I started from nothing! I can do it again. (coughs) Good luck, you all."
Taliesin: You as well.
Sam: So we're going to a tree outside of the city?
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: Well, it's in the farming district in the city.
Matt: It's in the actual city.
Laura: All right, cool.
Matt: All right. Using this once again off the Sun Tree, you guys step through. As you emerge out the other side, you are in the thick of a heavy orchard in the Abundant Terrace. There is heavy snowfall that has fallen recently here, and where it was cold in Whitestone, it's cold here in Vasselheim. You can see built-up ice and sleet that has recently been pushed off to the sides of the orchard. Even amongst this very cold weather, all of the plant life in this area is vibrant and springtime green. As you all emerge in the center of this orchard, you can see one of the nearby workers who's tilling the land looks over. "Hey! What are you doing here? You're not supposed to be in the middle of the orchard!"
Laura: Slayer's Take business. We'll keep moving.
Taliesin: We were just leaving.
Matt: (groans) "Fucking Slayer's Take. Do whatever the fuck they want." He drinks out of his canteen. "Fine! Just get out."
Liam: Glad that manticore's not in your orchard. That's all I can say.
Matt: "Manticore?"
Taliesin: That's just cruel.
Laura: Don't worry. We took care of it.
Matt: (weakly) "Thanks." He starts looking nervously over his shoulders as he goes back to his work. Eventually, you guys step outside of the Terrace, finding your way to the Quadroads, which is the central network that the four main portions of Vasselheim attach to. This is the Erathis-based center of the town. You have before you, to remind you, at the very northern part of the town is the extremely tall, pointed mountain known as Heaven's Stair. Attached to that mountain on one side is the Silver Talon's Reach. That is the main temple to Bahamut. To the left of it, against the mountain, not actually into it, is the Braving Grounds. This is the area that is geared towards Kord, the deity of war, where you had previously had a conversation with the Dawn Master, the Earthbreaker Groon. There's the Platinum Sanctuary in the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where the Highbearer Vord, the Silver-Touched, the high priest of Bahamut is. You also just left the Abundant Terrace, and there is the Quadroads, which is where the Slayer's Take currently is. And there is the Duskmeadow, which is the Raven Queen's domain. Where do you guys want to go?
Liam: Remind me, what was the Duskmeadow, again? Was that where we chased the rakshasa?
Matt: That is where the Amaranthine Oubliette resides, which is the prison of the city.
Marisha: What was the name of the section of the city that has the Slayer's Take?
Matt: That's the Quadroads, the Erathis, deity of civilization.
Travis: So, like, I really want to go talk to the Kung Fu Panda master. I don't think we're going to get a lot of fights in. The guy, I think he was the teacher of Kern. The guy I beat in the crucible.
Liam: That ripped, chiseled old man?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: The guy who beat you twice?
Liam: No.
Laura: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: And nobody beat me twice. He got lucky once, get it straight. I want to go talk to him because maybe we need some more fighters and strong folks and I think he might know where they might be.
Sam: We should talk to the Slayer's Take, as well.
Taliesin: We should get our rooms.
Laura: Yeah, let's go post up.
Taliesin: We have things to put down.
Marisha: And also only about a day's travel from Pyrah.
Sam: What's that? Pyrah?
Laura: Her home.
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: What's left of it. That will be a trip that will be necessary soon, but not yet.
Matt: You guys hit the Slayer's Take first, or where are you heading?
Laura: Slayer's Take.
Travis: Slayer's Take.
Laura: Just to let them know we're here and we need some rooms.
Matt: Okay. You make your way to the outside of the main Slayer's Take guildhall. The dark wood exterior greets you happily. You can see they still have a gathering of various antlers of creatures that are tangled into each other that form this rustic-looking entrance. And there on the front doors, you see emblazoned the Slayer's Take-- for lack of a better term, their symbol with the words of their actual guild spread across it, as you saw before. Opening the front door, you can see within the main foyer area, there is the dark iron chandeliers that run across the entire length of the moot hall, if you will. Across the front area, you find the clerk desk. Sitting behind it, a familiar red-haired, tousled, chin-bearded, scarred-up tiny man with his feet up on the desk, falling asleep in his chair.
Laura: (laughs) Oi!
Liam: Ta-da!
Matt: "What is this craziness? (laughs) Ah! It's been some time."
Laura: It has.
Matt: "So. Hello."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "What's your business? What are you looking for?"
Laura: Dragons? Have you heard about anything?
Matt: "Other than the fact that you killed one. That is the most recent, but nothing beyond that, really, no."
Laura: We're going to need rooms.
Liam: And we're probably going to need to speak to your lady lord.
Laura: Your wife.
Liam: Well, your wife, but I'm talking about the boss, here.
Laura: That's his wife.
Liam: Higher still  the sphinx.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "Vanessa, she's currently out on a hunt. Should be back in the next day or so."
Liam: We've urgent business to discuss with her. For now, we need a place to stay.
Matt: "Well, you're always welcome here. This is your home away from home, so please, take a load off. Pick a room. It's up to you. It's good to see you all so healthy!"
Laura: Healthy.
Sam: Thank you, Mertin. Right?
Matt: "Yes. So glad to hear."
Liam: The only reason I remember that is it sounds like merkin.
Laura: Is Zahra around?
Matt: "She's actually currently out with Vanessa on a hunt, as we speak."
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: Perhaps we could see her.
Liam: Sorry, we're tired. We've been hopping all over.
Matt: "Me, too. I was sleeping when you came in. I don't mind if I get back to that."
Liam: Sorry. Any room?
Matt: "If it's somebody else's room, they'll let you know, so please, take your time."
Laura: Well, settle in?
Taliesin: I'm settling in.
Marisha: Yeah, I guess we all settle in.
Matt: There's a number of empty rooms. Doesn't look like there's a lot of individuals around. As you walk down one of the hallways, though, you do see there is a card table, and the two individuals in there, you see a very scarred, burly, and frustrated dwarf who's throwing down cards on a table. Black, long series of beards, and his hair over his beard. You see Thorbir is sitting there at the card table with another man wearing really beautiful, ornate armor that is well-polished; very short, dirty blond hair, who is apparently owning him at cards, going, (chuckles) "You've terrible luck, friend. I'm sorry to hear this."
Laura: (whispering) Aldor.
Matt: It's Aldor.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Matt: Thorbir's sitting there, and throws his cards on the table. (scoffs, sighs) "They tell me I'm supposed to have the luck of the dwarves." (laughter)
Matt: "Oh. I guess it's about time you all showed up. I'm going to get a drink." And he gets up, away from the table, and walks away from the rest of you, with a half-hearted "hi," but he's in a huffy mood and walks off. Aldor takes his winnings and scoops the change into a pouch.
Liam: Aldor, Aldor, Aldor.
Sam: How's Lyra? Have you seen her? (laughter)
Matt: "Why? Have you seen her?"
Sam: Not in a while, but we thought you guys were engaged to be married. No?
Taliesin: That's the last we heard.
Matt: He reaches forward and grabs your shirt and pulls you in. "Where did you hear that?"
Sam: Not from a reliable source, I promise you.
Taliesin: Very sketchy source.
Matt: "Good. You haven't seen her, have you?"
Sam: Not in a long time.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: She's still a member of the Slayer's Take, of course, though. Isn't she?
Matt: "I assume. I just run if I see her. She's a bit--"
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: No! She seems nice to me.
Matt: "Good. You know what, actually, if you want to do me a favor. I mean, she's a nice girl, probably pretty easy if you ask her. Why don't you take her off my hands and go on a date? Take her out for dinner. Distract her."
Sam: You saw her first. I'm a man of honor.
Matt: "Oh. No. I should go." He grabs his stuff and leaves in a huff.
Travis: Good to see him.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: He's looking well.
Sam: True love.
Marisha: It's weird being back, you guys.
Sam: Well, I guess we should ask them all if they want to come with us to fight a dragon?
Marisha: Yeah, do we do that now, or do we do that in the morning?
Travis: In the morning.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Liam: It feels like we were just running screaming from dragons in the sky.
Marisha: Yeah. We traveled.
Sam: We'll sleep on it. We'll talk to Nessa in the morning.
Liam: We'll get up in the morning, we'll take some of that gold, we'll put it to good use, we'll wait until Nessa gets back, and then we'll carve out a plan.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Percival?
Taliesin: That sounds just fine.
Sam: Kord's strength to us all.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: I wonder if Kashaw is still here.
Liam: Probably, he works here.
Marisha: Who?
Sam: Kashaw. That was the one that they went on a--
Laura: Oh! Right, Keyleth? The guy that kissed you.
Marisha: (stammers)
Taliesin: Brooding. Handsome. He was so troubled.
Liam: He was.
Laura: He was very handsome.
Marisha: So we should probably go to sleep, you guys.
Laura: It's morning, still.
Matt: Yeah, it's maybe 10 00am.
Marisha: Take a nap?
Matt: It's across the world, so it's technically earlier.
Marisha: You know, it's jet lag. It's teleport lag. It gets to you.
Laura: Maybe Nessa and Zahra have seen him. We could find out. We could use another healer, always.
Matt: It would be 10 00, 10 30 in Whitestone. About 6:30, 7:00 in the morning in Vasselheim.
Laura: Pike, speaking of clerics, do you want to check in with your temple?
Matt: Pike has actually stayed back in Whitestone to help the refugees.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Oh. She didn't even come to Vasselheim?
Matt: No, but she did say that she's going to keep an eye, best she can, through Sarenrae. When she can pop in, she'll try and see if she can project her form, going forward.
Liam: She's led by her conscience.
Matt: She's led by her schedule in New York. (laughs)
Taliesin: We didn't think to leave her a stone, did we?
Matt: If you'd like to, you could have.
Sam: Would we have done that?
Taliesin: I would have definitely suggested leaving her with one of the stones.
Laura: Yeah, we probably should leave the stone with her so she can pop in with us.
Matt: Okay. We'll say that she does that. She keeps a gatestone with her, just in case.
Travis: Trinket stays in Emon, right?
Laura: Shut up!
Taliesin: Trinket's going to guard the castle.
Laura: Trinket is right here, right now! He has been quiet, because he's really well-behaved.
Matt: Trinket's been practicing his stealth. (bear grunts)
Laura: So stealthy, darling.
Matt: All right, so you've set up your rooms, your stuff about you. You have a full day before seemingly anyone from the Slayer's Take is going to come back. Where do you want to head?
Taliesin: Individual?
Travis: Individuals? Yeah.
Liam: Oh, shit, can we buy potions in this city?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Liam: Shit! You can't, can you?
Laura: I'm afraid to start anything. It's 11 00.
Marisha: I know, it's late.
Matt: All right. Then we will end it there this evening. I just wanted to get an idea of where you guys were going for next week.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Travis: I plan to go see Earthbreaker Groon.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I want to wait and talk to Zahra.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I may want to have a conversation at the temple of the Raven Queen.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Zahra sounds fun.
Laura: Right? But I do want to buy potions, as well, and stock up.
Taliesin: Yeah, that, too.
Liam: Nothing. I'd probably tag along with Percival.
Laura: What?
Travis: Old punchy man? You don't want to come with?
Sam: Oh. Yeah, I'll come watch you if you're going to have a fight.
Travis: No, I'm going to have a conversation.
Liam: You're right. I do want to see Old Punchy Man.
Taliesin: We can do both.
Travis: Some hand-to-hand?
Sam: Watch you lose again.
Travis: I'm not fighting him!
Matt: All right, so Vax and Scanlan are going with Grog to the Trial Forge.
Laura: I'm going to stock up on a bunch of stuff.
Matt: Okay. We'll do some shopping.
Taliesin: I'm going to go to the temple of the Raven Queen. I also want to talk to our mapmaker friend.
Matt: So you're going to the Raven's Crest. Got it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right, cool. We'll pick it up next week at that point, guys. Awesome. Well done, guys!
Travis: We abandoned Greyskull Keep.
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Laura: Yeah, we did, and it's sad.
Marisha: It's very sad. We abandoned Emon.
Matt: Damn.
Laura: We can't help it from there. We have to go somewhere else in order to come back to it.
Liam: Greyskull Keep is going to be an ancient dragon's kitty litter box.
Travis: I'm allergic to cats.
Marisha: If you love it, you have to--
Marisha: Let it go.
Laura: Let it go.
Liam: Like our first hometown, or our elven town?
Laura: Don't say that.
Taliesin: I was going to say, do you know who says, "if you love it, you have to let it go?" The one who got dumped, that's who! Sorry.
Matt: That's horrible.
Taliesin: Yeah, you are. I'm a terrible person.
Matt: Well, guys. Thank you so much for watching. We'll pick this up next Thursday. Those we'll see tomorrow in Colorado, looking forward to it, and tomorrow, look for my next episode of GM Tips. That'll be fun, and is it Thursday yet?
Taliesin: See you in Arizona!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice, play Dungeons and Dragons, and Liam once again throws curses at me right before we start the stream. It's good, it's good.
Liam: I love you.
Matt: I love you too. Sam's on his way, he'll be here shortly.
Liam: Lies.
Matt: Hopefully. Possibly lies. He's a good liar, as we know. But we've got a couple announcements we want to get done before the show. First and foremost, as a reminder, we're all flying out to Portland tomorrow for Wizard World. (cheering)
Marisha: Getting on a plane!
Taliesin: I gotta pack a bag!
Marisha: Never unpacked it.
Matt: Looking forward to seeing you guys there tomorrow. We have a panel tomorrow and on Sunday-- Saturday. My week, it's been a long week. Saturday panel at 2PM, which will be--
Laura: On the main gaming stage.
Matt: Yup. Main gaming stage. Also available online at twitch.tv/wizardworld during our panel. It will be hosted there for you guys to watch, who can't be there in person.
Laura: And in case you forget, you can always follow Critical Role on Twitter, @criticalrole, and the panels will be posted there, I mean, the schedule, so you guys can find us. Or follow any of us for our individual signing.
Liam: We have a team of hundreds that man the Twitter handle with information.
Laura: Hundreds of twos, of threes.
Taliesin: Like Bond villains.
Liam: It's Marisha and I. (laughter)
Marisha: Mainly Liam. Mainly Liam.
Matt: Good use of henchmen, it works out well. So look forward to that. Also, we have going up, it should be on the store tonight--
Liam: Sam's here!
Matt: Sam's here. On the store tonight, Sam's here! He almost fell over. He made his dex save. Everything's through the filter nowadays. It's really bad. I have a serious problem. We have going up on the store tonight at Geek & Sundry, we have prints-- our Critical Role poster prints with characters. We also have--
Laura: A very limited run. It's very, very limited, signed by the cast, so those are-- I don't even know how many, but once they're gone, they're gone, so yeah, those will be available for a short amount of time. Buy it right now!
Marisha: Right now, on geekandsundry.com.
Laura: Sam, you look different tonight.
Sam: I do?
Liam: You look handsomer.
Sam: That is impossible.
Marisha: I do like your shirt.
Taliesin: It is a very nice shirt.
Sam: Hi guys, welcome to Critical Role, where we nerdy-ass voice actors like to roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons. Oh, and Liam just threw some curses at me right before we started. (laughter)
Matt: We already-- we already covered all this.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Matt: It's okay, it's good. Redundancy is good in this industry. So, in that regard, also, we may be, I think we're supposed to have more "How do you want to do this?" shirts up. Supposed to be up soon?
Laura: Potentially soon. We're working on it. There's some really cool stuff coming. Really cool stuff.
Sam: We don't know what's coming, do we?
Matt: And also just a reminder to all of our friends over in the Europe area, me and Marisha will be guests at Kaizoku Con the first weekend of March, in Cork, Ireland, so we're excited to go and meet a bunch of Critters out there. Kaizoku. A Gaelic mythological creature, the Kaizoku. So, those are my base announcements, do we have anything else anyone wants to mention on the stream?
Taliesin: We have a thing. We got to announce a thing this week.
Matt: What did we get to announce?
Taliesin: We got to announce "Black Butler."
Matt: That's right! We have "Black Butler  Book of Circus," they announced the cast, where Taliesin, you play--
Taliesin: Well, I'm in "Book of Murder," two completely different butlers.
Matt: Right, it's a thing.
Taliesin: I'm buttling in "Book of Murder" as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, so that's exciting. It's the weirdest accent I've ever done. It is all over the place.
Liam: "Oh, hallo"-- (laughter)
Travis: Might beat that one.
Matt: In "Book of Circus," I play Joker. I'm excited to jump into that little realm there, so look forward to that.
Liam: We are in an intimate relationship with Wyrmwood Gaming and if you go to wyrmwoodgaming.com and use the code "critrole," "critrole," you will get free shipping on these beautiful boxes. They hold dice.
Laura: They hold dice, they are magnetic, so they stay closed, they hold your dice so well-- oh--
Liam: Enchanted by witches.
Matt: (laughs) That's a beautiful presentation, guys.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: I'm proud of each and every one of you.
Liam: I went to NYU.
Matt: Hey, see.
Marisha: I dropped out.
Matt: Anything else? Cool. We're good? All right, let's dive into tonight's episode proper. So, last we left off, the party Vox Machina, having recently suffered their main city of Emon and one of their initial towns where they began their adventures in Westruun under attack from an entity called the Chroma Conclave, a collection of allied chromatic dragons, extremely powerful, ancient across the board, it seems, is wreaking havoc across all of Tal'Dorei. They managed to save a few allies, make a few current, tenuous relationships with the Clasp, and moved all of the refugees that they had been keeping within Greyskull Keep to Whitestone to keep them safe for the time being, as that town had seemingly been passed over by the dragons that are still heading east across the continent. After that, the party made their way to Vasselheim. Vasselheim, the distant city known as the Cradle of Faith, the oldest living beacon of civilization in the world that is currently known. After making their way there, the party made their way into the Guild of the Slayer's Take, where they had previously signed on after a trial and are members of, to seek more allies throughout the city of Vasselheim in hopes of preparing themselves to retake Emon, possibly Tal'Dorei at some point in the near future. That is where we left off. As you guys have spent some time resting within the actual-- we've got whispers going around over here already, and we haven't started.
Marisha: Do you want to say?
Sam: No.
Marisha: No thank you, keep going.
Matt: Okay. Two can play at that game. So, as you guys take a little bit of time, getting reacquainted with the Guild Hall of the Slayer's Take, setting your stuff down that you need to prepare for a short period of time staying in the city or longer if need be. You ran briefly into Mertin Cyndrial, the husband of Vanessa, who's the Huntmaster of the entire Guild, and had a brief conversation with Aldor, who was beating Thorbir at cards.
Laura: What a dick.
Liam: Love that guy.
Matt: He's a nice fella.
Laura: Not Thorbir, he's great.
Matt: There you go. Not very good with dice. So, that being the case, what would you guys like to do at this point in time?
Laura: I don't know, I'm just asking you guys.
Marisha: So we slept and we woke up?
Matt: You just arrived now, it's mid-dayish at this point. Early morning to mid-day.
Liam: Yeah, we slept at the Slayer's Take, we talked to Aldor for a minute, right?
Matt: You haven't slept, you've arrived, it's like morning, mid-day now. You've just situated yourselves in the Guild. You had an evening's rest before you came here. But you have used your 7th-level spell to get here.
Marisha: Yes. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: So what is the plan?
Liam: Is there one?
Taliesin: I'm, at this point, prepared for some decompression of some kind. No one can be expected to move at the speeds we've been moving at for the past week. Perhaps grab an early-morning drink and find out how much news has actually reached this town about what's happening out in the world right now.
Liam: That's a good idea, Percy.
Laura: We need to find Lady Kima.
Taliesin: That's actually an even better idea.
Sam: That's a fantastic idea.
Taliesin: Perhaps she will go to breakfast.
Laura: She's at the Temple of Bahamut?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: That sounds right.
Sam: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Sam: Can I just remind you, for no other reasons than to be helpful to you in the game and no other reason, that the black powder salesman lives here. Just throwing it out there, you might need some supplies.
Taliesin: It's interesting, because I sleep at night and these voices from nowhere consistently remind me that there's a black powder merchant in this--
Liam: What game are you talking about? We don't have time for games, there are dragons that need dealing with.
Sam: You're right. How silly of me.
Liam: Stick to music, please. We don't need games.
Taliesin: Kima, I think, is an excellent idea.
Sam: Kima is a great idea.
Matt: Last I heard, Victor was blown apart.
Laura: We also need-- oh.
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: We also need supplies.
Sam: Oh, yes. Hell yes. I don't have anything.
Laura: We need lots of potions, health potions.
Sam: Yeah, but they sell those here?
Laura: They sell health potions here. Yeah.
Matt: You've purchased them in the past.
Laura: Yeah, they sell them here.
Matt: Remember, that's where Grog had his fantastic bartering skills last time to acquire a few potions.
Travis: Yeah. I'm an investment banker.
Laura: That's right. Oh, that merchant might be here still. We have so many things to catch up on.
Marisha: We can also talk to the Slayer's Take as well.
Laura: We're just waiting for Vanessa and Zahra to get back from their hunt. Am I right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Who? Oh, the wife?
Liam: Yeah, Merkel's wife.
Marisha: I didn't meet Zahra.
Laura: No, you didn't.
Travis: She's got a tail!
Laura: She's quite wonderful.
Sam: She's very powerful.
Laura: She's actually related to-- well, Percy, you would know.
Sam: She's related to Percy? I don't see the resemblance.
Taliesin: No, she's related to Lillith. They actually are, they are related, that is true. Our friend from previously.
Laura: Yes, our friend. From previously.
Taliesin: With that, let's find Kima, perhaps. That would be the best course of action.
Matt: So you guys are going to head towards the--
Liam: Do you think Kima wants to go potion-shopping? Maybe we should go get some shit and then see Kima? I think Kima would be a little impatient.
Taliesin: That may actually be a good point.
Laura: All right, all right, all right, all right. Let's go really fast. There's dragons in the world, we don't have time to shop.
Travis: Can you slam down an hourglass for shopping?
Liam: Sister, dear, how much coin do we have at the moment?
Laura: Well, not a ton.
Liam: How many Pop-Tarts do we have?
Laura: We have a lot of Pop-Tarts, but not very many gold pieces.
Liam: In the party, if anyone's holding coin, because I don't have much at all. I don't need much, but we do need healing potions.
Laura: I have enough in the party funds to buy some healing potions, so I think--
Taliesin: Is that including what we got from my sister?
Laura: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: Let's buy some potions.
Liam: You're in charge, let's go.
Matt: All right, as you guys heads towards the front door of the Slayer's Take Guild Hall, you're but feet from it before the door slams open as the cold winter wind comes pouring in.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Matt: There, standing in the doorway, you see the outer frame of a strong female form, dark brownish-black leathers, you can see tousled dark hair, piercing pupil-less eyes, and there stands Huntmaster Vanessa, clutching a bag that's seemingly dampened at its base in her right hand as she steps into the main foyer, looking about all of you gathered in the front area. "Well, isn't this a nice surprise in the middle of the morning? Ah."
Laura: Welcome back.
Matt: "A pleasure to see you all. Ah, hold on. The rest of you, inside, where it's warmer." And as she steps inside, you see two individuals step out of the shadows behind her. One of which is another tiefling female, white hair, red in skin, and another individual, familiar to some of you: human, short brown shoulder-length hair, series of scars across his arm, carrying a shield and spear, as Kashaw and Zahra come in to accompany--
Travis: Get your ass in here!
Mary: Look what the bear brought in. Hello, darling.
Sam: Where do I go?
Will: I'm going to sneak through.
Mary: Hello. Have you gotten bigger?
Travis: Yeah. I've been lifting lots of horses and mules and stuff.
Mary: Oh, my goodness. Hello, darling.
Laura: Good to see you.
Mary: It's good to see you, too.
Laura: How are things?
Mary: I'm all right.
Taliesin: Once you're in, you're stuck.
Will: Hello.
Taliesin: Hello.
Sam: You said your name was Ka-SHAW?
Will: It's KASH-aw.
Laura: KASH-aw. Like cash. I like it.
Marisha: Hi.
Will: How are you?
Marisha: What are you doing here?
Will: This is kind of where I live. What are you doing here?
Marisha: Just, you know, rolling through. Passing by. Not much.
Will: Okay, who're--?
Mary: Kash, is that--?
Will: This is her, Z.
Laura: This is the guy?
Marisha: Vex, Vex, Vex! Vex, Vex, Vex, Vex, Vex!
Laura: What?
Marisha: I push Vex out of the way.
Laura: (laughs) You called me over to push me.
Marisha: Yes.
Will: You're Vex.
Laura: I am Vex.
Will: Oh, thank the gods. Yeah, he said you guys looked very similar and thankfully it's not too much, or I felt bad for you.
Mary: Yes, you do look very similar. Does that mean you're--?
Laura: He's my twin brother.
Mary: It's so lovely to meet you. I whack him with my tail.
Liam: Oh, jeez!
Laura: She does that.
Liam: You are impressive.
Will: You are a big-- I recognize you. Wait a second. I won 75 gold pieces at the Crucible when I bet on Kern the Hammer.
Travis: You did?! That was money well spent, my friend.
Will: Thank you for that night, by the way.
Travis: You're very welcome. These are my lackeys, I have a band of-- you know, wandering--
Marisha: Lackeys?
Laura: He doesn't realize that you bet against him.
Liam: I would not bring-- good to see you again-- I wouldn't bring that up.
Will: It was a wonderful fight, did you see it?
Travis: It was, did you see me power-bomb him at the end?
Mary: Hello Percy.
Taliesin: Lovely to see you again. It's been a complicated month, we'll get into it.
Mary: How are the weapons holding up?
Taliesin: Quite-- well, hmm. Liquefied, but mostly functioning. Hello, I don't think we've met. Percy Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. And you are?
Will: Wh-what? Confused. Can you say that again?
Taliesin: Just call me Percy.
Will: Okay. Kashaw Vesh.
Sam: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Will: How are you?
Sam: It's nice to meet you. I've heard many a tale of your wit and bravery.
Taliesin: That Kashaw, oh! Yes, that one! Yes, of course.
Laura: We've heard so many things about you, Kash.
Will: Hopefully all good, thank you.
Travis: (laughs, then coughs)
Will: Is he choking?
Travis: I'm good.
Marisha: And you must be Zahra!
Mary: I am. And you are Keyleth, is that right?
Marisha: That's right, yeah, yeah.
Mary: You are beautiful, aren't you?
Marisha: (stutters)
Mary: Sorry.
Sam: I told her, I told her.
Mary: Yes.
Matt: At which point, Vanessa groans, staring at this display.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: "I hope this has worked out well for all of you, I however, have a bit of business of ours to finish, okay?"
Mary: Yes, we do.
Liam: Hey, what's in that bag?
Travis: Yeah, what'd you catch?
Matt: She walks up to the table where Mertin's standing, he reaches out to greet her, with arms extended. She throws it into his arms, he catches it, pulls it open. You see within there is a head of what looks like a humanoid head, but the skin is greyish and featureless. The eyes are whitish and milky. What hair is there, in wisps, is white in color. Who here is trained in arcana?
Mary: I think I am.
Sam: I am.
Matt: You know what this is.
Mary: I already know.
Matt: Roll an arcana check.
Laura: Why don't we ask you, then?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. This is the head of a Doppelganger. This is a creature that spends a lot of its time infiltrating society, being able to take the form and shape of other individuals to assume their position, to take their wealth, to do all sorts of sometimes interesting or dastardly things.
Will: Made him a bitch to find.
Mary: Yeah.
Sam: It's a shapeshifter?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: What can you do with the head?
Matt: "Well, turn it in for the money it's worth. Spread the change and forget about it."
Taliesin: How do you know when you have one?
Sam: That's true.
Travis: And what was it posing as?
Taliesin: And at that point, don't you just already have one at that point?
Matt: "Well, this is for me to worry about. Not for you to care."
Laura: Vanessa, I have a question.
Matt: "Yes, please."
Laura: Do you ever hunt creatures just because they're evil and they're killing people?
Matt: "Generally, somebody will eventually be paying for such a creature to be hunted, so I do not feel the necessity to do it, without--"
Laura: What if lots of people are dying and you might be at risk as well?
Matt: "Then I think it should be very easy to convince someone to pay for it."
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: What if the cost is the end of the world?
Matt: "Well, I imagine that would be quite a terrible thing."
Marisha: Sure. That's what we're looking at here.
Mary: Really?
Laura: Okay, so. Vasselheim is unaware of what's going on, but a lot of cities have been destroyed.
Will: Cities. Multiple, cities? Have been destroyed?
Laura: Multiple cities. Emon was the first one hit.
Will: It's gone?
Laura: Well, it's still there technically, just crumbled.
Taliesin: And flat.
Marisha: And under rule by an ancient red dragon.
Mary: So much has changed since Lillith was there.
Laura: So much.
Mary: How did this happen?
Laura: He escaped. He'd been trapped in the fire plane, and--
Taliesin: We're not entirely sure what happened, but he escaped the fire plane and somehow created a coalition of chromatic dragons and they are ravaging the countryside.
Laura: Yes. Which is very strange.
Mary: What color?
Will: How many?
Laura: Red, white, green, black, blue was one of them at a time.
Marisha: They call themselves the Chroma Conclave.
Travis: Eight total.
Mary: The Chroma Concl-- there were eight?
Laura: There's four of them. There's four of them.
Marisha: No, you're-- you don't double them by city. It's just one city-- No, never mind. Just one dragon.
Travis: One, three, five, eight.
Matt: Vanessa's crossed her arms and thinks for a second and she goes, "Ah, if what you say is true, this is very unfortunate. And a bit larger than what our simple guild could even hope to really help. This would be something to take to the various temples."
Laura: Yes, and we plan on it, but we know that the Slayer's Take is full of very strong, very qualified fighters and we were hoping to have you at our side as well.
Matt: "Well. Let me put it this way. If what you say is true, multiple incredibly powerful ancient dragons roaming, destroying-- this is not something you can throw yourself at until eventually one or the other falls. You have to find a weakness, you have to find the way to be on their level. Ask around. See what other allies you can find."
Liam: Yes.
Laura: A metallic dragon.
Taliesin: Temple of Bahamut.
Liam: What you say is correct. These are the first moments after us finding out, this is a first step. But being members here and seeing what your people can do [no audio] I know this is just a first step, and we're about to enter Vasselheim proper, but--
Marisha: It should speak pretty loudly that we came to you first. That's how much we trust you.
Liam: Can we count on you?
Matt: (sighs) "I am Huntmaster of the Slayer's Take. I deal in contracts, I deal in business, I deal in the hunting of relatively unorganized creatures. This-- this is beyond me. That is not to say I would not be willing to help, but there are many things to consider first. Perhaps you should speak with Osysa."
Sam: What, who?
Matt: "Osysa."
Sam: Osysa?
Liam: The sphinx.
Matt: "Our patron of Ioun."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "She would have a better mind for this than me, this is..."
Laura: How do we talk to her?
Matt: "The same way you did last time."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Follow me."
Mary: Before we go, I believe we have a little settling-up to do?
Will: I'm cold and I still haven't been paid.
Matt: "My apologies. Mertin!" He's over there, he's currently putting the head into a small case and closing up and he goes, "Aye, not to worry I'll be more than happy to get this for you." And he leaves for a second, comes back, goes through the contract, reads a couple things. Pulls out a large chest and begins divvying up coin and throws a satchel to each of you that contains, for both of you divided for this contract that would come to 2,250 gold pieces.
Mary: Pleasure, as always.
Sam: They have more than we do.
Laura: No, they don't.
Mary: Thank you very much.
Matt: "Of course, that's what I'm here for!"
Mary: It was an interesting challenge, thank you. We had a rather good time with that one.
Will: Interesting trying to track it down, that's for damn sure.
Travis: What was it hiding as, by the way?
Mary: A plethora of different entities and beings, it was running around town changing at will.
Laura: Isn't that like that rakshasa you were talking about?
Marisha: It seems familiar, actually.
Will: Does sound familiar. That was interesting and bloody!
Marisha: Yup!
Matt: "Regardless... Shall we? Very well." And she begins walking further to the back of the guild hall, where you come to the same doorway that you previously entered with her before. The chains in the side, that sets up a large slab that leads to a staircase that leads to the subterranean area right beneath the Slayer's Take. You may have noticed it previously, but there is a structure above where the subterranean area is, behind the Slayer's Take. And it's-- it looks like a very simple temple. You haven't really gone into it, but as you step down into this dark area underneath you can see the sconces lighting along with you as you step into this dark cavern. As it opens up once again, you can see the remnants of this hidden temple to Ioun, the Goddess of Knowledge. And what's curious about this temple is Ioun is a goddess of knowledge and openness. One of her main astute pushes is the fact that knowledge is to be shared and spread, so it's curious to see that something of hers is hidden. There's probably a purpose to that. Pushing up the steps again, Vanessa puts her hand up and tells you all to stop and calls out again. "Osysa! I apologize to bother you, but we have a predicament that I believe requires your attention." As a moment passes, where once again you hear the low, rumbling growl in the shadows. (growls) You hear slams of giant footfalls across stone as what little bit of light torches begin to spark to life around the top of this platform, this stone platform. And at the very top of this staircase that leads to the top of where this platform ends, you can see standing above it a very large female sphinx with a lion body, a female head adorned with golden jewels around the neck, eyes that are light sky blue and white in color. Proud as these giant griffin-like wings stretch out and the entity comes to rest at the top, paws folded over the edge. "Yes, I recall. So what do you need of me?"
Laura: Well.
Travis: Yeah, go for it, Vex.
Laura: Your help, potentially. The world is under attack.
Matt: The head sinks for a moment. "I have been watching by the heartstone, naught but this past day I have been keeping tabs in hopes that such a cataclysm would not find its way to my mate. It has not. So. Being aware of this, what do you ask?"
Laura: Is there anything that you know of that could help us defeat these ancient beings?
Matt: She thinks for a second, steps up and closes her eyes. As her muscles tense, her eyes open again, that color flashing with this luminescent blue color. And her voice falls even deeper into her register, and almost has this monotone informative projection that says: "The Vestiges of Divergence, relics wielded when the gods walked and fought alongside their creations." The light fades from the eyes, for a second she catches herself and steps back.
Mary: May I ask, what are the Vestiges of Divergence?
Matt: She shakes her head. "I am a channel for this knowledge, but the best I can understand, they are old relics of the War of the Divergence. Leading into the penance, the Second Spark. These were armaments. Objects of great power that were used in these wars against the gods, good and dark. Many have been buried, entombed, lost, forgotten. The few that are recovered are passed on through blood lines, through symbols of power and of seats of great political importance. But the actual information is lost to me."
Laura: Do you know of any one in particular?
Matt: She concentrates for a second. "Not within my field of vision. Objects of this powerful enchantment are also prone to want to keep themselves hidden."
Laura: That's convenient.
Marisha: Osysa. If you are aware of this knowledge, then you know that Vasselheim is one of the only remaining cities still left standing. Are there any other services you can offer to help us fight this?
Matt: "The danger that you run here is that Vasselheim has stood the test of time and survived two possible ends of civilization as we know it. But it has survived both of these events because those who guard it stayed to guard it. You may be hard-pressed to convince others to step beyond the walls knowing that such a danger could use that to their advantage and destroy the greatest city that we know of. You are welcome to ask, but it will be a difficult journey. What I can offer, though: my mate is a keeper of much hidden knowledge, over on his side of Tal'Dorei. I may be able to send you to him to seek this information."
Laura: Much hidden knowledge?
Sam: About these Vestiges, perhaps?
Laura: Does he serve your same god? Or another?
Matt: "I am one of the chosen of Ioun. He does not serve her directly."
Liam: Information is welcome and we are thankful. And we have been impressed by your wisdom, very much so. The people you employ are chosen very carefully and very well and we all have been impressed. In addition to information, you provide a service with the Slayer's Take to Vasselheim. Do you have any interest in spreading that influence to Emon, if we can save it?
Matt: Her large paws cross once again, and she looks at you with a stern expression. "There is great danger and darkness in this world, and there are many fools who stand up in hopes that they can keep it at bay. If we were to lend our power to you, I would ask that you prove yourselves the ones that could carry this torch."
Liam: How so?
Matt: "Perhaps find these relics. Gather other allies. Prove to me that I would not be sending my people to their doom. Then return. Perhaps then, when you think you are ready, we could lend our guild to your service."
Laura: All right.
Marisha: And where does your partner reside?
Matt: She closes her eyes and concentrates for a moment. "South of the Frostweald, the mountain range that guards it." Her eyes open again. "Understand that it is our nature to present challenges. Part of his journey to seek him is to find him yourself. That is the first step."
Marisha: Does he have a name?
Matt: "It is his name to give."
Laura: One small question, Osysa, I'm sorry.
Liam: No, no.
Laura: You serve the goddess of knowledge, of openness.
Matt: And she steps back and you see the crystal sphere, the heartstone that she once helped you look through before to look back at the world, glows beneath framing light under her form. "Yes."
Laura: Does that mean you would know anything of the god of secrets: Vecna?
Matt: As you say that name, she snarls. (roars) "It would do you right to not mention that name in this place."
Laura: I apologize.
Matt: "Yes, I know of him."
Taliesin: His touch has been felt in the north.
Laura: Very close to here, actually. Would you know of a way to rid ourselves of his weapon, of his tool?
Matt: "If I did, we would have done so long ago. This creature is one of the few entities that shrouds my vision. The limits of our sight, of the things we seek to discover and unveil, are constantly balked by the veil of darkness he throws over the world. He may have been held at bay, many thought destroyed hundreds of years ago, but no, he stays. And he squeezes a stranglehold on everything we seek to accomplish."
Liam: Well then, allow us to do you a service. We have had dealings with his underlings. We have knowledge, which we freely give. Freely. If it does anything to help our case, winning your aid. And we will seek your partner and we will find your partner. We're not trying to score points, we are trying to do right. Percival?
Matt: "What do you know?"
Taliesin: Dark creatures attempted to, as best that we can surmise, open a gate beneath the castle of Whitestone.
Matt: "Whitestone." She steps back for a second, her eyes flare up with energy again. You can see the heartstone embedded in the floor of the stone glow even brighter and brighter as she puts her paws in the side and peers into it. She begins to mutter beneath her breath. "I can see the snowy north of Tal'Dorei, the castle. Beneath, one of our corrupted temples, forgotten long ago."
Taliesin: Your temples?
Matt: "The ziggurats were not of his construction. But he took them." Her eyes wince for a moment. Her head turns for a minute, her vision and face staring in the distance. "I look out to follow the anger, the swath of death and hatred. Those who took Emon, they draw my gaze. Something is happening."
Laura: Right now?
Taliesin: What do you see?
Matt: "The path to Westruun, eastward."
Laura: What's east of Westruun? Who has the map?
Matt: "Parts smoldering and left behind, the path continues over the Lucidian Ocean, eastward beyond the shores of Wildemount." Her head looks up, still staring off into the distance. "Into the Drimaulth Ravine. I see the floating islands of Draconia falling. Crumbling. Gone. An army sundered. People ruined. The Conclave, sated, returns towards your land once more." You can see blood pouring out of one of her nostrils now. The light dulls in her eyes and the heartstone fades for a moment. She gathers herself. "I peered too far beyond the veil that contains me, I'm sorry. My (pained grunt)--" She plops down and is breathing a little heavy.
Will: Can I heal you?
Matt: She takes a few steps down towards you. "Brother Kashaw. It would be appreciated."
Will: Puts his hand around the medallion. Closes his eyes. Puts his hand out, touches her.
Matt: "Thank you." She steps up and bows her head to you. She steps to the top of the temple once again. "I've seen this darkness you speak of under Whitestone, and I shall speak out to our brethren of Ioun in hopes of discovering the nature of this shadow. I'm sorry, I must rest."
Taliesin: Of course.
Liam: We thank you for your time. We are your willing allies.
Matt: "Return when you have proven yourself."
Mary: We shall.
Matt: "When you think this Conclave could possibly be felled beneath your weapons and might and will." She whips around the wings (whoosh) as the torches atop the temple flare out and you can see the edge of Osysa's form as she dives into the shadow to the back of the temple. You can hear the impact of giant footfalls against sand and then silence.
Liam: Zahra.
Mary: Yes?
Liam: You said, "We shall." Have we convinced you?
Mary: Knowing that there are four dragons, at least--
Laura: At least.
Mary: Four to eight dragons, according to Grog, out there. And after our dealings with Rimefang, I cannot let this go. You know I cannot, Kash.
Will: Z, this is fucking happy fun bunch over here. They bring death with them everywhere they go. This isn't our fight.
Mary: Not all of them.
Sam: I don't kill very much at all.
Will: Good to know.
Taliesin: Didn't you kill the king of--?
Will: Except for kings, all right.
Marisha: We just had a third-party perspective.
Sam: Yeah, I mean, she gave us a lot to "sphinx" about. (groaning)
Travis: Wow.
Sam: No? No?
Mary: It's nice to know Burt Reynolds is still around.
Matt: There's a very slow clap echoing into the cavern, as Vanessa goes-- (laughter)
Matt: "And to think, I might have briefly missed you." (laughter)
Laura: We should leave the temple.
Sam: Wait, did Osysa just tell us she could possibly send us to her partner?
Laura: She told us where he is, and we have to find him.
Sam: Oh, we have to make our way.
Will: You have to find the no-name guy who's going to help you find the stuff that's hidden that nobody knows where it is.
Laura: I thought we were finding the stuff that's hidden while we're finding him.
Mary: We will find her mate, he who is not named.
Will: Well, as long as it's not convoluted.
Marisha: He is south of the Frostweald, in the mountains.
Laura: I hate to thay this--
Liam: Yeth?
Mary: Speak freely.
Laura: So, these Vestiges are ancient, right? Spread across the land. Wasn't Tiberius looking for a bunch of objects of magic that his people had sent him to find? Perhaps that's the reason Draconia was hit. Maybe they were trying to hide these items.
Taliesin: It's possible.
Sam: That's a big "what if?"
Liam: Do you really think the Mending Wheel, though, would help us against Thordak?
Marisha: I feel like we'll know if it's an ancient Vestige of Divergence.
Taliesin: This is good. This is a path for us to walk.
Mary: So, Draconia is gone. Is that my understanding?
Taliesin: Well, most likely, yes.
Mary: What else is left?
Laura: Vasselheim. Whitestone.
Marisha: Zahra, Kash?
Laura: Potentially Syngorn, even though it's hidden.
Mary: Well, we can either stay here or we can--
Liam: They're opting out of the conversation.
Marisha: Have either of you been near Pyrah, in the mountains east of here? Have any of you been where the Fire Ashari reside?
Mary: I have not.
Will: No.
Taliesin: Going to have to make our way there, eventually.
Sam: A lot to do.
Laura: It's a lot to do.
Sam: Maybe we should split up into eight groups.
Taliesin: Actually, 11 groups.
Mary: That would be 12.
Laura: How many is that, Grog?
Travis: Four. (laughter)
Marisha: Do we know how far away the Frostweald is from here?
Matt: The Frostweald is back in--
Laura: By Westruun.
Matt: South of Westruun.
Marisha: Like where we started, right? In Stillben.
Matt: That was where you got the heart of the nymph.
Marisha: That's not far from the Air Ashari, correct?
Liam: Do you think she's still there, Grog?
Travis: Oh yeah, trust me. When you have Grog-- you never leave?
Liam: Yeah, that's the expression, I'm pretty sure that's the expression.
Laura: We need to find Kima, we need to go to the Temple of Bahamut.
Sam: Yes, you're right, yes.
Laura: Talk to people that are capable of helping us.
Liam: We need Kima. Potions first. I don't want to bore Kima, then Kima. Yes?
Laura: Hey, does the Slayer's Take have potions we can just have? Don't they have like a supply room?
Liam: It would be welcome.
Matt: "We have things we can provide, as you are members."
Laura: Oh good, yes.
Matt: "Mind you, not extremely active members as of late, but..."
Laura: But we will be. Think about the giant amount of claws and teeth and eyeballs and leather wings and scales.
Liam: We're about to get really fucking active.
Laura: We're going to be so fucking rich.
Mary: Think of the armor I could forge you from red dragon parts.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Can I give advantage if I go like this the whole time?
Matt: No. That's closer to disadvantage. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, how about 12?
Matt: "Yes, I'll provide you with what we can. Come with me."
Marisha: Aw, she likes us.
Laura: No, I could have gotten something really badass if I had rolled better.
Matt: So, you guys step up and you lead back to the Slayer's Take guildhall. She snaps at Mertin, whispers something in his ear, and he comes and offers a small chest to you guys that contains two potions of healing and one potion of greater healing.
Laura: Oh good, two potions! Vanessa--
Liam: It's welcome, it's very welcome. Which way is the potion shop from here?
Matt: "Go to the Quadroads."
Sam: Quadroads, of course.
Liam: Yeah, we haven't been here--
Laura: In quite a while--
Taliesin: As you know.
Matt: "I'm afraid your symbols have been getting dusty."
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Hm?
Laura: You don't have any potions left?
Travis: No, I've got like, three potions.
Laura: Who doesn't have any potions?
Sam: None.
Liam: None.
Marisha: Yeah, I have a couple.
Liam: Hey, I'm squishy as hell, can I have one?
Laura: You get the greater one. You get one, and you get one.
Taliesin: All right.
Mary: May I speak with Vanessa very quickly?
Matt: "Zahra, what can I do for you?"
Mary: Kash, come with.
Will: Kash walks over with her.
Mary: Vanessa, we've done many jobs together. And I think we've been very loyal to you. We've brought in a lot of money for you. My only request is, is there anything extra? Are there any spare potions, any amulets of protection, anything? You know this is going to come to us.
Matt: "And there is a lot of great money that you've made that could pay for these things."
Liam: (whispers) But her voice is so deep!
Matt: "I've given you already more than I needed to. You can afford it. If you were broke and asking me, maybe I'd be happy to ask, but I just paid you quite a sum of money."
Mary: I know you did.
Matt: "I feel like I'm being taken advantage of."
Will: That's not what we mean, you know that, come on. Just give us free stuff. (laughter)
Mary: I meant no offense whatsoever. I mean you no offense.
Matt: "And none is taken. However, I would say, there is business to be had deeper in the city. You wish potions, there are those that purchase them. I've already given you what I have and what you've earned."
Mary: And we thank you for that.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Thank you, Vanessa.
Liam: Vanessa, hey. I'm not asking anything. We're going to get you into Emon. That's a promise.
Matt: "I look forward to you coming back and proving me wrong."
Liam: We're going to double your fucking business.
Laura: Mm, we're going to bring you so many scales. You just wait.
Matt: (deadpan) "I've never heard this before." (laughter)
Matt: "I've never been disappointed by it, either. In all sincerity..."
Sam: "... leave." (laughter)
Matt: "The gnome speaks because I do not have to. But good luck, and don't stray too far. Stay safe, please? I put a lot of faith in you."
Sam: All right, to the potion shop. To the Quadroads.
Laura: Wait, oh, wait! One thing. I know we're going.
Liam: Mirrors.
Mary: (laughs) No! (clears her throat)
Sam: I attempt to read lips.
Laura: Is Lyra around? Anywhere?
Matt: As you say that, you hear a voice in the back of the room go, "What, is she?!" You see Aldor in the back table, he's already up with his bag, ready to run. (laughter)
Matt: "Aldor, sit down, it's okay. Ah, not at the moment, she's currently helping her uncle."
Laura: At the place where he is.
Liam: In town?
Sam: The place where we got a lot of stuff.
Mary: We got the horses last time.
Matt: "He's the ambassador."
Laura: Cool. Thank you.
Will: As they're leaving, can Kash pull Zahra aside really quickly? Are you going with them? Seriously?
Mary: What do you want to do, do you want to stay here while the world burns?
Will: Yes.
Mary: Why?
Will: Because we're here. It's warm, we make money.
Mary: Not if nothing's left to protect. Not if there are no monsters left. If these things get out, if they spread their fire across the globe, what's left for us?
Will: If, if, if. If any of the monsters we miss went out and spread-- the world's always ending, baby!
Mary: They just took out Draconia, darling. All of it. Gone.
Will: I'll follow you. Anywhere. You know that.
Mary: I know. And I'll follow you.
Will: Tell me what you want to do and I'm there.
Mary: For a while.
Will: Let's go.
Mary: If we don't like it, we'll leave. If we find something better.
Will: We'll leave. Okay. Leave half the gold here. They don't need to know everything that we have.
Mary: Fuck that.
Will: All right.
Mary: We might need it.
Will: Then hide half the gold. I don't trust the twins as far as I can throw them.
Laura: I can read your fucking lips.
Will: Apparently she reads lips. (laughter)
Mary: Oh yes, I'd forgotten that. All right. She knows how much we have. We're going for a while.
Will: Was I wrong, by the way? Did you see how hot Keyleth is?
Mary: She's fucking hot.
Will: That's what I'm saying. Let's go, we should go.
Liam: We're so nice!
Laura: We're so nice!
Liam: What the fuck is that about?!
Matt: All right, so you guys head out of the Slayer's Take guildhall into Vasselheim, which is now a little more bustling than it was when you arrived. It's about midday. The sun is still not visible. There's enough cloud cover where you can see where it would be in the sky, but it's still pretty grey. No rain, and there is still relatively recent snow that covers most of the city streets, some of which has been pushed to the sides to make walkways easier. It's been snowing here in the winter rather often, as you two are both very aware. You have multiple things you want: the potion shop, there's the Platinum Sanctuary, I think last time you mentioned the Trial Forge.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Potions first.
Matt: All right. So you make your way to the Quadroads.
Laura: Can I pull him aside as we're walking there?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: And ask, so, I thought you were interested in Keyleth. Am I wrong? I mean, you're interested in Keyleth. Right? I mean, I know you don't want to tell me. I know you don't tell me anything like this, but-- is it weird that he's here?
Liam: No, he's fine. And I am.
Laura: Okay. Should I take him out?
Liam: No!
Laura: Because I can.
Liam: No, he's--
Laura: Destroy him.
Liam: He's useful. And I don't hold anything against him, and she's-- why wouldn't he want her? Of course he does.
Laura: Yes, yes, yes, Keyleth is so! Fucking! Beautiful! I get it.
Liam: Well, so are you, but what the fuck am I going to do with that? Jeez, you're fucking weird. And I walk off. (laughter)
Taliesin: Now we're getting somewhere.
Matt: Coming back to the center of the Quadroads, you guys have been here before. This is where the center of the city's trade happens. Imagine the central Abdar's Promenade of Emon, as it once was, but condensed. And it is just hovels and tents and all these open shops that are crammed in this heavy space. It looks like the-- what's it, from "Hellboy II"--
Will: Underground mall. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Wall to wall buildings, but people, not weird creatures. People shouting, people are-- get some proper audio for this, one second.
Laura: Fresh fish!
Mary: Fresh fish!
Matt: Exactly. So as you guys are walking around, you eventually find your way up to the same area where you found the potions from before. You can see him there, he's wearing an open red vest that falls to the ground behind him, arms are revealed, he has these thick bracers on that are really finely scrolled with brass. He's got a fine Van Dyke beard going on now. He's currently speaking with someone off to the side. "Yes, of course, I'm more than happy to, yes. You! I remember you. Oh, it's been quite some time--"
Laura: You!
Matt: "Step on over here, sir, I would love having more--"
Laura: I push Grog out of the way.
Travis: What, hey! What?
Laura: You.
Matt: "Yes, can I help you?"
Laura: You sneaky mother-- Is he the one?
Travis: What?
Laura: Is he the one haggled with you? The one you traded all of our--?
Travis: I got a really great deal!
Matt: "He got a fantastic deal the last time. He's a grade A customer. I'm sorry, is there a problem?"
Travis: Nope, no problem at all, you'll be doing business with me. (laughter)
Travis: Sit back, love, and watch a pro work.
Mary: Have we all walked into the store?
Laura: He's a cart-- he's a stupid cart salesman.
Taliesin: We're all going to learn something very valuable right now.
Travis: I don't know if you've noticed, but these twats below me need healing potions. Mm, whatever. Do you have anything like that on you?
Matt: "Hoo, hoo, hoo, do I? Do not worry, sir. Hold on just a moment." He disappears into the small tent opening behind him.
Laura: Keyleth, Hold Person or something to shut him up!
Liam: Yeah, I mean, it's funny, but we don't have that much gold.
Laura: We don't have anything.
Travis: (calls out) I've got 6,500 gold to spend and I mean to spend quite a bit of it.
Matt: "Music to my ears!" You hear from inside the tent, as he comes out with this long, very well-carved wooden-- looks like a test tube set, almost. There are all various potions of different sizes and colors. He sets it down. "So, potions of healing, you say." He pulls out a few of them. "This here I have, two superior healing potions..."
Sam: Ooh, nice.
Matt: "Three greater healing potions and ten regular potions of healing, at your disposal, should you require them. Mm, yes."
Liam: Grog, what about this? You are really strong and really good at killing things and my left-- left? Yeah. Nut still has a dent in it. You are really fucking strong.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You are the best there is at what you do.
Matt: "And by far a handsome and intelligent salesman."
Liam: Please shut up. My sister is very good at-- do you know what math is?
Travis: Mathis? (laughter)
Liam: Vex'ahlia is very good at--
Laura: I don't even want to deal with this dick now!
Liam: She is an excellent shopper. I'm telling you, you know how you take things' skulls and turn them into like raspberry jam?
Travis: Yeah, like a paste.
Liam: Yeah, that's what she does with money. And I'm saying, we've had our differences, and I know you're stronger than me and I'm saying as strong as you are, that's as good as she is with shiny.
Matt: "And yet she was so abrasive when she arrived."
Liam: I say, shut up!
Matt: "Fine, hmph!"
Laura: Darling. You're lucky I don't-- Trinket? Have you seen my pet bear?
Matt: Trinket stumbles inside.
Laura: Quite adorable. He loves potion salesmen.
Travis: You know, I'm not sure if you're aware of this, but I'm actually the current reigning champion of the Crucible. And with that title comes many things, like people that manage your shinies. I would like to introduce you to my shiny manager, Vex.
Matt: "This one, really?"
Will: Why was he holding your nut?
Laura: (laughs) No pressure now--
Liam: It was a little bit of pressure.
Travis: I didn't really hold it, it was like a flick.
Mary: A flick?
Laura: Look, I'm willing to trade you some very powerful magical items for some schmeasley little potions that heal people.
Matt: "How many would you like? What do you want?"
Laura: I want them all. How much?
Matt: "All of them?"
Liam: Bulk.
Matt: (chuckles) "Well, then. Let me do my math here." He looks through it. "All right, um..."
Will: By the way, as you're adding that up, I'd like to say you should tread lightly or I'm going to tell Vanessa and you'll have trouble getting anything from the Take ever again.
Matt: "The Take? Are you with the Take?"
Laura: Oh! Do you not see these-- These amazing--
Marisha: That's right, we get union discounts.
Matt: "Yes, there is indeed a discount with the Take (nervous laugh). They've been great representatives in the past, yes."
Laura: I like you more and more, Kashaw, every time you speak.
Will: Most people do. Ask Keyleth.
Marisha: (nervous laughter) What?
Matt: "With friendship discount, let me total this up a bit here."
Mary: I walk outside, and I--
Matt: "That will be 6,500 gold pieces for the lot."
Laura: I'm sorry, how much?
Matt: "6,500 gold pieces for the lot, with the discount."
Laura: Right.
Sam: So coincidental. That's exactly what Grog offered.
Travis: That's what I have!
Laura: How about, instead of that, I trade you--
Travis: (loud whisper) 7,000!
Laura: Thank you, Grog.
Liam: (whispers) Stick to the killing!
Laura: These magical items. And I pull out the knickknacks that I took from I don't fucking know where. It's knickknacks. But they're magic.
Taliesin: Is knickknack a candy bar?
Sam: Vex, no. You can't, you can't possibly trade that. It's too valuable. What are you doing?
Laura: Well, I know, but where else are we going to find a vendor--?
Sam: Those are the Knickknacks of Kaa.
Laura: I know, and they're quite valuable. But he said six thousand, six hundred and (mumbles) and we know this will cover that.
Sam: I can't. Please sir, please don't take advantage of us by taking these things from us. They're too valuable, please, I beg of you.
Taliesin: What have you pulled out?
Sam: The Knickknacks of Kaa.
Taliesin: The Knickknacks of Kaa?! No, not the Knickknacks of Kaa!
Laura: (worried sigh) Now I'm doubting-- No, you know what, maybe I shouldn't trade these.
Liam: Put them away, put them away.
Matt: Make a deception check. Make a deception check. I would say, you know, if you wanted to--
Sam: Am I assisting?
Matt: You can assist on this, yeah.
Travis: Oh, that's good!
Mary: I'll take some too, as well.
Laura: What is the assist?
Matt: That gives you advantage on the roll.
Sam: Oh wait, I don't get to roll?
Matt: Huh?
Sam: I don't get to roll anything?
Matt: No, it just gives her advantage.
Laura: 27.
Sam: (sighs) Oh, that's good.
Taliesin: That was a really good roll.
Will: (laughs) That was good.
Matt: He goes, "No, no, no, no. Put them on the table, please. I would like to have a look. Just in casies."
Laura: I'll put one of them down so you can look.
Marisha: As she places it down, can I do a little Gust cantrip and do a little poof of air?
Matt: Sure. Make a sleight of hand check.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: Aw, man. All the time, Keyleth!
Marisha: I know. Oh, that's good though, that's good. I'm good, I'm good. Hang on, let me make sure, make a sleight of hand--18.
Matt: 18? Okay. As you sit down (poof), this little like-- all the dust on the front, a little of the dampness is (poof).
Laura: I take my hand away, trembling, like I don't want to give it up.
Matt: "Hmm." He pulls out a little glass eyepiece, inspects. "The craftsmanship is decent."
Mary: And as he's doing this, I cast Thaumaturgy and cause the table to start vibrating.
Matt: What are the components on that?
Mary: It says I can cause minor tremors.
Matt: On the spell. What does it say under components?
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Knickknacks.
Laura: Knickknacks is probably the components.
Will: Components is "V."
Matt: Visual. Yeah, you don't have to actually do anything to it. It just happens.
Sam: Why did you even--
Will: Why not, is the question I want to ask.
Taliesin: Really quickly, while the Thaumaturgy is happening, I'm going to cast Minor Illusion, just go for it.
Laura: What is happening right now?!
Marisha: We're stacking the deck, man. We're stacking it.
Sam: Any one of these could fail.
Marisha: If they all succeed, it's going to be dope.
Taliesin: I'm going to make a-- the image of a beautiful woman briefly appear in the reflection of the object and then vanish. Just a gleam.
Marisha: That's hot. That's hot.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You need to make a sleight of hand check.
Taliesin: I need to make a sleight of hand check?
Laura: Don't you fucking fail at this.
Liam: Roll that Snitch!
Laura: Natural 20.
Taliesin: No, but it is a 19.
Liam: Yeah, gang.
Matt: Okay. So you set down which one of the knickknacks now?
Laura: Just one of them.
Matt: Which one?
Laura: Are you asking me as Matt?
Matt: These things that you pulled out of the--
Will: She puts down knick and holds knack.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: You literally said I gathered up a bunch of knickknacks worth 750 gold.
Matt: Oh, from that. I'm sorry. (laughter)
Matt: I thought you were talking about the tea set and the dominoes.
Laura: No, no, no, literally shitty-ass knickknacks.
Matt: Got you.
Marisha: No, we wouldn't be handing that shit over.
Matt: I'm sorry, I misunderstood.
Liam: This is like matryoshka nesting dolls. (laughter)
Marisha: Faberge eggs.
Matt: So what this is, it's like a really, really intricate inkwell that has been made out of gold and bronze. It's stuff you find in a SkyMall, essentially.
Sam: The Pocket Fisherman!
Taliesin: This is Sting, from Lord of the Rings.
Mary: The One Ring to rule them all.
Liam: That bass is singing!
Matt: All right, so. As the gust of wind fades, the table begins to shake, and he glances in across the outside of this inkwell amongst a bunch of other random knickknacks scattered around it. He looks at it for a second, this flash in his eyes. He goes, "Hmm. They seem fair enough. I would say, include these in the transaction, I would be willing to drop the cost by about 500 gold pieces? An even 6,000."
Laura: Darling. I snatch it away and say, do you have any idea how much these are worth?
Matt: "I do, actually, I'm quite the appraiser. It's part of my business."
Laura: I know when somebody's trying to swindle me, darling.
Matt: "Well then, step away. You don't need my business, obviously. Is this how your 'Shiny Manager' deals with your shinies? Or would you wish to deal with this face to face?"
Laura: Tell you what. Take two thousand off your asking price and we have a deal.
Matt: "That is ridiculous! No."
Will: How's your family?
Matt: "What does that mean?"
Will: Just curious how everybody's doing? Everybody healthy, happy?
Travis: Yeah, are they well? In one piece?
Mary: Have you seen your wife?
Matt: Make an intimidation check. (laughing) With advantage because she's helping. (laughter)
Will: Is that a 20?
Matt: Roll a d20 twice and take the higher of the two. Add your intimidation.
Taliesin: Roll again.
Will: 19.
Taliesin: Yay! Wait, wait, no. What's your--?
Will: Plus intimi-- 18.
Sam: Negative one intimidation.
Will: He's a human cleric, I'm doing my best.
Liam: Laughter during a game, what a novelty!
Matt: "Um. They're fine. Uh, quite fine. Yes. A thousand gold? Off the asking price?"
Laura: Two thousand gold off the asking price.
Matt: "That-- that's ridiculous. It's not even-- what are you--"
Will: Have you heard him talk about paste?
Matt: "I-- 1,300 off the asking price. Nothing more."
Liam: I take one of my daggers.
Sam: Oh, Jesus.
Liam: And looking at him, I stick it in Grog's arm and I drag it down and I never take my eyes off him.
Travis: Neither do I.
Taliesin: He has a lip collection.
Matt: He's looking, like, over you guys now, towards the thoroughfare.
Laura: Looking for guards.
Matt: "Ah, um. Perhaps, uh--"
Travis: Keep your voice down.
Matt: "I would need..."
Liam: There's no magic here, friend.
Matt: "Um."
Laura: Fifteen hundred off the asking price.
Taliesin: Seems fair.
Sam: That seems fair.
Will: Completely fair.
Matt: "Five thousand gold, knickknacks and ah, we're all good? Yes?"
Laura: Yes. Five thousand gold.
Matt: "All right, here you are. Please now, it would be wondrous after we complete this transaction that we never meet again."
Laura: Oh dear. I'm afraid I've already Hunter's Marked you.
Matt: "I don't even know what that means." (laughter)
Matt: There's a person waiting behind you. "Um, excuse me--" "We're closed!" (laughter)
Laura: Oh, right, of course, let me count up this little amount right here.
Sam: Kash, Zahra, you should probably contribute.
Laura: No, that's all right, dear. Five thousand gold.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Oh, and here, these very valuable--
Matt: "Good day! Good day."
Will: It's been a pleasure.
Marisha: I Druidcraft a little tulip and give it to her.
Matt: To him?
Marisha: Him.
Will: Her now.
Mary: Her now. Kash does have an effect, doesn't he?
Marisha: Debateable.
Matt: He takes it, confused, and goes--
Laura: Wait, what potions did we just take?
Matt: You grab the potions that are on the table that he pushed towards you. There is one superior healing--
Laura: You said there was two superior.
Travis: One superior, two greater, and ten--
Matt: Yes. One superior, two greater, ten regular.
Laura: That's a good amount.
Marisha: That's pretty good. I didn't realize there was ten in there.
Laura: Yeah, it's a lot. Okay, cool.
Taliesin: And we only had to threaten a shopkeeper with bodily harm to get it.
Will: I was gonna say, it was the first time I've ever intimidated anybody in my life. It was fun. (laughter)
Will: That was fun, I have to admit.
Laura: You guys-- I'm sorry, but we make a pretty good team.
Will: That wasn't bad. I could get used to that.
Travis: Not that it's like, not for nothing, will you take this fucking dagger out of my arm?
Marisha: Does this mean we're a terrible influence?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on Grog.
Taliesin: It means you're a good influence or we're a terrible influence on you.
Matt: It would only have been like two points of damage to you, so that would have healed up fine.
Sam: Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Sam: He said two superior.
Laura: He did say two superior. I knew he said two superior! Matt!
Marisha: Oh, look at that, look at that, look at that!
Laura: I chase after him.
Sam: I'm coming too. (laughter)
Taliesin: No! No! No?
Matt: So you come into the tent after him?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: No, no, it's brilliant. Let it play. Let it play.
Laura: Actually, dear. Dear? I believe you left one of your potions off the table.
Matt: He turns around. "The superior potions are five thousand gold apiece, baseline."
Laura: But you said you had two superior and you said all the potions for the amount we said.
Matt: "I said all the ones I placed on the table before you."
Liam: Ah, there's so much blood on this fucking dagger. Ugh.
Laura: Are you going back on your word?
Matt: "You've made a grand deal with what we said. If you continue to push this, I'm afraid I'm going to have to get the guards."
Laura: Eh. Superior's a superior.
Will: My guess is he couldn't get to the front of the tent by the time we got to him. But that's up to you. We're just guests here.
Laura: No, it's all right. I know they're expensive. And we've already taken enough advantage.
Travis: Yeah, if they're what they say they are.
Laura: No!
Travis: That's what I'd do.
Liam: Cross your fingers.
Laura: Can I sniff and make sure it's actually a real potion that he gave us? Did he give us fucking fake potions?
Matt: You can go back and take a moment and sniff, yeah. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: Is it like watered-down gasoline?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 23.
Matt: You take it and uncork and sniff. Yeah, it's a very familiar pungent herbal smell of--
Will: Watered-down gasoline.
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Laura: Fine. Okay.
Taliesin: You did very well and there are other things that we should think about purchasing.
Laura: You're right, you're right, you're right.
Sam: That lady was the worst. (laughter)
Travis: That lady's the worst.
Mary: Do you need to get gunpowder?
Taliesin: I could use a bit of a top-up just because who knows when the next time we're going to be in this direction.
Sam: To a pub?
Mary: No, let's go to the gunpowder. Let's get you some.
Taliesin: And perhaps, considering that we're going to be very mobile, a map would not be the worst purchase.
Laura: I thought we have a good map of the world.
Matt: You have a fair map of Tal'Dorei and you have what is a basic layout of the continents.
Taliesin: Don't we have a mapmaker?
Marisha: We do have a mapmaker. Wasn't he here? Or was he in Emon?
Matt: You met Tyriok here.
Marisha: Tyriok, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Though you haven't seen him. He mentioned to you previously he's currently traveling to finish his--
Marisha: Yeah, that's right. We caught him in the tavern, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Mary: Don't you think the Slayer's Take-- should I run back and talk to Vanessa?
Will: Vanessa has to have maps somewhere.
Mary: She's got to have one somewhere. You need a basic map of Vasselheim, is that what you're speaking of?
Taliesin: It would not be a terrible thing to have, considering we're going to be traveling.
Marisha: Of Vasselheim? Or of--?
Sam: The world.
Matt: Othanzia is the larger country set around. The continent is Issylra. Issylra is a very large continent. It's almost the equivalent of Asia and Russia, like that whole-- it's very wide and a lot of it is wild and untamed land and wilderness.
Taliesin: Let me top up a bit on what I need.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I'll need you as well because you hold the purse strings.
Liam: Who's got the potions?
Matt: Hmm?
Liam: Who's got the potions?
Laura: I have the potions.
Sam: Can I divvy those out, please?
Liam: Ah, I'm so fast, but I'm really weak. Can I have another one?
Laura: I already gave you a greater.
Liam: I know you did. But I get fucked up really easily. Could I have another one?
Laura: I give-- wait, how many people are there? Eight of us.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: So there was a few regulars, yeah?
Liam: Just another, one more.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll give you two normies.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: And everybody else gets a normie as well.
Taliesin: I'll take a normie.
Will: Thank you.
Sam: Who gets the supe? And the great?
Laura: Who's our weakest?
Sam: (clears throat)
Laura: Yeah, you're pretty weak. Take a greater, Scanlan.
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: The two poor decision makers, I imagine.
Liam: What's that, Smoke Man?
Laura: Grog, do you want the other greater? Yeah, take the other greater. And then I have one superior. How many hit points does a superior heal?
Matt: A superior heals 8d4 plus eight.
Liam: That's low.
Laura: That's not that many. It's 5,000 gold?
Marisha: Yeah, no. No, healing potions are generally a rip off.
Laura: What a waste.
Marisha: I know.
Matt: Oh my god! I just buy healing to save my life! Such a waste! (laughter)
Matt: Oh my god, there's like a whole trade of really talented magical practitioners that spend their time crafting and brewing up these potions in the hopes they can save your life in the future.
Liam: What's this character called? What's this character called?
Marisha: It's true, I did buy a book to learn alchemy, and I just haven't had time to do it.
Mary: It's a great read, trust me.
Marisha: The alchemy book? Yes?
Travis: Are we fucking buying anything else or what are we doing now?
Laura: Black powder.
Liam: He needs the Bang Bang Man.
Taliesin: Let's go get some powder. Let's get some black powder and whatever else we might--
Mary: Boomstick needs the bang.
Sam: While they're buying powder, I'm going to go get a fucking drink somewhere.
Travis: Ooh! Yeah!
Taliesin: We'll meet you at the pub.
Marisha: I'll go with Scanlan and Grog.
Will: I'm going to go to the pub as well.
Laura: I'm going with Percy. Go get a drink.
Will: Okay, I'm going to go to the pub.
Travis: Yeah, you are, you bad, intimidating motherfucker!
Sam: The Abundant Terrace area.
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Okay. Are you coming to the pub?
Liam: No, I'm going to help-- no, I'll see you in a bit.
Will: I'll take care of her. We'll be fine. Don't worry about it.
Sam: Dagon is the owner.
Matt: Correct, yes. The two taverns you've been to is that of the Bellows' Respite Inn, which is in the Braving Grounds. So yeah, you can go to either one of those.
Sam: Oh. Grog, would you rather go to the one near the Braving Grounds?
Travis: Yeah, sure.
Sam: Or this one?
Matt: Up to you.
Laura: Don't start any fights, we have a dragon to kill.
Travis: Come on, shot-caller, pick one.
Sam: Yeah, whatever's closer.
Matt: Closer would be the Bellows' Respite, that's also where the Crucible was, the one that was on the outside of it.
Sam: Let's go.
Will: Better ale.
Marisha: Old stomping grounds, Grog.
Matt: So you guys go get drinks. Who's going--?
Taliesin: Vex and I are going and-- are you coming as well?
Mary: How far are we from the Slayer's Take, and is there any other place in town that I personally would know of from being here about three months, to find a map?
Matt: You can go back and ask the Slayer's Take. They have basic maps of the nearby countryside. A lot of the contracts require you to travel across this side of Othanzia. You go back and you talk to Vanessa and you procure one of the maps there that are usually supplied for one of your missions.
Mary: All right, and then I'm going to the bar to get a fucking drink.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: All right, so most of them are drinking. Vex and Percival head-- you guys are all heading actually in the same area, to the Braving Grounds outside the Trial Forge, since that's where the bar is and that's also where Victor's little powder-covered hovel is.
Liam: Bring him out. Bring him out!
Matt: So (laughs) as you approach the same area, you can see that the building is the same as it was before, other than it's missing half a roof.
Taliesin: He might be a bit low on powder.
Matt: It appears to be haphazardly covered with a series of boards that were nailed to keep things closed, but there is definitely, with the snow and the rain, it's probably not the best place to be staying or living.
Taliesin: I'm going to remove my coat. As I've learned.
Laura: Yes?
Taliesin: Do we have Trinket with us?
Laura: Yes, of course.
Taliesin: I'm going to put my coat on Trinket for a moment, just to keep it clean.
Laura: A walking coat rack, that's what Trinket is.
Liam: Percy, that's not a good idea.
Matt: Trinket's trying to get the coat off.
Taliesin: Thank you, Trinket (knocking). Hello?
Matt: Some movement, and you hear the shattering of glass and you hear a (frustrated noise).
Taliesin: Victor, are you in there?
Matt: "Just a moment!" Suddenly the door, whoosh!, slams open and before you, you see Victor, half covered in soot, has a big old thick pair of glasses on his face, one of which is cracked. You can see his chin now has this puffed out, partially burnt and curled bit of a goatee at the very tip of his chin. He looks up at you with these giant eyes that are projected and magnified by his eyewear. "Can I help you?!" (laughter)
Taliesin: Yes, it's Percival. Do you remember me?
Matt: "No!" (laughter)
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: "Is that all?!"
Taliesin: I was hoping to procure some black powder again. We had a-- we made a deal last time--
Matt: "Yes, yes, come in, please come in!"
Taliesin: Do I have to? Okay.
Matt: He turns around and heads back inside.
Laura: I'm going to stand out here.
Taliesin: That's quite wise. Please keep my jacket clean.
Matt: As you enter, indeed, a good half of the roof is missing and you see now a lot of things have been moved away because currently there is a pile of burnt and destroyed wood splinters that are also soaked through, and there's a little bit of mold and rotten mildew that has gathered in that far corner as well, from the weather.
Liam: I'm going to stand over here and fail to stay in character, okay? (laughter)
Taliesin: You should roll for that. You're looking well.
Matt: "Heh, heh! Mostly." He turns around and you can see now, what you failed to notice when you first started this is where once there was five, there is now three fingers.
Marisha: Yes, he has character progression! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's impressive.
Matt: "Learn from my mistakes!" (laughter)
Taliesin: You can learn three more times, easily.
Matt: "I can. Three, four-- yes!" He runs off and starts rummaging through a bunch of stuff.
Taliesin: Victor, I was hoping you would have some black powder for sale.
Matt: "I'm on it, I'm on it! Hold on!" He whips around with this metallic cylinder that is very well sealed. "See, I learn from my mistakes!"
Taliesin: That's very impressive. Oh--
Matt: He walks very carefully, very gingerly placing it on the table. "Okay. Carefully." He pulls out (fwoosh) a small torch. "I have to unseal the metal."
Taliesin: Let's not do that! And I make a quick... I'm going to try and bap the thing down as quickly as I can.
Matt: Okay. You smack it out of his hand.
Taliesin: Let's... I trust you implicitly.
Matt: "Heh heh heh heh. It's coffee." (laughter)
Matt: "Black powder." (cackles) (laughter)
Taliesin: I think you've had enough. I'm going to smell the coffee. It's really coffee?
Matt: Yeah. "Sorry, trying to host. It's been a while since I've had a guest. Would you like some?"
Taliesin: Just one spoonful would be quite--
Matt: He goes over to a small kettle and begins straining it through. He's got this little coffee brew on the side. "So, real black powder. Wait! I do know you."
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: "You've purchased before."
Taliesin: I have.
Matt: "Return customer. Not many of those."
Taliesin: Not many? Have there been others?
Matt: He pours a couple of cups for you, pulls it over to you. "Oh, one. Months ago."
Taliesin: Really? Who would--?
Matt: "Nice woman. Young, good outfit, well dressed, heh."
Taliesin: Excellent. She didn't happen to say where she was going, did she? By any chance?
Matt: "No, no. Weeks, not months. Time-- strange."
Taliesin: Weeks? Very good to know. Thank you, that's so helpful. Did you talk about anything else with this nice young woman, at all?
Matt: "No! She paid well!"
Taliesin: I'm sure she did.
Matt: "Kept her distance."
Taliesin: I'm sure she did as well. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's-- I'm curious, how have your own experiments been going? Going well? (laughter)
Taliesin: You should get that looked at some point. Three more, three more.
Matt: "Three."
Laura: Percival?
Taliesin: Yes! So any black powder that you have, I would be happy to--
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: Help you pay for a new roof, maybe.
Matt: "Oh, I have to fix that."
Taliesin: You do. Money can help.
Matt: "Explains the cold." He smears black right across the front of his face.
Taliesin: Doesn't it, though?
Matt: It's like gelled in with whatever mucus had been captured in there as well, streaked across.
Taliesin: Oh, that's not a mustache. That's so-- ugh.
Matt: He comes back and he's now keeping, previously it was out in the open, he's learned his lesson. He has these glass vials, similar to what they put potions in, but now he's filling them with powder. And he brings out about four of them. "This is as much as I will spare. I already sold a lot recently to the lady. I have my own tinkering to do, but if you wish to buy these?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I would be happy to sell."
Taliesin: That would be lovely.
Matt: "Okay. Process of distilling, drying, preparing, 250 gold!"
Taliesin: I think that's very fair.
Matt: "Wondrous! Deal, deal."
Taliesin: Vex?
Laura: Yes?
Taliesin: 250 gold, if you'd be so kind.
Laura: That much?
Taliesin: I'm going to make you something lovely.
Laura: (singsong) I love you!
Taliesin: You're welcome.
Matt: "Hiiii!"
Laura: H-hi. I give the money to Percy to give to him.
Taliesin: And I hand it out. (laughter)
Matt: "Would you like some coffee?"
Taliesin: Victor! Thank you, you're so kind. And if you would be so lovely as to not mention us to my friend if she should happen back.
Matt: "50 gold."
Sam: Oh, shit!
Laura: Tell you what, Victor. I don't think you want to tell her anything.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Liam: All you need is a five.
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. 12.
Matt: (laughs) Given the circumstance, he has a really low DC on this, so I'm glad this is the one you rolled a 12 on. He goes, "For you? I saw nothing!" (laughter)
Taliesin: I love you, darling.
Matt: He catches it and he grabs a glass vial and puts it in and caps it up.
Laura: Okay. Keep it safe, dear.
Taliesin: Until we meet again. All of us. Until we all meet again. Always a pleasure. Ah, keep safe, and--
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: Keep safe.
Matt: "Will do."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Bye!" He waves with his three fingers. "Close the door when you're done!"
Liam: If I may-- (cheering)
Taliesin: You're welcome, Internet. You're welcome.
Laura: That was amazing.
Liam: Oh, man. Hire that fucking fool! (laughter)
Matt: The rest of you find your way back at the Bellows' Respite Inn where the rest of the party has been drinking. (cheering)
Marisha: How'd it go?
Mary: (drunkenly) Wait, wait, wait, wait-- okay-- okay.
Matt: Wow, you've been drinking.
Mary: Grog, Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Mary: The first time I ever saw you, you were fighting... the Hammer? Who were you fighting?
Travis: Yep, yep, Hammer, Hammer.
Mary: You were fighting the Hammer. So I went away and I made you... a hammer. And I'm gonna give you the hammer.
Travis: You made me a hammer?!
Mary: I did! That's what I do. I like to forge things.
Travis: Really?
Mary: I do. So I made you a hammer.
Laura: Does she not drink very much?
Will: Not very much at all.
Travis: That is amazing! I love hammers!
Mary: And I put my crest on it. It's a moon. It's a full moon.
Liam: You said she was lush, you didn't say she was a lush.
Travis: Is it like a moon hammer?
Mary: A lovely moon hammer. I want you to have it. I want you to have it.
Will: Z, you gotta slow down.
Marisha: No, never!
Travis: You don't-- you don't have it now?
Mary: I'll give it to you before we go.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Laura: I go and I sit next to Kashaw.
Liam: Keek.
Marisha: What? Hi.
Liam: How many of those have you had?
Marisha: What?
Liam: Less than five?
Will: Two or three.
Marisha: Three? Two, three?
Will: Enough to where it's fun.
Marisha: It's blurry. You should join us! You all have to catch up. Come on! Life has been hard! Come on.
Mary: Come on, Burt!
Matt: A barkeep comes by, a human gentleman you recognize from before as Once-Lucky Ned, who had originally given you some information. Comes by, puts the drinks down. "I thought it was you!"
Travis: Yep.
Matt: "Heh, heh. Phillip! Phillip! It's good to see you."
Travis: No, no, it was-- it was Philip before, and now it's Grog.
Matt: "Oh, he beat the name out of you. That's harsh."
Travis: No, no, no. That was the first time, and then I came back and won my vengeance. Right?
Matt: "Right, right."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "You want to be known as... I see (clicks tongue). I got you."
Travis: Grog, Grog.
Matt: "Grog the Phillip is in town! Should anyone wish to take the title of the Crucible, this would be the one to talk to. Heh-heh."
Mary: Woo!
Matt: Faces turn, then go back to business.
Marisha: Is Zahra the only one that claps?
Mary: Woo! Ooh! (laughter)
Will: Oh, Z. Oh, Z.
Mary: Shut up, Kash.
Marisha: I have missed you guys. I've never met you! But I missed you guys.
Mary: I've missed... you.
Taliesin: I think we need to catch up a bit. Vax, Vex, let's all have a toast to the inevitability of the universe, please. A cheers.
Liam: Which one of us? What was that?
Taliesin: Vex and Vax. We're having a toast to the inevitability of the cosmos.
Laura: A toast? We're toasting? At a time like this?
Taliesin: We are.
Marisha: Look, there's never not a good time to toast.
Will: Is there a better time to toast than when the world is gonna end?
Marisha: Exactly.
Mary: We're about to lose everything, we might as well celebrate what we've got.
Marisha: I toast to celebrating the end of the world with the best friends we could possibly have.
Taliesin: I'm, I'm, I have something to say to this.
Sam: Oh, Percy, well.
Taliesin: I have something to say.
Marisha: All right, Percy, come on.
Taliesin: When one is born into gentry, one is born with an innate sense of destiny. (groaning)
Taliesin: An innate sense that the world is moving in a direction--
Sam: Fuck the dragons! (laughter)
Taliesin: We have been given a direction to move to actually defeat our foes. We have been given a sign, we have been given something to move for. There is an inevitability to the goodness of the universe--
Travis: (slurred) Inevitability.
Marisha: There is something to fight for, damn it!
Sam: Fuck the dragons!
Taliesin: Fuck the dragons!
Marisha: Fuck the dragons!
Mary: Here's to fighting for something more than just money.
Travis: (slurred) Inevitability.
Liam: I would rather be with you all than the finest people in the world.
Marisha: Cheers to that, because God knows we're not the finest.
Mary: When you find them, let us know.
Will: I agree with you about the inevitability of the universe. The inevitability is that it's always shit.
Taliesin: There's stones that are thrown into the river. There are stones that are thrown upon the river, but the river always moves.
Will: It's true, but you're not talking about the fish that's killed by the stones that's thrown into the river.
Travis: Can I go and find the barkeep?
Matt: Yeah, Once-Lucky Ned is there.
Travis: Remember, right? It's just Grog. It's not like "Grog the Phillip." It's just Grog.
Matt: "Oh, I apologize."
Travis: No, it's all right, it's okay. So, does Earthbreaker Groon, does he ever come in here? Big guy, muscley, long, like, stringy--
Matt: "I know of him. He doesn't come in and drink, no. He spends most of his days over there in that big Trial Forge Temple of Kord."
Travis: He never comes out?
Matt: "He'll go into the city on occasion. But he's one of them, how do I put it? 'Medititive' types."
Travis: "Medititive"?
Matt: "Yes. Spends a lot of time thinking. Sleeping while standing up. It's weird."
Travis: What? I don't understand. How do you do that?
Matt: "You'll have to ask him."
Travis: "Medititive."
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Meeting of the minds.
Travis: All right. Is he like--? All right. Thank you.
Matt: "No worries. I mean, if I recall, he actually came and saw your last bout."
Travis: Yeah, he did! And I want to like go see him, but I don't know anything about "medititiveness," like sleeping standing up.
Matt: "Go over there to the Trial Forge! He's seen you once, maybe he'll say hello again."
Travis: What should I, like, bring him a gift?
Matt: "I don't know. I don't ever talk to him."
Travis: Is anybody here, like, in the room right now behind me? Are they present at the Trial Forge very often? Hey, don't be so obvious. (laughter)
Matt: "No clue."
Travis: All right. And I flip him a silver. Bing.
Liam: That's like half a penny. (laughter)
Travis: We're just talking (laughs). All right.
Sam: (sighs) What is it, like, noon right now? (laughter)
Taliesin: (singing) Day-drinking!
Matt: Well, no, it's probably about 1 30, 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Mary: (slurring) Kash and I just got back from frikkin' and it's time to drinkin'!
Will: We haven't even eaten yet.
Marisha: Well, (laughs) I lost a fourth of my civilization!
Will: That is funny.
Travis: Wow. That went dark.
Liam: I raise the bottom of Keyleth's glass and keep it going. (laughter)
Sam: Should we find Kima next, or should we spend the day here?
Marisha: Oh, that's right, we still have work to do.
Laura: Well, we do have some very inebriated--
Liam: Yeah, I think we've accidentally gotten shit-faced.
Mary: I can just walk and not do anything.
Travis: Yeah, no, she can manage.
Marisha: Maybe if we hang here long enough Kima will show up.
Liam: No. We're drunk. Here's what we should do.
Laura: I'm not drunk.
Liam: You ready?
Sam: I'm not drunk.
Taliesin: I'm not either.
Liam: We should go watch Grog fight.
Laura: What? There are dragons in the world, right now! And we're fighting? We're going to watch a fight?
Liam: We need-- listen to me. We need Kima with us, but Kima doesn't have time for fucking drunkards. You might not be, but some of us are a little drunk. So, while that's going on, we wait a day, right? And while that day is going on, we watch Grog pummel some person's face in.
Marisha: Plus, when I was a little girl, we used to be taught that if you were ever lost in the forest, to stay and hug a tree.
Laura: Don't hug him, Keyleth.
Marisha: And someone will come and find you.
Will: I like this plan.
Marisha: So if we stay in one place and this ale is like our tree, okay? We hug the ale and Kima will show up. That's my theory.
Matt: While this is happening, Vex, you glance over her shoulder to the entryway to this bar, and you see stepping in, a familiar, burly looking half-orc gentleman.
Marisha: Damn it, I was hoping it was Kima!
Taliesin: That would have been hilarious.
Matt: He walks in, wiping his hands from dirt in the mines, stops, looks over at your table. Slowly backs out of the tavern and steps back out into the thoroughfare.
Liam: Hey, look at that guy who went out the door! He looked like that guy you fought in that ring.
Travis: Really?
Liam: That guy, yeah. Go get (stammering) do it again.
Travis: Hold on a second. And I run out the door. I run after him, out the door.
Matt: Yeah. Make a perception check.
Liam: Oh, come on, Grog.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18. You step out in the front of the tavern, and immediately to the left, you see him ducking into the alleyway.
Travis: Wait! Kern! Kern! And I take off running after him.
Matt: Okay. You turn around the corner and you see his back is against the wall and he has sweat dripping down his brow. "Hi."
Travis: Hey. Funny seeing you here.
Laura: I run up behind Grog.
Marisha: Why are they acting like they fucked?
Travis: Things been good?
Matt: At this point--
Will: Did you guys date?
Marisha: They're ex-lovers!
Matt: He looks down. "Still a little sore."
Travis: Right. Yeah.
Matt: "How about you?"
Travis: When I chew, my jaw goes to one side. It's fucking weird.
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Are you guys all right, then? Everything's fine?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: All right, I'm going to go, grab a drink.
Travis: So, I meant to ask you, that big, muscly, like long stringy white-haired guy that was watching our last fight.
Matt: "Yeah, yeah. The Earthbreaker."
Travis: Yeah. Who is he to you?
Matt: "I've seen him around. Haven't really... I talked to him once. I'll level with you. Went to him for a little training after our first fight."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Um. Says I'm a little too angry to pursue his path."
Travis: Angry?
Matt: "I got a lot of pent-up rage the way I was raised." (laughter)
Travis: Family issues? Tell me about it.
Matt: "Tell me about it. (chuckles) Well, half my folks are bloodthirsty, wandering barbarians in the Northern Wastes."
Travis: No way! (laughter)
Matt: "Yeah. What, you think being a half-orc's great? No! It's bullshit!"
Travis: I know! You think goliath is any better? It's the same fucking thing!
Matt: "At least you're made for this weather! It's cold out here!"
Travis: That's true, it is fucking cold out here.
Matt: "Yeah, it is."
Travis: I can only imagine. I'm really sorry I took your lip off, by the way.
Matt: "Sorry I took yours off, too."
Travis: That's true. Mine healed better.
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Hey, so. When you trained with him, because you were doing all that yoga pilates stuff. Did it help you out?
Matt: "Well, obviously not, really."
Travis: Right. What did he ask in exchange for the tutorial?
Matt: "He didn't ask for any pay. He--"
Will: Oh god, what did he ask for?
Matt: "He told me I had--"
Sam: (mutters) Pretty eyes.
Matt: "--to help someone." (laughter)
Travis: Help someone.
Matt: "He still hasn't given me the proper details yet and he hasn't called in the debt, but he told me one day, I was to help him test someone, and he'd train me."
Travis: In that Trial Forge, are there like, more of him, like a bunch of big, jacked-out guys in there?
Matt: "Not as big as him, no. But there's plenty of others that train under him. All sorts of warriors. Weapons of all kinds. It's Kord!" He looks over, and you see in the distance, the giant statue of Kord that sits atop the Trial Forge. He looks over and with a look of reverence, gives a nod, and you can see that this man, a glimmer of faith in his eyes. He himself probably a follower of Kord as well. "He's a great man. I'm not the right temperament, it seems. But that's fine. He's getting along okay."
Travis: Right. I won't take up too much more of your time, but if I could ask you one last thing. Aside from the Slayer's Take and the Trial Forge, if you had to find men at arms, men to attack a very large foe, possibly quite dangerous, where would you go?
Matt: "Probably the Platinum Sanctuary. Between them and the Trial Forge, that's most of the actual army. Most of it's Trial Forge. It's part of what the Braving Grounds are about. They train the armies here, it's where they breed warriors."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Most of the Bastions that look over the city are trained here, so it's-- those are my best bets, at least. Not much of a political man."
Travis: Well, it's been good seeing you. No one hit quite as hard as you did.
Matt: "You too. Um. The medal was a joke. I was in a sore place. Literally, a very, very sore place."
Travis: Uh-huh.
Matt: "I wanted to apologize for that."
Travis: Uh-huh.
Matt: "I should go." He starts walking past you, out into the main street.
Travis: Kern. Kord's strength to you, my friend.
Matt: He doesn't even look back to you. "Uh, you too!" and keeps walking. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow. Wow.
Travis: I go back into the tavern.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Did you kill him, Grog?
Travis: Yep, yep, there's a lot of pieces of him all over the alley!
Sam: That's my boy.
Travis: Yeah, I like, left nothing to find. It's great.
Sam: All right.
Laura: I walked out and they were making out.
Travis: Shut the-- that is not what we were doing.
Laura: Mugging down in the alleyway.
Marisha: Ooh, Grog! I didn't know you swung that way.
Travis: Swung what way?
Marisha: Toward-- never mind.
Sam: Swung your axe.
Mary: Could I have another cup of coffee here?
Matt: "Of course, coming your way."
Liam: No man's-- you know-- goes straight on. Goes a little bit to the left, a bit of--
Will: Some men go straight on.
Liam: I go sit down next to Kash.
Laura: I sit down next to the other side of Kash, in between him and Keyleth.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and watch right next to you.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: (yelling) Another drink!
Laura: How about, Keyleth, not another drink.
Marisha: What?
Laura: How about you have some water, dear.
Marisha: Mm, it's been a long few weeks.
Mary: Come here, Keyleth darling, we'll get some coffee.
Taliesin: No coffee for me, thank you.
Liam: Excuse me, if I may. All I want to say is that you are a very impressive man in many ways. You are handsome and capable.
Laura: Your eyes are two different colors, which is very interesting.
Liam: That's a little creepy, but other than that, you are very, very capable-- Percival, I'm having trouble focusing, so if you could sort of go behind Kash.
Will: I don't know what's happening. I don't know what's happening. Is he hitting on me? What's happening?
Liam: No, no. No, no, no, no. There's only one man for me.
Will: What?
Liam: All I'm saying is--
Mary: What man is that?
Liam: (slurring) We could use your help, all right? I know you're a bit of a mercenary, but you are a very capable man and there is a lot at stake. There is a lot at stake. There are dragons, they killed-- I'm not going to get into it. But I implore you to look past yourself and please try to think of the greater world. (stuttering) I'm an admirer--
Will: You've said several times that you're an admirer of mine.
Liam: Yes.
Will: Very sweet.
Liam: Also, one last thing.
Will: Mm-hmm?
Liam: You know what, never mind. I don't want to talk about that. And I wander off into the other side of the room.
Will: I have literally no idea what just happened.
Sam: (laughs) He's a complicated man. He goes to dark places.
Laura: Keyleth. Maybe you should go see what's happening?
Liam: (muffled) It's dark in this closet!
Marisha: What?
Laura: Go, maybe you should go see what is going on with my brother? Maybe you should go find out what's happening with my brother.
Liam: How do you get this closet door open? I can't get back out here.
Laura: He's stuck in a closet.
Mary: It's all right. Girl talk. So, Keyleth.
Marisha: What. What. What?
Mary: I heard a little. I wasn't sure and I then saw you and I thought oh, all right, well, you know, yeah, all right. So, what, you know? With the what? (whispers) What happened? With him?
Marisha: I literally never even had this experience in high school, it's throwing me.
Mary: (whispers) Come on.
Marisha: I don't know how to react to any of this.
Liam: What is high school?
Laura: Keyleth. She's talking about you kissing Kash.
Mary: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh! Right! Oh!
Mary: He told me. He told me a little bit.
Marisha: Funny you mention that, yeah, you know--
Laura: Wasn't he your first kiss?
Mary: Do you like him?
Laura: Isn't that so wonderful?
Mary: I know, it's wonderful. Do you like him?
Marisha: I, um, you know, okay, I'm kind of new to all of this. I don't really know what's going on?
Mary: What, to talking? You're doing very well.
Marisha: Thank you. I'm new to that as well.
Mary: No!
Marisha: Um--
Laura: I'll give you a helpful hint.
Marisha: Okay. Yes.
Laura: If you're interested in someone, make sure they know.
Marisha: (breathless) Oh.
Laura: And if you're not, then stop fucking dragging them along, because it's not fair.
Mary: What if she doesn't know? What if she can't decide?
Marisha: Oh, you think I'm dragging Kash along? Oh no no no no no.
Laura: Sure. You're dragging Kash along.
Marisha: I mean, he was just, I only spent a day with him.
Laura: Mmm.
Marisha: It was just a day.
Liam: Vex! I can't get out of this closet.
Will: Jesus.
Laura: Is he really, truly stuck in a closet? Right now?
Marisha: I thought he was a lockpick.
Laura: (laughing) I go, I walk away.
Liam: (mournfully) I rolled a one.
Marisha: This is literally the only thing Vax is good at. He really can't get out of the closet?
Taliesin: I just want to say, I don't think the dragons stand a chance. (laughter)
Will: We've got them now!
Liam: I can't get out of this closet as hard as I try.
Laura: What are you doing? Stop it.
Marisha: Seriously though (quietly) I'm really confused.
Mary: I know, don't hurt him. He's wonderful.
Marisha: Kash?
Marisha: Okay.
Mary: He's wonderful.
Marisha: Okay.
Mary: If you do-- he's wonderful.
Taliesin: My god, I love other people's problems.
Sam: This is amazing. Sorry about this, Kash.
Will: No, this has been wonderful.
Sam: When our party gets--
Will: I have men and women telling me I'm incredible.
Taliesin: You are very attractive.
Will: That's, wow, that's two.
Sam: I just met you, and I don't know much about you, but are you more of a Vax man or a Vex man? Like, how do you roll? How do you--?
Will: I don't, again, I don't know what that means. (laughter)
Sam: Would you be interested in the rogue or the ranger?
Liam: We're identical.
Will: Oh. Oh! I see what you're saying. All right, I get it. I go taco, not hot dog.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Yes! I love taco!
Sam: High five it.
Travis: Respect. Respect.
Laura: Are we sober yet? Can we go find Kima?
Mary: Yes, we're sober!
Liam: I think we need to go to bed.
Mary: Yes. Let's get a break.
Matt: After a brief time of coffee and a bit of sobering, you find yourselves of sound enough mind.
Liam: 17 hours later?! (laughter)
Taliesin: Coffee, coffee.
Mary: I metabolize things very quickly, you'd be surprised.
Matt: A few hours, two hours, let's say. It's four, five o'clock in the afternoon.
Marisha: Five o'clock?
Taliesin: Or four o'clock. Four o'clock.
Matt: As you, sobering up, the coffee's helped. You find yourself clear of mind to continue onto your intended events for the day. With that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. We'll be back here-- (cheering)
Will: (laughs) Dragons don't stand a chance! (laughter)
Will: (laughs) That was awesome.
Matt: All right, guys, we'll see you here in a few minutes. Thank you. (laughter)
Liam: That was great. Man. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So, before we get back into this, a couple quick announcements. One, if we get to 15,000 subscribers tonight, tomorrow's crew will be celebrating 15k and a Cosplay Day. All of our crew will be dressing up as their favorite characters all night. So you guys should go ahead and see if we can hit that number, because that would be awesome and hilarious and awesome.
Laura: I might have heard what some people are going to be dressing up as and I'm very excited about it.
Matt: I heard a couple, too. You guys would enjoy it, so make it happen, please. I want to see it. Also, a reminder that if you want to help support the channel, check out the Geek and Sundry Amazon Wish List. You can find the list in chat if you type "!Wishlist" there and that will give you access to it and you can see if there's any way you want to help build the channel and make it more awesome. So there's that. Liam will join us when he can. But we're going to jump in for the time being. So, as you guys exit the tavern, you look out into the Braving Fields.
Taliesin: I suddenly remember to go back and open the closet.
Marisha: Oh shit, we need to get the rogue out of the closet.
Matt: There is that, yeah. So you're in the center of the Braving Grounds-- we traded Liam for Travis.
Laura: Yeah. I don't know.
Matt: Exactly.
Liam: Grog, can you get this door open? (laughter)
Mary: It is open, darling. Come on.
Sam: Are we going to Kima now, or are we going to go see Grog fight?
Liam: Is Grog fighting?
Matt: To your left, around the Heaven's Stair, the giant mountain that bisects the northern portion of Vasselheim, around that way, a little bit of travel, but that heads towards the Bahamut section of the city, where the Platinum Sanctuary is. To your vision, immediately outside the tavern, you can see the giant statue of Kord, where the Trial Forge is. And to the south of you is where the Quadroads are, in the southern regions. What do you guys want to do?
Travis: I don't really feel like fighting. I just want to go talk to Master Splinter at the Trial Forge.
Sam: Sure, sure. All right, we can do that another day, maybe? Or do you want to--?
Travis: I'm not in a rush.
Laura: Should we go to the Platinum Sanctuary? Where Kima is, right?
Taliesin: Let's go talk to Kima.
Liam: Yeah, right now.
Laura: Oh, should we wait until some people are more sober?
Mary: No, I'm all right, coffee helps. Coffee helps.
Laura: Walking will help.
Mary: Walking and coffee.
Sam: Maybe we should-- they can wait outside or something.
Marisha: But I miss Kima.
Travis: Oh Jesus.
Matt: It's been a few hours, and you guys have had some coffee, so you're still a little tipsy, but you're not useless. (laughter)
Matt: To put it nicely. All right, so where do you guys want to head into--?
Laura: The Platinum Sanctuary.
Matt: All right, you guys make your way south, southwest around the curvature of the base of the Heaven's Stair. You can see up along the mountain itself, large, ominous, this monolith of earth that looks over the entirety of Vasselheim. You can see embedded in the rock itself, there are various homesteads toward the base. As you look up, you can see there's a number of stairways that just spiral around in different directions. You can see small cliffs and precipices that are built on the outside and look to be either various places of individual worship where statues are just barely visible, cresting on the edge. There's a number of constructs, just built into this mountain, that are probably as old as the city itself. You make your way around the south portion of it back into the actual area of Vasselheim, the Silver Talon's Reach, which is where largely Bahamut's worship occurs. You make your way past the scattered temples, all the different huts and hovels that build the central residential real estate to this territory. There are a few homes here that look a little bit like-- this town is built on existing in hardship and difficulty, so a lot of people here are just stern folk that live amongst terrible weather and money and wealth isn't really presented or flaunted in this city. It's considered in very poor taste as everyone here is in some way, shape or form, to some level, is pious to some degree to one of the deities that are worshipped here. You find your way to the base of the stair that you recall, following when you first arrived here in Vasselheim, that leads up to the Platinum Sanctuary where you were delivering the Horn of Orcus originally.
Travis: Oh, that's right.
Matt: You follow it up the side and it is an extended staircase that curves up to these three silver spires that are pushing out from the side of the mountain, quite a ways up. After about almost 20 minutes of stair climbing, your legs start to cramp a bit, but you manage to make your way towards the top, the outside of the large stone doors. There you can see there are two Scalebearers of Vord, in their silver armor, blue cloaks at their back, weapons at the ready, just looking out. And as soon as you guys approach the top of the stairway, they change their stance to be a little more prepared.
Marisha: (panting) Guys, this is hard to do with alcohol in your system.
Will: Hard to do at all.
Liam: A lot of horses and chickens around here, too.
Will: I noticed that as well.
Liam: Everywhere.
Marisha: I didn't know this was a farming industry.
Sam: Hello there. Excuse us. We are of the Slayer's Take-- Is that a good thing?
Laura: Yes.
Sam: We are of the Slayer's Take and we ask for entry into your Platinum Temple.
Matt: "Your business is with whom?"
Laura: Lady Kima.
Matt: Turns, nods to the other guy. They both grab these small handles and give a tug, and the door opens slightly and one of the guys disappears between the two doors. About 30 seconds pass to a minute, before he steps back out. "Your presence has been accepted by the Highbearer Vord, the Silvertouched. He will greet you in the central chamber, please."
Sam: Thank you. How do we address him?
Matt: "Highbearer would suffice."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Please enter."
Liam: Will Kima be there?
Matt: He doesn't answer. The doors open even wider.
Liam: Hey!
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber once more, this is close to where you flew in in bird form and almost got arrested by the Highbearers.
Marisha: Uh-huh, right, those guys.
Matt: So, as you enter the chamber, you see a number of the guards have already assembled and they're giving you a walkway path, both as a presentory arrival vigil, but also making sure that you don't wander off the predestined path to the main central meeting chamber.
Will: But it doesn't seem antagonistic in any way.
Matt: No. Just-- they're protecting their temple.
Sam: We'll make it that, though.
Matt: You guys continue inward, towards the central chamber, the high stone ceiling before you. You can see there are holes carved throughout the ceiling and the stonework that cause beams of light to come shooting through from the sky. What catches your interest in here is that the sky is cloudy. There is no specific source of direct sunlight, yet there are beams of light within the temple itself that form a pattern across the stone marble floor of the central chamber.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: Certainly.
Laura: What's the pattern look like?
Matt: The pattern resembles a large shield, when you look at it. It's pointed toward the base of where you guys are walking in and fills most of the chamber in an oval fashion, before coming together in a line towards the back.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, this definitely isn't a natural occurrence. The sunlight should not be projecting this way, which leads you to believe that there's something about the temple's enchantment or its construction that can either dissipate the veil of clouds to the sunlight or produce their own light to mimic it during all hours.
Marisha: Cool.
Will: Do any of us recognize the symbol on the floor?
Matt: You've seen-- the shield itself is akin to the symbol of Bahamut, which is a shield with a silver dragon head on it. You've seen Kima use it previously when you guys were looking after her in the Underdark.
Laura: We never got that stuff back.
Sam: Her stuff?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys push to the central chamber, you can see there's a line of three heavily armored Knights of Bahamut that are all there, standing shields at the ready, big tower shields that almost touch the ground. Two of them separate to one side and one separates to the other, and in the center, arriving before you, is Highbearer Vord, the Silvertouched, who some of you are seeing for the first time. Long, light brown hair that crests down past his shoulders, his features are very elven, very soft and ageless, but there is a very faint bluish hue to his skin. His eyes have no irises, no pupils. Steps forward and extends his hands. "It is good to see such friends, so I ask you once again to join me in this chamber. Can I help you?"
Liam: (whispers) Yes.
Laura: You can, actually. Well, we hope that you can, as it concerns dragon matters. We know that you serve Bahamut, the great, the wonderful, the very metallic. These very terrible colored-- chromatic red, green, lots of different dragons, they've attacked--
Sam: How much do you know about the dragon attacks that have been raging across the world?
Matt: He looks about the rest of you, with a discerning glance, just spending a beat on each of you, almost like you're being judged and read in that instant. You feel as if someone is prying into your personality with but a glance, and it's unsettling at first, but nothing too invasive, just enough to catch you off guard. As he finishes the sweep of the party at hand: "I was given a vision in the night of a far city of man, swathed in ice and flame, of colors bonded and unleashed. And I feared it was the work of our lord's nemesis."
Laura: Straight-up nemesis?
Marisha: Yes, can you elaborate?
Matt: He puts his hand up.
Marisha: Sorry.
Matt: "However, with much prayer of mine and my acolytes, we find no tremor of the Dragon Queen, nor the stench of Baator, on this business."
Marisha: Dragon Queen Baator? Is that what he said? Baator?
Matt: Baator. B-a-a-t-o-r.
Mary: Is the Queen-- I'm sorry-- are the Queen and Baator the same?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Laura: All of us or just--?
Matt: All of you, sure. Make a religion check.
Laura: 20!
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: 12.
Mary: 15.
Travis: 18!
Will: 24.
Liam: 13.
Taliesin: 13.
Will: 24.
Matt: Okay. None of these ring a bell, except for you, Kashaw. The Dragon Queen is indeed the nemesis of the Platinum Dragon, Bahamut. It is an entity known as Tiamat and is essentially the patron of most chromatic dragons. She resides in Baator, which is one of the Nine Hells.
Laura: Eugh.
Matt: However, it seems that Vord is speaking in a way that, through much disturbed interest and prayer into this matter, there doesn't seem to be the scent of Tiamat's doing in this matter. And strangely, you see a bit of the tension in his face relax as he tells you this.
Laura: So, if it's not the nemesis, the big nemesis, then you guys could probably take out these dragons, like, no problem, since they're not the Big Bads, they're just really bad.
Matt: "While these entities do concern us, there is the alternate vow that we've spoken, and that is to protect Vasselheim. The city has stood as long as it has because we have not left our post. And the moment that we were to attempt to move even a minority of our people in the city to be of aid to you in this endeavor, this would be the moment that the Dragon Queen will be waiting for to attack our citadel. There are many more forces beyond these dragons that you speak of in this world, bent against the destruction of this city. And we stand because we hold vigil here."
Marisha: But, sir, you should understand how close this destruction came from your doorstep.
Matt: "And yet it avoided our city. Do you know why? Because even such creatures know better than to lend their talons against us."
Marisha: But how do you know that will happen the next time? Is that always where you're going to place your bet?
Matt: "Do you think this will be the first time that ancient dragons have attempted to attack our fair city?"
Marisha: How about four?
Matt: "I can guarantee you, should they mount an attack on us, four or not, they will fall."
Laura: Wow, then I guess everybody in the world can just move here.
Will: Wait a second, you said dragons have attacked before and they were defeated. How?
Matt: "Well, we had the aid of Bahamut with us at that time." And he glances up and you look up and you can see the rays of sun that have come through here, from your current position, you can see actually form a matching symbol. Not of a shield, but of a giant winged dragon outstretched across the curved roof of this temple.
Liam: But let's talk about--
Laura: He's saying something.
Mary: Please continue, I'm so sorry.
Liam: My bad.
Will: We've been drinking.
Matt: "Drinking?"
Will: No. Water. Long walk up.
Matt: "Well, understand. I hear your plight. And I understand that we must aid you in this endeavor, best that we can. But we cannot swear to you our army."
Laura: What sort of aid can you offer, then?
Matt: "Well, now, while you seek out whatever your plot is to tear these creatures from their summit, we will grant to you, from our place in the Dawn City, our finest champion. While I have no resources to offer at this time, this champion shall come to your aid to help in any way that they can. And once they can report their certainty that victory can be had, perhaps we may be able to send a little more of our power your way."
Sam: Will we know the presence of this champion or will it be a silent one?
Matt: "The champion is here." And he steps aside and puts his hand out. And one of the armored knights steps forward, full armor, this tall, wide-chested masculine form. You can't see the face, the helmet protects it, but the shield comes out and slams the ground and goes to kneel on one knee. "Your charge, Platinum Knight Udire, one of our finest warriors, whom has had time and time again--" At which point you hear a loud (clang) sound as all of a sudden, Udire's thrown off of his feet, his shield bent in and skidding across the ground. You see stepping up behind, a female halfling, scar across the face--
Laura: Fuck yeah!
Matt: -- gold-trimmed armor, blue cloak behind her, shouting out, "Oh no, you don't! This is my home turf! I'm going."
Laura: Kima!
Marisha: Yeah, Kima!
Taliesin: We'll take that one.
Marisha: We want that one.
Matt: Highbearer Vord rolls his eyes and sighs loudly. (growls) "Kima, you are in need of discipline and guidance. More than most who walk the Warrior's Path! Your foolish impulses will get you killed!"
Marisha: I think her foolish impulses are exactly what Vox Machina's looking for.
Matt: She grins as she swings her maul, slams it onto the stone ground, a little bit of a rumble as you see a flash of divine energy from that. And a beam from the sky comes down and frames her form as she stands there clutching the top of it. "Better to die a fool for something than live in regret for doing nothing."
Travis: Church! (laughter)
Matt: An awkward pause as Udire gets back up on his feet and pulls up the front of his helmet. You can see there's a very thin pencil 'stache underneath. A chiseled jaw and a man who looks like probably an intense, chivalrous-type knight gentleman, except there's a look of complete disdain and frustration. He gets up and goes, "Really, her?!" Vord raises his hand and grumbles. "Very well. Your new charge is Lady Kima, whom you are already affiliated. Please keep her from doing anything stupid."
Sam: I think we want her to do her stupidest. Udire, it would have been a swell adventure with you, maybe next time. Sir, thank you for granting us this aid that we will definitely need in our journey. We also are new to this dragon-slaying business and would love your advice and any information you might have, especially about some specific items. Something called the Vestiges of Divergence?
Matt: His eyes squint for a moment as he puts his hands in front of his face. "Hmm. To step against such powerful dragons is indeed a death sentence. It's true that you need to prepare, arm yourselves against this doom. While we are meant to stay here in the most holiest of places, these relics you speak of from before the Second Spark still lie forgotten. Hmph, these elements even balked the Primordials of old, blades that slew the Children of the Dark. Where these relics lie, only story and tome can tell, unfortunately. Know that at any given time, you are not the only ones seeking this power. Consider things of such great strength are perpetually in the minds of those who would make their riches off of them or intend to take their own townships and peasantry under their own boot and gauntlet. Well..."
Mary: Do these Vestiges help you control the dragons? Do you become their leader if you find them?
Matt: "I don't believe any of that such capability, but I also am not a scholar of ancient magics and artifacts. I have merely come across their whispers in books and various classes I took as a child."
Laura: What sort of books? Fairy books?
Matt: "There are tomes scattered throughout the city. And there is the Cobalt Reserve."
Laura: Cobalt Reserve is gone. The dragons took it out.
Matt: "That is unfortunate."
Marisha: You said these tomes might still be in Vasselheim?
Matt: "Perhaps."
Marisha: Where?
Matt: "I wish I could tell you. We had one such entrusted to us long ago, but that was destroyed as part of the last assault on Vasselheim that we withstood."
Laura: Do you remember the description of any of the items from your stories?
Sam: Or how many there were?
Matt: "The stories say of at least a dozen. I can't be certain. I wish I could be of more aid in this, but this is not a path that I chose to learn much on."
Marisha: And are all artifacts necessary to defeating these dragons?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Laura: We should probably have asked--
Marisha: Osysa.
Matt: "Though the warriors that once wielded these in the battles of old only seemed to have carried one or two each."
Mary: How did you defeat them? The dragons that came to your doorstep?
Matt: "That was before my time, my dear."
Mary: There are no legends, there are no scrolls that might recount the tale of how that happened, that you might still have somewhere?
Matt: "Depends. The Second Spark. Hmm." He takes a moment to gather his thoughts as I take a moment to gather my notes. (laughter)
Will: While you're doing that, Udire's stuck in his armor over there.
Travis: Dented in.
Will: He's just dented in, he can't get out.
Matt: He's not happy at all about that. Hold on. Got it.
Laura: Sorry. One moment please.
Mary: Right here, hold on.
Liam: I've got all my dragon lore over here. Just give me a second.
Matt: "It's a long tale, and I recommend you research the history yourself, but during the times of creation, when the gods first came upon this world, it was a place of chaotic energies, elements clashing. The very landscape itself was in eternal turmoil, wrestling for no purpose other than the destruction of the others. There were no boundaries. Yet the gods still came, and they created us, the various beings and entities. As they came to understand what their purpose was, as they themselves were still uncertain as to why they came to be, they hoped that through their creations, they could learn more about themselves. They began to watch the first burgeoning elves, dwarves, people. Within a short time, a very short time, the very chaotic nature of this landscape consumed and destroyed most of what remained. The only city that stood, the first city: Vasselheim. The titans that walked across these lands, great, primordial elemental kings, beings of no noble mind, sought to destroy any light or beauty. Thus the first war began. The peoples rose up, the gods' feet touched the ground, and alongside their creations they slew the titans, with the first of these Vestiges. Laying them to rest within the dirt, within the sky, casting the elements away from this plane, and separate to their own, where now they remain, amidst fire, earth, air, water, and their muddy boundaries between. Thus came a time of great privilege and prosperity. And it also came to be discovered that some of the gods, as part of creation during this bout with the titans, began to question the purpose of creation, to embrace the chaos that they fought in this battle, and they distanced themselves from the ones that guide us to this day. They began to take the children of the gods, to corrupt them, teach them the wonders of arcana, magics beyond the divine, the gifts of the gods, and for the first time, the creations began to find power separate from the creators. The arrogance to think that perhaps, now, they were gods themselves. Now, they were the gods' creations and they loved them very much, so they did not see this as a threat. But as the second expansion of civilization spread across the world, we saw rise great, new towns and cities and civilizations and cultures, as well as a new wave of insolence and selfishness. And these new dark gods began to prey upon this, and build a force to take those who still stay true to the first. This terrible war, this is what we knew as the Divergence. This is when the people were split in two. The gods were divided as well. Bloody battles ensued. And it looked as though, while all other cities fell into ruin, even Vasselheim would fall. But in this time, these Vestiges were expanded upon, those first few weapons, many more were created. And the Champions fought alongside the gods once more. And victory was had, the dark gods banished to various planes, far from this plane. But it was then the gods also decided that perhaps their delving had caused this, and they receded, leaving the mortals to find their own way, to rebuild a second time, with the warning of the dangers of arcane, which Vasselheim still to this day holds in its prime oaths. Many of these Vestiges that you seek were destroyed, but some were kept, some were lost, some were entombed, some were re-found and rediscovered and used as symbols of power. But since this Second Spark of civilization, the gods felt that the true penance was the destruction of all their people had built, and the gods leaving us to our own. Thus started the Penance, where to this day, we still make up for the infractions and sins of our arrogant brothers and sisters of that day. So, since then, we've had other new civilizations spring up: Wildemount, Tal'Dorei, Syngorn, Marquet. These are the newer cities of the Third Age."
Liam: May I ask-- Vestiges, the word in these legends, it seems vague. Does no one know anything about what they were? Is that a stand-in for things we don't understand or know about? What are these Vestiges?
Matt: "We know of them. Understand, artifacts and relics of this power are very dangerous. And what better way to hide things of such power than to destroy the knowledge of where they may be or even if they exist?"
Marisha: Sir, I come from the Ashari people.
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: We are here to protect those boundaries that we set several thousand years ago. Do you think that some of this knowledge might still be within my people?
Matt: "It is possible. I am not a practitioner of the history of the Ashari people."
Will: Objects with that much power have to leave some trace somewhere. Anything you can think of, a place to start.
Matt: "Cobalt Reserve. There the monks keep some of the most ancient of texts. We here at Vasselheim keep a watchful eye on things that relate to the wars of old, the history of our deities, of our temples, to not repeat the mistakes we have. The monks are more eclectic in their collections. Perhaps they can be of more aid."
Laura: Maybe not all of the Reserve was destroyed. Maybe they have secret rooms underground, where they keep the most ancient texts. We should at least check.
Taliesin: It would be worth looking, at the very least.
Laura: Allura was on her way there.
Sam: Highbearer. These dragons who are running rampant across the world, them being chromatic dragons, do you think they have pledged their loyalty to the Queen?
Matt: "If they have, it's a very-- no, they would not be able to shroud the sight of the Platinum Dragon himself."
Laura: Isn't it very strange for dragons to pledge their allegiance to any other dragon?
Matt: "For chromatics, it is."
Laura: Then why are they serving the red one?
Matt: "The red one?"
Travis: The Cinder King.
Laura: Thordak.
Marisha: That's what he calls himself.
Laura: He's ancient. He was in the Fire Realm-- the Fire Plane and broke free. And now he has other dragons serving him.
Matt: "Chromatic dragons respond to a few things gold, dominance, and strength. If this red dragon is as ancient and as powerful as you say, perhaps he, even he, could bully lesser dragons."
Marisha: Or do you think it's possible he is offering any one of those rewards?
Matt: "There are many possibilities. You would have to ask one of them yourself."
Taliesin: I get the distinct feeling we will get that chance.
Marisha: So, if this is the Third Age, does that mean the Fourth is upon us?
Matt: "I hope not."
Marisha: As do I.
Matt: "But if it does, we will do everything we can to see that this city stands. It is the only link we have to the past. Should Vasselheim fall, I dare say all is lost."
Mary: At the cost of everything else, Vasselheim stands? That's my only question.
Matt: "That is your question?"
Mary: Yes.
Matt: "From here, civilization could spring anew. People could defend themselves and thrive thereafter. The rest of the world is scattered. Petty squabbles, selfish personal endeavors that lead to foolishness and treachery. Should this city fall, and one of those remain, that is a breeding ground for the dark powers that lie beyond the Veil. It is only here that those who are the most devout could truly have the hearts and minds to guide us, Bahamut forbid, into a Fourth Age."
Sam: Well, thank you for all your help. One more question before we leave you to your--
Matt: Which you see, Kima slams her hammer on the ground. "Oh my god! Can we just go? I'm sick of hearing him rattle on." Vord puts his hand out. "Kima!"
Sam: On our journey, we may have to travel long distances quite often. Is there any means of quick travel to other parts of the continent from Vasselheim?
Laura: Perhaps any flying carpets that you have lying around?
Sam: Airships, teleportation circles, any means that you know.
Matt: "We do not deal in such teleportation magics beyond the divine-provided ones, and those I assume are beyond most of you. However, there is still the Skyport, which I believe you arrived in when you first came to us? Other than that, if none among you are able to achieve any sort of distance translocation, then I highly doubt you have the ability to stand up against these dragons you seek to destroy."
Marisha: We got it. It's fine. It's handled.
Laura: Thank you for the vote of confidence.
Taliesin: I think we have everything we need here.
Laura: Yes, unless you have any amulets or magical things lying around?
Sam: How's that Horn of Orcus going, by the way?
Marisha: Good question, actually.
Matt: "Shh!"
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: Ix-nay on the orn-hay.
Sam: Sorry.
Matt: "And with that--"
Laura: So no on the magic items? Of protection?
Matt: "I have business for the day."
Laura: Cool.
Will: I'm not going to ask him how his family is.
Sam: No, don't do that.
Matt: "Show our guests out, please." "With pleasure." Slings her maul up on her shoulder. "Let's step outside first."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And she leads you all outside, the temple doors close. As soon as the doors close, she tells the two guards, "Shove off, please. We have to have a conversation." The guards kind of frustratedly turn around and go back and close the door. As soon as the doors close behind them, she goes, "Oh my god, guys!" (cheering)
Matt: She rushes out, gives hugs to everyone that she knows. She skips you, asks to be introduced to-- "And--"
Laura: Zahra. Kima.
Mary: I'm Zahra.
Matt: "Zahra, nice to meet you."
Mary: Nice to meet you, Kima.
Matt: "Kima. Lady Kima."
Mary: Lady Kima. Lady. All right.
Marisha: And have you met Kash? Kashaw.
Will: Kashaw. Vesh.
Matt: "Hmph."
Will: All right then.
Matt: "You're brooding."
Will: Don't mean to be. It's been a rough-- yes. Thank you. (laughter)
Matt: "All right, so. I caught some of that discussion. Dragons? What are we after here?"
Sam: Big scary dragons.
Matt: "I tend to glaze over when he's talking."
Laura: Emon's gone, Kima.
Travis: Yeah, basically four big fuck-off chromatic dragons destroyed Emon and then Westruun and-- Allura was there, she was very upset.
Matt: "Is she all right? Is Allie all right?"
Taliesin: She's fine.
Travis: Yeah, Allie is fine.
Liam: We just parted ways with her-- (groans) I have such a headache.
Taliesin: Two days ago.
Matt: "My home temple's in Westruun."
Travis: Oh.
Laura: We should definitely go there. We need to look at the Cobalt Reserve as well. We need to meet up with Allura, though. She was-- (sighs).
Matt: "All right, well. I'm with you. Wherever you need me."
Marisha: I just pass Vax my water canteen on the sly.
Liam: And I very obviously chug the entire thing.
Matt: "A few of you started early. I'm jealous."
Marisha: Kima, it's been very hard since we last saw you.
Matt: "I can see it on your faces. You all look a bit harrowed."
Travis: Hairy?
Matt: "You surprise me day after day, Grog."
Travis: Why, thank you. Don't have to hide it around me, it's okay.
Matt: "All right, where are we off to?"
Laura: That's a good question.
Marisha: Where are we going?
Will: Cobalt Reserve, he said twice.
Laura: Yes, but that's in Westruun.
Sam: It's been destroyed.
Laura: Not necessarily, I mean yes, it's fucked up.
Travis: We still need to go talk to Earthbearer Groon and see what kind of lesson was there.
Marisha: I also really need to check out the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari are on the way.
Liam: Let's count out the things that we want to do. Not what we're going to choose, just what we have to do, and then we'll choose something. We've got the Cobalt Reserve, which may or may not be totally fucked, right?
Mary: It could give us information about these dragons.
Marisha: We need to go by there regardless. We need to stop by Westruun.
Liam: Okay. So there's Osysa's mate.
Laura: That's down by Westruun.
Liam: Down by Westruun, in the mountains.
Marisha: That's on the way.
Liam: Yeah. We've got your people.
Marisha: Also on the way out the door.
Laura: It is?
Marisha: It's not far from here.
Matt: It's roughly three days' travel, southwest of Vasselheim.
Laura: But there's trees.
Marisha: There are trees. I can also pop through a tree. I can pop through a tree through most places. Pop through a tree and get us to Westruun, as long as we take a nap.
Liam: Three options. Are we forgetting anything?
Laura: And Grog wants to talk to--
Travis: Earthbearer Master Splinter.
Marisha: Earthbreaker.
Taliesin: While we charter a ship.
Marisha: Percy really wants an airship. Dear gods, does he want an airship.
Taliesin: What a perfect way to make our way quickly and efficiently.
Liam: Let's just talk--
Marisha: Quickly? Efficiently?
Will: You can go through trees?
Marisha: I can.
Sam: Only trees she's seen and knows very well.
Travis: But the Earthbreaker is here.
Marisha: Luckily, all places that we are going, we've been to.
Liam: I mean, if we're spiraling out, right? Earthbreaker's here, Ashari are close by, and then we're talking about in and around Westruun.
Laura: Yeah. So let's go to the Earthbreaker.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to the Earthbreaker.
Taliesin: Followed by the Ashari.
Sam: Followed by the airship.
Taliesin: Followed by the airship.
Matt: "Earthbreaker. As in Dawn Marshal? The great Dawn Marshal of--? (chuckles) I've only seen him from a distance. He's a rough-looking fella."
Travis: Yeah, right. He's got a pair of arms on him, doesn't he?
Matt: "I'm excited to see this." Puts it over her shoulder and she's walking down, her little legs (clanging) with her armor down the stairs.
Travis: Hold up, Kima. Hold up. What do you mean? Have you spoken with him before?
Matt: "I've seen him punch someone's head clear off."
Laura: Off of his body?
Sam: That is so cool.
Will: You only turn them into paste.
Liam: Level up.
Travis: I'm excited.
Mary: Oh! Oh dear.
Matt: (laughs) "You're not the only one!" And she continues rushing ahead. You get the feeling that Kima's been locked up and been doing temple stuff for quite some time and is very happy to get out of her general duties.
Liam: Lead the way, shitkicker!
Matt: You guys head back down the outside of the Heaven's Stair, making your way back to the outside of the Trial Forge. You can still see now it's middle of the afternoon, all the forges throughout the town are in full steam. You see big plumes of black smoke pouring out of the various steelworks.
Marisha: On our way there, I pace next to Kash. So, do you-- have you met Kima?
Will: No.
Marisha: I get the feeling that you guys knew each other.
Will: No. Never met Kima in my life. She didn't seem to like me very much, which is odd, because everyone else seems to think I'm an amazing guy. Vax and Vex, everyone telling me they love my eyes, they love this-- I don't know, it's weird. Bunch of your friends are just very weird.
Marisha: You seem really put off by it. I didn't know it was so--
Will: I'm not used to being around people all the time. I have one real friend, and that's Z. I'm only with her because she saved my life. I'd do anything for her. Everybody else is odd for me.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel that.
Will: There is one thing I wanted to say to you, though, about our kiss. I'm very happy that it happened. But I shouldn't have stolen it. And for that, I apologize.
Marisha: You don't need to apologize. I also don't ever want to hurt anyone.
Will: Of course.
Marisha: Physically or emotionally.
Will: Nor me.
Marisha: Okay.
Will: Well, I'm glad we got that cleared up. (laughter)
Matt: So as you guys approach the outside steps leading up to the doors of the Trial Forge, you can see the large rust red-colored monument, Temple to Kord. Very rigid and very much a temple built to withstand. It's a fortress more than a temple. And you see above it still, across the lip at the very top at the front walkway, a little bit of the Kord statue, looking over the entirety of this section of Vasselheim.
Travis: Oh boy.
Matt: The doors are actually ajar, they're open.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: There are two Dawn Marshals there in their armor with the colors of Kord. As you approach, they step out of the way.
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Yes, clearly my presence is recognized in this great hall. Good day, good day. (laughter)
Travis: Wouldst thou care to follow me inside?
Sam: Let's do this.
Liam: Verily, verily.
Laura: Huzzah, I say, my Lord.
Marisha: My liege.
Matt: As you walk in, the two Dawn Marshals that are out there put their arms together and they lower their head and bow. And as you enter, they close the doors behind you guys. The doors slam behind you and you feel the stone shift from the impact of the thud. 25-, 30-foot-tall doors that mark the front of this.
Travis: It's all right. Pucker up, we're okay.
Matt: The echo of the stone slam down the long hall. You can see there are large pillars that mark the run to the central chamber. You've been here before, and as you walk across the smooth, very, very simple stonework ahead, you can see there is the central portion. It's almost like a giant cross, like both sides of the temple meet in the center. And there is a circular dip in the ground. Not really a pit, it's only about four feet down. But it's filled with a coarse sand, and as you guys walk up to that edge, each monk acknowledging you as you pass quietly, you can hear the gentle chanting in the distance of low, rumbling Gregorian voices, (chanting). And there, sitting in the center of this open circular sand patch, is the Earthbreaker himself. He is sitting there, legs crossed, arms resting at the edge of his knees, eyes closed. You can see, even from here for those who haven't seen him before, he wears simple free-flowing pants of a dark reddish color with a gold trim on the sides, but they're tattered towards the bottom. He has a one-shoulder wrap across the front there and these large prayer beads that hang around his neck. His skin is very dark and weathered by sun and training, and he is probably the most muscular human being you have seen for his proportional form, he is a human being built for discipline and physical martial training and battle. Older though, still you can see his long grey beard that rests about middle to his chest, the balding on the front a little bit, the rest of his grey hair rests to his mid-back, and he just sits there quietly in the center. The rest of the monks have gathered up and begun to form around the circle.
Travis: How many monks, would you say?
Matt: Right now, about 15?
Travis: One-five.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Are they talking at all or are they all super-quiet?
Matt: Super-quiet.
Travis: I walk up to within 20 feet of Earthbreaker Groon.
Matt: Okay, so you leap down into the sandpit?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so, you guys on the side. Grog, you leap off.
Travis: How deep is it lowered?
Matt: You don't know how deep it is, but it's, it's not, it's hard sand, it's packed, so you just kind of--
Travis: Yeah, but I meant the depression, is it like a couple feet?
Matt: Right, the depression's like an inch.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: Oh, you mean the depression into the actual ground?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: About four feet.
Travis: Oh, shit. Yeah. So.
Matt: So you vault into it in a bound.
Travis: Does he move at all?
Matt: No. He's still facing a little bit away from you in the far corner.
Travis: I put my fist in my hand and I bow slightly. Does he move at all?
Matt: The silence is broken immediately by a low, rumbling voice that seems to have no particular source in the vicinity where you stand. It says, "You come because your lands now harbor a terrible conflagration. How do you think Groon can assist?" Still facing away from you.
Travis: We have traveled near and far, great Grood.
Marisha: It's like Sesame Street.
Travis: And we would like to request upon you a moment of your time?
Will: Why is he doing the talking? Why is he doing the talking?
Matt: As most of you noticed this time, his name is Groon. (laughter)
Matt: At which point he stands up, and, you know, would only come to about your sternum, height-wise, but he's just this tense, every muscle is seemingly, there's not an ounce of fat on this body and--
Travis: Like a protein shake.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Paleo.
Matt: Turns around towards you and says, "You stray from the darkness that I warned you, but this current distraction is too great. Even your blood is drawn to the flames of promise and power. This shall be a test to see if you will break against the shadow."
Sam: What shall be a test?
Laura: What's the test?
Matt: "I know many things, Grog Strongjaw."
Travis: He said my full name.
Matt: "But such knowledge is earned, not given."
Marisha: (whispers) Shit, you might have to fight this motherfucker.
Matt: "Where do you find your strength?"
Liam: (whispers) What's he talking about, Grog?
Matt: As you're thinking, in a blinding instant you see a flash of movement and, like a dagger in your stomach, his elbow is (impact sound). (groaning)
Matt: Moved three feet in an instant and has slammed you right in the center of your abdomen. The breath just escapes you as you fall back, unable to really catch yourself, and just land flat on your back in the sand.
Travis: (wheezing sounds)
Marisha: We're all hanging back.
Matt: Puts his arm down.
Marisha: Just watching.
Matt: "Strongjaw. Where do you find your strength?"
Travis: In my anger.
Matt: "You walk between worlds. Weakness in mind or weakness in conviction. What do you stand for? Where do you find your strength?" At which point, as you're getting up, there's another blinding flash for a second and your feet are left out from under you. Go ahead and make an athletics check, because you're now prepared for this one.
Will: Jeez.
Taliesin: Gonna get smackdown.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Your feet go out from under you as you slam onto your back, you just barely caught your breath before it's almost knocked out again. He's looking down at you this time, once again, his eyes just white. "Choose. Choose the two here who would save you."
Travis: (whispers) Pike's not here.
Matt: "Who would push you to your potential. Choose your bloody muses."
Sam: Does he mean us, or?
Travis: Do they have to be here?
Matt: He looks over to the rest of you on the side of the pit. "Choose."
Travis: (sighs) I choose my buddy Pike.
Sam: She's not here.
Travis: I don't care, I just say it anyway. I choose Vax and I choose Scanlan.
Sam: We give him his strength, sir.
Matt: As you finish that sentence, two monks that you failed to notice were behind you shove both of you into the pit. Make acrobatics checks, both of you guys.
Sam: (laughing nervously) Not my kind of fight! Oh, I got a ten.
Liam: 34.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: You tumble, catch Grog's arm, and lift him onto his feet as you land yourself at his side. Scanlan is face-down in the sand.
Sam: Are we talking still?
Liam: I would just like to point out that I am mostly sober.
Matt: Groon takes two steps back and just closes his eyes and puts his arms at his sides. "Now. Show me your conviction."
Marisha: Oh snap!
Matt: I need you three to roll initiative.
All: Oh!
Liam: Natural 20! 25 off a natural 20!
Will: Oh snap! Shit's getting real.
Matt: The statues that're set at the edge of this, we're gonna put you, Grog, there--
Laura: Look at the coolness that's been created on this map!
Matt: And boom.
Laura: So cool! This is awesome, Matt!
Mary: Look how little they are!
Matt: I'll just move it this way a little bit, just so you guys can see, there we go.
Liam: I'm peeing just a little bit.
Mary: Oh my goodness.
Laura: Hey you guys, don't die!
Matt: All right, so. Let me get Groon's sheet out here.
Sam: Is it just us against one person?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: He's really strong.
Marisha: He's gonna kick your guys's asses.
Will: Can you see, do you want to switch seats so you can see? Okay.
Sam: No, I can see on the screen.
Matt: Okay, so. 25 to 20?
Liam: 25 off a natural 20.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, Scanlan. All right, perfect. First up's first. You, Vax. Just standing with his arm up.
Liam: Click my Boots of Haste. (laughter)
Mary: Click 'em hard!
Liam: And use my bonus action to hide behind Grog's thigh and hold my turn.
Matt: Until what, what's your trigger?
Liam: Until Grog moves towards the Earthbreaker.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: When he does it I'm gonna go with him and fight him if I can.
Matt: Well, your movement is in your turn, it's your action you have to hold.
Liam: Oh boy. Oh boy.
Matt: So. Are you gonna wait behind him?
Liam: Well, let me just think for ten seconds only.
Matt: Can't, you've got-- dude.
Liam: Yeah, okay, so, I use my bonus action to hide. Do I need to roll for that?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: Yeah. That's a--
Laura: Ohh.
Liam: No, that's fine, because remember, I'm me. So that is, that's a 25.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I guess behind Grog.
Matt: He has no idea where you are.
Liam: No, I'm going to throw fucking daggers at this guy!
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Because I'm first. Oh my god. I am. First is 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: And then, so I used my bonus action to hide, which means I can do two, right? So the second is not that great.
Travis: I don't know what you're so worried about.
Liam: Using Luck. Better. Second is a 30.
Matt: Yeah, both hit.
Liam: Okay, now. This is, I'm the first to attack, which means that it is-- Ooh, it's a 19.
Matt: What's the range increment on this?
Liam: I'm Sharpshooter, man.
Matt: Right, but what's the max range?
Liam: 60.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine.
Liam: Okay, so. I'm hidden behind Grog so it should be sneak attack, and I'm the first to go so it's a crit.
Matt: You're the first to go, it is a crit. It is not a sneak attack.
Liam: It's not a sneak attack? Even though I used my bonus to hide behind Grog's big fat leg?
Matt: Where could you possibly be, Vax?
Liam: He's huge! All right, okay.
Matt: Where could you have possibly hidden from his sight in the middle of this giant open sandy arena?
Will: He's disappeared!
Liam: I'm drunk and fighting in a pit!
Matt: It's okay. But it is double damage.
Liam: All right, all right. So there is no sneak attack, but it is crit, right? Because I'm the first to attack?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Well no, it's surprise, not the first to attack. He is not surprised.
Liam: He's not surprised.
Matt: No. It's not first, it's just surprised.
Liam: Oh god. I'm drunk, tell me what's going on.
Matt: You hit him twice, roll damage.
Marisha: I know, I'm so confused.
Liam: One plus seven's eight, and then eight. Eight and eight.
Laura: (laughs) That's almost as good as all those other things you did today.
Matt: The first one, he deflects with his hand and it cuts the arm and you can see the little slash of damage it dealt. The second one, he's gonna use his reaction to do deflect missiles.
Marisha: That's cool. That's some Bruce Lee shit.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah. He reduces the damage entirely, spends one of his ki points, he catches the dagger and throws it right back at you.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Not back at you, though. Because you're currently behind Grog.
Sam: Hi! (laughter)
Laura: Are you still face-down in the sand?
Sam: What's going on?
Matt: That's 18 to hit.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay. So you take 12 points of piercing damage. As he chucks Vax's dagger back at you, it sinks into your shoulder suddenly before it vanishes and returns to your belt.
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry.
Sam: All I've heard was "Scanlan.'" (laughter)
Sam: "My buddy Scanlan."
Marisha: (laughs) That's true, that is all you heard.
Matt: All right. Now it is Groon's turn. Groon is going to rush up to the front of Grog-- actually no, to the side here so you're both in combat, technically, and is going to make a flurry of blows attack using another one of his ki points. So that's gonna be four attacks, all against you, Grog.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So that's a 27, hits, I'm pretty sure. Cocked. 26.
Travis: (laughing) 27 and 26?
Matt: 16?
Travis: Oh, it misses! (laughter)
Matt: And 28.
Travis: Yeah, that hits too.
Marisha: What the fuck is this guy's base? What?
Will: This is when you want to be fighting Wil Wheaton. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, you take--
Taliesin: He's doing a lot of math.
Matt: 31 points of bludgeoning damage. And his kick just-- whack!-- right across the jaw. You haven't even raged yet, and the pain is intense, your vision goes white for a second. And go ahead and make a dex saving throw.
Laura: Oh man!
Travis: Seven.
Matt: As his fourth action, sweeps your feet out from under you and you are knocked prone on the ground.
Marisha: Oh, shit. This guy's a badass.
Laura: He gets four actions?
Marisha: Monks, man.
Matt: That's his turn. Grog, you're up now.
Will: And we can't do anything?
Taliesin: Well, if you want to get involved.
Travis: (panting) I. Would like. To rage. I'd like to stand up, please. (laughter)
Travis: Do I have to roll for that?
Matt: No no no, you just use half your movement for that.
Travis: I take out Craven Edge, and I'd like to swing twice against him.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 25?
Matt: 25 hits.
Travis: 25 hits, that's good. And a 17.
Matt: Misses.
Travis: Misses. 18. 21 points of damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage. All righty.
Travis: And roll for the DC.
Matt: Yeah, he makes it.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: (laughs) Sorry. All right, so.
Travis: Can I move, or is getting up my movement?
Matt: You can move, yeah.
Travis: I want to move around, just stay right next to him, but move around behind him.
Matt: Right there, you mean?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Vax is there, then that would be your flanking potential there. Okay. Cool. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Did Grog moving activate Vax? Didn't you hold your turn or something?
Laura: No, he didn't.
Will: He chucked knives.
Sam: I'll stand up out of the sand. And I will, eeeee, I will-- (laughter)
Sam: I will look extremely weak and I will sing a song to him. (laughter)
Sam: I will attempt to cast, with the horn, Eyebite on him, and I'll sing, (singing) My my my, eye bitten twice shy. (laughter)
Will: Wow. Best fight ever.
Matt: All righty, and that is Eyebite. All right, so it's a-- you said wisdom save?
Sam: It's a wisdom save.
Matt: All right. What's the DC?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: No, he fails it. So what are you doing?
Sam: This is a good question. I don't know what to do. Should I make him fall asleep? I think no. Because we want this fight to continue, that would sort of end it, won't it?
Laura: Do whatever you want, I dunno.
Will: That's a great look.
Taliesin: Do something funny.
Sam: Yeah, I want him to go to sleep in the sand.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Sam: Just curl up in the fetal position.
Matt: Okay. Okay, what happens is, as soon as you move around, Grog, and you sing at him? He glances over at you for a second and his eyes roll back and he (impact sound) and just falls back in the sand, unconscious.
Liam: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Mary: Ladies and gentlemen.
Sam: That was a quick fight.
Matt: At which point, all the monks currently are gasping in immediate reaction. (laughter)
Matt: As he's currently unconscious and affected by Eyebite. All right, do you want to move or are you staying where you are on your turn? Bonus action?
Sam: I mean, he can't swipe at me if I walk away, so I'm gonna get away from him. Although he can move super fast. I'll walk a little bit away.
Travis: Now in the middle of the room.
Sam: And I'll inspire Grog, in case this fight continues, and I will sing--
Matt: Actually, you know what? No, go ahead. I forgot to read something. Go ahead. My own fault.
Sam: I will sing  (singing) Hail to the goliaths, hail victory, blood on the warpath, fight for Vax and me. (laughter)
Travis: That's the best.
Matt: Take your d10.
Sam: (whispers) That's the Redskins' fight song. (yelling)
Liam: That is amazing!
Taliesin: Thank you, that was genius.
Travis: I ain't using it. (yelling)
Mary: As the worlds collide.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Grog, Grog, Grog, do we really want to do this? He's down, he's asleep!
Sam: What do we do?
Liam: Are we doing this, are we really doing this? He's asleep.
Travis: What, like, so if we hit him, does he wake up?
Sam: He will, but you get, you'll get a few licks in.
Liam: We're not trying to kill him, we want him to work with us.
Travis: You fucking end him and you end him now.
Sam: Yeah, kill him.
Liam: Excuse me? All right, so, I use disen-- no, I don't have to.
Sam: No, he's asleep.
Liam: Yeah, okay. So I got two daggers in my hands, and they spin around in my hand, and I just start beating him in the head.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Sam: I assume this is a sneak attack since he can't see it.
Liam: Yes, it is, because Grog's right there.
Sam: He will wake up after this.
Liam: 21.
Travis: Yeah, but he might not hit him anyway, he rolls for it.
Sam: I don't know, actually.
Matt: As you go and attempt to strike him-- You had advantage on the attacks, by the way, because he's on the ground.
Liam: Oh, well then it is a 32.
Matt: Okay. Good. That hits.
Liam: And then the second one is a 27 and the third one is a 17.
Matt: First two hit.
Liam: First two hit, and the first one is sneak attack with the blunt edge.
Matt: Right. Which is doubled because he's unconscious.
Liam: Yeah it is.
Matt: Melee attack within five feet.
Liam: Oh, I'm so sorry! Nine. Plus-- Whoa. That is ten, 16, 22, 23, 25, is 50? Plus the-- 59. 59 for the first.
Matt: 59. Hoo.
Liam: Ooh, that's the wrong one. And then the second dagger does ten.
Matt: Ten. So as you-- whack!-- hit him in the head, he immediately comes back to consciousness.
Liam: And I'm gonna use my movement to run around and to roll around behind Grog's buttocks.
Matt: Okay. As you move aside, even on the ground, prone, he swings his leg out to try and catch you as you're running past.
Liam: Acrobatics?
Matt: He has disadvantage on this anyway. That is still a 24 to hit.
Liam: To hit? Oh, that's an attack. Even though he was unconscious?
Matt: Well, he woke up after you slammed him, second attack hits, and in reaction as he sees you rush off, he kicks his leg up and manages to catch you.
Liam: Yeah, I'm feeling that.
Matt: It doesn't manage to trip you, but it does deal--
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: So you deal half the damage on that. All right. So you take-- What would be 12 points of damage, you take six points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Ah, fucking ankle. Come on.
Will: It was still uncanny.
Matt: It was quite uncanny. All right, that ends your turn?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: All right. It's now his turn. All right, so.
Liam: I'm so acrobatic.
Travis: We're waiting to see if he's awake or not.
Matt: So yeah, until the spell ends, you can use your action every turn to try and give him another effect if you wanted to, Scanlan. So he still has Eyebite, but he's conscious.
Sam: Can I change the effect, or does it always have to be--
Matt: You can if you want to, when it comes to your next turn, but it has to be on your turn to use your action to do it. He gets up using half his movement. Which is fine. He's going to, as he looks over and you can see him glance to the side of Grog and see where you are, as the giant crack in the side of his head and the blood that's trickling down the side of his face, he just rushes around, still in melee with you so he doesn't get an attack of opportunity, and he's gonna go unarmed attacks on you for three. Natural 20. That's a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: With your haste, yeah, you get a bonus, so that's a miss. And that is a 25.
Liam: That hits. Two of those hit.
Matt: All right. So the crit, 28 points of bludgeoning damage. And the last one is gonna be 14 points of bludgeoning damage. And he's going to use three ki points. As he comes around, elbows you to the side of the face, you just weren't expecting it and it cracks you and you feel like a tooth crack and the pain sears through your jaw and you're like, ugh! And then he brings his lower hand and (impact) hits you right in the center of the abdomen, and it hits you, and it hurts, but it's not as impactful as you thought it would be for the force, but you feel like this strange, like, quivering vibration in your midsection, like almost like the muscles are spasming uncontrollably and you don't quite understand why. That is going to end his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: No! And I go into a frenzied rage. If it's gonna be an ass-beating we take, we might as well just get on with it. And I'll use reckless attack and Great Weapon Master against him.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: Which means he gets advantage on everything against me, but fuck it, he's hitting anyway. Oh, 19, so close. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: 16.
Matt: Misses.
Travis: Damn it. Those were high. Okay.
Laura: You could've used your inspiration.
Sam: It's true.
Travis: I'm not listening to any of you. (laughter)
Travis: 32 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Will: That's hysterical. RG3 could've helped.
Travis: Four, nine, 17, 27 on the second one, and the third one missed.
Matt: Third missed, all right. Succeeds on the first save with an 18-- and a 19, yeah. Saves both hits from Craven Edge. As you slam the blade into him twice, he's trying to parry them, and he's catching the blade off to the side, but the strength is too strong and you end up jamming it into his forearm. As you pull away, the blood streaks out. Each hit, he's still focused on you, and he's not showing any pain, he's not grimacing. You're just seeing the wounds being had and he's just still intent on moving and his expression focused on you.
Travis: He made both those checks okay?
Matt: Yeah. And at that moment he looks at you and says, "You carry such a dark weapon with you." That's all he says. Is that the end of your turn?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Scanlan.
Sam: He's still eyebitten.
Matt: Correct, yes. Actually, let's see, he has to save at the end of his turn. Which, he rolled a one, so no.
Sam: All right. Instead of sleeping this time, I would like him to just get sick. Be sick. I want him to be sick now.
Mary: What kind of sick?
Laura: Like, pukey or like the other one?
Sam: Oh, he has like diarrhea.
Marisha: That's the worst.
Laura: Oh man. That's so embarrassing.
Matt: All righty. Yeah. As you keep focusing, you can see his form shifts a little bit, and you swear you hear the cramping of someone's abdominals in the distance, like an unhappy digestive tract.
Sam: You didn't sleep well, did you? No?
Liam: Like a tree cracking in the wind from this guy.
Sam: And I will turn to Vax this time and inspire him, and I will say, (singing) Kill that monk-y douchebag, white boy. Kill that monk-y douchebag right. Take out your daggers and kill that monk-y douchebag 'til he dies. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10 inspiration.
Liam: Okay, got it, got it, got it.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top. Is that the end of your turn, are you gonna move or anything else--
Sam: I'll move a little further away, it won't really help.
Matt: All right. You're up.
Liam: He's still pressed up against Grog, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: All right, I'm gonna use disengage and pivot around Grog, right, run all around the circle and get behind Scanlan.
Sam: Oh shit. I was trying to get away from him!
Matt: Like that?
Liam: Yeah. And I'm gonna throw two daggers at him, yeah. The first one's, okay, natural 20! Wait, it's natural 20 on top of a sneak attack, what happens?
Matt: Yeah, you double the sneak-attack damage.
Liam: You double the sneak-attack?
Matt: It's a critical hit, all the dice you roll for a critical hit you double.
Travis: Picked you for a reason, add that shit up, man.
Matt: And then you add the ability modifier at the end. So yes.
Liam: Let me take a moment. (laughter)
Matt: Rogues, baby.
Marisha: Get the blood back in your head.
Liam: Okay, that's a nine. Okay. Think I want to savor this.
Will: He looks giddy, he looks giddy, it's great.
Liam: All right. So. Oh my god. (counting)
Travis: It's so juicy, so savory.
Liam: 23 doubled, quadrupled--
Matt: Not quadrupled. Doubled.
Liam: 23. 28.
Matt: It's doubled, not quadrupled.
Liam: Not quadrupled, oh! So sneak attack is not doubled, then on top-- All right.
Marisha: But that's what you said. That's not what you said!
Matt: It's not a surprise attack.
Liam: So it doesn't stack.
Matt: No.
Liam: Yeah, but he's, he's up against Grog. So I get--
Matt: Which is meaning you get sneak attack. So you're doing sneak-attack damage on him, you critically hit, so you just double your sneak attack damage.
Sam: Just take your 80 points of damage, not your 160 points.
Liam: So I double sneak-attack damage.
Matt: Yeah. You said quadruple, it's not quadruple, it's just times two.
Liam: 23, the sneak-attack damage is--
Laura: That's 28. Times two.
Liam: 56. All right. Yeah.
Mary: That's good, there's no disappointment there.
Taliesin: And now you add your knife.
Liam: 68.
Matt: Oh, total of 68? Gotcha.
Liam: Critical hit on a sneak attack. Got it, got it, got it.
Matt: He is going to use a ki point to deflect missiles.
Liam: I'm gonna use my last bit of Luck so that he has to roll again.
Matt: Okay. All right. It's not an attack roll on this yet, just so you're aware.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: This is him just reducing the damage he takes from it.
Liam: Oh, all right.
Matt: So that is a total of, he reduces the damage by 13, he still takes the impact, but he manages to slow the blade with his hands before it finds itself in his chest and he rips it out, you can see the spray of blood that hits in the sand across the front before the dagger disappears from his grip.
Liam: And I duck behind Scanlan.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Don't hide behind me!
Liam: Yeah, sure. It's, that was a four, ten.
Matt: Nope. This one--
Liam: No, I rolled, I rolled a bunch of times. Didn't I roll a bunch of times? Okay, all right, well. She rolled a 20.
Matt: For nothing.
Liam: I rolled a, oh that did fine. It's a 27.
Matt: Wait, so you did a total of 60-something damage on him from the one attack?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, got you, yes, the second one does--
Liam: Second one is ten.
Matt: Yeah. So the second one attack hits. Go ahead and roll for it. Or roll for damage.
Liam: Nine.
Matt: Nine, okay. Cool. Cool.
Liam: I'm scared to death, which is why the math is so bad.
Matt: That's good. Well, as it comes back to Groon's turn, Groon, you can see the blood is just pouring out of the wound that you left, he takes one hand and just (impact sound) slams it really hard, and it just kind of, the impact sears the wound. Cauterizing it.
Liam: Don't want to be fighting you.
Matt: Still looking at you. He puts his hand out and does this, and that quivering in your stomach you felt earlier begins to shake and the vibrations begin to spread through your entire body. I need you to make a constitution saving throw? Yeah.
Sam: You've got inspiration still.
Laura: Does that work on saves?
Liam: Plus inspiration.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: It's a 23.
Matt: 23. That is a success. You manage to just stave it off as you can feel it about to tear your insides apart, and you just tense real fast and the vibrations slowly fade. No effect.
Sam: No effect!
Matt: Would've been 10d10 necrotic damage.
Sam: 10d10!
Marisha: What happened, like a chestburster, like came out of him?
Matt: It's called Quivering Palm, it's a monk ability.
Liam: It's Uma Thurman, it's fucking Kill Bill.
Marisha: The five-point exploding palm technique.
Will: The five-point exploding palm technique.
Matt: He's going to use another ki point, a bonus action, as he goes into a defensive stance, a familiar one that you've seen before.
Travis: Before I whooped somebody's ass.
Matt: Yeah. But into this fully defensive, looking about and keeping his eyes aware of the entirety of his surroundings. And is going to stay right there. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Piece of shit, I don't know what that stance is-- I chop at him some more with Craven Edge! I don't know, can I do one Great Weapon Master and the other two just regular?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. I'm gonna do that.
Matt: Are you doing reckless attacks or not?
Travis: Yeah, reckless.
Matt: Okay. His patient defense gives you disadvantage on all attacks-- He just nullifies it, so you just have one roll per attack.
Travis: 16?
Matt: Misses. Just knocks the blade out with his own hand, you hear it (impact) off to the side.
Travis: 16.
Matt: This time he actually catches with the two sides of his hand and throws it back towards you.
Sam: You could be inspired, god damn it!
Mary: It's right there.
Travis: I'm gonna use my other d10 that's not tainted, so not this one.
Sam: All you have to do is pledge allegiance to the Washington football team. (laughter)
Will: Wow.
Travis: 27.
Matt: 27. He goes to try and catch it, but you change the direction of the blade at the last minute and find the side of his flesh, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Okay. So 12. 19.
Matt: He does make his save on that.
Travis: 29. Damn it, he does?
Matt: 29 damage.
Travis: 29. All that.
Matt: He's got a decent constitution.
Travis: Yeah, you think?
Matt: All right, so the third blade finally sinks in about two inches into his clavicle area and probably would snap the clavicle bone if he hadn't put his hands up and caught as much of the impact as he could, and then throws it back again and just kicks you away to get a little bit of distance.
Travis: Shit, really? Little distance, or?
Matt: It's just like a foot, just away from being clenched up.
Travis: Okay. Can I move opposite of where my two lads are so I stay behind him again?
Matt: Right there? Yeah, you can do that. Go for it. All right, that ends your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up. Well, let me see actually if he resists the-- Nope.
Sam: Still sick.
Matt: Actually, actually no, remembering this, because I kept forgetting to do it before, but that's fine, he's gonna use his legendary resistance to automatically succeed, so he no longer has Eyebite.
Sam: Oh, so he's done.
Laura: He's not shitting himself anymore.
Mary: No. But the stench is great.
Matt: So sickness fades. He spent last round not doing any actual physical attacks for that reason.
Sam: All right. Well. I'm far away from him, but Grog's right next to him, so I probably shouldn't do anything too terrible.
Travis: Do it! Do it!
Liam: But he's a sponge!
Travis: Do it! If you don't do it, he will, do it.
Marisha: That's why we have Grog around.
Sam: I'll join in the bludgeon-fest, and I will cast (sings) Bigby's Hand! And I will, I'll make it come right next to him, sort of between him and Grog? I can't get between him and Grog.
Matt: There you go. Not between them, no, but you can put it like next to him or behind him.
Sam: Okay. To the side, to the side would be good. And just punch! Just a couple punches. Just throwing some punches.
Taliesin: Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself.
Matt: Make a melee spell attack.
Sam: Melee spell attack.
Matt: Got it, melee spell attack.
Sam: What do I add?
Matt: You add your spell attack modifier, which should be on your spell page.
Liam: On your same page, your spell page.
Sam: Spell attack bonus-- Okay. 27.
Matt: 27, that's a hit. As the hand appears to his right, he's still focusing on Grog and glances over for a second and tries to do a deflection, technically he's still in his defense stance, though. So roll twice, because he does have disadvantage for attacks on him.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's good.
Sam: That was a natural 20.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: But the disadvantage, so the 27. Yes. Oh wait, now I roll for damage.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: With Bigby's Hand. I rarely do this.
Travis: That's true, yeah.
Matt: 4d8 force damage.
Sam: 4d8.
Laura: You need to do that more, that's pretty good.
Liam: Come on, Scanbo.
Sam: I'll just roll this one four times, it's fine. 17?
Matt: 17 damage.
Sam: 4d8, right?
Matt: Yep. So as Bigby's Hand pulls back with a giant fist, the fingers cracking in an arcane echo, whack! Slams into his side, he holds himself strong and actually slides about seven inches in the sand from the impact. And you can see him shake off his arm from the hit. Yeah, that hurt.
Sam: Decent, decent. And I will inspire Grog again, with a little ditty, I will say, (singing) You're a psycho killer, with a bearded face, Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog Grog. Run r-- That's fine.
Matt: All right, take your d10. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I just drop to my knees so I can aim better and right over Scanlan's shoulder, dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay, first one is a one. So that misses. Second one is a 23.
Matt: 23. You're rolling disadvantage on all these, right?
Liam: Disadvantage? For what?
Matt: For all these attacks, because he's still in his patient defense stance.
Liam: Oh shite.
Matt: So what was this roll you just got--
Liam: Well, the first one was a one and a--
Matt: Yeah, first one missed. The second one was a 23 and what did you roll?
Liam: I don't remember what it was. Sorry.
Matt: Roll again, it's fine.
Liam: All right, so this is the second attack. That is a 17.
Matt: Misses.
Liam: Third attack is a 21.
Matt: 21 misses. (groaning)
Matt: So all three daggers come at him and he just dodges one right off the head, another one he parries out of the way, and the third one he does a crescent kick-- whack!-- and knocks the dagger out of the air that spins off to the side before it returns to your belt.
Liam: And just under my breath I say, "So fucking cool." (laughter)
Matt: At the end of your turn before it's his turn he's gonna go ahead and use one action point to use Like the Wind, where he moves his speed without taking attacks of opportunity. He turns and rushes up to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm a little boy!
Matt: Starting his turn, now, he's gonna come for you, Scanlan, he's gonna go ahead and do a flurry of blows against you.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan!
Matt: So. Scanlan. First attack is 29.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Natural one, fails on the second one.
Sam: Okay, I'll use Cutting Words on the last one.
Matt: Okay, well the third one is a 20. And the fourth one is a 31.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: So three hits.
Sam: But I'm using Cutting Words on the third one to try to--
Liam: You said the last one.
Sam: No, I said the third one.
Marisha: It doesn't matter, they all suck.
Matt: Whichever one you want. So the first one hits, Cutting Words to reduce the attack on the--
Sam: On the one that was a 20.
Matt: Yeah. So go ahead and roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. Six.
Matt: Six. What's your AC?
Sam: 17.
Matt: Yeah, no, so you manage to, what do you shout at him as he's doing these punches against you?
Sam: I sing, (singing) No no no no, don't phunk with my heart! (laughter)
Matt: He cocks his head like a confused puppy for a second and the fist just hits air above your head.
Travis: You've gotta be kidding me, man.
Matt: However, you do take 14 points of bludgeoning damage from the first strike, and another 14 points of bludgeoning damage, so a total of 28 points of bludgeoning damage from two hits. Go ahead and make a dex saving throw, if you could.
Sam: Dex, dex, dex.
Taliesin: Four.
Sam: 16. Oh, plus four? Really? Okay. Oh, yeah. Saw that for some reason there's a plus four there. 20.
Matt: 20's what you need. His last hit, he's trying to kick you square in the chest and knock you off your feet, and while it hits you, it actually forces you back into Vax, and Vax holds you up and you manage to keep on your feet.
Liam: Whoa, buddy.
Sam: Oh, hi. I'm between two strong men.
Liam: Debatable.
Sam: I'm lucky Pierre.
Matt: Or no, it's Grog's turn, it's Grog's turn, because you just took yours, yeah.
Travis: It's my turn? Yeah, I just keep swinging away.
Matt: So you're gonna move up to him?
Travis: Yes, please.
Matt: Oh, and as a note, I need you to make a concentration check for both of those hits, they were 14 damage each, so, and you have Warcaster, right?
Sam: Oh, yes. Oh yes.
Matt: So go ahead and make constitution checks. Constitution. Let me look at this.
Sam: That's 11 plus two is 13, right? Not great, not great. And 14. 13 and 14.
Matt: Okay, yeah, that's gonna end concentration, Bigby's Hand off the table.
Sam: (gasps) Bigby's Hand is gone.
Matt: Too much damage for you on that one. So from the impact of the blows you just managed, the spell fizzles from your mind and the hand dissipates into the distance. All right, now, Grog.
Travis: At the end of his turn, did he go back into his defensive pose?
Matt: No.
Travis: Okay, great. Okay, so, reckless attack. That's, let's make it Great Weapon Master with the inspiration. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: You've gotta say Great Weapon Master before you roll, by the way.
Travis: Should I do it for the next one, then?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. So that one didn't.
Matt: Because it can't be like, oh, that doesn't hit, I'm not gonna do Great Weapon Master yet, you have to get the penalty before you roll.
Travis: Right, that makes sense. Right. So it was a 29, no, I mean it wasn't. What?
Matt: You said it was a 24, for that one it would've been a twenty--- it hit regardless.
Travis: Okay. Hit regardless.
Matt: So yeah. So the first one was just a regular hit.
Travis: So we'll do the third one will be Great Weapon Master. This is disadvantage. Come on, where are the damn crits? 20.
Matt: 20 misses.
Travis: Yep, okay, this is Great Weapon Master. With adva-- with the inspiraton.
Matt: Yeah. So.
Travis: 28? No, minus five. 23.
Matt: 23 just hits. (cheering)
Matt: So a regular hit, and then a Great Weapon Master hit.
Travis: Okay. Six, 11, 19 is the first one.
Matt: 19 damage, all right.
Travis: Fuck. Nine, 17, 27.
Matt: 27, got it. Both of the strikes, makes his save, makes his save.
Travis: (sputters) Not once?
Matt: It's a 12 DC, it's not a very hard DC for--
Travis: Yeah, but he's gotta roll shitty sometimes.
Matt: He probably will eventually. So anyway. As you're striking the blades at him, the pain, he's just taking the pain to his back, now, because he's facing Scanlan, and both times hack into the back of his shoulderblades and the exposed muscle you can see as the blade draws back you can see the muscle and the blood arcing after each draw of the weapon. However, he glances over his shoulder at you as you finish your second blow and at the end of your turn he's gonna use two action points to use Whirlwind of Blows--
Travis: Can I move? Oh, I already moved.
Matt: You already moved, yeah. I mean, you can keep moving if you wanted to move away.
Travis: I wanted to move in between him and Scanlan, just wrap around.
Matt: You can't move between, but you can get there if you want.
Travis: Okay, that'd be good.
Matt: Okay. So he's gonna get an attack on everyone within range of his punches, which would be you and Scanlan. That is gonna be a 26 against you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: And a natural 20 against Scanlan.
Sam: That doesn't hit. That doesn't hit. (laughter)
Matt: First to you, Grog, that is 18 points of bludgeoning damage. Halved to nine. And Scanlan, that is six, no, sorry-- 24 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Ah, that's not bad. I'll be fine.
Matt: All right. Now it's Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Oh, shit, I get to do more shit?
Travis: Where you at?
Sam: I'm fine.
Taliesin: Looking a little rough.
Sam: Fine. Monk's got nothing on me.
Matt: So last turn you missed all three on him, remember?
Liam: Oh, thanks.
Sam: So he's right next to me, he's right next to all of us. Okay. Well, I will-- he's right next to me?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: And no one's behind him. So I will just Lightning Bolt him. From right there. Can I do that?
Matt: You can, yeah. So as you're there in front, you just reach back--
Sam: Oh, I've got something in my pocket, (yells). (laughter)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: You let the lightning out of the bottle.
Matt: What's the DC? I imagine this was out of your--
Sam: Is this my spell DC? So 19.
Matt: 19 with the hand cone, so you were like, hup, yaaaa!
Sam: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: 19.
Taliesin: Need some d6's, man?
Matt: He's going to use another of his legendary resistances to make the save. And he has evasion, which means dex save for half, he gets no damage on his success, so as you do Lightning Bolt, he literally just goes into the splits as the bolt streaks over his head.
Liam: He Van Damme'd it!
Matt: Slams one of the nearby pillars, and as you realize that, you look down at him as he squeezes his legs back together and lands right back on his feet.
Will: Oh, god. He took no Van Damme-age. (laughter)
Sam: He's fast as lightning. Damn it.
Matt: Is that your turn?
Sam: I mean, that's all I can do. You know what, I'll use my bonus action to heal myself a bit.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: I'll use Healing Word on myself at third level. So that's two, 3d4 plus five, right? Ten, ten plus five. Ten plus five. Okay, 15. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, I'll take that.
Matt: Sure, go for it. All right, that ends your turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: You might already know this, but I'm wearing my Cloak of Displacement, so he should be at disadvantage to hit me.
Matt: Good to know going forward.
Liam: Yeah, thanks. I want to use one action to grab Scanlan by his purple shirt and rip him and pull him away.
Matt: That's gonna be your action.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: So you won't have any attacks this round.
Liam: With Boots of Haste on?
Matt: In order to get the additional, well, actually no, you would get one attack from the haste. You would. Your offhand attack you don't get unless you're doing an attack action, so you get one attack.
Liam: That's fine, that's fine, I rip him, I yank him away and throw the little bugger.
Sam: As I fly through the air, I'm looking up to see if Kashaw's putting any moves on Keyleth or anything.
Will: Great fight, man!
Marisha: (screaming)
Will: Great fight!
Marisha: Oh god!
Liam: And then throw a dagger past Grog at him. For-- not that great. 19.
Matt: 19?
Liam: 19, that's it.
Matt: Misses, yeah.
Liam: Okay, so I threw him, I threw a dagger and missed, and I just juke to the right and get behind Grog.
Matt: Okay. So move there. At the end of your turn, he's gonna use his last action point to do an unarmed attack against Grog. That's gonna be a 21?
Travis: Pretty sure.
Matt: It hits? Okay.
Marisha: Yeah, pretty sure.
Matt: You take ten points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved to five.
Matt: Half. He's gonna use another ki point to, I need you to make a constitution save.
Travis: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17. As he turns back and slams his fist right in the center of your clavicle, you feel a crack in the sternum and your whole body, all your muscles just seize up and you are currently stunned from a stunning strike until the end of his next turn.
Liam: We got this, guys.
Matt: However, it's now his next turn.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: But you're still stunned. He is now going to, since you don't have a threat to him, he's going to swing around, jump between the two of them, and he's gonna do a flurry of blows, two punches against each of you. Against Scanlan, that's a 17?
Sam: That's my armor class, 17.
Matt: That hits, okay. Second one is a 17 again.
Sam: Can I use my Cutting Words on that one?
Matt: Do you have any more uses of your bardic inspiration?
Sam: It's once per turn.
Matt: You have a limited number of bardic inspirations per short rest that you can use, and you've used quite a few this battle.
Sam: Oh, that's considered a bardic inspiration, my Cutting Words?
Matt: Yeah, you use one of those dice to reduce the damage. You've inspired at least--
Liam: Me once, Grog once--
Matt: Grog twice now.
Sam: It says, bardic inspiration, no that's not it, is it? 1d10, is that, five?
Taliesin: Five, you have five of those.
Matt: So this would be your last one.
Sam: Okay, I'm using it.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Sam: It's a d10, yeah?
Taliesin: Yeah. Although to be fair, it doesn't matter what you roll.
Matt: It doesn't matter what you roll, you're still.
Sam: Hey, I rolled a six.
Matt: Okay, so one of the attacks, as he's coming for you, he hits you once, and as he rears back for another kick to the side of your head, you shout--
Sam: Don't hit me, I'm a little boy! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough pause for you to duck out of the way. However, he uses that inertia to spin back on Vax for a 27.
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: And a 21.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So first one Uncanny Dodge, second one full brunt.
Matt: So Scanlan, you take nine points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Not bad.
Matt: Vex, you take, ah--
Liam: I'm Vax.
Matt: Sorry, Vax. Every now and then.
Liam: Every time.
Matt: 14 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half.
Liam: Seven. Yeah.
Matt: And the other one is nine points.
Liam: Nine points.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: So a total of 16 points of damage. He's going to use a ki point again, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Okay. It's gonna be great. 14.
Matt: 14. Towards the end of his turn, Grog's stun shifts off of him, you feel your muscles tense up and you almost fall to your knees as your whole body seizes, the muscles just lock in place. All righty. Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: I'm gonna take Craven Edge and I'm gonna stab him into the sand. And I'm gonna take out the Firebrand Warhammer instead.
Matt: Okay. So you drop the weapon for free, you pull out the fire hammer and it bursts into flame in your hands as you wield it. As you drop Craven Edge, you hear this voice scream in the back of your head, "You fool! This fight is ours!" As the hammer lights up, you just feel this cold dread run down your spine. I need you to make a will saving throw. A wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Ten?
Matt: Ten? You can't possibly let that blade go away, and you drop the hammer and pick up Craven Edge once more. This is the true weapon of a warrior.
Travis: You're right, it is. (laughter)
Matt: And you are not gonna relinquish it. There is no way you could let go of this blade.
Travis: No way at all. Reckless attack on all three swings.
Matt: Okay. The process of picking it up, we'll say would take away your bonus action. So you get two attacks.
Travis: 14. That sucks. That's better. 27.
Matt: Second one hits.
Travis: Okay. Ow. Six, 11, 19.
Matt: 19, all righty. This time as the hammer falls to the ground the flames go out and Craven Edge streaks again, no, makes his saving throw. As it hits him, he stops for a second, puts his hands together. I need you to make another wisdom saving throw. (dramatic music cue)
Will: Ooh, we're Star Trek fighting.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Your vision goes dark as all the sight around you goes to black and the entire vicinity of this fades except for the Earthbreaker before you, just staring at you in this darkness. Then he steps towards you, one step, second step, and while his mouth doesn't move, you can hear his voice piercing into your head that just says, "Grog. You are stronger than this thing that binds you. Where do you find your strength?"
Travis: In my friends.
Matt: The darkness around you immediately shatters and you can see now your friends off to the side, keeping their weapons ready. The entirety of Groon's posture has dropped, and he just bows before you. (cheering)
Mary: Yes! Yes!
Will: Wow.
Matt: At this point, he takes a moment and closes his eyes, and you can see there's this inner glow in his chest, and a bunch of his wounds heal up in but an instant. And as those wounds leave these scars, he looks across the body. "I will wear these with pride."
Sam: (strained) So will I. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, fuck. Zahra! Did you see how awesome that was? I was really good.
Mary: That was wonder-- you still have a little sand right there.
Matt: At this point, he, Groon's not even looking at you guys, still looking at Grog, he goes, "You need not the strength of Vasselheim to aid you, nor is that strength any we have to give. What you need can be found, recovered, reborn. I can see in your face the path is already lying before you. I know of two. The rest you must find yourself. A gift from Kord himself to this mortal plane, carved from the corpse of the earth primordial titan that fell on this continent in the first war. These Titanstone Knuckles were a symbol of power and leadership for generations here in Vasselheim until the last known keeper was slain 200 years ago, the gauntlets taken. I know not of their whereabouts. The other, leathers adorned by the champion of the Raven Queen. This champion's tomb has since come to ruin, sunken beneath a lake to the west of here known as the Marrowglade Loch. Within that tomb lies the Deathwalker's Ward. Now go. You've found your strength. You know your path. I can help you no further." He turns around, walks back to the center of the sand, and just sits back down in the same pose and position he was in when you entered.
Laura: He's so fucking cool.
Travis: Scanlan. Vax.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Do as I do.
Liam: Yep.
Travis: And I bow.
Liam: (strained noise)
Sam: I bow as well.
Travis: And I walk backwards, still facing him to the edge of the pit, and I hoist Vax up.
Liam: (garbled yell)
Travis: And I throw Scanlan up.
Sam: Oh fuck!
Travis: Climb out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Keyleth runs over to Vax and just hugs him super fast and gives him a peck on the mouth.
Liam: Gently!
Marisha: And says, that was incredible. That was incredible.
Sam: I look over at Zahra.
Mary: That was pretty good, darling. We'll talk later. It really was. It was very good.
Marisha: Are you okay? Do you need healing?
Liam: I'm okay.
Laura: (whispers) Heal him.
Marisha: I give him another hug and give him a Cure Wounds, level three.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Does it also make you sober?
Matt: No.
Liam: No.
Mary: Potions have nothing to do with clearing alcohol away?
Laura: No.
Matt: There's a difference between the healing and flushing one's system.
Liam: Wait, wait, (vomiting noises) I'm ready.
Laura: We should leave.
Travis: I don't know about you, but I think we got all the answers we needed.
Matt: Make a dexterity save, Keyleth. (laughter)
Taliesin: You've had this coming. You so had this coming.
Marisha: I heal you for 12 points. I heal you 12, and then that's actually not bad. Dexterity save?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: As you see his cheeks fill with bile and liquid of your previous venture at the bar, you instinctually, as the mighty speed and reaction of an air-based Ashari druid, dodge out of the way as he spatters the stonework on the outside of this--
Marisha: I hold his hair back a little bit. His long black hair.
Matt: Two of the monks immediately rush forward with towels out of seemingly nowhere and start quickly cleaning it up while staring at you very, very angrily.
Laura: Sorry, we'll leave.
Liam: Come on, it was their loincloths, come on.
Travis: Apologies, apologies. We should leave now.
Marisha: I just look at them and I'm like, he got hit in the gut a few times.
Laura: He did, actually.
Marisha: We're like a mile high, the oxygen's thin here, it's tough.
Laura: We should go.
Marisha: All right, we should go.
Liam: And as Keyleth helps me away, I say to Kord, it was an honor, thank you.
Laura: Kord? Groon?
Liam: Whatever his name is. (laughter)
Laura: Or to the god that is--
Matt: Hey, this is a place where I think either would work. All right. As you guys make your way outside of the Trial Forge, we'll go ahead and leave today's venture for now-- (yelling)
Matt: -- we'll return next week, return next week to pick up this next venture and see where you guys go from there. So, well done, guys. And thank you Will and Mary for joining us. (cheering)
Mary: Thank you for having us!
Matt: For a couple episodes, yeah.
Liam: What a fun episode.
Matt: Yeah guys, well done everyone.
Will: Thank you.
Marisha: I saw someone on twitter say that this was like our Cheers episode, and I agree. (laughter)
Marisha: I agree with whoever said that.
Mary: Keyleth!
Will: Vasselheim  where everybody knows your name.
Mary: Actually, it would be Grog. Grog walks in the room, everybody goes Grog!
Laura: Hey, come see us in Portland.
Matt: Yeah, come see us in Portland, we'll be there tomorrow, getting there tomorrow but we'll be there for Saturday and Sunday, come see us, come, y'know, bring your stories, we'd love to meet you.
Laura: Come say hi. It looks like the posters are gone, but there's still some signed ones left if you want.
Matt: This means we'll just have to put more up.
Travis: Come by any time, we have a one-hour panel, we have a one-hour group signing, and we're at tables the rest of the time, so just come find us anytime during the day.
Marisha: And if you can't make it to Portland, our panel will be on on Saturday on Wizard World's twitch.
Matt: Yes, it should be. All right, guys, we'll see you next week. Have a wonderful, wonderful weekend, and is it Thursday yet? (cheering)

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Poké Ball! Right? It's like a Pokémon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Poké Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.
Laura: Taliesin, you're so loud!
Matt: Taliesin, quiet!
Sam: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus. (laughter)
Travis: Stop masturbating during the announcements.
Laura: It's so loud. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I think I hit my microphone.
Sam: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.
Matt: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.
Ashley: You're welcome!
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word-- as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.
Sam: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.
Travis: And they've got a power crate coming out.
Laura: David Bowie! Labyrinth!
Travis: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Laura: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.
Liam: It was already Periscoped.
Laura: Oh, that's true. Never mind.
Matt: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?
Liam: What's in the box?
Ashley: (singing) A dick in a box.
Matt: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on-- that's a whole different box service.
Marisha: If there is, you should call your local post office. (laughter)
Matt: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.
Travis: Absolutely.
Matt: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.
Matt: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?
Laura: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.
Liam: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.
Liam: It's a good one, though.
Travis: It's a good one?
Liam: Yeah, I went to that one.
Travis: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!
Matt: That's pretty slick, actually.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. "Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.
Sam: I think I play a synth. And there you go.
Liam: There you go. That's it.
Sam: Good plug.
Marisha: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.
Laura: Aw, that's awesome!
Matt: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?
Travis: Let's do this.
Marisha: I don't want to die.
Matt: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Sam: Nothing's happening.
Matt: No intro.
Sam: Nothing's happening. (laughter)
Sam: Wait! Let's act it out.
Matt: Act out the intro?
Marisha: Okay! (imitating music)
Travis: (growls)
Marisha: (swishing sound effects)
Sam: Taliesin, do something!
Liam: Shoot from your screen!
Laura: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!
Liam: Then you got hit by a wang!
Laura: Oh, you fall over!
Matt: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.
Laura: She's healing him.
Ashley: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!
Matt: And it got weird.
Ashley: Had to add it.
Matt: And now it swings--
Liam: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!
Laura: Pew pew!
Liam: And I'll go oh!
Laura: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.
Travis: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!
Laura: And then I shoot another one at you! [actual intro plays]
Matt: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight. (laughter)
Matt: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!
Matt: What else am I going to say?
Liam: Why the dramatic pauses?
Matt: Because it's fun.
Travis: You used the word 'somehow'.
Matt: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?
Sam: We have so many things that we need to do!
Matt: Where do we begin?
Sam: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.
Laura: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.
Sam: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.
Taliesin: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.
Laura: Is there, how would you do that?
Liam: How much time do you need, Perce?
Taliesin: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?
Matt: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but--
Laura: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?
Matt: You can check around.
Taliesin: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.
Matt: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can we help him at all?
Matt: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a six.
Laura: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers--
Laura: He took three hours doing that?!
Matt: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.
Matt: How big a spring?
Taliesin: I would say, how tall is this dragon?
Matt: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.
Taliesin: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.
Matt: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.
Taliesin: That'll be perfect.
Matt: But that's success or fail.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?
Liam: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.
Sam: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter. (laughter)
Sam: Just give it a rest.
Liam: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We have a rod.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.
Sam: We could use it in some way.
Liam: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.
Sam: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!
Liam: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.
Sam: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!
Liam: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!
Sam: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.
Liam: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told--
Sam: Is this about Kaylie again?
Liam: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.
Sam: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.
Liam: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.
Sam: I'm glad to be with you.
Liam: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.
Sam: Six points of damage. (laughter)
Matt: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.
Sam: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?
Laura: I'm an expert on dragons.
Sam: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.
Laura: What do you mean?
Sam: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.
Travis: Cows have eight stomachs?
Marisha: They've got like two or three.
Laura: Shut up! 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.
Laura: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?
Matt: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.
Sam: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.
Matt: That would be really bad.
Liam: Don't roll a one!
Ashley: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.
Liam: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.
Laura: It would be instantaneous, at least.
Sam: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.
Laura: The armor? That I took from him?
Liam: Yes, my armor. She has it.
Laura: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you next to me now?
Liam: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.
Laura: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.
Sam: Is that your primary armor?
Laura: It is.
Sam: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?
Laura: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.
Sam: We could swap armor.
Laura: You think your little armor will fit me.
Sam: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.
Laura: What kind of armor do you have?
Sam: I have cold snap leather armor.
Laura: Which is cold resistant?
Sam: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.
Laura: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.
Matt: So it's armor plus two.
Liam: It's better overall.
Laura: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.
Sam: Can we do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Strip on down there, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, ladies first!
Laura: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.
Sam: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?
Laura: There's no time for that.
Sam: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little. (laughter)
Liam: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.
Laura: I try really hard not to start laughing.
Sam: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?
Laura: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?
Liam: Yeah, I leave the room.
Laura: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.
Matt: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.
Laura: What color is it? Is it beautiful?
Matt: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.
Laura: Does it match my storm bow?
Matt: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Laura: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?
Matt: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.
Sam: Oh, these are like C-cups up here. (laughter)
Matt: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.
Sam: Oh! They went down.
Matt: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.
Sam: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.
Laura: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you going to be up close and personal with him?
Sam: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.
Laura: Well yes, but.
Sam: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!
Laura: This was a really stupid-- why did I give that up?
Sam: I'm very charming.
Laura: Now you're not here?
Liam: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?
Laura: Are you planning on doing something?
Sam: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.
Laura: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.
Ashley: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.
Liam: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?
Matt: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.
Liam: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!
Taliesin: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?
Liam: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?
Taliesin: Oh yes. This is quite a project.
Liam: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?
Taliesin: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.
Liam: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?
Taliesin: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.
Liam: It's just in case.
Taliesin: It's quite a piece.
Liam: Good luck today.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Good luck tomorrow.
Taliesin: I am down to my normal sword now.
Laura: Can I be talking to Zanror?
Marisha: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.
Matt: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.
Laura: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him. MATT "Oh, good to see you."
Marisha: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "This for me?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Looks to Worra.
Marisha: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?"
Marisha: It would.
Matt: And he just downs it all in one big chug. "Thanks."
Laura: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?
Matt: "I have, aye."
Laura: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?
Matt: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out."
Laura: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?
Matt: He stops for a second. "Maybe."
Laura: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?
Matt: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now."
Laura: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?
Matt: "Huh."
Laura: Dragons are vain.
Matt: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him."
Laura: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.
Matt: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "That was our intent."
Marisha: We might be able to do one better.
Laura: A dragon's lair is not--
Marisha: Especially a black dragon's lair.
Laura: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.
Matt: "Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground."
Laura: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?
Matt: "How do you intend to do that?"
Laura: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.
Matt: "Really."
Laura: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?
Marisha: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.
Matt: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground-- well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide."
Laura: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.
Marisha: About that time I light up my hands.
Matt: "That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds."
Marisha: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.
Matt: "I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?"
Marisha: About that time I walk over to the-- is there a stone wall in here?
Matt: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.
Marisha: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.
Laura: And now turn it back, Keyleth.
Marisha: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.
Matt: All right. Let me look this up real fast.
Marisha: See? Magic. (laughter)
Marisha: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.
Laura: Ah? Ah? No strings!
Marisha: Where is it, where is it?
Matt: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, "So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?"
Marisha: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.
Laura: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.
Marisha: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?
Ashley: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!
Sam: Pillow fight! (laughter)
Liam: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!
Matt: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."
Laura: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.
Marisha: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.
Matt: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?
Marisha: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.
Sam: Whatever your name is.
Matt: That one, ohmygod.
Marisha: And trap him in.
Matt: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.
Marisha: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.
Matt: "All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but--"
Marisha: Fantastic.
Matt: "Want us to put them at your aid?"
Marisha: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.
Laura: Surprise.
Marisha: Without being seen.
Matt: "Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?"
Laura: Very lightly.
Marisha: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.
Laura: It was pretty great.
Marisha: It worked well.
Matt: "I think we'll take our chances above ground, please."
Laura: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?
Matt: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself."
Laura: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?
Matt: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground."
Marisha: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.
Matt: "And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?"
Laura: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.
Marisha: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!
Matt: "I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)
Laura: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.
Matt: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."
Laura: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.
Matt: "So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?"
Marisha: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.
Matt: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that."
Marisha: We would appreciate that, actually.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.
Matt: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?"
Laura: Some gold to give.
Matt: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they--
Marisha: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?
Matt: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm."
Marisha: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.
Laura: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.
Liam: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.
Matt: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up. (laughter)
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts walking with him.
Laura: So we really need to dig a trench.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.
Laura: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.
Marisha: How far is it?
Matt: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.
Marisha: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?
Matt: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.
Matt: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability--
Laura: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.
Matt: I'll say we can certainly give you--
Laura: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?
Matt: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very-- are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.
Liam: That was all knowledge in your head.
Laura: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!
Marisha: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?
Laura: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.
Marisha: Right. Make it look real good. Right.
Travis: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?
Matt: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that--
Travis: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.
Matt: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there."
Travis: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?
Matt: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."
Travis: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?
Laura: I don't know if I wrote it down.
Sam: I wrote it down.
Travis: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.
Matt: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.
Marisha: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.
Travis: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?
Matt: Do you remember her name?
Travis: Are you asking me?
Marisha: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.
Sam: Maybe he never told us her name.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.
Travis: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?
Matt: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--
Travis: Any squiggles that look familiar?
Matt: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded--
Travis: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?
Matt: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!"
Travis: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.
Matt: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.
Travis: Put your hand back inside.
Matt: The hand retracts as you look over.
Travis: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.
Matt: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds." And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.
Travis: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.
Matt: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just--"
Travis: My name is Lord Grog.
Matt: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.
Travis: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.
Matt: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.
Travis: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.
Matt: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.
Travis: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?
Matt: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all."
Travis: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.
Matt: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done--" At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes-- "Did I hear food and drink?"
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."
Travis: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just--
Matt: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend."
Travis: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.
Matt: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously-- (yelling)
Travis: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--
Laura: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.
Liam: I was frozen in ice. That guy!
Travis: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!
Matt: He looks pretty wrecked right now.
Laura: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!
Travis: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.
Matt: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."
Travis: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?
Matt: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm starving." And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.
Travis: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.
Matt: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven! Definitely seven!"
Travis: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--, why are you in here, who put you in here?
Matt: "I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook."
Travis: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?
Matt: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you--
Travis: Hey! Orn, chill!
Matt: "But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections--"
Travis: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not--
Matt: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can--"
Travis: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?
Matt: "Few months?"
Travis: You got any loved ones there?
Matt: "Why?"
Travis: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.
Matt: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind."
Travis: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?
Matt: You-- make an investigation check.
Travis: Fuck me.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead! (laughter)
Travis: Minus two for a 17!
Matt: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just--
Travis: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.
Travis: (laughs) Forks, yeah.
Matt: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.
Travis: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I kick him harder.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.
Matt: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.
Travis: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?
Matt: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.
Travis: Low perception.
Matt: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.
Travis: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?
Matt: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way."
Travis: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.
Matt: "I can hear you!"
Travis: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.
Matt: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.
Travis: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.
Matt: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.
Travis: Female elven, or is this female--
Liam: The daughter.
Travis: Who said three?
Matt: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).
Travis: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?
Matt: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."
Travis: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.
Matt: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.
Travis: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?
Matt: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.
Travis: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.
Matt: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"
Travis: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.
Matt: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.
Travis: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?
Matt: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their-- stopped their arguing."
Travis: You're-- you're farm folk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Do you have any family?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: What are their names?
Matt: "There's my father Reginald."
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.
Matt: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?"
Travis: No, I-- we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.
Matt: And you hear a voice down the way say, "Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like, "Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"
Travis: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?
Matt: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.
Liam: Six, six, six.
Matt: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.
Travis: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?
Matt: "Old Davin. What's your name?"
Travis: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.
Matt: "Lord Grog."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Lord of?"
Travis: The Vales of Strongjaw.
Matt: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?"
Travis: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?
Matt: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.
Travis: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.
Matt: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as--
Travis: I take the other half and start trying to get Da-- what was his name?
Matt: Old Davin.
Travis: Old, I like old.
Laura: Have we met Old Davin?
Matt: You have not met Old Davin, no.
Travis: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?
Matt: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.
Travis: Is that magic?
Matt: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."
Travis: Yeah, it does.
Matt: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people."
Travis: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.
Matt: "Much worse, say I."
Travis: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?
Matt: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."
Travis: Bloodvine ale?
Matt: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite."
Travis: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?
Matt: "Oh, that kills, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.
Matt: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them."
Travis: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.
Matt: "Ah, that's not my preference."
Travis: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.
Matt: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword."
Travis: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?
Matt: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the-- about a minute later, he's sitting there going, "Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!-- it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you pull it open.
Travis: Before I give you this sword--
Matt: "Aye?"
Travis: --are you up for the fight of your life?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!
Liam: Go Tarv, go Tarv.
Matt: He seems a little--
Sam: Scottish. (laughter)
Matt: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.
Travis: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?
Matt: "Sure. Why not?"
Travis: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.
Matt: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?"
Travis: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.
Matt: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.
Travis: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?
Matt: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing. (Skype noise)
Matt: There goes Taliesin.
Travis: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.
Matt: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison." (coughs) (Skype rings)
Liam: Oh, get him, get him!
Laura: Quick, answer it!
Liam: Stupid tinkerer.
Sam: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Liam: Percival and his technology.
Matt: There we go. Welcome back.
Laura: Hi Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?
Matt: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "If we could find that, maybe I can help you."
Travis: That makes sense.
Matt: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry."
Travis: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?"
Matt: "Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish."
Travis: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.
Matt: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here."
Travis: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.
Sam: He's not.
Matt: "Two."
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Travis: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.
Matt: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."
Travis: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.
Matt: Three. Seems legit. (laughter)
Travis: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.
Matt: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off." And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.
Laura: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.
Travis: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)
Matt: "They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it."
Travis: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.
Matt: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by."
Travis: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.
Matt: "Certainly."
Travis: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.
Matt: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."
Travis: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?
Sam: Can we?
Matt: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's--
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What's up, Grog?
Travis: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?
Liam: You found Dabney Coleman?
Laura: Dabdrist Cojo?
Travis: It's Abjurist Noja.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.
Travis: Yeah, we're like really important.
Marisha: Yeah, we know a lot of people.
Travis: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--
Taliesin: I don't recall this person.
Travis: You don't?
Marisha: Weren't you with us, Percy?
Matt: Yeah, Percy met him.
Taliesin: Was I?
Marisha: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?
Taliesin: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.
Marisha: Yeah, he's very nice.
Travis: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?
Marisha: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.
Liam: Keyleth, where are you right now?
Marisha: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.
Laura: Are you with us, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Pike's with us.
Ashley: I'm done attuning?
Matt: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.
Ashley: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.
Laura: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?
Ashley: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.
Sam: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.
Travis: Yes. The cube is always welcome.
Liam: My. Goodness. Gracious.
Travis: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.
Liam: A what?
Travis: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?
Matt: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.
Travis: I'm over by this thing balalalala.
Sam: Excellent description, I'm on my way.
Matt: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Really?
Matt: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.
Marisha: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!
Sam: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?
Matt: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the door contraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing." Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) "I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.
Laura: Search around, help him search!
Travis: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?
Matt: "Anything intact, really."
Travis: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Better. 17.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that--
Sam: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?
Matt: "You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch..."
Sam: Do you know what they are?
Matt: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size."
Sam: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.
Matt: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective."
Sam: Thank you so, so much.
Travis: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?
Matt: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he makes a shape of about that big.
Sam: So teeny-tiny.
Matt: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size."
Travis: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Sam: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?
Matt: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Should've took those from the prison.
Matt: "I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?"
Sam: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.
Matt: So here are your potions.
Travis: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?
Matt: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?"
Travis: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.
Matt: "That's... unsettling. That's very unsettling."
Travis: Yeah, among other things.
Matt: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.
Travis: No long card coming? (laughs)
Matt: No.
Travis: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.
Marisha: Old? (laughs)
Matt: "I'm only 48, but thank you."
Travis: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?
Sam: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were. (laughter)
Matt: "It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can."
Sam: Should you get-- should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?
Travis: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?
Matt: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."
Sam: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?
Matt: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately."
Travis: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?
Matt: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.
Marisha: Yeah. About that.
Matt: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.
Marisha: Yeah, figured that much.
Matt: He has peaced.
Travis: He left.
Matt: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.
Sam: I thought you had him.
Travis: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?
Sam: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.
Travis: I really can't argue with that. (laughter)
Travis: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?
Matt: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.
Laura: Oh god, roll really good.
Sam: 22.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these--
Travis: I am sorry.
Matt: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"
Travis: Oh, it's like seven feet.
Matt: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can."
Travis: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.
Sam: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?
Matt: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop."
Travis: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?
Matt: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my--" (laughs)
Sam: I'm familiar with that.
Travis: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.
Liam: Like Claymation.
Travis: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.
Sam: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.
Matt: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help."
Sam: Good night.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.
Sam: Oh. All right.
Travis: We'll come get you later tonight.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.
Laura: She's super busy, brother!
Liam: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.
Laura: So busy.
Liam: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to-- (Skype noise)
Sam: God dammit.
Liam: What's that sound?
Marisha: So many noises happening.
Liam: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender--
Marisha: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might--
Liam: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.
Laura: (gagging)
Liam: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?
Marisha: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.
Liam: Okay. Do I say like, slow?
Marisha: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.
Liam: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?
Marisha: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Is that still there?
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.
Laura: Including your grandad!
Marisha: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.
Liam: Great, well, I'll take that.
Marisha: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.
Sam: It might have destroyed the house.
Marisha: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.
Liam: Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? (Skype noises)
Liam: What is that?
Marisha: This is the weirdest field. (Taliesin makes noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: Percy. Tinker quietly, please. (Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.
Taliesin: I can't even see you guys, are you like?
Laura: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--
Liam: Okay, really quickly.
Laura: Okay. Well, at least he started.
Marisha: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa--
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: Continue, please.
Liam: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?
Marisha: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.
Liam: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But. And I take her by the hand.
Liam: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: What are you talking about?
Liam: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't--
Marisha: When you left me, right--
Liam: --wasn't fair.
Marisha: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: That's it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--
Liam: This is awful, all of it is awful.
Marisha: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?
Marisha: Vax. Vex. Vex.
Laura: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.
Marisha: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey. I love you a whole lot.
Laura: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?
Marisha: I know who I'm talking to.
Liam: Really similar.
Sam: She's the ranger.
Ashley: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?
Marisha: Who? Vax? Oh.
Ashley: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?
Laura: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?
Matt: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.
Laura: Um, hey.
Liam: What?
Laura: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle--
Liam: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?
Laura: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?
Liam: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.
Laura: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?
Marisha: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?
Matt: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?
Matt: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.
Taliesin: Yeah. 24. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, baby.
Sam: No one can help him on these things?
Laura: We're not there.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.
Travis: With dex?
Matt: This is also with dex, yeah.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: 23?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So yeah, that's right, 23.
Matt: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.
Taliesin: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?
Matt: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.
Laura: Did he work all the way through the night?
Matt: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.
Taliesin: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay, good.
Matt: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.
Laura: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!
Sam: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.
Matt: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys. [break]
Matt: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?
Marisha: I dig a trench.
Matt: All right, so you dig the trench.
Marisha: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.
Laura: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.
Liam: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.
Marisha: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.
Matt: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.
Marisha: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do--
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.
Liam: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.
Matt: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.
Laura: You're speaking my language.
Ashley: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.
Laura: How many arrows can you do that do?
Ashley: I think just one.
Sam: Matt's checking his e-mail.
Matt: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or--
Marisha: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.
Ashley: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.
Matt: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.
Laura: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.
Marisha: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?
Matt: You can choose explosive runes--
Ashley: An explosive rune.
Marisha: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.
Matt: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.
Laura: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.
Matt: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.
Ashley: So can we hide it in the loot?
Matt: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.
Ashley: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.
Matt: Okay, and what's your trigger?
Ashley: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.
Matt: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would be, if a creature--
Liam: Pulls the glyph up?
Matt: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?
Sam: Specific.
Ashley: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.
Laura: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?
Matt: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So if it flies--
Matt: If it flies 20 feet above it?
Laura: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.
Matt: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature--
Ashley: So it can't be if he just touches it?
Matt: You could do that, yeah.
Laura: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.
Ashley: If he tries to leave.
Matt: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.
Ashley: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.
Matt: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?
Ashley: I want to do cold damage.
Laura: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it have any weaknesses?
Matt: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.
Laura: It has no weaknesses.
Matt: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.
Travis: Make it acid damage. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to go cold damage.
Matt: Cold damage. All righty.
Laura: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.
Liam: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.
Matt: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 17.
Marisha: If we lose Fassbender--
Liam: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.
Laura: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?
Marisha: I can. Can I do that? Right now?
Matt: Using what?
Marisha: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains--
Laura: Ready to go (squishing).
Matt: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?
Laura: Two big ones?
Matt: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.
Laura: All right. These are heavy.
Marisha: Okay, ready? On my go.
Laura: Wait, where are we putting it?
Marisha: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--
Laura: You take left. I'll take right.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ready?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.
Laura: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?
Liam: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.
Liam: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.
Laura: Just ten.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.
Matt: About how long?
Liam: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--
Marisha: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.
Matt: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Marisha: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.
Matt: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.
Marisha: Negative. I will cast--
Laura: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?
Liam: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.
Marisha: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.
Matt: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.
Sam: We have to cover this up.
Liam: With dirt?
Marisha: And treasure.
Matt: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.
Liam: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?
Marisha: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on--
Matt: Stone Shape does not--
Marisha: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?
Matt: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the--
Marisha: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.
Matt: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.
Marisha: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.
Liam: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.
Marisha: Yeah! Isn't that cool?
Matt: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.
Marisha: It's okay. It's cool.
Liam: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust. (laughter)
Sam: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?
Matt: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: It's got a little button on the side.
Sam: Button on the side? Cool.
Taliesin: Like a Tron lightbike.
Sam: I love it.
Laura: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?
Liam: As soon as he finishes it.
Marisha: Yeah, we should set the stage.
Taliesin: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.
Marisha: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.
Taliesin: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.
Marisha: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Laura: Why this creepy music?
Sam: It's random, guys.
Ashley: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?
Laura: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16?
Marisha: No, sorry. 15.
Matt: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.
Laura: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.
Matt: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?
Laura: Right? He can't lay under the trap.
Sam: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?
Marisha: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers--
Taliesin: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.
Matt: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?
Marisha: Go ranger, go ranger, go!
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose."
Sam: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?
Laura: You want to sing me some inspiration?
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure, what do you want to sing?
Sam: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you-- also do-- (laughter)
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed--
Laura: Little Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been-- (crash)
Matt: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.
Laura: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and--
Matt: Place it onto it?
Laura: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.
Ashley: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?
Matt: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?
Matt: Umbrasyl, yes.
Laura: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?
Matt: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?
Laura: Would that be all right with you, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?
Travis: I want that head.
Laura: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.
Travis: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.
Laura: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.
Travis: I don't have the head.
Laura: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.
Travis: What's the head for?
Laura: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.
Travis: What if you sacrifice me?
Laura: Well, what?
Travis: Yeah, use me as bait!
Sam: We'd have to chop off your head.
Marisha: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.
Travis: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.
Marisha: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.
Sam: What if he bites and kills you?
Travis: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.
Sam: Nope.
Travis: Pretty sure that's true.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: Do you want to be bait, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Does that sound fun to you, or--
Laura: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!
Sam: Wow, that's a powerful look.
Travis: I want it back.
Ashley: You'll get it back.
Travis: You better promise.
Laura: I promise.
Travis: All right. You can have it.
Ashley: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.
Travis: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!
Ashley: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.
Travis: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?
Taliesin: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.
Matt: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?
Sam: Where are we hiding?
Laura: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?
Marisha: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)
Taliesin: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.
Marisha: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?
Matt: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.
Sam: You know, that box of trees that you have.
Ashley: Are we near any structures or any houses?
Matt: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.
Laura: And the trench is all around that?
Matt: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?
Laura: They are covered.
Matt: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?
Marisha: Far away.
Laura: There, on the other side?
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Make it 50 feet at the most.
Marisha: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.
Travis: You want them to get there in one turn, right?
Laura: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.
Matt: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.
Marisha: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.
Matt: You want them to just burst out, then?
Marisha: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin--
Matt: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.
Marisha: I don't know what that means.
Travis: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.
Matt: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?
Marisha: Unless you guys think it would be better?
Laura: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.
Travis: I was confused.
Marisha: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.
Sam: In your mind, so many things--
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?
Laura: We need to have a feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no surprise, motherfucker?
Matt: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.
Liam: So it's not a finesse weapon.
Matt: A longsword, I believe, is strength.
Taliesin: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.
Marisha: It has been used?
Taliesin: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.
Sam: Aloha.
Taliesin: Aloha!
Liam: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.
Taliesin: There's a beautiful view out this window.
Liam: Just want to know in advance.
Matt: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?
Taliesin: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but-- I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or--
Sam: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.
Matt: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.
Liam: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use this?
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?
Laura: Instead of shooting arrows?
Liam: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he just does it until you tell him to stop.
Marisha: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes--
Matt: Well, it takes an action to--
Marisha: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?
Taliesin: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?
Liam: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.
Sam: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?
Matt: Diminution.
Sam: Diminution? To good old Vax here.
Liam: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.
Laura: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?
Marisha: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.
Liam: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.
Marisha: Well, depends on when you're going in.
Sam: You don't know. Give it to Vex.
Marisha: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.
Liam: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.
Marisha: That's so trite.
Sam: We were born to do this!
Laura: Does it have to be attuned?
Matt: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.
Laura: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.
Liam: All right, I'll wear it.
Taliesin: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.
Liam: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: And the haste will Haste you.
Taliesin: What does the cloak do, again?
Matt: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.
Travis: I might take that.
Marisha: The cloak?
Travis: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.
Sam: You're going to lose your beard!
Travis: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.
Matt: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.
Travis: What? Wait! Really?
Matt: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.
Travis: Never mind, no. Nope.
Matt: Because your constitution will go down without it.
Laura: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on--
Marisha: What do those do?
Laura: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.
Liam: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.
Laura: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.
Matt: Boots of Haste?
Marisha: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.
Sam: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!
Matt: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?
Sam: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?
Marisha: The mayor's? The big mansion.
Sam: Whatever that place is called.
Marisha: The Margrave's house.
Matt: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.
Marisha: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.
Sam: You're going to do two feasts?
Marisha: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids--
Laura: And Abjurist Noja.
Travis: And Old Davin.
Liam: And his wife.
Marisha: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?
Ashley: Are there any magic-users in the room?
Travis: Magic-users or clerics.
Marisha: Magic-users or clerics.
Travis: Abjurist and Old Davin included.
Matt: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.
Laura: We need to sleep.
Matt: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?
Marisha: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?
Travis: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?
Ashley: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.
Laura: Will that last for 24 hours?
Ashley: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.
Matt: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.
Sam: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?
Marisha: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear--
Matt: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.
Travis: 14? That's not bad.
Marisha: 14 from me.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.
Travis: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?
Ashley: Say it one more time.
Travis: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.
Ashley: Do you want to have it for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.
Ashley: Sure.
Marisha: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?
Sam: At dawn!
Liam: Just before.
Travis: Yeah, before first light.
Laura: He comes normally around noon, he said.
Marisha: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.
Ashley: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.
Matt: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.
Travis: How high do you want to cast it?
Ashley: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I have now.
Travis: Rock out. Go for it.
Ashley: Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Five times five?
Ashley: That's, yeah.
Sam: You'll lose it when we wake up.
Ashley: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?
Travis: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it--
Matt: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.
Ashley: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.
Marisha: What time of year is it?
Matt: It's winter cresting into spring--
Marisha: Okay, so we have long nights right now.
Laura: We need to go the fuck to sleep.
Marisha: So let's sleep for a good six hours?
Matt: Six to eight hours.
Laura: Set our alarm clocks.
Matt: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.
Liam: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm staring at you.
Liam: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.
Laura: Did you use your tongues?
Travis: You're asleep.
Marisha: How does she see everything?
Liam: She's a witch.
Marisha: She's a witch?
Liam: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?
Matt: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.
Sam: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.
Laura: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and--
Matt: Everyone springs up and hooks him.
Sam: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground--
Laura: The trap should go (snapping).
Sam: If they hear a big clank, that's go.
Laura: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.
Sam: Will they know that that's a big clank?
Laura: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.
Matt: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.
Sam: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.
Matt: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.
Sam: Let's do this.
Ashley: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.
Matt: Right now?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Travis: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.
Sam: Does it last for a while?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: You used it before.
Ashley: No, it's never worked.
Laura: Yeah, the guy showed up.
Ashley: That's something else.
Laura: Oh really?
Ashley: That wasn't intervention.
Laura: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.
Ashley: It's never worked.
Matt: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.
Ashley: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.
Ashley: What do I have--
Matt: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.
Ashley: I do. Is this the percentile?
Matt: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?
Ashley: What do I need to roll?
Matt: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled an 80.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: It never works!
Matt: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.
Ashley: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.
Matt: What else would you like to do?
Ashley: Just go eat.
Matt: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's--
Marisha: Wait, what time is it?
Sam: It's nine.
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we overslept.
Sam: No, we've been up since dawn.
Marisha: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.
Sam: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I hate it when I oversleep.
Matt: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: I'm going in that tunnel, too.
Liam: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?
Matt: Grog, you have hidden--
Sam: I don't want to go underground.
Liam: Are we going in a tree?
Sam: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.
Ashley: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.
Sam: What's that do?
Travis: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.
Matt: Once.
Sam: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but--
Matt: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.
Sam: I don't need it. It jinxes me.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.
Matt: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.
Marisha: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.
Matt: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.
Marisha: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan over here, okay.
Laura: I'm going to be up in a tree.
Matt: You're going to be up in the tree.
Sam: Different tree?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.
Laura: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?
Matt: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?
Laura: Yeah, something far.
Matt: There we go. You'll be in this one.
Laura: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.
Matt: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.
Liam: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Yes.
Sam: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?
Laura: Some people.
Matt: Some people.
Laura: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.
Matt: This here?
Sam: I would like to be more than 150--
Matt: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You're about 50-ish feet.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.
Matt: At what level?
Ashley: Fourth.
Matt: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.
Marisha: Additional or temporary?
Matt: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?
Ashley: Scanlan, again.
Matt: Scanlan, and--?
Sam: Why don't you do it on yourself?
Ashley: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?
Matt: Yep, 15.
Sam: Keyleth, can you help me?
Matt: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.
Ashley: I'm going to save my spells.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.
Liam: Can bards inspire themselves?
Matt: No. At higher levels, he can.
Marisha: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.
Sam: Never mind. I'm fine.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What does your cloak do? That I put on?
Liam: Disadvantage on attacking you.
Marisha: Like, melee?
Liam: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.
Marisha: Only melee, not spells, yeah?
Liam: That's right.
Matt: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.
Sam: Zanror.
Matt: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.
Marisha: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.
Matt: Any last-minute preparations?
Ashley: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?
Travis: I'm down in the tunnel.
Ashley: Is that where I am?
Matt: Well, wherever you want to be.
Ashley: I want to be in the trenches.
Matt: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.
Laura: I hide the hole.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently--
Laura: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely--
Marisha: Quiet.
Travis: I'm down over here.
Sam: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.
Ashley: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.
Travis: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.
Liam: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.
Ashley: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.
Laura: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.
Marisha: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--
Travis: How about fuck shit up?
Marisha: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.
Matt: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll intiative.
Ashley: Did he move the treasure?
Laura: Not yet.
Liam: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.
Marisha: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.
Liam: Matt Colville, this is on you.
Sam: It's not you, Liam, it's me.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Sam: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.
Marisha: Is yours not good?
Sam: No.
Laura: What did you roll?
Sam: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.
Liam: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?
Matt: What does it say for the ability?
Sam: It doesn't matter, Liam.
Matt: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.
Liam: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.
Sam: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?
Matt: Ability check or saving throw-- technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.
Liam: (laughs) It was the exact same number!
Matt: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody--
Sam: It's a fight.
Matt: We have 25 to 20.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.
Sam: Good, we need that.
Matt: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja. 15 to ten?
Liam: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.
Marisha: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Sam: Big five.
Matt: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.
Liam: Gosh, plan B indeed.
Matt: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.
Laura: Am I first?
Marisha: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.
Laura: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?
Liam: You do you!
Laura: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.
Matt: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.
Laura: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?
Matt: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.
Matt: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have--
Laura: Advantage.
Matt: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.
Matt: 23?
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.
Matt: Herd's up next, and then Grog.
Laura: 31 on the first arrow.
Matt: 31 damage?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Seven plus five is 12.
Laura: 12. Plus nine.
Matt: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.
Laura: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18 was the last one.
Matt: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.
Laura: That was my first attack.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?
Sam: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!
Laura: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: She's going to one-shot the dragon.
Laura: 6d10. (counting)
Sam: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?
Matt: They are not.
Liam: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.
Laura: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.
Laura: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.
Liam: Enjoy those boots.
Laura: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?
Matt: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.
Laura: 20?
Matt: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but--
Laura: 20?
Matt: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.
Laura: Okay. Wow.
Matt: All right. Staying there?
Laura: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.
Matt: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.
Laura: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!
Travis: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!
Matt: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.
Laura: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles--
Sam: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.
Matt: I got this, don't worry.
Liam: Don't piss him off.
Matt: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We got him!" And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.
Liam: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?
Sam: No, it's buried in the stone.
Liam: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.
Sam: If that's what we planned, sure.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.
Liam: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.
Matt: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.
Liam: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.
Sam: Intelligence of three.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: That's really good. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.
Matt: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?
Travis: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.
Matt: 23. All right.
Travis: And then the second one-- 22 with one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.
Travis: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.
Matt: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?
Travis: I believe you're right. Never mind.
Matt: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.
Travis: I think you're right.
Matt: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.
Matt: All right, Hex on the dragon.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.
Matt: Strength ability checks, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.
Matt: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?
Taliesin: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.
Matt: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.
Sam: (laughs) What was that face?
Matt: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.
Sam: That's 8d6.
Matt: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I would like to.
Matt: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you--
Sam: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the--
Matt: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.
Sam: The attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.
Matt: Ten. 17. What's your AC?
Travis: It's a 20.
Matt: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.
Sam: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.
Liam: It's more of a surprising round.
Matt: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--
Sam: Is that a save?
Matt: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.
Sam: Meaning Matt is unhappy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And three more dragons.
Marisha: Why the book?
Laura: Oh no, what are we looking up?
Travis: What's in the book?
Matt: Nothing's in the book, guys.
Laura: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.
Liam: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.
Ashley: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.
Marisha: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.
Matt: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh no, that's my turn now.
Matt: Percy's up, then.
Taliesin: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Ooh. 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.
Taliesin: All right. Turn's up.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.
Sam: Be beautiful! Be good!
Laura: At what level?
Ashley: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.
Liam: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically--?
Matt: Spell attack roll, so you roll--
Ashley: And then I add that? That would be a 29.
Matt: 29. Damn, what did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 19.
Matt: That's nice. That'll hit.
Ashley: Okay, so now I do--
Laura: 4d6 plus two more d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to stay.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.
Matt: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?
Ashley: Three.
Matt: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?
Sam: Did you add your spell attack bonus?
Laura: Yeah, she did.
Matt: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!
Matt: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.
Sam: Who has the Fassbender stats?
Liam: I've got it. Slow-- 17.
Matt: 17. And that's a wisdom?
Liam: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.
Matt: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.
Sam: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.
Matt: That's true. Rolled even higher.
Liam: Question  he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?
Matt: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.
Marisha: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.
Liam: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion and I'm a tiny Vax.
Matt: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!
Sam: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.
Liam: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.
Sam: I don't particularly like small people.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Liam: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done
Matt: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.
Sam: I tousle his hair.
Liam: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!
Matt: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.
Liam: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.
Sam: You're so cute!
Liam: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.
Matt: Transmute Rock--
Marisha: It's a 120-foot range.
Matt: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?
Marisha: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.
Matt: Turning what into what?
Marisha: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.
Matt: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else--
Matt: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.
Marisha: Okay. Plan B.
Matt: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.
Marisha: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with--
Sam: No.
Marisha: No?
Liam: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.
Matt: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.
Marisha: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a--
Matt: Which one?
Marisha: Right up here.
Matt: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.
Marisha: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.
Matt: I know, it's good. Now I know.
Liam: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.
Matt: That's good. All right.
Marisha: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.
Matt: Where do you want it? Right there?
Marisha: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?
Matt: Not through his wing, no.
Marisha: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.
Matt: This is like a summoning spell.
Marisha: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.
Matt: That one there.
Marisha: Let's do one up here.
Matt: You have one more.
Marisha: Knock him in the chin.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully that contains him a bit.
Matt: All righty. That finish your turn?
Marisha: Yeah, guess so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Here we go.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: I turn to my little buddy and I say  are you ready for a ride, little man?
Liam: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!
Sam: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.
Matt: The range? Pike is quite far away.
Sam: Can't hear me, or it won't work?
Matt: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.
Marisha: I'm behind you.
Sam: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, d10.
Sam: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.
Liam: And I say  This is so fuuuu--
Matt: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.
Sam: No, I am not.
Laura: I gave him as much information as I could.
Matt: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: Just an intelligence check.
Matt: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.
Sam: Okay. Why not?
Laura: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?
Sam: Nope. 12?
Liam: Can I give him my Luck?
Matt: (laughs) No.
Sam: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other--
Matt: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.
Sam: Yeah, it's two.
Matt: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.
Sam: Okay, 14, then.
Ashley: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?
Matt: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.
Sam: Hi, dude.
Matt: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.
Sam: Are we touching at all?
Matt: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.
Sam: It's going great.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to go--
Matt: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.
Sam: Awesome.
Liam: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.
Ashley: Oh, I have one.
Liam: 60 seconds.
Matt: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).
Liam: Suck it, bitch!
Matt: "I will eat all of you!"
Liam: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.
Laura: I'm up?
Matt: You're up first, top of the round.
Laura: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.
Matt: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.
Laura: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.
Sam: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?
Matt: We'll say these are up in the air.
Laura: Okay, right in front of--
Matt: Because I've used all the height things for--
Laura: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--
Matt: It's an action.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They get their own--
Matt: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?
Laura: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.
Matt: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.
Laura: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?
Matt: As long as it's a level two or lower.
Laura: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.
Matt: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.
Laura: I wasn't still hidden?
Matt: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.
Laura: Can I attempt to hide?
Matt: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.
Laura: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.
Matt: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your extra action, not your bonus action.
Laura: Okay, my extra action.
Matt: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You vanish into the foliage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.
Laura: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?
Matt: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Could I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?
Matt: You can hit it.
Travis: From up there?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty tall.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.
Matt: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.
Travis: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?
Matt: Yep, 21 plus?
Travis: Ten, 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: Seven, so 38.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.
Travis: That was awful. 13.
Matt: 13, all right. Last one.
Travis: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last--
Travis: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.
Matt: Total of eight?
Travis: Total of eight.
Matt: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.
Travis: (singing) I believe I can fly--
Matt: The only one of the party within-- what did you roll?
Travis: A nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Reduced to...
Matt: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Holding my action until its action.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.
Laura: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?
Matt: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and--
Taliesin: Can I take my action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.
Matt: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: Natural fucking 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh no, oh my god, right now.
Marisha: He's taking a photo?
Travis: He's taking a photo.
Taliesin: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.
Matt: Correct. So roll the damage first.
Taliesin: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--
Matt: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--
Taliesin: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.
Liam: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!
Matt: Strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I rolled really well.
Matt: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone--
Taliesin: Wait!
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.
Matt: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.
Taliesin: I was going to blow an action surge.
Matt: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.
Taliesin: No, it's okay. Go ahead.
Matt: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.
Liam: Here we go, Scanlan.
Matt: It's actually going to move back this way.
Ashley: Did he never land on the glyph?
Matt: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.
Ashley: It was if he landed on it.
Matt: You said it was to--
Liam: Pull it off.
Travis: Yeah, we said to lift it off.
Matt: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.
Liam: Look at all those people.
Laura: Are they all going to die?
Matt: Everything there-- Okay.
Laura: The birds were up in the air, though.
Matt: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.
Sam: Pike, are you in there?
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.
Laura: 15d8?
Sam: I think a lot of those people will be fine.
Matt: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.
Sam: No, just me and Liam. Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.
Laura: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.
Matt: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.
Marisha: The Hope-Devourer?
Matt: That is the full name.
Sam: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?
Matt: Devourer. Married into it.
Sam: It's hyphenated?
Matt: Hyphenated, yeah.
Travis: Marriage fucked everything up.
Marisha: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.
Matt: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.
Matt: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.
Travis: How high is he?
Matt: 30 feet. He went back.
Ashley: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: Fuck him up, Pike.
Marisha: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?
Ashley: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.
Laura: What level are you casting it at?
Ashley: Four again.
Matt: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast--
Ashley: I have two more.
Matt: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?
Liam: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?
Ashley: The last Guiding Bolt.
Laura: Yeah, so that's only two you used.
Matt: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?
Ashley: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?
Laura: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?
Ashley: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.
Matt: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage.
Ashley: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good, 22.
Matt: You're good. Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.
Ashley: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.
Matt: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.
Ashley: Can it get his feet?
Matt: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.
Laura: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.
Matt: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.
Liam: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.
Matt: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round--
Liam: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to cut the insides of this--
Matt: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just-- You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.
Liam: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?
Matt: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Laura: But it can't very well avoid it.
Matt: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.
Liam: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?
Matt: Plus one to hit.
Liam: With strength?
Matt: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.
Liam: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.
Matt: Be grateful I'm being--
Liam: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.
Matt: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.
Liam: Use Luck.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Nothing.
Ashley: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?
Matt: He's trying from the inside.
Ashley: Can I cast War God's Blessing?
Matt: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?
Ashley: Probably not.
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: Yeah, probably.
Travis: Probably not.
Matt: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl-- (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.
Liam: We discussed it so much.
Matt: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?
Ashley: Plus ten.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.
Marisha: Is this sneak attack?
Matt: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.
Travis: But against dragons it does specific damage.
Liam: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.
Matt: Let me look it up here just to be safe.
Liam: 15 from the inside.
Matt: 15 damage from the inside.
Liam: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew--
Matt: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.
Liam: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?
Taliesin: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.
Liam: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.
Matt: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted--
Liam: The heartburn is not distracting it?
Matt: Not enough.
Liam: Not enough. Okay.
Matt: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.
Laura: You get a d8 plus your d6.
Liam: Yes, I know. I did it.
Laura: Then you did the additional 3d6?
Liam: I did, darling.
Laura: And you only got 15?
Liam: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.
Matt: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.
Liam: Disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.
Matt: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.
Liam: I'm okay. Okay.
Matt: You are beginning to suffocate.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.
Liam: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.
Matt: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.
Marisha: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.
Liam: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?
Matt: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: A d6.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up--
Matt: Up?
Marisha: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.
Matt: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.
Matt: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: And I'm staying up there?
Matt: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.
Sam: Is it big in there?
Matt: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a--
Liam: Click, motherfucker, click.
Matt: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.
Sam: I can move my arms, though.
Matt: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.
Sam: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.
Sam: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?
Matt: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.
Sam: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?
Matt: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?
Matt: You do. The next attack, yes.
Sam: Did Vax reply?
Matt: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.
Liam: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.
Laura: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?
Marisha: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.
Laura: How high in the air is--
Matt: He is 30 feet up right now.
Marisha: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.
Laura: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?
Matt: If you want to. Down here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.
Laura: I have two because I have a pearl of power.
Matt: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.
Matt: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the DC on your spell?
Laura: Um, 16.
Matt: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.
Laura: That was my bonus.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.
Matt: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.
Laura: All right.
Matt: First one has advantage.
Laura: Okay. 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.
Matt: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about-- there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.
Laura: Cool. Then just seven--
Sam: Did he move?
Matt: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten points of damage for the first attack.
Laura: For the first attack.
Matt: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?
Laura: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.
Matt: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.
Laura: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?
Matt: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.
Travis: Is it grabbing him or not?
Matt: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Am I hiding still?
Matt: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.
Laura: Ugh! Fine.
Matt: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.
Travis: Is that the third one?
Matt: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to--
Travis: What's left of the Herd.
Matt: Herd's turn.
Travis: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.
Matt: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--
Marisha: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.
Matt: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.
Laura: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?
Liam: That's redundant.
Laura: These guys are dumb.
Matt: You've met...
Travis: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.
Matt: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's-- there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?
Matt: They're thrown, ranged attacks.
Travis: And they're just enchanted?
Matt: They're plus one to hit and damage.
Travis: Just that.
Matt: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.
Travis: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?
Matt: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.
Travis: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?
Matt: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.
Travis: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?
Matt: Yep. 50 feet.
Travis: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?
Matt: Athletics check.
Travis: That's not awesome. 18.
Matt: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.
Travis: So I have four attacks?
Matt: Yes. You're not in melee, though.
Travis: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.
Travis: Reckless, all of them.
Matt: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.
Travis: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?
Travis: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--
Matt: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: Oh no, my proficiency--
Matt: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I got it.
Matt: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one.
Travis: Is 28.
Matt: Hits. Third one.
Travis: Is 19.
Matt: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.
Travis: And the second one, the last one is a 30.
Matt: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.
Travis: That's right.
Matt: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.
Travis: So that's 12.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, so it takes the half damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What's the damage on it total?
Travis: 4d6.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.
Travis: Six--
Matt: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 20, that does not hit.
Matt: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.
Matt: Okay, reload, and then shot again.
Taliesin: That hits. 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.
Taliesin: DC is 19.
Matt: Okay, so it succeeds.
Taliesin: It succeeds on the 19?
Matt: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.
Matt: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.
Taliesin: 21 does not hit?
Matt: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.
Taliesin: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.
Matt: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to-- actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: That is going to be a 29 to hit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. You take-- that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.
Travis: I stay up?
Matt: Yeah, you stay up. (loud clanging sound from Skype)
Matt: What's happening over there?
Liam: Taliesin!
Matt: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.
Liam: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.
Sam: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.
Matt: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.
Liam: That thing's fixed in space.
Matt: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Liam: But you're resistant.
Taliesin: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?
Matt: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.
Laura: Where's Zanror?
Matt: Zanror's right there at the bottom.
Laura: Where's his wife?
Matt: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.
Matt: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Resistance, so I halve that?
Matt: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.
Marisha: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.
Matt: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up. (laughter)
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: I am going to cast Blindness on him.
Matt: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?
Ashley: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.
Liam: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.
Ashley: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.
Ashley: 1d8 for every two slot levels--
Matt: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to-- can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!
Matt: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move-- Probably not.
Liam: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?
Matt: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.
Liam: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.
Matt: That unfortunately is not cutting through.
Liam: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?
Matt: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.
Liam: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.
Matt: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: d6. Four.
Matt: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.
Matt: All right. How many feet are you going?
Marisha: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?
Matt: Oh, right there?
Marisha: That one.
Matt: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like--
Marisha: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.
Matt: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.
Matt: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?
Marisha: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?
Matt: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast-- Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.
Marisha: I'm thinking about it real hard.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: So is that strength as a--
Matt: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.
Marisha: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot. (cheering)
Matt: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to--
Marisha: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.
Marisha: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?
Matt: 2,000.
Marisha: 2,000 pounds.
Laura: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.
Marisha: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?
Matt: The European watchers are like--
Marisha: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog--
Matt: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.
Sam: I'm fine. How's my lungs?
Matt: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?
Matt: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.
Travis: Copy that.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: No, it came in handy for the one.
Marisha: It did.
Sam: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?
Matt: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start--
Liam: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.
Sam: While you're screaming?
Liam: So Vax and Scanlan should be--
Matt: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.
Sam: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)
Sam: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.
Ashley: Spits you both up, maybe.
Liam: I'm still in its anus.
Travis: We don't even know where you are, really.
Sam: You're done, friend, sorry.
Matt: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Yes. Thunder damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: Do you need more d8s?
Liam: All part of the plan.
Sam: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.
Liam: The hastily smushed-together plan.
Sam: 7d8?
Matt: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.
Sam: So it'll be halved.
Matt: Half damage.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Only 12 points.
Matt: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes--
Liam: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: You take 12 points of damage as well.
Liam: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.
Matt: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.
Sam: Not vomiting.
Matt: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon--
Sam: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?
Matt: Basically. A little, almost.
Ashley: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.
Sam: I don't know, did that make a little air?
Ashley: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).
Matt: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?
Sam: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?
Matt: You are restrained so your movement is zero.
Sam: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.
Matt: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.
Sam: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.
Ashley: What?
Liam: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.
Sam: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.
Matt: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.
Sam: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.
Marisha: Hold on! Nice.
Travis: 21.
Ashley: Ten.
Travis: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?
Matt: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top--
Travis: A 21?
Marisha: What did you have to beat?
Matt: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.
Matt: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.
Travis: My eight is halved.
Matt: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.
Matt: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.
Marisha: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: That's not good. Four.
Matt: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved because I'm an elemental.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Strength? 19.
Matt: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Like a rock slamming into the ground.
Laura: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.
Laura: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.
Sam: Our earrings should work.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: We don't need to talk.
Laura: 28. No, 29 perception.
Matt: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.
Laura: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.
Matt: All right. Roll for it.
Liam: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little--
Laura: 20. Doesn't hit.
Matt: 20, it hits and shatters--
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.
Matt: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: So that does hit.
Laura: Oh, it hits?
Matt: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Travis: Pike!
Liam: Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ten damage.
Matt: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?
Marisha: He's consulting the book again.
Matt: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range--
Laura: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.
Matt: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.
Ashley: What was that, say again?
Matt: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.
Laura: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, he's dead!
Laura: How do I want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: You can't summon it yourself.
Laura: Dammit!
Matt: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.
Liam: I wrap my fingers around it.
Matt: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.
Sam: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!
Liam: Shut the fuck up, gnome!
Matt: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. "Only if you come with me." Looks back and says, "No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Still hasted. Can I stand up?
Matt: Okay, so 50 feet.
Travis: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself? (cheering)
Travis: How tall am I?
Matt: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.
Laura: He's only six feet tall?
Marisha: He's gotta be taller than six feet.
Matt: It's roughly half your height, not perfect--
Liam: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.
Marisha: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.
Matt: Don't argue with the DM.
Marisha: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.
Liam: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.
Travis: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe--
Matt: I assume it was attached before the battle.
Travis: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.
Matt: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.
Travis: If I want to.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's even better. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?
Travis: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.
Matt: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.
Laura: I bet that hits.
Matt: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I'm sure that probably kills him.
Marisha: He has 26 hit points.
Laura: He's got six points left.
Matt: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.
Travis: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.
Matt: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.
Travis: I didn't do that. Can I do that?
Matt: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.
Travis: Hey, four!
Matt: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?
Laura: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.
Ashley: Get him!
Matt: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.
Laura: Roll four attacks?
Matt: Yes. Plus five to each.
Liam: That one hits.
Laura: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.
Matt: So two hits. All right. So that is--
Laura: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?
Matt: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.
Laura: Nine for one on the eyeballs.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And eight on the talons.
Matt: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.
Laura: Eyeballs.
Matt: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.
Laura: That's cool, okay, good to know.
Matt: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Text us your move.
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Here we go. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).
Travis: Say that again, Perce.
Taliesin: 20, 24 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right. Reload, second shot.
Taliesin: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m--(audio glitches)
Matt: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).
Taliesin: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.
Matt: All right, so that's the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.
Liam: Damage.
Matt: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.
Marisha: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?
Liam: That's a fuckin' missile.
Matt: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to--
Travis: I'm still attached to him, too.
Matt: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.
Travis: I'm going for a ride.
Marisha: We burned through all of his legendary saves.
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're attached to him? By a chain?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.
Travis: Advantage on this. 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.
Sam: (terrified laughter)
Liam: He's scared.
Matt: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.
Liam: Work that broom, girl!
Matt: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one. (yelling)
Matt: It's midnight!
Travis: Three of us are not here next week.
Matt: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?
Liam: Yes!
Travis: It's either that or--
Matt: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.
Travis: We're not here.
Laura: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?
Liam: I want to go.
Laura: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.
Sam: You want to go, keep going?
Liam: Keep going.
Sam: It could be a long night.
Ashley: Who's not here next week?
Travis: Laura, Travis, and Sam.
Matt: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.
Sam: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.
Liam: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.
Matt: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.
Sam: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?
Laura: I feel like that's smarter.
Matt: All right, let's do that.
Liam: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?
Travis: That 30 minutes fucked us.
Matt: Picking up in two weeks from now. (yelling)
Marisha: This is awful.
Sam: The worst cliffhanger ever.
Matt: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.
Liam: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.
Marisha: Make a little breathing hole?
Sam: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.
Travis: It's the shaft of an arrow.
Taliesin: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.
Marisha: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!
Matt: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.
Sam: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from-- (laughing)
Travis: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.
Laura: That went south. That went seriously south.
Sam: We're not doing well.
Travis: We're doing great.
Matt: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.
Liam: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?
Matt: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.
Liam: Son of a b.
Ashley: Why are you guys going?
Marisha: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?
Travis: No.
Matt: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.
Laura: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That's awful.
Marisha: Such a death wish.
Liam: Kill me.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.
Liam: The dragon's name is Hope.
Matt: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Taliesin: Pissblossom.
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where Taliesin jumps the gun and says his phrase too late.
Travis: Way too late, man! Way too late!
Matt: Welcome. Happy to be back. Very emotional episode last week. We're going to kick it into the next step of Vox Machina's adventure this week, and then, me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be gone next week, so there will not be progression in this current storyline. However, Liam O'Brien over there has been cracking up an awesome one-shot adventure for our remaining players and a few guests. Liam, if you want to talk a little about it?
Liam: Yeah, I'll tell you who's coming on by. Sure, I'll say who's coming on by. Mary Elizabeth McGlynn and Ashly Burch. And I don't want to spoil it, but Matt knows. It's different.
Matt: Yeah, it's going to be fun. This is Liam's brainchild, and I'm excited to see them play through it.
Liam: It could blow up in my face.
Matt: I think you'll be fine. If the last game was any indication, I think you'll be fine. All right, other announcements: once again, we have our wonderful sponsor with a new theme kicking in. Sam, you want to take this away?
Sam: Yes, I do, Matt Mercer. Guys  Loot Crate. Loot Crate has been such a great sponsor all year long, and we got another great week to share with you. Speed is this month's theme of the Loot Crate. I'm going to read this script first. Lace up your sneakers or rev your engines. September's all about speed. Feel the adrenaline with some of pop culture's quickest vehicles and characters. High-octane assortment of goodies from Batman, the Flash, the Arrow, the Battlestar Galactica, the Iron Man, the Gone in the Sixty the Seconds. (laughter)
Sam: It includes two collectibles, a figure, and as always, a monthly t-shirt. I'm wearing a t-shirt. Not from this month, but from last month.
Laura: It's got Futurama stuff on it.
Sam: Guys, I'm an actor. Why would you listen to me about this stuff? I'm a liar and a deceiver. But what you can listen to, and what you know in your heart, is hardcore facts. I'm talking statistics. I'm talking math. I've broken this down for you guys. If you use the promo-code CriticalRole, you'll get $3 off your first month. Doesn't sound like a lot, you think? Oh, that's 1.2 gallons of gas at the Quik Mart down the street. Regular, unleaded. Or let's say you're generous. You give Loot Crates to everyone in your family. That's four Loot Crates; that's $12. That is 25 and half Forever stamps that you've just gotten for free. For free! Let's say you're more generous than that. You give Loot Crates to everyone in your whole company. All 266 employees. You've just saved enough money to buy a 2002 Kia Sedona with 181,000 miles on it. The transmission is going out, and it doesn't shift in the higher gears, but it is for $800 on Craigslist. Go look for it right now, and it will be yours for free, essentially, if you buy 266 subscriptions to Loot Crate. 266.67. Okay, that is hardcore facts. You can't argue with that. Go out. Subscribe now. Save money. Get stamps and gas.
Liam: If you don't slow your roll, Loot Crate is going to poach you.
Matt: All right, thank you, Sam.
Sam: Don't forget to use the promo code CriticalRole.
Matt: Perfect. (laughs) All right, other announcements that we have. Let's see. Projects that have come up. They recently announced and put up the English cast video for Final Fantasy XV. I have the pleasure of playing Cor Leonis. It's a lot of fun. As a longtime Final Fantasy fan, being a part of this means a great deal, and I'm excited for the game that comes out in November. So if you haven't checked out the video, do so and you can watch me wax poetic briefly about my love of the series. Look forward to that.
Marisha: Soundbiting it up in that.
Matt: Yeah, man! They chose my soundbite for the end of it. I was like (explosion). Felt cool about that.
Marisha: It's like you're an actor.
Matt: It's like I played a bunch of them. Also, Deus Ex came out. Mankind Divided. I am scattered throughout the game with a very harsh Russian, Eastern European dialect, as many characters, probably yelling at you or being shot in the face. So enjoy that, as well.
Travis: I love shooting you in the face.
Matt: Hey, you know? Everyone's got a skillset. Anybody else have anything they want to announce?
Sam: We're nominated for an award, Matt.
Matt: That's right! We just got nominated for a Streamy. A Streamy award under gaming. Games. It's awesome!
Sam: It's our first nomination.
Taliesin: It's like the Kids' Choice Awards for adults.
Laura: But it's not. Fans don't get to vote.
Matt: It is now decided by whatever the Illuminati Streamy committee is.
Sam: Wait, fans don't get to vote? I'm sure they can influence things.
Marisha: Well, they nominated us, so we got this far because of them, and now we lose to Markiplier.
Matt: Love you, Mark. We're just excited to be in that ring. Thank you guys for being so awesome and supporting us, and hopefully some of us will get to dress up fancy and show up and go home proud that we went.
Taliesin: We'll plug our other friends who are also nominated.
Matt: And Muzzled the Musical, which I co-created, which Ashly Burch stars in, who you'll see next week, that got nominated for best indie.
Marisha: And Sean Becker. Who's my director for Signal Boost. All in the fam.
Matt: It's good. Awesome. Anything else you guys want to talk about?
Travis: Yes! In the world of sportsball, the 2016 future Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys are playing the Seattle Seahawks right now! So if you see me looking down, it's not because I'm not paying attention. I'm watching football.
Taliesin: I have never cared so much about football in my entire life as I do right now. Which is saying, I don't necessarily care a lot. But definitely--
Laura: More than it was.
Travis: Everybody send Sam a tweet. He's going to be crying at the outset of his team. Sam, a moment of silence.
Taliesin: I think he's lighting the set on fire.
Laura: Sam walked away so he wouldn't be on the same set as you were saying that.
Matt: Anyone else have anything they want to talk about before we jump into the game?
Taliesin: No announcements until I get back, I think.
Matt: All righty. That being the case, then let's go ahead and hop into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. So to get you guys caught up: our band of adventurers, Vox Machina, in raising an army, hopefully, of allies and powerful artifacts to face the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of powerful, dangerous chromatic dragons that have been tearing through the countryside of Tal'Dorei and distant Wildemount. They have recently found some information, had a close call with the Frigid Doom known as Vorugal. The white dragon flyover did not pierce through the illusionary barrier that was placed with the help of Allura, Gilmore, and Pike, there in Whitestone. You then decided to go ahead and using that cue, before the dragon returned to its current roost that it has created over the ruins of the city of Draconia, you traveled across to the continent of Wildemount. You had a meeting with the Ravenites, a rather subverted, long-enslaved offshoot species of dragonborn kin, tailless and now surviving amongst a recent winter that seems to have come with the ruin the dragon brought. You also discovered that most of Draconia and its royal elite have been slaughtered as a means of the dragon establishing its dominance and the worship of the Ravenites that survived the fall of Draconia. You made a deal with Tooma, the current clan leader of the remaining Ravenites, that you would aid in destroying this dragon, basically the master that they replaced the Draconians with when it came. However, to ensure your help there was a two-week time limit, and if you do not return before then they would see you as not keeping your end of the deal, and they would then, instead, direct the dragon towards what was going to be Whitestone until you altered her memory, which she recalls now as Emon. Anyway, before you could be finding your way home, one of the corpses upon one of the ice spire spikes outside of the dragon's new nest, Percy saw to be the remains of your long-traveled friend, Tiberius Stormwind. The party had a fateful farewell; set him to rest within the ruins of the nearby library, fallen from the islands of Draconia; said your goodbyes; and then, upon prepping a bit, plotting, and planning, found your way back to Whitestone to continue the next leg of your adventure. And that is where we begin. You have now taken some time in your own respective rooms. It's still late afternoon, going into dusk. You all took some time to yourselves within Castle Whitestone to take a short rest and ruminate over these recent events and reveals. The evening sun draws close to dusk. It is your choice which you wish to do. If you wish to spend the evening resting here and then leaving first thing in the morning, that is up to you.
Liam: Taking the initiative. This one came to my room, then inside. I think we've probably been quiet for a while, staring at the ceiling, and after a while finally say: We've really fucked things up, haven't we?
Marisha: In which particular way do you mean, aside from all of them?
Liam: I need to tell you. I know with all that's happened, between my new patron and my sister pretending to gag literally every time we attempt to share a word together, and mostly my own being fucked up in the head for weeks now, that I've pushed all of you away. You most of all. Because I've been afraid you would-- I'm sorry. And you didn't deserve any of that. Keyleth, I need you to know, through all of that, everything, nothing has changed about how I-- We've had so many near-misses. And now, finding Tiberius. Death is unavoidable. And it's all the more reason for life to be lived. And it doesn't matter to me what this is. What we call it. If you are willing to spend some time, any time, with me, then I will simply count myself lucky to have it. You're very dear to me.
Marisha: You're talking too much. It's not like I've made myself very accessible either. It's not on you. It might be a little on you, but it's on both of us. Anyway, my point is: for the longest time, I was terrified that I was going to lose you. First to death and then to the Raven Queen, which is still kind of like death, and then ultimately to yourself. And then I had an interesting talk with Pike recently, and she said something that really stood out to me, and that was that some people just have more of themselves to give. And I realized this whole time that I was afraid of losing you to a future that ultimately has not yet been written, which is stupid.
Liam: Maybe so.
Marisha: But you're ultimately right. We have nothing to lose. I love you, Vax. And I'm sorry for being me, that it took me this long to say it.
Liam: (sniffles) I'm sorry.
Marisha: Yeah. Me, too.
Liam: I love you. That's pretty fucking great.
Marisha: That is pretty great, yeah. High five. Yeah!
Liam: I tackle her into a bit of a hug into the bed.
Laura: Oh!
Liam: We're already on the bed.
Marisha: And that's it for now.
Sam: Pan to the fireplace.
Travis: (laughing) Pan to the fireplace!
Matt: All right, so. Vox Machina. Taking your time to mourn in your own interesting ways. What is your path of action? What is your course, going forward?
Liam: Sleeping in.
Marisha: Bacon.
Laura: Yeah, I think we need to spend at least the night in Whitestone and get up in the morning.
Matt: Okay. So you've all spent the majority of it in your respective rooms-- most of you in your respective rooms-- figuring out where you are as a person and where this story leads you. After an evening's rest, the next morning comes around, breakfast is already prepared by the servants in the castle, though maybe not the amount of bacon you were hoping, and easily rectified upon request. It's at your disposal. There is a tension in the city; the barrier remains up. As you're having breakfast, you can see Zahra wander in at the smell of bacon, glances over the rest of you, still holding a book at her side that she slams closed. "Oh. I'm glad to see you're all right, and you're safe. Please tell me there's more bacon."
Travis: Not for long.
Laura: There's more coming, dear.
Travis: What she said.
Matt: She comes and sits down and spends breakfast with you guys, catching up on what has transpired and what your current plan of action is.
Taliesin: Zahra, it occurs to me, you come from a family with power, connections.
Matt: "Kind of. Let's just say we're estranged at the moment."
Taliesin: Well, we're looking for any ally we could, and we were curious if--
Matt: "You will find no allies where you're asking. Believe me, I'd be happy to offer if we could, but no."
Taliesin: I had a feeling. It just felt worth asking.
Matt: "It's all right. I'm going to continue with my research, since the rest of the ziggurat clan are now scattered about or maintaining that barrier. Guess who has to do the research in the meantime?" And she rolls her sleeves up; you can see the slightly smudged dirt across her reddish skin. She's been hard at work digging around trying to figure out what the basis of this enchantment beneath the city still is.
Laura: Sorry you can't be out having your fun, dear.
Matt: "I'm certain time will allow me at some point. It better. I'm going a little stir-crazy." She grabs the bacon from the table and walks out of the room.
Taliesin: Is Kashaw around by any chance, as well?
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Taliesin: Kashaw. Is Kashaw around?
Matt: "I haven't seen him for a couple days. I've been underground most of the time."
Taliesin: Yes, of course. We have to send a letter to the Slayer's Take at some point. That should happen sooner rather than later.
Marisha: Trying to wrangle a beast?
Taliesin: Trying to wrangle a beast or seeing if they know of anything that's in the vicinity that we can at least feed to it in the meantime.
Laura: Maybe we can stop through on our way back. We are going to Marquet, aren't we?
Taliesin: I would hope so.
Marisha: And what's our intent in Marquet? To get the next Vestige?
Taliesin: To get to the next Vestige and to perhaps make some friends. The more the merrier.
Liam: And the means of travel is?
Taliesin: We have a sigil. We can teleport.
Laura: Gilmore. Gilmore's from Marquet.
Taliesin: This is a teleport sigil. This is not going to require his attention.
Marisha: Yeah, it's located in Whitestone Castle, correct? The teleport sigil?
Matt: It's actually a sigil by memory that he has, and it's a spell that he casts. It's not a permanent fixture in the city.
Taliesin: So we need him, but he can do it.
Sam: Yeah, but he's concentrating on the defensive wall right now.
Laura: It's up. As long as the dragon's not here and attacking.
Matt: It's a renewal feature. He has to spend some time each day maintaining it. He's not stuck there the whole time.
Sam: That would be awesome.
Taliesin: The worst job in Whitestone.
Sam: Before we go to Marquet. Let's say Marquet takes 13 days.
Taliesin: That's an awful long time.
Sam: I agree, but let's say it does. Do we know what we're doing with regards to Draconia when we come back? Do we have some sort of a plan? We're getting a beast. That's all we know.
Travis: Yep, we've got it covered. It's planned out to a T.
Laura: How are we even going to get a beast?
Taliesin: Talk to the Slayer's Take and see what is already on the continent.
Sam: What constitutes a beast? Because me and Keyleth can make some beasts.
Laura: I think a large enough beast to attract Vorugal.
Sam: Like a triceratops?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: They said it hunted something really intense recently.
Laura: He said they hunted remorhaz?
Marisha: Yeah, they went to the ocean.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: Roll an intelligence check.
Marisha: But I wrote it down.
Sam: For me. Ooh, a 19! Plus two.
Matt: That's what they look like.
Laura: Oh. Those are big and scary.
Sam: Is it a gargantuan monster?
Matt: They're huge. Most definitely. They're nasty; they burrow. The actual blood within their body is heated to such a degree that even to be in a scuffle with it is to scar yourself with flame and heat.
Sam: And it was bored with that?
Taliesin: We want to find a creature that would threaten a medium-sized city.
Marisha: So it wants competition.
Taliesin: We want to wear it down a bit before we go in for the attack. We want it to be breathing heavily.
Sam: And how are we going to get this creature there?
Taliesin: We're going to find something that's already on the continent.
Laura: And Vorugal will go to the creature.
Taliesin: He will be happy to attack it.
Travis: Can you put it in your necklace?
Sam: On the continent. What continent? The Draconian continent?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: So we have to go back there to search!
Marisha: The Slayer's Take should know. They've got contracts everywhere.
Sam: All right. This is slightly a better plan than I thought.
Marisha: We thought about it a little.
Taliesin: Six people cannot wage a war.
Sam: Then we should go talk to the Slayer's Take now so they can get started on this hunt.
Taliesin: We're going to send them a letter.
Sam: A letter?!
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Who's the letter carrier and how's he going to get out of this city that's protected by an invisible wall?
Taliesin: We're going to make Kashaw take the letter.
Liam: When we were last there, hadn't they talked about a brass or bronze dragon? But there are brass dragons, as you well know.
Laura: I know, because I'm an expert.
Liam: Is that overkill? We'd have to convince a dragon, not capture a dragon.
Taliesin: It would probably kill the dragon.
Marisha: Wait, are we talking about capturing another dragon to fight another dragon?
Sam: No, we're talking about convincing a dragon to go fight this dragon that would clearly kill it.
Taliesin: I was going to find Kashaw and see if he would run the letter to the Slayer's Take and be our emissary and convince them to do this so that we're not doing everything ourselves.
Sam: Wait, is there anyone else who can make this message delivery faster or safer?
Taliesin: Literally everyone. If we could find a child in a pub who could take it.
Sam: No, but faster and safer.
Taliesin: Kashaw is possibly slower than a child.
Marisha: No more small boys, Percy. No more.
Laura: We could ask Zahra, but she's busy with research.
Travis: I think Kashaw is a great people-person.
Taliesin: Just to get rid of him, they would say yes.
Sam: All right.
Liam: He wants to help. He does.
Laura: Yeah. Let's go find Kashaw.
Matt: You guys head outside of Castle Whitestone. Not far from the base of the pathway into the actual city, you can see there is a series of newer-outfitted guards. They are people being trained in the force of combat. You can see that there's definitely a ramping-up of the defense force for Whitestone as a precaution.
Marisha: Do they look like townspeople?
Matt: Many of them look able-bodied and people that are strong and fit, but they do appear to be civilians that have had to take up the cause just in case.
Marisha: Any kids?
Matt: No kids, no. They all look to be at least of strapping age, to be carrying a weapon.
Sam: Strapping boys?
Taliesin: Strapping. The strapping age.
Laura: Did we ever talk to Cassandra or anyone else about starting an alarm system here?
Sam: Yeah, and they were working on it already, weren't they?
Taliesin: No, they started. They are working on it now.
Sam: I think it's done.
Taliesin: I'd buy that. Yes, it was proposed.
Marisha: I do want to maybe talk to Gilmore, though.
Taliesin: Well, we're going to have to if we leave the city, anyway.
Matt: As you are watching the group go through their different weapon practice moments, they're breaking off into small sparring groups and they're going up against ramshackle built training dummies. There are a few that are doing forms in succession. (grunts) You know the deal. You do see on the opposite end that the person who is currently helming one section of the training is Kashaw. You can see a bunch of shield and spear fighters right now, and he's basically giving them instruction on how to use a shield defensively and the spear offensively simultaneously.
Laura: Maybe he's not the best messenger if he's training our armies.
Taliesin: This is not an army. This is something for the population to do while they pass time. The dragon shows up, they're all going to die, no matter how many times they learn how to put the spear forward.
Marisha: As cynical as Percy is being right now, he's right.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: But it doesn't mean that Kashaw is going to think that it's any less important, and I'm sure he might not take it as a compliment if we ask him to be the messenger boy.
Sam: It's an incredibly important mission!
Laura: It's not just a messenger, it's defeating a dragon.
Taliesin: And it's convincing the Slayer's Take to join.
Sam: The Slayer's Take, if I recall, doesn't do things for free. We're going to have to pay for this, even though we're members.
Taliesin: We're going to have to bring them some dragon parts.
Laura: No, we take a contract on a really large creature, and then we let the dragon do the work for us. We get the best of both worlds.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's very clever.
Sam: We take a contract on an existing creature that we have to somehow find in Draconia.
Travis: No, we bring the dragon to the creature.
Sam: How?
Laura: He hunts them. That's what he does.
Sam: Not transcontinentally.
Travis: You can't broker a fight between a huge beast and a white dragon?
Taliesin: We could sell tickets.
Travis: I think you've done better.
Liam: We don't necessarily have to sacrifice a dragon. We're fighting a war here. They're fuckers.
Sam: No, we're not talking about sacrificing a dragon. We're talking about finding a beast.
Liam: Well, I'm talking about a dragon. Couldn't we try to talk a dragon into helping us do what we're doing? They're not all evil, are they? They're not!
Marisha: Yeah, but do we know of any other dragons here?
Laura: Well, then we're going to have to fucking go to the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Can we go somewhere in the next 60 seconds?
Laura: This'll be great.
Marisha: Let's talk to Kashaw. We go up and we talk to Kashaw.
Matt: As you approach, you see him leaning in with younger, early twenties-looking men. A bit scrawny; they're still armored; the helmet looks a little lopsided. Kashaw's like, "You're not supposed to put the shield away. (sighs) Oh, wonderful. Take five. Take 30. So. You're alive. That's great. I'm excited. What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: Kashaw, how would you like to be anywhere else other than here right now?
Matt: "Depends on where and what you'd have me doing."
Taliesin: That's exactly the sort of enthusiasm I was hoping for. We have need of an emissary to the Slayer's Take. We need to convince them to help us kill the next dragon.
Laura: And Vanessa really likes you.
Taliesin: She does.
Marisha: We need a big beast on Draconia.
Matt: "So you're saying that I go back to frozen-ass Vasselheim to deliver a paper message to the headmistress, whom already I am so happy to be away from."
Marisha: Yeah. See?
Matt: He glances over at the rest of the soldiers. "Yeah, I'll take it." (laughter)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: We are in your debt. I'll have the paper drawn up, and anything you can do to put the weight of the situation behind us and make sure they know how clear it is and how necessary this is and how desperate we are.
Matt: "I'll do my best to muster some semblance of emphasis."
Taliesin: And we'll figure out ways to make sure there's money in it for them, or at least dragon parts.
Matt: "All right. Give me a list of what you've got to offer. I'll bring it to them."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Sam: What do we got to offer?
Liam: We don't have the troll dick anymore. That's gone.
Laura: We have 40 pounds of dragonhide. Black dragonhide.
Taliesin: And white dragonhide.
Laura: We don't have white dragonhide.
Taliesin: We have white scales.
Travis: We have 64 pounds of scales from me. We have four claws left.
Sam: I have a Tome of Leadership worth 30,000 gold.
Laura: No, that's Keyleth's, remember? In the next century, when she's still living.
Sam: We'll get it back before 100 years are up.
Marisha: I'll lend it to them for 100 years.
Sam: A 99-year lease.
Travis: And we got umber hulk pieces, too.
Taliesin: Mostly, I was thinking of also offering them whatever we can take from the dragon itself once it's destroyed.
Liam: I was about to say, yeah, we put into the contract that it has the remains of the beast we take down, which we will take down.
Taliesin: We keep some scales, we keep some teeth; we split it.
Liam: Sure, as a souvenir, right. Yes.
Marisha: We're basically doing a contract for free.
Liam: It's a very large creature.
Sam: That's provided we kill it. If we lose, they get nothing. I'm just saying, from their perspective, we're offering them literally nothing.
Marisha: If they lose, they don't lose anything either, right?
Laura: No, they do. They lose a contract.
Marisha: But wouldn't the contract just go right back into cycle?
Laura: No, if the dragon kills the creature and then we all die and we can't harvest it, the Slayer's Take doesn't have anything from its previous contract.
Liam: But that could happen with any contract. Any band of idiots could go die on the battlefield.
Marisha: They're used to having people die.
Laura: Well, fuck it.
Marisha: I think Grog's getting antsy.
Taliesin: I like this. I'm going to have it drawn up.
Liam: I look at Grog and see he's really bored. I pick up a wooden sword and I hit him as hard as I can on the small of his back.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Make a check.
Liam: It's not going to be that hard.
Laura: While all this is going on, Grog, you could be training these soldiers.
Liam: 17.
Travis: What, train them?
Matt: As you're having this conversation, (whack) right in the knee cap, a surprisingly painful and forceful blow. It's less the strength behind it and more the precision in which it strikes you right between the kneecap and the rest of the lower half of your knee.
Travis: Like when a doctor hits you and your knee jumps?
Matt: Yeah, and you're like (grunts) and you glance over and you see Vax hide a wooden sword quickly behind him as he backs away.
Liam: Come on, big guy! I know you're bored! Come on! I hit him again.
Matt: Roll a strength check. Actually, this time it's an attack roll, as well.
Marisha: Hit him in the nuts.
Liam: Okay, cool. That's a 20. Oh! But it's with a stick! Just strength modifier?
Matt: You're not proficient with a sword.
Liam: Oh dear. I'm going to use Luck. 14.
Matt: (laughs) You whack him. This time, it hits the meat of his thigh and has no effect.
Liam: I missed the nut? Ugh. Come on!
Travis: Do you have a death wish?
Liam: Come on, take a swing! I'm trying to do you a favor! Come on, get it out!
Travis: What am I missing here?
Taliesin: I'm seeing this going down. I've walked away.
Liam: I see a gauntlet on a table, and I throw it at his face.
Matt: Okay, roll an attack roll.
Liam: It's a one! (laughter)
Sam: I see this going on, and I stand up on something, and I yell to the students--
Matt: Before this happens, as you're getting up, you watch as Vax rears back, and as he throws it, (yelps) he pulls a muscle in his shoulder and it drops to the ground, and you're like (pained noises).
Laura: Seriously?
Sam: I jump up on a chair and I yell to the students: Instructor Kashaw has instructed us that this is a drill! You are to attack that man right there, that large man, as a test of your strength and training. Now!
Laura: Don't kill them, Grog!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Oh, this is going to be awful. Wow. That is cruel.
Sam: 34. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as roughly 45 armored soldiers all turn towards you with their shields and spears... and freeze. They all slowly look towards Scanlan and whisper among themselves, then look back at Grog and stay frozen and two creep forward for a minute. Get a little closer.
Travis: I take the Gauntlets and I smash them together, and I grow in size. (laughter)
Matt: As your form swells into your now enlarged goliath battle-ready form, you notice a few of them start giving off this rattling metal sound as their armored knees (clanging) together. Many of them step back about ten feet, and Kashaw, who hasn't left entirely, spins around and goes: "The gnome's fucking with you. It's fine!" He walks up to you, Scanlan, pats your arm and goes, "That was pretty funny."
Sam: I try.
Matt: "Don't get the people killed. I've been working on them for four days."
Sam: He wasn't going to kill-- Were you going to kill them, Grog?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Oh shit.
Travis: I look at Vax and I go, you were just playing around, right?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: And in my giant state, I'm going to kick him like a soccer ball.
Liam: I'm going to dodge. Uncanny Dodge, man.
Matt: Well, we'll see. Go ahead and roll an attack roll.
Travis: That's good. 32.
Liam: Ooh. No, I didn't miss that.
Matt: Roll a strength check.
Liam: Wait, I'm going to use another Luck and make him roll again and pick the lower of the two.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 15 on the strength check. 25.
Liam: Got to roll again for the hit.
Matt: Roll again because he used a Luck point to force you to reroll your attack roll.
Travis: 24.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: What was the strength roll again?
Travis: The strength was 24.
Matt: Strength check was 24. So as you peek out of the corner of your eye you hear this (heavy steps) and as you try and spin and dodge out of the way instinctually--
Liam: Uncanny Dodge!
Matt: I know and we'll get to that. Instinctually, you turn to dodge out of something Grog-sized, not giant-sized. And in that brief minute that you remember that he grew, you pause just long enough to (whack) feel the force of what feels like a giant battering ram slam into your side, sending you off your feet and arcing a good 30 feet before you (impact) tumble and skid to the ground. What's your strength modifier?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. You take 14 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half because you're taking Uncanny Dodge. So only seven points bludgeoning damage. You stay there for a second, stunned. You feel a bit of bile and iron taste in the back of your throat.
Liam: And in the distance you hear  (strained) I feel so alive. (laughter)
Taliesin: First rule of Fight Club.
Travis: Can I check the Titanstone Knuckles? Have they changed now that I've kicked a friend in the face?
Matt: (laughing) Make an investigation check.
Travis: Damn it! Eight.
Matt: They appear to have maintained their composure as gauntlets.
Liam: There's some blood and five long, dark hairs on them.
Matt: You watch as a lot of the soldiers who had been watching this endeavor step even further away from Grog, and some of them begin walking off, taking their helmets off. "All right, we're done."
Laura: Hey bonus, he's on our side. Eh? That's encouraging.
Matt: They all nod their heads. "Yeah, I know that. Thank god!" But they're all doing this while still locking eyes with him. "That's great." And slowly walk off.
Travis: (chuckles)
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: Help me up.
Laura: Don't you have wings?
Liam: Not going to use them right now. Just a hand. (groans) That's going to bruise. Worth it.
Travis: Thank you. I was getting so bored.
Liam: (sighs) I know.
Travis: Thanks, bubby.
Taliesin: What are the chances I would have at least a basic portable writing desk? They're not that complicated.
Matt: A portable writing desk?
Taliesin: 16th century-style. Just something to write on.
Marisha: What do you need a writing desk for?
Taliesin: Just something with paper, pen, and something to write on.
Matt: You have access to a quill and ink, you have access to parchment.
Liam: How about a fucking clipboard?
Taliesin: It's basically a fucking clipboard.
Matt: You have access to that, yes.
Liam: Percival de Rolo, Inventor of Clipboard.
Taliesin: No, it was called a writing desk back then. It was called a writing desk. There's a thing. It was that big and you put it on your lap. It was a writing desk.
Matt: All right. Yes, you have access to that.
Sam: So wait, what is in this letter? What are we offering them?
Marisha: Yeah, how's the letter going?
Taliesin: I'm writing the letter up. I've basically gotten it together. I've explained the situation briefly. I assume they're aware of the war and the current reality.
Sam: And to clarify for me. We're asking them--
Taliesin: I'm getting there. In this, I'm asking for their assistance in killing a dragon. For this assistance, they will get all bounty of biological remnants of the dragon, with a small percentage of scales and teeth kept for us. Asking for 20 percent, but negotiable. We want them to supply either a local or give some intel into where we can find a beast large enough for this dragon to attack. Information that we have on this dragon so that they actually help us strategize any ways of defeating it, and any other help that they could give in defeating this creature. And as a token of our goodwill, we are sending them a small package of black and white dragon scales and a dragon tooth.
Laura: Yes. And make sure to include that this must all be completed within 14 days.
Sam: But wait.
Travis: There's more.
Taliesin: There's more.
Sam: Asking them to help us kill a dragon?
Taliesin: For stuff.
Sam: No, but that's not what we're asking them. We're asking them to find a beast.
Laura: Yes, that's what he said.
Taliesin: It's in the letter.
Laura: That's part of that listening thing, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry.
Liam: He did talk for quite a while.
Taliesin: Is there a way to enchant me so that I have his voice? And then he'll listen more closely?
Marisha: Yeah, actually.
Matt: He has a spell for that. (laughter)
Taliesin: Don't answer that.
Matt: As you finish penning the letter, you read over it once, twice, make sure all the information is contained. You go ahead and grab the little bit of your offering of dragon scales and teeth. Present them to Kashaw. He takes the letter and reads it over. "Sure."
Sam: Should we add an NDA?
Taliesin: There's a rider at the end of everything I send.
Laura: Kashaw. No mention of Whitestone at all. Anywhere you go. Very important.
Travis: Good addendum. Whatever that word is.
Liam: Again, please?
Laura: No mention of Whitestone.
Taliesin: No mention of Whitestone.
Laura: Do we have a way to get him there very quickly?
Marisha: What? Kashaw?
Matt: "Are you going to do your tree thing for me? Otherwise, I can walk, but it'll be a month and a half before I get to shore."
Marisha: Yeah. We're going to be here the rest of the day, right?
Sam: How will he get back?
Marisha: Druids. People. Wizards. Sorcerers.
Sam: Wait! We got those rocks.
Laura: He's a really smart man.
Taliesin: Oh, the rock. That's a really good idea.
Laura: Yeah, but then he'll pop where we are.
Taliesin: No, we'll leave the rock here.
Sam: We're going to stay here at least a day.
Liam: Well, you've got friends, don't you?
Matt: "I'm can figure something out."
Laura: Don't worry about it.
Sam: Steal an airship on your way back.
Matt: (chuckles) "No."
Marisha: All right. Let's go to the Sun Tree.
Matt: "All right." Gets his shield and his spear and walks down with Keyleth towards the Sun Tree. As he's walking down, at your side.
Laura: Don't you want to walk with them?
Liam: No. Where is that coming from?
Sam: No, he definitely has a thing for you, Vax. I have a keen eye for these things.
Liam: But you can't address it. You just have to let it be. I'm not going to encourage it. I'm not interested in him.
Taliesin: I see it every time. He does. He smolders.
Matt: As he walks with you down the pathway, having this conversation. It's that awkward, quiet about three, four minutes of walking before he goes. (sniffs) "Ugh. So when all this is over--"
Marisha: Oh, come on, man. Why are you doing this to me? (laughter)
Travis: Hold on, it's going to happen. Let it happen.
Matt: "If we survive all this dragon business--"
Marisha: Fuck you, I hate you so much right now. (laughs) Uh-huh?
Matt: "Do you want to get a drink?"
Marisha: I love drinks.
Matt: "Good."
Marisha: So much.
Matt: "Great."
Marisha: What kind of a drink?
Matt: You guys begin to approach the edge of the tree. He goes: "I think you answered your own question."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Is that a yes?"
Marisha: Well...
Matt: "Open the damn tree."
Marisha: Look. You know. It's really complicated right now, and I'm trying this whole "allowing myself to feel things" thing.
Matt: "Yeah. It doesn't work out for anybody. Trust me."
Marisha: Oh man. I don't know how to respond to that. I'll see you on the other side. We'll put a pin on this one. Bye, Kash. And I cast it through the tree and I push him in.
Matt: "All right, then. We'll just-- hey!" And you push him through the tree. Shuts behind him. You're left there alone, standing in the cold Whitestone air outside of the Sun Tree. Around mid-morning.
Sam: Did Kash leave already?
Marisha: Yeah, he's gone.
Sam: Aw, Vax, you didn't get a chance to say anything to him. I've talked to him about this. He has his eyes out on you.
Liam: I've got enough complications around me as it is.
Sam: I'm a really good reader of people.
Liam: It's true.
Sam: The dark eyeliner--
Laura: So now that that's handled, are we leaving today?
Taliesin: Oh, we're leaving today.
Sam: Well, one of us doesn't have any luck left, so maybe we should spend the night.
Liam: I've got a little bit of luck. I'm a lucky guy.
Taliesin: We'll get our luck back tomorrow.
Laura: We've got a limited amount of time on this.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way towards the building that has recently been essentially given to and is acting as the abode for Shaun Gilmore while he's here in Whitestone. As you come to the front door, the door's closed. You knock. (knocking) No response.
Liam: Shaun? Shaun! It's us. Are you home?
Matt: You hear a muffled voice in the distance within the building go, "Yeah, hold on."
Laura: Did it sound like anyone we knew?
Matt: It sounded like Gilmore. He's under some sort of duress.
Marisha: Sounded like he was under duress?
Matt: Slightly.
Laura: Is everything okay?
Matt: "Yes. Hold on, please." And you watch as the barrier flickers for a second and restores itself, almost like a wave of energy brought what was a slowly dwindling bit of the blue energy, now restored to its full strength.
Travis: He's got to use the privy at some point.
Sam: Yeah, he's probably squeezing one out. It's okay.
Matt: A moment passes before the door opens again and you see Gilmore there, beads of sweat down the front of his face. He's got his fuzzy purple-blue robe wrapped around him. "My sincerest apologies, I had to take care of the now morning ritual."
Laura: How are you holding up, Gilmore?
Matt: "I'm fine. This is child's play compared to what you're having to deal with on a daily basis, I'm sure."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15.
Laura: Oh! You got a whisper on a 15.
Sam: This is an early whisper. A first-hour whisper is rare.
Taliesin: It came at such a high speed. I wish it came so quickly.
Liam: I wish I knew more about Loot Crate right now.
Sam: Well, it's not just Loot Crate, Liam. It's Loot Wear. Those come in a separate bag.
Liam: Different than Loot Crate?
Sam: Yeah, it's different. You can find out all about it at lootcrate.com/criticalrole.
Laura: Actually, the shirt you're wearing, Sam, is from Loot Wear.
Sam: What? It is? Oh my god! And I'm so handsome.
Taliesin: Anyway, back to the game.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: Well, we plan to go to Marquet. Things have progressed much quicker than we expected it to, and unfortunately we are on a two-week time crunch before all hell breaks loose.
Matt: "Well, at the very least, that gives us a series of days to make the best of the time we have. So Marquet it is. All right. Come in." He closes his robe a little bit and walks in, and you enter. You can see there's a half-drunken tea set, and he begins to walk past. "Tea, anyone?"
Sam: I'd like a loose-leaf oolong, please.
Matt: "I'll do what I can."
Taliesin: How many cups are currently sitting with the teapot?
Matt: Currently, there is one cup, but as he walks by, he does this with his fingers and you watch as multiple cups drift off the shelf and find their way (cups landing) on the table.
Laura: How does his house look? Does it look together like it would normally be, or does it look disheveled at all?
Matt: It looks a little disheveled, but also it hasn't been too long since the assassination attempt on him and he threw his attacker into the far wall, but it looks like the furniture has been placed up. There are still some bits and pieces of broken things here and there, but for the most part it doesn't look like he's had lot of time to clean up other than just making it functional. It seems livable; it's not too bad. He goes into the kitchen. He comes back out a moment later with a fresh pot of hot tea and sets it down. "All right. So this isn't going to send you to where you're going--"
Sam: We literally know nothing about Marquet.
Matt: "It's hot. It's dry. Bring some water if you can."
Liam: You're not able to leave, are you?
Matt: "I should not. Got to keep this going until Allura comes back."
Sam: Is there anyone that we can say maybe vouches for us or someone who we are against so that we can win favor with the locals? Something like a no-tail, long-tail binary.
Liam: We walked into a sort of political snafu because we didn't know the lay of the land, so is there anything we should know in advance?
Matt: "Best I can tell you, because I haven't been there since I was very young, one: this going to send you not to Ank'Harel itself, it's going to send you to Shandal, which is a small oasis village a little ways south of Ank'Harel. It's where I grew up."
Liam: What was that name again?
Matt: "Shandal."
Liam: Shandal.
Matt: "I will say that it has been about 15 years, so I don't quite know what to expect there. I apologize in advance for any ensuing chaos, but it's a nice town. It's small, it's sleepy. It's not my speed. Hence why I came here. However, in Marquet, it's mostly music, culture, fun people, good food. Don't break the laws. Don't drink the water freely from the various channels you may stumble across. Water there is a commodity. It is controlled and sold throughout the city."
Liam: We got a jug.
Travis: We got loads.
Matt: "Those are the main things I can think of. I don't know what else you're really looking for there."
Sam: Well, I can tell you.
Taliesin: Cabal's Ruin.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: The Den of Druja.
Marisha: The Den of Druja.
Marisha: Druyah. Drujah?
Taliesin: Druhah.
Marisha: Jaja.
Taliesin: Thanks.
Matt: "I don't know anything about that, unfortunately, but most folks that have information are eager to give what they know with a little coin to grease the palm."
Taliesin: Or a little water.
Matt: "Depends on who you're talking to. Anything else?"
Liam: No, go ahead.
Matt: He pours tea for everyone else who asked for it. And for each person that asked for a different flavor of tea, he begins to snap his fingers and the tea color changes.
Laura: We are looking for a merchant warrior. Outside of you, do you know of any very powerful merchants?
Matt: "There are many."
Laura: One with a missing eye?
Matt: "That would definitely probably narrow it down, but none that I can remember off the top of my head."
Sam: Why don't we bring Jarett with us? Is that a thing?
Laura: We should talk to him.
Sam: Okay. Shaun, you do so much for us. We do nothing for you. Is there anything we can bring back for you or messages to give to someone there?
Liam: Is there anyone you haven't seen in all these years?
Matt: "When you meet them, and you'll know who they are, tell them I say hello. And actually--" He thinks to himself for a second. Rushes off. Comes back with a small backpack made of leather and thick, light tan wool. He opens it up and reaches inside. Pulls out a small silver locket and takes it and puts it in your hand, Vex. He goes, "Just give that to them."
Laura: To them?
Matt: He closes the bag and places it back in the other room.
Marisha: Shaun, are you doing okay? You look a little worn out.
Matt: (sighs) "We do what we must."
Marisha: I could only imagine a barrier of this size of a construct can be quite taxing on one's physical energy.
Matt: "Yes. I guess if I had one request of all of you, this goes universally, can we end this dragon business soon? Please? I really just want to set up shop again."
Liam: We would like nothing more. I think we're on the same page.
Matt: "Great."
Laura: We're very interested to start paying you for your service again, Gilmore, and stop expecting it for free.
Matt: "Good. Because I've been keeping a tally. I don't know about you guys, but the tab is running very deep."
Laura: Oh, believe me. I have, as well. This locket will take a nice little chunk off of that tally.
Matt: "Fantastic. I love it."
Liam: Birds of a feather, you two.
Sam: Should we go talk to Jarett and then come back?
Taliesin: Let's go talk to Jarett. We'll have appropriate clothing set up and prepare ourselves for the trip.
Sam: Robes and things?
Matt: "I'll be here if you need me."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: We'll be back in an hour.
Matt: "All right. You don't want the rest of your tea?"
Sam: Oh. I'll drink it.
Laura: Do you have any to-go cups? (laughs) Just kidding.
Matt: "These didn't belong to me, so please, take them if you want." (laughter)
Matt: He transitions the tea over into a couple of cups and hands them off to you guys who haven't finished. You head out. As you're leaving, you see Sherri coming up. Her hair's a bit tattered. She's usually more put together when she runs the shop. Now she's in casual Sherri mode. Her hair is frazzled and pulled back. Her glasses are pushed to the end of her nose, and she's carrying a bundle of groceries, various bits of produce and such. "Oh, hello, everyone. I'm bringing Gilmore his breakfast."
Liam: Sherri. We asked him, but he's modest. How's he doing?
Matt: "Not that he'd tell me anything, but he doesn't have a very lengthy period of keeping this up without him probably collapsing like he did back in the city. Just please, try to do your best to get this over with. I'm worried. At the very least, until Allura comes back. At least they can share the load. All right." She knocks on the door and opens it. "Gilmore? Gilmore, breakfast." The door closes behind her.
Travis: Hey, I have an idea.
Sam: Oh boy.
Travis: I know, it's thrilling. We need eight gallon wine skins or bottles or jugs. Because the Alchemy Jug can make out eight gallons of fresh water. We pour it all out and then at the end of the day it starts over, so we have eight gallons sitting in the bag.
Taliesin: In theory, we all have water skins, don't we?
Marisha: We should have a spread of our survival kits.
Liam: But all the same, that is a very good idea, Grog.
Laura: I'm surprised you even know how many eight gallons is, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, eight gallons.
Sam: But if we had an extra skin or something, we could trade it. We could give it away, so we should go get one, yeah?
Travis: Yeah, we could give it away, give it away, give it away now.
Laura: Wow. I walk off and look for Jarett.
Liam: A rift just opened in the universe.
Matt: It doesn't take you long. He is still stationed as one of the central figures guarding the actual castle of Whitestone itself. Similar to the place you saw him last time you guys had a conversation walking up to the castle. He stands there with his crossbow at the ready, giving a long view over the surrounding valley before he watches you approach. "Friends, you have returned. I hope all is well on your end. Can I be of service?"
Laura: You can tell us all about where you're from, actually. Did you leave Marquet a long time ago?
Matt: "It was maybe ten, nine years ago, and it was not under the best terms. Probably would be in jail had I not got away."
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: "They are not very forgiving of broken laws there, and based on certain judgments... let's just say a slap on the wrist usually takes the wrist with it."
Laura: What did you do?
Matt: (sighs) "Whatever was needed for survival."
Liam: Well, we're going there, so I'm hoping either you can give us a lot of tips so we don't run into problems, or I don't know if anyone can take your place right now. Do you want to go on a field trip?
Matt: "To Ank'Harel?"
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: "No!" (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry, I respect this. I think my strength and skill set is much better used here than in the Scarlet Prison beneath the Cerulean Palace. I do not want to even conjecture spending the rest of my life there, or in pieces. Also possible."
Liam: Forget it. We need all the knowledge in your head, in ours.
Marisha: Yeah, what was that Scarlet Prison you just mentioned, under the what now?
Matt: "The Cerulean Palace. The Cerulean Palace is where the Hand of Ord generally keeps most justice, where most of the courts are kept. It is also where the Tower of J'mon Sa Ord is maintained for watching over the entire city, and most of that eastern side of Marquet. The Scarlet Prison is where people go to disappear. It is also referred to as the Scarlet Oubliette. People are placed there to go away; people are placed there to be tortured; people are placed there, rumors say, to be part of various experiments. Regardless, I would highly recommend--" He looks to you. "Don't steal anything unless you are damn sure nobody knows of it."
Liam: I haven't stolen anything in years.
Travis: (coughing) Bullshit.
Laura: Me neither. (laughs nervously)
Marisha: I've never stolen anything!
Laura: Have you heard about the Den of Drujah. Drujah.
Matt: He closes his eyes a second. "That was... a very, very--"
Laura: It's unscrupulous.
Taliesin: It would have been in a tale of a one-eyed merchant.
Matt: "Not any merchant I know, but this Den you speak of, they were a rather serious gang running rather violent activities in the city maybe 70, 80 years ago."
Taliesin: Would they have been in the walls? Is it possible to be in the walls of Ank'Harel?
Matt: "In the outer walls? The outer walls are solid. They are thick; they are meant for defense only. I did not run with them. I do not know anything. It was before my time, but they have not been around for at the very least 50 years."
Laura: All right.
Sam: Do you know who rules Ank'Harel now?
Matt: "It is J'mon Sa Ord."
Liam: What can you tell us about him? Or her, or it?
Matt: "J'mon? I have not seen J'mon, though I have heard the stories. J'mon brought the city together 400 years before. When it began to grow, expand, when it became this great oasis, long ago, it went into chaos, and there were many who wished to utilize those who lived within the center desert to be abused, to be swindled, to be enslaved. J'mon started the Hand of Ord, which was the peacekeepers, and really brought the town of Ank'Harel into the grand city it is today. Not known to appear in public very often; there are many rumors that circulate. Some say that perhaps J'mon is some godling, an entity that has existed long before Ank'Harel and will exist long after. There is also-- and this is my personal belief-- I think J'mon Sa Ord is many people. I think J'mon is more of an office, a station, a title that's passed on from person to person, because I've heard referenced as a girl, I've heard referenced as a boy."
Laura: It's like the Man in Black.
Liam: What story is that?
Laura: It's this famous tale of the Princess Bride. Don't worry about it.
Sam: Does the Hand of Ord carry any symbol? Do you know of any way of identifying them?
Matt: "They carry ornate armor of a deep blue sapphire color, and brass."
Liam: Brass.
Laura: Like the dragon.
Sam: And this other city, Shumble. Humbal.
Laura: Shandal.
Marisha: Shandal.
Matt: "Shandal! Yes. (laughs) It's more of a podunk."
Laura: A very small town.
Matt: "Comparatively, yes. Ank'Harel is immense. Shandal is usually a small stop in case camels or other horses have died in transit, as well as a small water stop on the way to the city."
Laura: Is it a long trek from there to the city?
Matt: "I'd say maybe a day's travel."
Sam: In which direction?
Matt: "It is to the south-southwest of Ank'Harel."
Liam: On par with Emon, the city? Bigger? Smaller?
Matt: "Oh, Emon? Comparable. A bit bigger."
Laura: Wow. Shit.
Taliesin: We'll make waves.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe we shouldn't.
Taliesin: Well. We're going to have to get someone's attention.
Marisha: It's a city that has no water. We shouldn't make waves.
Laura: Do you remember, in all your time there, did you ever deal with-- this is completely ridiculous-- a merchant who only had one eye?
Matt: "I don't recall. I've met people missing many limbs and parts of their body. Kind of happens; it' a dangerous place, the deserts in Marquet. But there are also many people that live there."
Liam: And you're sure we can't talk you into going? Percy's giving out titles.
Taliesin: I am absolutely not!
Matt: "I have no interest in titles. I just wish to stay alive. I'm sorry. I am much more of use to you here, I assure you. I would be a perpetually nervous paranoid wreck if I were to come with you."
Laura: I can't even imagine you like that.
Matt: "Good. We'll keep it that way."
Marisha: Jarett, was there still a control of water going on while you were there?
Matt: "Yes, for many long years, yes. The oasis is built around."
Marisha: Is there anything we should know about that?
Matt: "Well, most of it's controlled in the River District. A number of canals begin in the River District. This is where there is the spring, the perpetual oasis that fuels the city, and many of the caravans that travel to and from."
Travis: Perpetual oasis.
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: Source of power. (laughter)
Sam: Good note-taking, Grog. How do people greet each other there in Ank'Harel? Is there a "Kord's strength be with you" thing?
Matt: "There is 'be pleased,' with a small bow, preferably with the hand down towards the stomach, with the hand out. Be pleased."
Laura: Be pleased.
Travis: Beep-bleep.
Liam: Bleep-bleep, yes. No stealing. Got it.
Sam: Water is valuable.
Laura: Don't drink the water.
Liam: Is there anything that's offensive? We don't want to offend anyone by accident.
Matt: "To be honest, anything you do will offend somebody in the right place, right time, but people are pretty laid back in Ank'Harel, as long as you follow the rules. It's a beautiful city. I'm actually excited for you to see it. I'm very proud of it, had I not made some mistakes."
Liam: Can we bring you anything back?
Matt: "You know what? If you can, there is a special spice that is harvested not far from the city. If you could find me some fusaka spice? Bring me a small-- not a lot, just a bit."
Travis: Is it for food?
Matt: "It's for food, yes."
Liam: I would love to do that. We'll keep an eye out.
Matt: "It's a bit pricey. I can give you some--"
All: No!
Liam: No, you've done way too much for us.
Taliesin: Fair trade.
Liam: Fair trade.
Matt: "All right. Well, I appreciate it."
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: We'll work on it.
Matt: "Work on it for a bit, maybe watch some folks. You'll pick it up right quick, just pay attention."
Sam: All right, well, shall we--
Taliesin: Let's go change, and then let's be off.
Matt: "All right, be safe, friends. Look forward to your return."
Laura: Keep everyone safe?
Matt: "That is my purpose."
Marisha: And Jarett, will you keep an eye on Gilmore for us?
Matt: "Is he all right?"
Marisha: I think he's just working himself a bit much.
Liam: Stretched a little thin.
Matt: "I may have noticed it myself. I will do this for you. Promise."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "My pleasure."
Sam: To Marquet?
Travis: To market!
Sam: To buy a fine pig.
Marisha: To market!
Sam: Home again, home again.
Laura: I didn't realize Marquet was like Emon. This might be a bit difficult, to find a one-eyed merchant in a city bigger than Emon.
Taliesin: I think that once we arrive, he'll find us. Or she.
Laura: This is true.
Sam: We get there, we start poking people in the eye until someone doesn't flinch, then we'll know we found them.
Taliesin: Can I point out that now we have to learn an entirely new lore? We've worked so hard, and now spices? Rivers, canals, fusaka! Oh god, I'd gotten everything together, and now.
Laura: We've only got two weeks. Fuck.
Taliesin: It takes a day to do Disneyland.
Sam: Does anyone speak Marquetian, or do they speak Common there?
Taliesin: We'll run into a lot of Common. Common is common for a reason.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right, you guys head back to Gilmore's place?
Laura: Oh, but are we going to get some water jugs and shit like that before we leave?
Sam: Sure, we get some water jugs.
Marisha: Yeah, more water's good.
Matt: You can pick up a few. We'll say for about five gold pieces here, you can acquire some jugs that are compact enough that they'll actually fit within the Bag of Holding, should you place them.
Liam: Five gold. Mark it off. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Sam: How we doing on potions? We got potions?
Laura: We need to get some potions.
Travis: There's no stores.
Matt: The healing potions that were available in the city you guys have already taken.
Marisha: Yeah, we've tapped them out there.
Taliesin: Yeah, Whitestone is not functioning.
Sam: All right, we'll get some in Marquet.
Taliesin: Trade them for water.
Travis: One for each?
Taliesin: You stabbed her bear while maintaining eye contact.
Laura: How many jugs did we get? Five jugs?
Matt: Five jugs.
Marisha: Slowly. Very slowly. Oh yeah.
Laura: And we fill up our wineskins with water.
Taliesin: We're changing out of the winters into the lighter clothing.
Marisha: I bust out some of my clothes from the Fire Ashari. Go lighter.
Taliesin: It's a shame Kit's very busy, or else we could get summer clothes.
Matt: She's so busy getting married or something.
Taliesin: Getting married or something.
Liam: I break into a cold sweat, thinking about the desert and this armor. Oh shit.
Laura: You're going to be a gross, sweaty, greasy mess.
Taliesin: Okay, actually there is a solution for this.
Liam: Yes, Percival. I have never needed your intellect more than right now. What is the solution?
Taliesin: I'm going to find him a white silk and cotton, linen cloak, very simple, to throw over his armor the way the Templars used to do, so you won't cook in your bloody armor.
Marisha: Does his little sachet--
Taliesin: Yes, it'll attach to the sachet.
Marisha: Well, I was going to say, does his sachet need a re-up of herbs? I thought you stuffed it with something.
Matt: Percival presents you with a nice, flowing, light whitish-gray cloak. Ceremonial, within older Whitestone gatherings. It seems nice; it seems light.
Liam: And I can put it over everything else?
Laura: Over your other cloaks.
Liam: Cloaks, plural. Fucking 90 episodes later cloaks, cloaks, cloaks.
Matt: You can totally place it over your Displacer Cloak.
Taliesin: Yeah. It's just a heat sink.
Liam: Yeah, it's to bounce the heat off.
Laura: Perfect.
Liam: Liam knows science. Vax doesn't know shit.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Sam: Before we go, quickly, guys. I'm sorry. I haven't done this yet, so can I try to see where Kaylie is and do a little scry?
Matt: You close your eyes and concentrate, and you see, peeking out from the metallic rim of the sword which you gave her, the Aberration's Bane longsword, you look up and you can see the edge of a wooden table. You hear faint music in the distance; it sounds like some sort of a piano being played. No accompaniment, just a straight piano. You hear distant whispers of conversation, the occasional burst of laughter, and you can see the edge of Kaylie's elbow, leaning against the edge of the table. There's a long pause, no movement. Then all of a sudden, she shifts back from the table and goes, "That's right, all the money on the table's mine. Nice try." Scoops down, throwing her hand of cards on the table. You hear a couple voices go (groaning). You see her scoop the coins over and go place them into a coin bag. "All right, so perhaps another round, then?"
Sam: Yeah! She's doing good!
Matt: "Where are you going? Are you a coward or something?" Shouting this in the distance, as apparently the previous people she card sharked walk off, frustrated and growling. You see one of them comes up to the edge of the table and goes, "Best be giving that money back, little girl or you're--" Before that happens, you see a large, meaty hand grab the back of his neck and pick up him by the scruff. You see appear into view the very edge of Dr. Dranzel's chin and hat and he goes, "I'm sorry, were you talking to my lady friend that way? That's poor manners." And drops him there at the table. The guy adjusts himself. "Better not see you guys in the street." He walks off. She reaches her hand up, watching the guy leave, and fist-bumps Dranzel. Your vision fades back and your consciousness comes back to you.
Sam: She's okay! Okay, good! All right! I feel good. Let's go!
Liam: What were you doing?
Sam: I had some bad tikka masala earlier.
Liam: We haven't even gone to Marquet!
Sam: They don't have Middle Eastern food there, I hope!
Taliesin: Well...
Liam: Not going to touch that one.
Travis: Are we going?
Liam: Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way back towards Gilmore's home. At this point in time, you come in and find there are a couple of plates, crumbs to the side. Gilmore's sitting in the chair with his tea, eyes closed in a meditative stance. As soon as you enter the room, he jolts back to momentary awareness. "All right! Gathered your things? Are you ready to go?"
Liam: Pretty much.
Matt: "If you don't mind." He grabs the edge of the central table in the center of the room with the tea on it. He looks towards you.
Travis: Oh yeah, no problem.
Matt: You guys shift it, move it to the side, leaving an open space on the ground. He kneels down and places one hand in the center of the floor. The other hand he reaches back into a small pouch on his side and pulls out a small amount of shimmering, glassy sand material you recognize as a hint of residuum processed into its dust crystallized form. He scatters it around while he's muttering under his breath. As he does, with his hand in the center, you see the dust pull together into these small symbols on their own, almost like magnets to iron filings. They're forming into these rigid structures. As they do, they begin to flare up and glow, and he takes a step back, his eyes still closed, brings his fist together into a grip. As he does, they light up, and you recognize this as a teleportation circle. He goes, "All right, it won't last long. In you go!"
Travis: Running through!
Laura: Thank you, Gilmore!
Matt: "My pleasure!" is the last thing you hear before you dive in as it begins to fade. Each of you guys step into and transition past, immediately piling up into each other as you come out the other side, as you're in a dark and enclosed cupboard or closet-type circumstance.
Taliesin: I'm reaching for a door handle.
Laura: Anywhere.
Matt: It looks like there is a set of doors to it. It's a giant armoire. You guys are pushed into it, but it is latched over.
Liam: Ugh, Grog's pec is right in my eye.
Laura: Can I get a little dagger through and flip the latch?
Matt: Flick it up. It bursts open, and you all come stumbling out.
Liam: I think he stabbed my eye out! Jeez!
Matt: As you all stop, Vex, you look back around. This is a very large dresser-like armoire. It's empty. It looks like there are a number of hangers inside, like it was a place for various outfits to be kept and stored. On the floor of the wood, you can see carved into it a small symbol or a sigil, if you will.
Sam: Drink!
Laura: Drink!
Matt: Marked as the symbol he put.
Laura: Good thing no one destroyed this thing while he was gone.
Matt: Glancing around, you can see a small dark wood room atop a wine-red circular carpet in the center. Empty shelves and cobwebs fill the corners. There's a bit of dust and sand coating over where the bed rests against the wall. A closed window hides behind a drawn curtain, with a little bit of peeking sunlight making its way through. There is one single door that sees you out, though it is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm going to stand on the carpet and will it to fly. Seems worth a shot.
Laura: Every carpet here.
Matt: Step onto the carpet, close your eyes. How do you will it?
Taliesin: I do believe in fairies. I do believe in fairies. I know it; I've killed several of them. They're definitely real.
Matt: Moments pass, no effect.
Liam: I'm going to do my due diligence and make sure the door's okay. Probably is, but just in case.
Taliesin: I'm going to look out the window, as well.
Laura: I look under the bed.
Liam: 22. Just to make sure that it's not trapped or locked.
Matt: The door is locked. It is not trapped. You're peeking out the window, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, I am.
Matt: You glance through the cloth, and it looks like it is a glass window, but it is partially opened and looks like there's a little cluster of sand that's gathered over time underneath the sill, from what little bit the wind's pushed through. Glancing out as soon as you push out, the light is very bright, and you have to take a moment for your eyes to adjust. Looking out, you see a simple street. There are some small buildings built of fine wood; nothing too extravagant. You can see a number of trees that protrude from the sand: long, tall, thin, palm frond-type tops to them, bearing some sort of large nut-like fruit. You can see what look to be small troughs of gathered water, whether it be from rain or them placed there intentionally, but they're currently locked with some semi-translucent top and chained shut, on the outside of two of the buildings. You do see a few people walking back up and down the street. General civilians, all dressed in longer, full-body robes, some of them with scarves around their neck. I wouldn't say peasants, per se, but definitely not well-off in their appearance. Casual civilians. Darker skin, looks like they've definitely been living in the desert for a long time. That is what you can see from the window's point of view.
Taliesin: Are we on the first floor or second floor?
Matt: Currently, you're on the first floor.
Sam: Is there a second floor?
Matt: You don't know.
Sam: Are there stairs? Oh, we're in a room. Let's go out the room. What could happen?
Matt: Looking under the bed, you see what appears to be a small wooden box that is closed and hidden toward the very back, and what appears to be a small series of shirts that have been folded up and have gathered a lot of dust over the top of them.
Laura: Can I reach them?
Matt: Yeah. Pull them out. Really nice, high-quality silk and cotton based, embroidered shirts. Look more ceremonial, special event type, long, maybe knee-length.
Marisha: What's the decoration like in the room?
Matt: Currently, it's pretty bland. You can see a couple of colored tapestries similar to the center of the floor rug that are hanging, but there are a lot of blank areas. It looks like decorations have been removed, or at least haven't been there for a long time. The room, for the most part, seems to be abandoned.
Laura: Is the box trapped?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Almost good, and then not. 14.
Matt: 14? It does not appear to be trapped.
Laura: Can I open it?
Matt: You do. Open it up, glance inside. It looks to be a series of folded papers.
Laura: Is it Gilmore's stuff?
Liam: Yeah, you're going through Shaun's shit. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm just seeing if this is his room!
Marisha: Ooh, whispers.
Travis: Oh shitballs. I have to move.
Marisha: How are those Cowboys doing, Travis?
Travis: Ten-ten, halftime.
Marisha: Oh snap.
Taliesin: Is that a good thing, ten-ten at halftime?
Travis: No, not good.
Taliesin: That's not good? Okay.
Travis: Their starting quarterback got hurt.
Taliesin: I understood all those words individually.
Travis: Because he's an old woman.
Taliesin: I know those words, as well.
Liam: Speaking in Half-Orc. Don't speak that.
Taliesin: I would pay good money to have you explain how football works to me.
Travis: That's what I was going with that!
Laura: Okay. I fold them back up and I put them under the bed.
Liam: Can I read your diary, then? Is that all right?
Laura: I was seeing if we were in Gilmore's room, that's all.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Don't act like I'm a dick. I'm not stealing the letters. I'm putting the shirts back, all right?
Liam: I didn't say it! Just maybe he wants a little privacy. I don't know! Think about it.
Marisha: She's learned from you well.
Laura: Is the door open? Can we go out of here?
Sam: Did you find anything good?
Liam: If 25 opens the door, then it's opened.
Matt: It's easy enough, like butter. (creaking door) The door opens.
Marisha: He did say we would meet his family.
Matt: As the door opens up, immediately, your nose catches the smell of sage and cooked meats. As the door opens, you look into a large room to your left with some furniture, not too extravagant, but nice, and a humble living space. As the door opens the other way, you look to the right, and you see two figures sitting at a table, seemingly eating. An older couple, with dark sun-weathered skin, graying hair, and bright eyes. They look confused and slightly scared at their table, staring back at people wandering into the middle of the room.
Travis: It's okay.
Marisha: Hi!
Taliesin: This is a bit awkward.
Sam: We're friends of Gilmore.
Laura: Shaun.
Matt: They both look at each other.
Sam: Oh, be pleased.
Travis: Bees knees.
Matt: They both look to each other and then immediately begin, mouths filled with food, laughing. (laughs) "This is unexpected. Friends of Shaun's, you say?"
All: Yes.
Matt: The man himself stands up and begins to walk over, wiping the edge of his mouth with a small piece of cloth, finishing chewing and swallowing the food he has currently. As he walks up, the man has thinning white hair that grows long, straight down towards his back, simple long robe-like dress with simple cloth pants that go round these slipper-like shoes on his feet. He approaches. Which one said Shaun?
Sam: You said Gilmore.
Matt: Gilmore and Shaun. Approaches you, as you, stepping forward as one of the more, you know, assertive members of the party, and goes, "How is he? If you could please tell me?"
Laura: He's quite well. He's very powerful, actually, and has wonderful businesses, all through--
Marisha: Tal'Dorei?
Laura: No, I know. It's just not there anymore.
Matt: "Opesa. Opesa, come." And the woman gets up from the table. "Yes, I'm sorry. It has been a while since we've had guests from so strange and sudden arrivals!" She walks up and pulls these small glasses out from her pocket and puts them on. You can see her eyes open up wide behind them, and she comes, leans to the side and puts her arm around him. They both hold each other. He goes, "I am sorry. Let me introduce. I am Soren Geddmore. This is Opesa Geddmore. You know our son?"
Liam: Yes, for quite some time.
Matt: "And you say he does well with his business?"
Laura: He does. So well, yes.
Taliesin: Continental.
Matt: "This is good."
Laura: Very respected.
Liam: Yes, and brave.
Matt: "He has always been a brave one."
Sam: Single-handedly protecting a whole city right now.
Matt: "You don't have to embellish. That's okay. Would you like to eat with us? We can make more food, yes?"
Laura: Actually, we need to head out pretty quickly.
Taliesin: We're sadly on a mission.
Laura: Can you tell us the direction to Ank'Harel?
Matt: "You are going to Ank'Harel?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Yes. Follow me." He takes her by the arm, and they both walk arm-in-arm, leading you guys to what looks to be a front door of this abode. As he pushes it open, revealing more of the street of this small oasis town, he goes, "Let's see, if you follow-- that is the sun." He looks up, and you see his eyes adjust to the brighter sky. "The sun is there. It will be setting... that direction. Continue... what is the word you speak?"
Sam: North, northwest. No, northeast.
Matt: "That is west. You want to north, so go that way. Yes. That is where you want to go."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: Is there a road to follow, or is it just a direction?
Matt: "I haven't been in many years. As far as I know, there are signs. There are not roads. There are guides you could hire to bring you there."
Marisha: Can I do like a nature check or take note of what he said so I remember? Because that was vague.
Laura: I'm assuming these are the people that Gilmore said I would know.
Matt: You get the sense these are probably who he was referring to.
Laura: Yes, so as she's doing that, I want to pull out the locket and say, actually, Shaun asked me to deliver this to you.
Matt: "What--" And he looks to his wife. The woman steps forward adjusting her glasses. "Thank you so much!" She holds it and opens it up. Looks over to him and shows him. You get a bit of a glance, at that point. You can see it's a picture of Gilmore. He's happy. Jewel-encrusted rings. It's almost a promotional still, if there was one, for Gilmore's Glorious Goods. She takes it. She closes it and goes, "Gilmore is originally Geddmore. He changed his name when he went for better business to the Tal'Dorei place. Glad he's doing well."
Taliesin: He's respected across the continent.
Liam: Is there anything we can let him know?
Matt: "Give him our love and tell him he is more than welcome to visit. It has been many years."
Liam: We will.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Not a worry. Safe travels. You're sure you don't wish to have food?"
Liam: No, but if you could point us towards fusaka? Is there any around here? There's not, is there?
Matt: They both look at each other. "I'm not familiar with this spice you speak of. My apologies." She's like, "I'm sorry. I do not know this fusaka you speak of."
Liam: He's pulling our chain.
Sam: Or maybe it's something illicit.
Laura: It's possible.
Taliesin: It's possible.
Sam: Or something that you snort.
Liam: He's pretty cool.
Laura: I understand.
Taliesin: Can we leave them a bit of water?
Sam: Yeah, we should leave them some water.
Laura: Oh yes.
Sam: Grog! Water boy?
Travis: Yes?
Laura: Can you give them some water from our jug?
Taliesin: Where do you keep your personal water?
Laura: Would you like some water?
Travis: I got it. Here, take this jug of water with our compliments. You said give them a jug!
Taliesin: Where do you store your water in the house?
Matt: "We have, around this way--" He leads you towards the back of this small kitchen. It's very condensed. You can see there is a high metal fence, and there appears to be a rainwater receptacle there, like a well that is built into the homestead. It has chains over the top. He begins to pull keys out and lock to it, and as he pulls off the chains one by one, he pulls back the lid, this hard, dry wooden lid, and within it is a very deep well, though it looks like the water level's maybe ten feet down from the top of the well right now.
Travis: You want me to pour the Alchemy Jug in here? Or just one of the little ones?
Taliesin: Pour the Alchemy. The little one's for us today. The Alchemy Jug, this is where it's going.
Travis: All right, I take the Alchemy Jug and I go: You want to see a trick? Look inside. Do you see anything?
Matt: "Hey, Opesa, do you see anything?" And she blinks a bit. "No, it's empty."
Travis: And I say  Now, give it a listen. And I shake it. What do you hear?
Matt: "Nothing. You are a strange man." (laughter)
Travis: Forgot they're old. Right, well, it sounds-- fuck it. Water. And I start pouring. (laughter)
Matt: How much water does it create?
Travis: It creates eight gallons of fresh water.
Matt: Oh wow. "You are still a very strange man, but I'm very happy and appreciative."
Travis: I am a great sorcerer.
Matt: "All right. I can see, now. Gilmore has his work cut out for him."
Travis: Gedd-e-mo-ray.
Matt: He pats your shoulder. "Geddmore, indeed." As you finish pouring the water out, they lead you guys back to the front.
Laura: What time is it here?
Matt: He pulls out a small sundial from his pocket, holds it up. "It would be closer to late afternoon."
Laura: No, we aren't going to make it to Ank'Harel by dark. Yes, of course. That's all. Thank you!
Matt: "Well, thank you so much for coming."
Taliesin: Good day.
Travis: Beep-beep!
Sam: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Liam: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased." And they both, in a very rusty joints way, give you both a bow as you leave.
Liam: They were a couple of sweethearts.
Sam: They are adorable! They're both over 70, so who's going to kill them? Should Grog, or should I?
Taliesin: I think it's our turn.
Laura: You broke him!
Sam: You kill one, I'll kill the other.
Liam: Throwback Thursday.
Taliesin: This is what a d10 is for. Hold on, one second.
Marisha: Do we have any more reason to be here? Or should we start heading off to Ank'Harel?
Taliesin: I think we head off to Ank'Harel.
Laura: Yeah, unless we see any kind of potion shops here.
Marisha: I can mist us. I brought it today.
Taliesin: Oh. We can mist.
Liam: Is there enough moisture in the air? I have no idea how it works.
Travis: Shit, if we evaporate, I'll be so pissed.
Marisha: Wait. Can that happen?
Travis: You don't know!
Taliesin: I think it'll be fine.
Marisha: Because we're mist.
Taliesin: We're mostly water. I think it's our water. I think we end up very dehydrated at the end of it.
Marisha: Sorry, I just spit all over you. I'm sorry.
Taliesin: It's okay. Now I'm moister.
Marisha: That's how mist form works.
Travis: Now I'm moisture.
Marisha: I don't think we'd evaporate. I think he's fucking with us. I don't think we'd evaporate.
Laura: Let's mist it.
Matt: That would be the saddest TPK ever. "Let's go, guys!" And so ends the journey of Vox Machina. (laughter)
Marisha: They fade into existence!
Laura: That would be the worst thing ever.
Taliesin: Was that a global warming metaphor?
Travis: No songs to be sung. Just fucking another cloud in the fucking sky.
Sam: Some say you can see them still, overhead. (laughter)
Marisha: I don't think we'll evaporate.
Laura: Let's do it.
Sam: We're going to mist it?
Marisha: Do we need anything else while we're here, before I do this?
Taliesin: It's a one-camel town.
Marisha: I mist us.
Matt: All right. As you guys take a moment to concentrate, each one of you transforms into mist. As you begin to go one by the other, you do hear a couple of (gasps). You glance over your shoulder to see three kids, all looking up at you all with these big, scared smiles.
Marisha: Before I go, I say  stay in school, kids. And then I mist.
Taliesin: I'm going to Slimer the kid.
Laura: As I turn into mist, I go  I'm melting! Melting! Oh, what a world!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: I was trying to inspire them!
Taliesin: You're a terrible person!
Laura: 20.
Liam: Do they speak Common?
Matt: After you give your presentation, they, "Whoa!" As you begin transforming, you do that and they go, (terrified screaming) and go running indoors.
Taliesin: I'm still going to slime them on their way out.
Marisha: Sliming them!
Sam: We're tormenting children.
Liam: Hey, that's a step up for us!
Matt: That's what Vox Machina is all about.
Taliesin: Scarring children for life.
Travis: If you can't kill the old, terrify the young.
Taliesin: We're leaving them with a promise that we'll be back to finish the job.
Matt: You are terrible people. You guys rise into the air as the sun begins to bring itself to set in the west. You shift up over the city. You look down. Probably maybe 150, 200 buildings make up the entirety of Shandal. It's not a very large town, but you can see little dots of moving caravans both to and from the city. It is a fairly lively stop for people traveling to and from Ank'Harel.
Taliesin: We can follow traffic.
Marisha: Follow traffic.
Taliesin: There's a traffic line, then.
Matt: Every now and then. As you follow the direction they're going, you're traveling much faster than they are. The hot air does feel a little uncomfortable against your cloud-based misty forms, but you do not feel like it's responsible for evaporating any of your form.
Marisha: Yeah, we're just sweating a little bit more.
Matt: You're like, "oh this is uncomfortable." You continue to press forward as the sun slowly begins to set. The temperature begins to get colder and colder, and the sky grows darker.
Marisha: Do we condense a little bit? Turn into a low-lying fog? Never mind.
Matt: If you'd like to. It's up to you entirely. The form is your choice.
Travis: Could we turn into a marine layer?
Matt: You continue to travel throughout the night?
Sam: How long does this thing last?
Laura: Eight hours, right? It lasts eight hours?
Sam: We'll travel eight hours.
Taliesin: We'll take a late night. Once it wears off, then we'll camp.
Laura: Can we get the whole way there?
Marisha: Wind Walk, you said it was a day's journey, and we can travel faster by Wind Walking.
Sam: At night, will we know where northeast is?
Laura: Yeah, I've got an excellent sense of direction.
Taliesin: If it's only a day's travel, at some point we're going to see the city.
Marisha: I think we should be able to get there, right?
Laura: And we can camp just outside the city, maybe?
Sam: Okay. Let's do it.
Marisha: Because we have a flying speed of 300 feet.
Matt: Yes, you guys cruise. You guys push forward for another four to five hours post-dusk. You're now hitting the early hours of the morning before you begin to see in the distance hundreds of sparking lights begin to appear up above a distant sand dune. You can see the lit lights, lanterns, and general glowing night life of a massive city over the high walls that surround its exterior. This is a pretty amazing sight for those of you who have not been to such a large desert atmosphere, and it is pitch black below you, and at the height you're traveling-- How high are you traveling versus the ground? I guess I should ask.
Taliesin: 300 feet?
Marisha: An appropriate cloud height.
Sam: That's thousands.
Marisha: Hundreds. A couple hundred feet.
Matt: Okay. From this view, you can see a large queue about eight heavy caravan carts long of caravans that have camped for the night outside of the front main gates. You do see, along the line of the outer wall, there appear to be a number of small spires that open up like guard tower parapets that come to a pointed, what looks like a hand, cradling the outside of each section of the wall on the outside, but on the inside, you see a hundred or more of these long, multi-level spires that progress all throughout the city, and it goes on and on in its large oval-like shape. It's hard to make out much color other than the thousand small lights you see throughout the entire city. Orange, yellows, greens, blues. It is a beautiful view. What is your plan?
Taliesin: I say we camp outside.
Liam: Are we still clouds, though?
Taliesin: We're still clouds.
Liam: Can't talk at all.
Laura: Should we mist down?
Sam: Are we getting to the end of our eight hours anyway?
Marisha: It's been five or six.
Laura: It's still night?
Matt: Still night, yes.
Laura: It's good to camp.
Matt: It's two in the morning, at this point.
Marisha: Does there look like any patch of shrubs or a low point in the terrain? Cover.
Matt: You can't tell from this height, unfortunately.
Laura: We mist down a little bit.
Matt: You scoot down around the outside of the city walls. The landscape here near the town appears to be more packed and hardened badland dust and sand. You can see where lots of it, from a recent rain, have caked and hardened and then broken in places. It leaves this soft, shale-type texture to it that breaks into sand upon crumbling underfoot. From what you can see, there are a number of various heights of dunes in the distance. This city is thrown right in the center of what appears to be hundreds of miles of desert from the view that you had as the sun was setting.
Laura: And the gates to the city are closed at night?
Matt: The gates to the city are closed from this perspective, yes.
Liam: We did it, you guys. We made it to Burning Man.
Matt: You guys timed this, I didn't.
Laura: Can we see guards around? Do they look aggressive?
Matt: The giant iron gates stand about 65 feet tall and about as wide from end to end. They have a very tight weave of iron bars between them, to where it's almost a very thick fencing that you can almost see through. You can just see the outline of things that walk back and forth behind it. However, on the front side, you can see a number of guards.
Laura: We can see your piece of paper on the screen. Still see it.
Matt: Stop looking at my piece of paper on the screen!
Liam: There's a Vestige!
Matt: Not actually. Not anymore, it's not! It's gone! All right. Amongst the carved-out circle of caravan carts and people that are camping overnight before entering the city, you do see what appear to be a dozen guards, all dressed in dark blue and dark reddish metallic armor, many carrying heavy scimitars to their side or long pikes and shields. They're all wearing intricate helmets that crest down past the nose to the point where it looks like they just have eyes and a lower jaw. It flares out at the bottom and then curves to a point right across where the clavicle would be. The armor itself is designed in a very beautiful ornate fashion, but also looks very functional. You're at a distance; they don't seem to have noticed you as you've all crested down still in your cloud forms.
Laura: We should probably land far away.
Taliesin: I'm going to de-mist. There seems to be a section where people are camping. Let's just, for once, take this by the book. We want to make sure they know we're here. No sneaking into the city.
Marisha: I don't think they'd take kindly to surprises.
Taliesin: At worst, we've got the pretense of being emissaries from Emon looking for help.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: They punish people for nicking things. I don't think we want to try to break in.
Taliesin: No. we're going to try and be truthful as much as possible, although nobody say the W word.
Travis: Wine?
Laura: Wine, definitely wine.
Marisha: I'm assuming that that's the Hand of Ord that we're looking at.
Sam: The Hand of Ord is supposed to be super secret.
Taliesin: It might just be guards.
Matt: The Hand of Ord isn't secret.
Marisha: No, he said the Hand of Ord is the name of the peacekeeping guards.
Taliesin: Yes, that's right.
Laura: All right!
Taliesin: Let's camp for the evening.
Laura: Shall we camp in the mansion, then?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: So comfortable.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: We're still a distance though? Where we are, from the guards?
Laura: Yeah. We're off a little bit.
Matt: How far are you guys? How far did you decide to stop and transform? That's up to you.
Liam: I don't know.
Taliesin: Where were the other people camping for the night?
Matt: They're maybe 40 feet from the gates.
Taliesin: Well, let's camp 40 feet. Let's camp with them.
Travis: You want to put a magical door 40 feet?
Taliesin: I'm perfectly okay. It's not like they can come in. No one can enter who can't be invited.
Liam: You want to make a mystical door floating in the middle of their tents?
Laura: Do the people seem friendly? Do they seem tired?
Taliesin: We're going to camp next to their campsite.
Matt: Make a perception check
Liam: In this world, on the ground? I love it. We haven't done it that much lately.
Taliesin: We've been too used to being careful.
Marisha: In the mansion.
Laura: 22.
Marisha: So not really camping. We're glamping.
Matt: At a safe distance, you can make out some detail, and there is some lantern light on top of some of these carts. It appears that a number of the folks have set up small tents, and most appear to be sleeping. There are a few guards that are set on top of the carts with crossbows resting over their lap, keeping an eye in case anyone decides to get too close to their wares throughout the evening.
Laura: How about we keep a distance?
Marisha: Yeah, let's not mist down in the middle of a group.
Laura: No, let's keep a distance from them and be another group of people coming into the city.
Travis: I'd say 200 yards out.
Liam: Percival said he already un-misted.
Marisha: We're deciding how far. So 200 yards.
Taliesin: I can re-mist.
Liam: We can all do that?
Taliesin: As long as the eight hours hasn't passed, we can go in and out as you please, isn't that correct?
Matt: Yeah. It takes you a minute to transform.
Sam: Should we use our misting while we have it and mist into the city?
Travis: That's what I said, but they punish crime so harshly.
Sam: We haven't committed any crime.
Laura: No, but they have to document who goes in and out.
Sam: They won't even know--
Liam: Scan-man, let's start by playing nice, please.
Marisha: And if we get caught, they're going to know we didn't sign in correctly.
Taliesin: They have giant spires, yeah, and they're going to say "who are you?" and we're not going to be on the list.
Liam: We know nothing about these people or the customs here.
Travis: Yeah, we've got to learn a little bit before we kill all of them.
Marisha: I don't see any trees, and those guards look heavily funded. That looks like expensive armor they're all wearing.
Taliesin: You've got a good eye, yes.
Laura: Can we have the mansion, Scanlan?
Sam: Sure, yes, we can do the mansion.
Taliesin: Get close enough to the other group that they are aware that we exist, but they couldn't quite make us out, so just another group of travelers camping for the night.
Liam: With a door floating in the air.
Taliesin: It's magic. It's not like they've never seen it before.
Matt: The light radius beyond the wall itself is not very strong. It only low-lights maybe a 30- to 40-foot area around the gate itself, and there are a series of small torches that appear to be ever-burning on the outside of the wall. There are a few campfires that have been set up by the caravans that are waiting amongst the sand and broken ground there. They give a little more light. As you guys get to the outskirts of this, your shapes becoming visible to those that are keeping watch, you see a few individuals stand up on their carts with their crossbows at the ready. Just have a seat and keep an eye bead on those of you that are visible. Doesn't appear to be any aggressive action, just an acknowledgement of your presence and a show of readiness should any aggressive action be taken.
Liam: I'm going to not say anything but do the "be pleased" motion.
Laura: He already did that.
Liam: Well, I'm doing it, as well.
Laura: I'm going to watch you do it.
Sam: So we've un-misted. Are we going to mansion and go to sleep?
Taliesin: We're going to mansion. It's 2 00am. It's time to mansion and go to sleep.
Sam: All right. We'll do that.
Marisha: Okay, the people who are camping, what do they look like? Pretty common folk, I'm assuming?
Matt: Best you tell at this distance, the few that you can see-- because a lot of them appear to be in small tents encamped-- the few that you do make out appear to be dressed in a little more wealthy attire than the people you encountered in Shandal. You can see the gentlemen and ladies that are guarding the encampment are dressed in functional leathers with hints of hide and metal plates incorporated in the defense, but nothing that shows overt wealth or overt destitution. General mercenary guardians for a traveling caravan.
Marisha: Okay. Are we going to talk to any of them?
Taliesin: Unless there's a brazenly loud group around one of the campfires.
Matt: At this hour? No. You get the sense, looking at the surroundings of the campfires, it looks like some sort of party or gathering may have transpired earlier in the evening, but most everyone have passed out at this time.
Laura: The guards are guarding. Anybody that approaches is a threat.
Sam: Yeah, we'll just go to sleep.
Taliesin: Goodnight, all. I am ready for bed.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: I will make the mansion.
Matt: The doorway glows with a faint purple hue. In the distance, you see some of the guards step forward and keep an eye out there. Attention has been gained by the doorway, but none of them are approaching immediately. You guys begin to step into the doorway one by one as three of the guards begin to slowly walk towards the doorway.
Taliesin: I'll go last. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I go in.
Liam: Scanlan, why don't you hang with Percival? I go in.
Travis: Yeah, in.
Laura: I stand in the doorway.
Sam: We going to talk to these people?
Taliesin: We're going to let them know who we are and what we're doing. This is just that we have a very expensive tent.
Sam: Great.
Matt: So with that, Percival, Scanlan, and Vex wait outside the shimmering doorway to Scanlan's magnificent mansion. You see the guards begin to approach. The one at the front, a square-jawed, intense-looking man who looks to be not enjoying his current time schedule as a guard on the outside of the southern gates of Ank'Harel approaches, hand at the side clutching some sort of weapon that he has currently sheathed. "May I ask the business of this strange conjuration you've brought at this hour of the night?"
Taliesin: It is our very expensive tent.
Sam: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, Percy.
Taliesin: That'll do. 23. Yeah, 24 actually. 24!
Matt: "I do not know of the nature of this magic that you bring, but I recommend that you keep it outside of the city."
Taliesin: Oh, yes, of course.
Laura: Wait, is magic not allowed within the city?
Matt: "Oh, magic is allowed, but this is unknown to us, and unknown magic is a dangerous magic."
Taliesin: I thank you for your advice. We will heed it well. What is your name, sir?
Matt: "It does not matter. We have 12 crossbows trained on this doorway, and will for the remainder of the evening. Should anything strange happen, we will not hesitate but to fire."
Taliesin: The strangest thing you will see this evening will be us.
Matt: "Good."
Laura: Thank you for the warning.
Matt: Turns around and walks back to the gate.
Taliesin: That could not have gone better.
Travis: (singing) We've got to kill everybody. (laughter)
Laura: Magic is allowed, but this is strange magic. How will we know what isn't strange magic?
Taliesin: Everything we can do is strange magic. Be prepared that not being from around here is going to be trouble.
Marisha: Yeah, I think we're just strange.
Laura: I hold the door open.
Liam: We've had old magic, new magic, strange magic.
Matt: This is all the new schools of magic.
Sam: We go in.
Matt: You guys go in. Mansion's prepared, servants are at your ready, beds are freshly fluffed. Damaged kitchens are rearranged to have been not touched at all.
Travis: What?!
Laura: Wonderful.
Sam: I love it.
Matt: You are able to rest for the evening as you prepare for your next day entering the city of Ank'Harel itself.
Taliesin: I make my way, quietly in the night, to Grog's room. I was just kidding, sorry!
Travis: (laughing) I was like, "come get some, bitch!"
Laura: No, I want to go to sleep, and I'm holding on to Fenthras and thinking about everything.
Matt: Mulling over the events that recently transpired and digesting all the questions you still have.
Taliesin: I gave you a lot to think about, didn't I? Sorry. (laughs)
Sam: I play a card game by myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys have a restful night, we're going to take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes, and we'll pick this up in the following morning as they enter the city itself. See you in a minute! [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone! Returning from the break, Vox Machina has an evening of rest in Scanlan's magnificent mansion. You come to consciousness the following morning, stationed within the beautiful confines of this magical mansion, unaware directly of what awaits you on the other side of the doorway. However, the morning is yours. What do you wish to do?
Liam: I'm going to stealth back to my room.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: No one sees anything.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: No worries. I got a one, but I'll use luck.
Marisha: You're using a luck?
Liam: Two ones!
Taliesin: Two ones!
All: (yelling) Yes!
Taliesin: There is a god, and he hates you!
Marisha: You are so walk of shaming right now. (laughter)
Matt: So as the morning comes about, Vex, you go stretch out of your room, scratching the side of your head, messed up from sleeping wrong on the pillow, and as you walk out you hear (clicking) and look to your right and see your brother slowly slinking away from Keyleth's room.
Laura: (retching) I go back in my room.
Liam: Oh hey, hold on a second, though.
Travis: Oh man. (laughs) Talk it out.
Marisha: Talk it out right now.
Laura: I'm about to throw up.
Liam: No, you make jokes, but I want to go into your room for a second and talk to you.
Travis: Ew! Make him bathe.
Laura: Fine. And I go in my room and I sit down on the opposite side of the room.
Liam: Take a full minute to get over it, you fucker.
Laura: Hold on, it's not been a minute. All right.
Liam: You really should have gone into acting. It really was your calling. Yeah.
Laura: No, I'm happy for you. As foul as it is. What are you doing? What?
Liam: (sighs) Sorry, I'm a little discombobulated. I've never rolled two ones in a row.
Matt: Yeah, that happened.
Laura: Oh, that was so amazing.
Matt: Take that, Luck feat! (laughter)
Liam: I know this is a really stupid time to talk about it, but we never get to talk to each other, and I have a serious question. (nervous laugh) Relax. In that tree, that guy said a lot of fucked-up shit to you, and it just sounded like a lot of fucked-up shit and him trying to make you feel bad, so fuck him, right? Fuck that guy. But he said something about a dagger? And I saw your face fall.
Laura: (soft laugh) Jesus Christ.
Liam: And I asked you if you were all right the other day, and I think you might have not told me the entire truth. Are you all right?
Laura: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Right now?
Liam: I could be dead tomorrow, Vex. Right now.
Laura: He knew a lot of things, yes. I don't think he was completely wrong, and that's what makes me feel terrible.
Liam: About what, about you being shitty? Fuck that guy!
Laura: Well, he was right about the dagger.
Liam: I want you to tell me about the dagger. I want to know about the dagger, but I'm serious, fuck that guy on the rotten branches he was growing out of. He's not right. Your strength of character runs deep. Fuck that guy! It breaks my heart to see you doubt yourself. You have always been a wonderful woman! I'm not saying you have to be a fucking beefcake; you don't have to be a soldier, but--
Laura: That's good, because I am really weak. (laughs)
Liam: Whatever the case, you are a good person. All of them know that. They all know that. None of them doubt it. I don't doubt it. I don't have the words, I just want you to believe me.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: I'm not eloquent like Percival, but I've known you a long time. You are a good person.
Laura: Thank you. It makes me happy to see you happy.
Liam: Forgot what it feels like.
Laura: Yeah, right?
Liam: What's the dagger?
Laura: Oh, that. Yeah, I killed a couple people and I saved Trinket, that's all.
Liam: When?
Matt: Trinket comes waking up from what was his sleeping stance.
Liam: You'll have to be more specific than that.
Laura: Do you remember when I brought Trinket back to camp?
Liam: Originally?
Laura: Yeah! All those years ago?
Liam: Yes! I thought it was a terrible idea. I was dead wrong.
Laura: (laughs) Well... turns out, I found him in a camp where I'd been taken.
Liam: What?
Laura: Yes, and there was some really dark people there, and they had harvested--
Sam: (sneezes)
Laura: Trinket's mother. Bless you. Is Scanlan in the room?
Liam: The paintings do all have holes cut in the eyes, so you can never be sure.
Laura: I did what I had to do, and I killed them.
Liam: The people that took you.
Laura: Yes. I did.
Liam: The people that took you from me?
Laura: Yes. And I saved Trinket that night, and that's what Saundor saw. More than anything I just... I don't know how he saw it.
Liam: Are you just creeped out because he knew or because of what happened? Why are you upset?
Laura: I'm not.
Liam: Well, listen. I wasn't there. I don't know what happened, but... you came back to me, so whatever happened can't be wrong.
Laura: Right? (sniffles)
Liam: Oh, come here! Come here! If somebody took you from me... I don't know how to see it any other way than I do. You would have to do something really terrible, Vex'ahlia, for me to ever feel disappointment in you, and you have not ringed that bell. Rung it?
Laura: Rung it.
Liam: You studied harder than I did.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Goodness, please. One more time  You are a good person, and I've always seen that. Please see it, please. Oh god, my heart is breaking.
Laura: No! It's good. We all need to self-reflect every once in a while. I needed it. My heart is in the right place. I know it is. I'm just afraid sometimes actions speak louder than intentions. If things I was doing could be read the wrong way, then... maybe I need to change what I do.
Liam: (sighs) You've always been bold. That's not a crime. That's all right.
Laura: It's fine, dear.
Liam: I feel like a boy again.
Laura: (laughs) No, please. I'm so happy to see you happy. Don't worry about me. I'm fine!
Liam: Well, no, but--
Laura: And I can talk to Trinket now. We talk all the time.
Liam: Vex'ahlia.
Laura: We've talked through a lot.
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Right?
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Yes? (laughs)
Liam: Fuck, I'm just going around-- I love you.
Laura: I love you.
Liam: You don't have to talk to me about everything, but if you want to... if you want to. Should you need me.
Laura: "Should you need me."
Liam: All right. Sorry to babble.
Laura: Oh, yeah, no. Maybe go take a shower.
Liam: I'm not going to answer that. I'll see you at breakfast. And I walk away.
Matt: Yeah, you do. All right, as you all find breakfast, a fair prepared chicken feast, as they've been given no other instruction. (laughter)
Travis: Can't we change it up?
Liam: I'm afraid not.
Sam: Change up the food?
Laura: Yeah, maybe something other than chicken.
Sam: Why? It's nutritious. It's delicious.
Travis: Ravioli!
Sam: Ravioli for breakfast? All right.
Laura: Something with veggies?
Sam: Let's do ravioli. Staff?
Matt: "Yes, Scanlan?"
Laura: Oh, they speak?
Travis: Shit, they do talk!
Sam: Could you make us some chicken ravioli?
Liam: You unlocked "Ravioli in Marquet!"
Laura: They're learning.
Travis: They're smart. We have to kill them all!
Taliesin: They're going to learn.
Matt: The servants vanish for about ten minutes and return with a robust meal of bowls and bowls of chicken ravioli.
Travis: Chicken ravioli. (laughs)
Laura: Delicious.
Sam: Yummy.
Travis: Good call.
Taliesin: Adequate.
Matt: Slightly. You finish your meal, feel yourself satiated as much as you can be with chicken ravioli for breakfast. You guys exit, find yourself on the exterior walls of Ank'Harel, the sun blazing down in the early morning, a hotter temperature than you've been used to in quite some time. Would be the equivalent of probably the low 100s Fahrenheit by our standards. All of you with layers of armor, which is all of you except for Grog, immediately feel this is going to be uncomfortable fairly quickly. Grog, you are used to higher colder climates, even without being heavily armored, still fairly uncomfortable.
Travis: Sucks.
Liam: You're really pale, too.
Matt: It's not great. You can see the caravans that you guys were camping loosely next to are no longer there. It looks like there have been a couple of dark spots in the dust and the sand that have been kicked over where the campsites were, where the fires were put out, and tracks of where the carts and wheels have been dragged to and through the gate. You can now see about ten guards that are all stationed at the front of that iron gate on this side of the Ank'Harel wall.
Sam: Well? Should we go in and be traveling people and kill everyone that we see?
Travis: How about you let me take the lead on this?
Laura: How about no?
Sam: What's our angle? We are weary travelers from Tal'Dorei, seeking--
Marisha: I thought we were going into this one with honesty. Thought we agreed to that.
Sam: Seeking help?
Marisha: We're ambassadors from Emon.
Travis: Keyleth, do you really want to be honest or is it a ploy? Do we want to be honest?
Taliesin: The ploy is to be honest.
Marisha: Our normality is dishonesty, so technically we're switching it up.
Laura: This is the ploy.
Taliesin: This is a radical shift.
Marisha: We're not honest, so let's try it for once.
Sam: All right, let's do it. We're from Emon, we need help fighting dragons.
Marisha: I feel like that's pretty compelling.
Matt: Grog, make an intelligence check.
Travis: (laughs) Yeah, thank you. Travis needs to make an intelligence check. Oh Jesus, it's a 12. Minus two.
Matt: You have no idea what they're talking about. You find yourself instinctually nodding.
Sam: We'll just go in, big guy. We'll be fine.
Liam: First chance for violence is all yours. You're the first one in.
Travis: I'm all in. Violence. That's what I came away with.
Marisha: (sighs) We have to be careful with our word choices with him.
Taliesin: We head towards the gate.
Travis: (garbled) This ravioli is delicious, by the way. My compliments to the little purple men.
Sam: They're not men, but yes.
Matt: As you guys approach the outside of the gate, you can see seven of the guards stay behind while three, seemingly the same three that had been keeping a close eye upon your initial approach in the evening, walk up. The same man walks up, now looking a little tired; his day is probably finishing out the rest of his station here at the gate. Approaches, hand still on the side of his sheathed weapon. "So you awaken. You have rested. What is your business here in Ank'Harel?"
Sam: We are weary travelers from Emon, and we have come to seek assistance with the security of our home.
Matt: "What is your contact within the city? Who do you wish to speak to?"
Liam: Go for the top?
Marisha: Oh, that's a really far stretch. The king.
Sam: We are seeking a man called...
Liam: J'mon Sa Ord.
Sam: No, I don't think we want to talk to the king. Do we?
Marisha: Merchant warrior? No, not that one? Who the fuck are we trying to see?
Sam: We would like to talk to J'mon Sa Ord or his or her advisors to seek advice.
Matt: "You come for an audience with the emperor?"
Taliesin: We come for an audience with many people, to be honest. We are looking at many avenues of possible help. Contacts, trade, anything that can help us in our time of dire need.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: Me or him?
Matt: You.
Sam: Oh. Okay. It was a million.
Taliesin: I didn't know that that die went that high.
Sam: 34.
Laura: It's a million.
Matt: His arm relaxes at the side of his weapon, and he looks down upon your diminutive gnomish structure, though glances over at the much larger goliath and back at you. "If you indeed have business with J'mon Sa Ord, then the emperor will let you in. If you do not, you will be sent out. We have no business between either of those answers. If you wish to enter, do so, but keep your weapons sheathed, and keep an eye on that one."
Sam: The big one?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: He's well-behaved.
Matt: "I don't trust his face."
Taliesin: His face is usually not the trouble.
Liam: Is it the beard?
Matt: "Very well. Welcome to Ank'Harel. Be pleased."
All: Be pleased.
Matt: He turns around and walks away. His bow is much smaller than you were originally taught by Jarett. You get the sense that that's more of a formality and is on a smaller scale for more informal conversations. As he walks back, he lifts one hand and does a loop with it. As he does, (door thudding). The gates open ever so slightly, enough to bring through as broad-shouldered an individual as Grog, as well as the rest of you easily. You guys walk up and approach.
Laura: Is anybody looking at Trinket weird, or is it okay? He's with us.
Matt: Actually, no one seems to bat an eye at the large bear that's wandering inside.
Travis: But they give a shit about the goliath? That's fucked up.
Taliesin: One last question for our good friend at the gate.
Matt: Okay, as you walk past him.
Taliesin: One more thing, good sir. If you were going to find a place to sleep comfortably, quietly, and without incident for the evening in the city, is there a place that you would recommend to a friend?
Matt: "Well, best I can think, there are many fine establishments of rest where rooms can be rented throughout the entirety of the city. Depending on how much coin you have to give, I would say you could..." He thinks for a second as I look at my notes.
Taliesin: Where you would put a brother-in-law that you liked?
Liam: Medium to high.
Matt: "I would recommend within the Suncut Bazaar, you would find the Debt's Respite, the Shade, or the Corner Cove. All very fine establishments, and very well watched by the Hand."
Travis: The Hand?
Sam: Are you a member of the Hand?
Matt: "I am. Is this your first time in the city, then?"
Taliesin: It is absolutely, yes.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: What was the name of the district?
Laura: The Suncut Bazaar.
Marisha: Suncut Bazaar.
Matt: As he watches you guys enter, the gates closing behind you, you now see the incredible reveal of the interior of the mystical city itself. Streets of smooth cobblestone-like red pebbles lead your eyes to hundreds of visible, vertically-inclined buildings of reaching peaks and smooth, pointed rooftops as far as your eye can see across the cityscape. It's a city of vibrant color; you see nearly every home, storefront, and outhouse has some form of draping silks or painted mural to give it individual character, standing out against the rest of its neighboring abodes, creating a calming, beautiful symphony of really nothing, in the presentation of it all. The people are walking with purpose, and the sounds of foreign barking and shouts occasionally break the air. Welcome to Ank'Harel.
Taliesin: Let's get arrested right now!
Marisha: Fight!
Matt: What do you guys wish to do?
Sam: We need spice. We need to find out about this merchant guy.
Travis: Got to get laid.
Sam: We got to get laid. Every continent, right? That's our pact. (laughter)
Travis: There's nothing that doesn't mean it's a pact.
Taliesin: We're going to need to talk to some gentry. We're going to need to talk to a library.
Marisha: Well, we should probably start with a tavern.
Taliesin: And I should also mention, not just a tavern is available, but we do in fact have three titled people within our crowd, so we can actually talk to people of standing and note with very little difficulty.
Liam: Are we certain that that will hold any water on this continent?
Taliesin: It holds water on every continent. Only people who are not titled think it doesn't.
Sam: Should we split up into a couple parties? No? All right.
Taliesin: Let's find a tavern, find some rooms. Let's go to this bazaar.
Marisha: People tend to know things in taverns.
Taliesin: Get the word out of what we're looking for.
Sam: To the Suncut Bazaar!
Travis: Wait, what if there's a market, like an open farmer's market we could get some spice?
Laura: Yeah. As we look around, do we see any markets? Actually, the shopping district would be a wonderful place to look for--
Marisha: Is that in the Suncut Bazaar, or could we head that direction while we look?
Sam: Oi! Oi, you there, boy! (laughter)
Matt: As you glance over, you see walking down the street what appears to be two teenage boys, huddled together, wearing drab, ankle-length cloth robes. One of them has a purple shawl over their shoulders. The other has a hood up, and they're both carrying small satchels of fruit in their arms. They both stop and turn. They look curiously at the small gnome, the small, pale gnome in foreign clothes and adorned, beautiful armor that walks up to them in the street.
Sam: That looks like fine fruit. Where would you go to go shopping for things here, market-y things?
Matt: (muttered conversation) "You are a very small man."
Sam: I've heard that. It's a glandular condition. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry to hear that."
Sam: Yes. My cross to bear. I've seen many medicine men about it, but they can't cure it, but many have recommended that I get a diet of vegetables and fruit. Where could I buy some, just like the kind that you have?
Matt: "This fruit is actually very difficult to find and come across. If you wish, you could purchase this batch."
Sam: Okay. I've seen this before. I'm not interested in buying from you. I just want a market or a bazaar or anything.
Matt: "Bazaar. You are looking for the Suncut Bazaar?"
Sam: Yeah, that!
Matt: "It is farther down that way. Look to the blue tower in the center of the city? Walk in its direction to the eastern skyline--"
Laura: I'm not looking in the direction. I'm keeping my eyes on them the entire time he's talking.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Marisha: I'm desperately trying to commit every direction to memory.
Taliesin: I am so fearful that he's about to try and buy meth from children.
Laura: 20.
Matt: "Look for the strings of crimson flags that hang across the very street corners. That will signify the entrance to the Suncut Bazaar."
Sam: You're so helpful.
Matt: 20. They both seem confused, but also strangely enamored with this tiny man who's talking to them. No shifty behavior beyond that.
Travis: Their hands aren't moving into someone's pockets?
Laura: No.
Sam: Thank you so much, young men, for your help. Also, spice? (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Oh my god!
Taliesin: No!
Sam: Do you spice?
Marisha: Do you spice?!
Travis: Yo, you cool? You cool, dog?
Matt: (muttered conversation) "I don't know what you're talking about."
Sam: I'm not an authority. Do you spice? Spice it?
Matt: "I am sorry. I'm confused?"
Sam: It's cool. Ignore that part. Thank you so much. What do you think, a little spice?
Matt: He puts his hand out.
Sam: I flip him a coin.
Matt: He takes it. "Good luck finding your fruit."
Sam: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: And they both walk away, but at a slow pace, looking over their shoulder at you the whole way.
Sam: They seemed legit! They seemed like they were street kids.
Taliesin: What about that was legit?!
Sam: They're riffraff. They could know what spice is.
Taliesin: They were carrying fruit!
Sam: They look normal, but I've got a keen eye for these things. I was a kid on the street for a long time.
Liam: Sam? No joke, thanks for the ab workout. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh god.
Travis: Fuck. That was great.
Taliesin: I can't.
Liam: (deep sigh)
Travis: Do we go in the direction?
Laura: We walk towards the Suncut Bazaar, keeping an eye out.
Matt: All right. As you guys continue deeper into the city, the sheer size of this town reminds you of a mirror universe form of Emon, in the way that the streets narrow and then open, and the liveliness of culture around you in its heyday, and it saddens you, because it reminds you of back when the city was at its prime, when you first arrived and made it a home for yourself. But at the same time, the energy is infectious, and you can't help but feel like there's a lot of interesting people, culture, and momentum all about you no matter where you seem to walk across these streets. Though the culture here appears to be far older than that of Emon that you've encountered; even the buildings and constructs range in ways that-- maybe not as old as Vasselheim, per se, but at least you can see that there's some variation to some of the abodes here that have been worn through time more so than any you have encountered in Tal'Dorei, for the most part. These decorated and intricate buildings fill the streets. You can see pride in their construction, and the smells of horses and hot desert air combine with various burning spice and sage that occasionally wafts through the air to your nostrils. The ever-changing exotic skyline occasionally grabs your attention. You see the distant shadow of what looks like a skyship docked at a sky port. You get looks of many citizens, expressions ranging from amusement to mistrust as you pass by, until you come upon a massive building that shines with the sunlight. Above you, you see a number of red flags that hang and drift, about five feet in length, these thin, draping pieces of silk that shift with the breeze, and you can see numbers of these strands across different roads, and it's at this point that you look up and realize that this is the entrance to the Suncut Bazaar. Looking off towards the left, and what you've been watching as you approach, there are this cluster of dark blue and purple towers of various widths marking a central place in the center of the city. In the center of them, there is one very large, cylindrical tower that rises up past them all into what looks like a chalice or a cup-like platform at the very top that is impossibly high amongst the rest of the structures here in the city. It seems to be a beacon or watchtower over the entirety of Ank'Harel. But your attention now, here in the Suncut Bazaar, as you step around the corner, you can see tents and storefronts and buildings and voices raised as different barkers are shouting out for their wares. You can see carts being drawn through the streets by horse and camel. You can see what appear to be dozens upon dozens of people coming through with small satchels and coming by and purchasing their necessities for the day. You can smell cooking meats and food in the distance. You can see street performers juggling, and distant music of buskers in the side of the street, playing various flutes and instruments: some you recognize, some you do not. You actually see a shawm. It catches your attention on the side of the street.
Sam: I need a new reed for that.
Matt: And here you are, amongst the Suncut Bazaar.
Travis: Can I whip around and see if anyone's following us?
Sam: Ooh, Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Hammer down! 14.
Matt: 14. No matter where you walk, eyes are on you.
Travis: I am a gorgeous man.
Matt: Most people you come around here, it seems a largely human population. Beyond that, you've not seen a single dwarf as you've walked through the city, but you have seen a number of dark-skinned halflings, a few half-elves. Not an elf has caught your eye since you've wandered through. You've seen a couple of tieflings that walk openly in this city, which is a rare thing from Emon. Even there, most tieflings generally are met with mistrust and prejudice in the street. Here, no one seems to pay mind or bother. You do see a few half-orcs, this team of half-orcs that are shouting out in a language that none of you understand. Some sort of sales pitch they're giving, and there's a few people gathered around them. This is a very wide variety of people that live in this city, and everyone seems to mesh together without issue or prejudice, but not one goliath has caught your eye, and you've caught the eyes of many. And wherever you walk, you can see the townspeople stop, and they don't gawk. They don't stare intently. They're more curious, but no one appears to be following you.
Laura: Are the shops here indoors, or are they outdoor tent markets?
Matt: There are a few that appear to go into buildings, but the majority of this, as you look at now the Suncut Bazaar itself, while it is a section of the city, it is mostly open sky and is probably hundreds of various tents, carts, pop-up stand-ups, and even the center of the street, blankets set out, with the various merchants there with their wares strewn across the ground, waiting for anybody to come and approach.
Laura: Do we see any spice merchants?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: Also, while she's rolling, do we all see people eyeballing him?
Matt: Yeah. It's pretty easy to see, and most everyone's--
Travis: In love? Enamored? Jealous?
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11. You look around and ask a few people, and most everyone shrugs their shoulders or points you in an odd direction, and no immediate spice merchants catch your attention. You're still on the outskirts of the Suncut.
Marisha: Do there appear to be any fruit merchants?
Matt: There are a few, actually. Yeah. And it's interesting. In this very hot desert environment, and you understanding how most plant life exists, fruit should be pretty damn rare, and what fruit would make it here seems to be pretty dry and withered. But everything you come across here is very plump, beautiful, and fresh.
Taliesin: Life.
Marisha: Needs things to live.
Taliesin: Needs things to live.
Marisha: There's not many things, no. Can I go up to one of the fruit merchants?
Matt: You go up to what appears to be a woman, probably in her late thirties. Her hair is long past her shoulders, and these dark black, brunette waves that spray out like mermaid hair across her shoulders. As you approach, she eagerly reaches out. "You look like you are traveling here to Ank'Harel in search of beautiful, delicious fruits of which to whet your palate. Yes? Would you like for these fine apples, of which are the finest you could find?"
Marisha: Apples? Oh wow. I was looking for something a little bit more exotic. Something native to this land.
Matt: "Ah, well--" She takes the apples back. "What you'd prefer, then, would be the kurrak fruit." And she pulls out what looks like a mango, but the exterior of it is very rough, with these little spines all around it. "While it is difficult to hold, crack open for a delightful flavor. It is gentle. It is like a sweet water experience."
Marisha: That was very descriptive. Thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Marisha: How much do I owe you for this?
Matt: "For this, that would be two silver pieces."
Marisha: Two silver. And how much, just for future reference, are the apples?
Matt: "The apples would go for one silver piece apiece."
Marisha: One silver apiece. That's pretty steep. Don't worry about it. Here you go. I give her a little extra.
Matt: "Thank you so much for your patronage. Anything else you would like?"
Marisha: I think I'm good, thank you.
Laura: I peek around her shoulder. Where would the Shade be?
Matt: "The Shade? The Shade would be-- it's hard to explain. Do you see that building over there with the dark green steeple?" And you glance off in the distance. You can see, layers back, there appears to be one spire, this very harsh point that has a dark green tint. "That is the roof of the Shade. That'd be what you're looking for."
Laura: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Not a problem."
Liam: I would like to walk by, and as I'm passing Vex, I'm going to do that thing where you walk past a friend and you do that sideways kick in the butt, and I'm going to go stand by Grog, and anybody I see giving him the evil eye, I'm going to match it back.
Matt: Okay. You watch as she walks away, she had her hands out to Vex, and as soon as Vex keeps walking away, she goes--
Marisha: I toss her a gold. She's with me.
Matt: "You are free to shop here any day you like."
Marisha: And what was your name?
Matt: She pulls the coin out and pops it away and says, "I am Shubad."
Marisha: Shubad?
Matt: "Shubad."
Marisha: Keyleth.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you."
Marisha: A pleasure. Thank you so much.
Travis: Are any of the barkers talking about magic stuff?
Taliesin: I'm also looking for a soothsayer.
Liam: What do you want to see, a show?
Travis: Well, I don't know. It just seems so exotic.
Taliesin: Anything out of the ordinary and/or a soothsayer, card-reader, bones-reader, whatever they have that's like that.
Matt: Okay. Both of you make investigation checks as you look around and ask around.
Liam: And I don't like the way these folks are looking at big man, so I'm going to stay by him.
Matt: You stay close to Grog.
Laura: No going up from that. That's what it is.
Travis: Negative two. (laughter)
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: I am city-blind, apparently.
Laura: What are you looking for?
Taliesin: I'm looking for anything out of the ordinary, but specifically, a soothsayer, a card-reader, a bones-thrower.
Matt: Grog. Glancing about, you look to see something shine across the ground. As you rush up and find it, you find what looks to be a magically enchanted stone about that big. Rough around the edges, but the reddish color is brighter red than the rest of the stones on the ground, and you're sure that this may be exactly what you were looking for.
Liam: I'm watching him.
Travis: I quickly get on my hands and knees, and I start moving the sand around, looking for one just like it, just to make sure it's unique.
Matt: There are many red stones around it, as you press the bit of dust and sand gathered around the other cobblestones, but this one appears to be unique.
Travis: Oh! What does it taste like?
Matt: There's a hit of saltiness to the dust that has gathered in this vicinity.
Travis: I gave away my salt-lick rock!
Matt: You did. (laughter)
Liam: I take a moment to marvel at how a being of such ferocity and power can be such a doofus at the same time. It's amazing.
Sam: I'm going to plant myself at the end of two rows of the intersection and wait for people to walk by. And as they do, I say: Spice? Spice, spice, spice? You spice it? Spice, spice, spice?
Laura: Can I have seen Percy looking around?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Can I help him look?
Matt: Percival, what did you roll?
Taliesin: Where did it go? Investigation? I rolled a nine.
Matt: Yeah. It's funny. For all the preparation of being a noble and public speaking, you are utterly lost.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm terrible in urban areas. I've learned this. I get flustered.
Matt: The culture is so vastly different from what you're used to, and the people don't seem to really pay much mind to your relatively important outfit and presence, and you're lost at sea.
Taliesin: I've never rolled a decent investigation check. It has never happened.
Matt: Vex walks up to you.
Laura: What are you looking for, dear?
Taliesin: Beyond anything interesting. Everything is too interesting.
Laura: It's very colorful.
Taliesin: A soothsayer of some kind, perhaps. It might be a good way to start getting the word out of the sorts of things we're looking for.
Laura: What sorts of things?
Taliesin: We're looking for a cloak. We're looking for a merchant with one eye.
Travis: I found a rock!
Taliesin: And we're looking for rocks-- not anymore, I suppose. And those are usually the most trustworthy of the untrustworthy people you find in a city.
Laura: Investigation? 19.
Matt: 19. The two of you begin to meander around, look around. You see, after some wandering, what looks to be a single blanket set out with a small half-dome shade structure of various cotton cloths that have been layered and pinned to create this loose escape from the sunlight. And you see what appears to be an older man with a very long braided beard that goes past his belly-button. He sits there, sleeveless open shirt, baggy pants, no shoes, and before him a deck of cards that is laying in a stack, and he has his eyes closed with his hands resting at the ends of his knees.
Liam: It sounds like fun.
Laura: Want to walk up? Yeah?
Taliesin: You mind blowing a little bit of money on this?
Laura: No, actually.
Marisha: Are we all there?
Matt: Depends on if you guys want to follow.
Marisha: I'd like to follow.
Matt: Okay. as you guys are approaching, you over in the corner.
Sam: Spice it? Spice it? Fusaka!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: A billion. Deception?
Matt: Deception, yeah.
Sam: 32.
Matt: This marks your ability to double-talk or subtly put out the vibes for an individual.
Liam: Why aren't you a crime kingpin?
Matt: Who knows what Scanlan's ultimate destiny is?
Taliesin: I have a song for your next playlist. I'm so excited.
Matt: After a few moments of you doing this and a few people walking away, looking frustrated and taken aback, partially by your visual form and the unexpected contents of your words, one man in his early twenties walking up, what looks to be a damp cloth wrapped loosely around the head to keep the head cooled under the sun's heat, walks up and leans in and goes, "You're asking about spice, yes?"
Sam: Yes, hard-to-find spice. I don't know if they have it in this particular bazaar. It takes a seller with a keen eye to identify it.
Matt: "Well, I know folks who are purveyors of many spices here. Please, what do you seek?"
Sam: It's not really something that I want to discuss out in the open, but we could take a walk and talk about it.
Matt: "Good, good. Lead on. We'll have a conversation as we go." As he stands back up after leaning down for you, you get a little glance at what appears to be a slightly pointed ear and what looks like a hint of a mustache that's grown through. Very similar in visual presentation as to your comrades: not full elf, not full human, though definitely a much darker shade due to the out-in-the-open lifestyle of Ank'Harel. You begin to walk with this figure through the street. We'll get to you in just a moment. So as you guys make your way to the older gentleman sitting on the ground, eyes closed.
Laura: We sit down in front of him.
Matt: His eyes are still closed.
Laura: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Marisha: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased." His eyes open, and you can see his eyes are snow-blind. They are clouded over with what would probably be terrible cataracts or something else that has caused him full blindness, but he stares past you as he opens his eyes. "So you wish to be read, then?"
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Five gold for my services."
Sam: (whispers) He won't know what you put in his hand!
Taliesin: You're not there.
Marisha: He will know. He's a fortune teller, for Christ's sake.
Liam: Five plumbing washers.
Laura: Should I put five or 15, for each of us?
Taliesin: Five, for the moment. He knows there's three of us.
Matt: He places it into a small side pouch. "What do you wish to be read for?" He takes the cards and begins shuffling.
Taliesin: We search for a garment. We search for a man.
Matt: His way of shuffling cards is interesting. As opposed to the usual like double shuffle, he picks up the deck in one hand and splits it and then shuffles it together. Turns it around, splits it, and then shuffles it together on each side. It's this weird boy with a crystal in Labyrinth, but with a card deck. It's wild. As he stays still, looking past all of you.
Taliesin: And we search for answers towards the future that we inevitably run to.
Matt: The shuffling stops, and he grabs the deck. "You search for a garment." And he takes two cards out and throws them across the center of the blanket for you guys. You guys step back and take a look. One of them appears to have a fire or a camp flame with smoke pouring up out of it, and the other one appears to have a storm, a torrent of water, and he goes, "This garment you seek. It looks to be in motion, moving. If you seek this garment here, may haste take you. Your second question." What were you saying in the second one?
Taliesin: We search for a man.
Laura: With one eye.
Taliesin: Well, I didn't say that far.
Marisha: A merchant warrior. Missing.
Taliesin: He doesn't need that. He's fine.
Matt: What did you say?
Taliesin: Oh, we search for a man.
Matt: Pulls up two more cards and throws them, and they land almost exactly in the same place as the other two cards that he tossed before. They scoot to a stop. One card appears to be mostly blank, except it carries some sort of a stylized symbol or letter that you don't recognize. And the other one appears to be a hand of cards stuffed within a pile of coin. "You seek this man, yet it is not a man you seek. To where the luck brings you, the answers lie." And he puts out his hand.
Taliesin: Five more. Five more.
Matt: "And the third question?"
Laura: Can I insight check him as he's reading the cards? See if his face twitches at all, if it looks like he's making shit up.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: 21?
Sam: Oh, the whispers! So many whispers. How are the Cowboys doing, Travis?
Travis: I stopped looking.
Sam: I can tell you how they're doing.
Liam: Sounds like a sad man right there.
Taliesin: Wait, let's consult the cards. That's the third question.
Travis: It's pre-season. Nobody playing right now.
Sam: Oh yeah, sure.
Taliesin: The cards say the Cowboys are not--
Sam: Hey, maybe you and me should go to a game sometime.
Travis: I would love to.
Laura: Okay. And the third question?
Taliesin: We move towards a conflict. What should we know? What should we be prepared for?
Matt: Pulls the two cards forward, throws them down, landing once again almost precisely on the same space as the last two tosses. They slide to a stop. One of them shows a chasm cracking in the earth, and the other appears to show a singular, sunken skull. "The path is to change historic, but many will fall as the transition is to take. Take your time wisely, for the hourglass runs quickly."
Laura: Goddamn it. Five more gold.
Matt: "Is this all of your questions?"
Taliesin: That will do, yes.
Matt: He bows his head ever so slowly towards you. "Then be pleased." And he takes the cards and shuffles them back into the deck, rights them into a perfect square with one quick move of his hand, and places them back in front, puts his hands back on his knees, and closes his eyes and puts his head down. There's a pause, and he reaches over and grabs a small, partially eaten apple and (chomp).
Laura: I as quietly as possible put another five gold in front of him.
Matt: His chewing stops, and he swallows. Reaches out, patting around it, and finds the gold coins. Puts it into a pocket. "You ask for one more question. What do you inquire?" (card shuffling)
Laura: Did I make the right choice?
Matt: Two cards land across the carpet before you. One of them shows upon it two hands joining, and the other one shows a symbol of a sun rising over a mountain range. He says, "You've made many choices, but the one you speak of brings unity and a new dawn."
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: He nods. "Be pleased." Takes the cards up, shuffles them back into the deck, and sets it down. He goes back into his meditative trance.
Taliesin: I feel that was money well spent.
Marisha: I guess.
Laura: That was so cool!
Taliesin: Well, we know we do not necessarily look for a man, which is important. We know that time is even more of the essence than we first implied, and considering that almost every soothsayer I've ever met is as crooked as the day is long, the word is now out that we're looking for them.
Laura: Well, that's the Shade. Should we head that direction?
Taliesin: We should.
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Do you want to bring your rock?
Travis: My what?
Taliesin: We should grab Scanlan.
Liam: Where is he?
Matt: Scanlan is gone.
Liam: Well, shit.
Marisha: We need one of those leashes for him.
Liam: Shorthalt?
Taliesin: Let's maintain a certain level of plausible deniability.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: I come over the earrings. Scanlan? Just making sure you're okay, wondering where you are. No biggie. Just checking in.
Matt: As you're walking with your half-elvish friend down one of the nearby alleyways, you hear Keyleth speaking over the earring.
Sam: I say  I'm cool.
Taliesin: We're going to die. Let's get a room.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So you guys make your way towards the Shade?
Laura: Yes. Scanlan, we're heading towards the Shade. It's the big green tent. Follow?
Sam: (clicks tongue) Yeah.
Matt: Your half-elven compadre goes, "Are you all right?"
Sam: I'm cool. I'm cool on these desert nights, and I need something to warm me up at night, so that's why I was inquiring about this spice.
Matt: "Please, which spice are you seeking?"
Sam: It might not be entirely legal, but fusaka?
Matt: He nods. "It may take a bit of time. I know someone who could bring this, but I could not bring you to them. They'd have to bring it to you."
Sam: Where can we meet?
Matt: "Well, where are you staying?"
Sam: I'm staying outside of the walls in a small encampment, but I can meet him sometime tonight inside the walls.
Matt: "Where would you need to meet?"
Sam: How about where we first met, at that same intersection, or is that too busy?
Matt: "That is far too busy. It needs to be private, away."
Sam: I'm sort of a visitor here.
Matt: "If you want a place to stay, there is Luck's Run, the casino. There are back rooms there."
Sam: There's a casino?
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: Hells yes.
Matt: "There is the Debt's Respite Inn, which has its own grasp of lowlifes. Those are probably the best bets."
Sam: Let's meet in a room at the casino.
Matt: "The casino it is. Which room?"
Sam: The red room? I'm not familiar with this casino. I'll need some guidance.
Matt: "Wear a red shirt. He will find you in the casino."
Sam: Okay. That sounds good.
Matt: "All right. Hour past sundown, we'll find you there."
Sam: Tonight? What time?
Matt: "An hour past sundown."
Sam: Oh, sorry. I was thinking about the casino. Sorry.
Matt: "How much do you want?"
Sam: Oh my god. I'm not prepared for this!
Matt: He starts looking a little untrusting.
Travis: Be cool, man. Be cool.
Sam: Enough to get me through a week of heavy use. I want to go on a bender.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: A billion. More than before. 35.
Taliesin: How are you rolling that?
Matt: He gives you a look and bends down.
Sam: I've had a rough few weeks, and I need to get away from it all and go to that place--
Matt: He gets close to your face, interrupts you, and goes, "I mean this with all due respect: Being as small a man as you are, you have to be careful."
Sam: Don't tell me what to do. I can take it, all right? (laughter)
Sam: Let's just say that when I started using, I was your height. (laughter)
Matt: He backs off, hands up. He goes, "Very well. The amount you ask, I have no specific amount. I'd have to inquire, but I would say, to be safe, bring about 200 gold pieces with you. Just in case."
Sam: It'll be pure, not cut with anything else? I want the good stuff.
Matt: He looks at you, confused.
Sam: Am I buying cinnamon here?
Marisha: Might be.
Taliesin: It's going to be a living baby.
Sam: It's going to be a pound of turmeric!
Liam: Cardamom.
Sam: Yes. We have a deal. Let's shake on it.
Matt: He reaches out and takes your hand, and you shake. "Very well. Hour after sundown. Casino." He brings his cloth up and brings it up over his face for a second and darts into one of the nearby corners and vanishes.
Sam: Where did you guys go? Hello?
Laura: We're at the Shade!
Sam: Okay! I'm coming! Where is that? Shit, where am I? I ask around for the Shade.
Matt: You eventually find it.
Marisha: Scanlan, stop panicking. I can hear you hyperventilating.
Sam: I'm sorry, I've just never done anything that cool before!
Taliesin: And you still haven't.
Liam: The hell you haven't!
Sam: I just did a drug deal, guys!
Marisha: Scanlan, not over the speakers! Not over the phone line!
Laura: You have drugs with you?
Sam: No! I'll tell you later!
Taliesin: These earrings are tapped. You know that.
Sam: They could be listening! I'm coming to you!
Liam: Pike hears everything. (laughter)
Matt: You guys find your way to the Shade, and it's a large, circular sandstone wall that has a pointed tent roof above it held by a singular pole in the center. It is segmented into various rooms that have no ceiling, so everyone shares the same roof. This is what appears to be a lounge tavern, meaning there are drinks and wine served, but each room seems to have a carpeted and pillowed floor. Looks like there are beaded curtains and various draperies that separate each of the different rooms, and there's large, hookah-type tobacco pipes. It's very much just a relaxing lounge area.
Taliesin: There's hookah.
Marisha: There's hookah!
Taliesin: I've never tried hookah before.
Marisha: You've never tried hookah?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: The Earth Ashari are super into the hookah. It's really nice, yeah.
Taliesin: This is the only thing I actually know about this continent, is that there's tobacco.
Marisha: We should try it!
Laura: Did Scanlan get here yet?
Matt: Scanlan takes about five minutes or so, but eventually catches up to you guys.
Laura: Are we staying here? It's not very private.
Taliesin: It's not very private, and privacy is definitely higher on the list.
Laura: Can I find a patron that seems chill?
Matt: Yeah. You look around. You can see what looks to be a matronly older woman wearing some nicer dark purple and black clothing, who is sitting there with one big hookah next to her side, by herself, with a glass of wine to one of the sides, and is staring into space.
Taliesin: I can literally only see my mother when you describe this image, by the way. (laughter)
Taliesin: And only you and you know how funny that is, because it's sealed in there.
Laura: I walk up. Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased. Can I help you?"
Laura: Actually, just a small trifle. Are you staying here?
Matt: "Over the next few hours, yes."
Laura: Lovely. We're from out of town--
Matt: "You don't say."
Laura: Yes, and I've noticed the Shade is rather open. Do you know if the Corner Cove or Debt's Respite are quite as private as this, or do they have actual rooms?
Matt: "Both of those have rooms, yes."
Laura: Oh. Lovely.
Matt: "Do you have any other specifics or requirements?"
Laura: Are they far from here?
Matt: "Corner Cove is maybe two miles that way, but the Debt's Respite is about a mile that way."
Laura: Thank you. Sorry to bother you.
Taliesin: Should we put some cards on the table?
Laura: Some cards?
Marisha: I thought that's what we just did with that other guy.
Taliesin: We've been searching for a friend of ours, and it's been very complicated. She's got one eye. She's been around for quite a while.
Laura: She's a merchant in town. We've been looking for her.
Matt: "There are many merchants that live here."
Taliesin: Are there many merchants with one eye?
Laura: She's quite strong, actually.
Marisha: Some call her a warrior merchant.
Matt: "Warrior? If you're looking for warrior merchants, you're probably looking for the Scarbearers."
Taliesin: Yes, that sounds about right.
Laura: Yeah, she is a Scarbearer. Are they around here?
Matt: "Well, this definitely narrows down your search. The Debt's Respite is where you'll want to go. It's actually run by one of the heads of their ilk."
Marisha: Ilk?
Taliesin: Not an animal.
Matt: "Scarbearers. They're a bit of a rough-and-tumble lot."
Laura: Oh, are they?
Matt: "They hunt for coin, sell what else they find. Odd jobs. Some of them maybe not the most up and legal, but they work with a guarantee, and the head of their troop I think runs, or at least partially owns, the Debt's Respite."
Taliesin: Thank you. What are you smoking at the moment, by the way?
Marisha: I was just about to ask her the same thing!
Matt: "This? I don't know." Raises her hand, and one of the various workers there approaches with another bottle of wine. "Yes, may I help?" "What is this you put in here?" Blows it in her face. "That would be a Dusk Blossom Sage." Walks away. "Dusk Blossom Sage."
Taliesin: It's very fragrant.
Matt: "Pungent would be the world you're looking for."
Liam: I walk over to Keyleth and say  I've done this, but I don't think I knew what I was doing. Your people do this?
Marisha: Well, the Earth Ashari do, and the Fire Ashari sometimes.
Liam: You've done this.
Marisha: Yeah. I stayed with the Earth Ashari for a few months. You want to try? It's fun. It's very nice. It relaxes you. Oh, come on guys! We've got time!
Laura: Do we?
Marisha: We never take time for ourselves. Come on!
Laura: We've got a ticking time bomb!
Marisha: Just 15 minutes!
Taliesin: The cards said our luck. Perhaps this is a good way to ignite it.
Marisha: 15 minutes. Please, Vex, pretty please!
Taliesin: We are still waiting for Scanlan to get here, and then we'll take him to the next stop.
Matt: Scanlan, by the way, is right behind you.
Sam: Hi!
Marisha: Scanlan!
Sam: Sorry. Didn't mean to sneak up on you.
Liam: Now we really need to do it.
Laura: We do need to talk to him, actually. Do you mind if we join you? I motion to the waitress. Could we have some more Dusk Sage?
Travis: Something stronger.
Matt: You see her eyes roll. "I mean no offense, but this is my 'me' time."
Laura: Oh, of course!
Marisha: Let's get our own! We'll get our own little booth.
Taliesin: I'm going to put a gold coin on her tray. So you can keep smoking, and thank you for the time spent in our company.
Matt: She takes the coin, flicks it back to you and goes, "I appreciate, but do not require your patronage."
Taliesin: I'm grateful for your time.
Sam: Yeah. I like her.
Taliesin: Thanks, mom. It is burned into my head.
Travis: Getting our own?
Laura: Yeah, we go get our own.
Matt: You guys are brought into one of the small sections of the Shade. You are given your choice of various tobaccos. While it's not a large room, per se, you can all comfortably lounge in there. It's a nice place to get away. You can hear the distant sounds of the city, but for the most part, there's a soft violin music that plays towards the center of the area, so at least it has a nice atmosphere to it.
Travis: As we're in there, do we notice anyone with any large scars walking around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: This'll go great. 12.
Matt: You see people with small, large scars. People with scars all over. Life out here can be a little tough at times, but no more scarred than most of the people you've encountered in your lifetime. And definitely nowhere near as scarred as the people you've run with for half of your lifetime.
Travis: There are no really large, scarred people in here.
Laura: Good to know. Thank you, Grog.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: Good to know.
Liam: Hey, can I see that ruby you found before?
Travis: I have no ruby.
Liam: You'd hold out on me?
Travis: Nope. There was no ruby.
Liam: Why are you lying to me, Grog?
Travis: Look, Little Teeny is my friend. All right? He spoke to me out of the deserts of fate, and he is mine and mine alone.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: Oi.
Laura: Spice dealer?
Marisha: Yes, I want to hear this story.
Sam: I made contact. I'm supposed to meet up tonight in the casino one hour after sunset. I'm supposed to wear red. I will not lie, I am shitting myself, I'm so nervous.
Laura: Are you going to wear red?
Sam: Well, how else will they discern who I am? I don't want to go alone.
Laura: Well, I'll go with you.
Sam: Are you cool?
Laura: Of course I'm cool. I'm so cool, darling.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm cool!
Marisha: Me, too!
Sam: Well...
Taliesin: No, what do you mean? We're cool.
Sam: I don't want to draw too much attention, but I want to be safe.
Travis: (loudly) Are you buying drugs? (laughter)
Taliesin: Could not be happier.
Liam: What an episode! What an episode.
Taliesin: There's so many valuable lessons that can be learned at any moment.
Laura: Do you think maybe the reason Jarett was almost arrested was because of this fucking spice?
Taliesin: I think that's precisely what happened.
Laura: What the hell was he thinking?
Sam: But we're going to do it smarter. We're going to do it better.
Taliesin: No, we're not! (laughs) He's legitimately smarter than us.
Sam: I can do this. I am the one who cocks. (laughter)
Sam: I can do this. But I need some backup. Maybe Vax could come and he could wear red. And he could be the guy who--
Laura: Aren't they going to be looking for a very little man?
Sam: Okay, I'll wear the red, but maybe you could be there.
Liam: I will go with you, and I will hang back, and I will be there to stab out the eyes of anyone who wants to hurt you, but you are the talker, man. You've always been the talker.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Why does Scanlan never think I'm very cool? Why does he think that?
Sam: No, I think you're great.
Laura: You never want me to go with you, I could've helped you find Kaylie, and you didn't ask me to.
Liam: Well, let's be real. She's the coolest one in the group, really.
Sam: The big pointy hat, it's really dorky.
Laura: You're the one who fucking makes me wear this thing!
Sam: I know!
Liam: Can she take it off at the casino, though?
Laura: I'm not flying. I can take it off whenever I fucking want!
Travis: Can we all come? It sounds super dangerous. I just want to watch. I'll be so sly.
Taliesin: We are, by the way, walking to our next destination.
Marisha: No, I am enjoying my hookah.
Taliesin: Oh, I forgot we got hookah. Oh my god.
Laura: We're sitting and hookah-ing through this whole fucking thing.
Liam: I did it before, but I don't think I really did it.
Marisha: Is this a split hose? We have a split hose.
Sam: No, thanks. I'm straight-edge tonight. I've got to think clearly.
Marisha: It's just tobacco, Scanlan.
Taliesin: Is it just tobacco? We really don't actually know.
Marisha: Actually, that's a good point. I do a few test puffs. Is it just tobacco? Is there something special about this hookah?
Matt: It seems to be just delightfully flavored tobacco.
Marisha: It's nice! So okay, you don't want to inhale all at once. It's more like flavor thing. Like a cigar.
Liam: Yeah. I copy Keyleth. (coughs)
Marisha: Vax. Come on.
Laura: Good job, brother. Good job.
Travis: What happened to you?
Liam: I just, (coughs, sniffs) I can't stop (coughs) coughing. (coughs) I'm fine.
Marisha: Wow. This is cute, actually. This is adorable. I hand him some water from my pouch. Just a little dry.
Liam: (coughs) It's really good.
Laura: Wow, you've never looked cooler in your entire life.
Liam: I agree with you.
Travis: Is there a bar in this place? A proper bar?
Matt: Not really a bar. It seems the servants take orders and bring you your various liquid imbibements.
Travis: Right. Can I flag down a--
Matt: Yeah. You see a man walks up to you, long dark curly hair, bit of a goatee growing. "How can I help you?"
Travis: Yeah, I'm royalty from a far-off land. I pride myself on trying the fiercest spirit in the area that I'm visiting. What do you guys pride yourself on?
Matt: "You want the Sandkheg's Hide."
Travis: The sandcake side?
Matt: "The Sandkheg's Hide."
Travis: Oh, hide. Oh, is it a food or a drink?
Matt: "It's a drink."
Travis: Yeah, then one of those'd be great.
Matt: "It's expensive."
Travis: Yeah, well, don't tell anybody but I'm super fucking rich. Only because I have to check with my national treasury, how much is it?
Matt: "Ah, do you wish to have a glass or a bottle?"
Travis: A bottle.
Matt: "A bottle will run you 350 gold pieces."
Sam: Oh!
Travis: I'll take two.
Matt: Walks off.
Taliesin: How have we not stopped this?!
Matt: Comes back with two very full-- (laughs)
Laura: That's from your personal fucking funds!
Travis: We be clubbing, motherfuckers.
Laura: That ain't no party funds.
Taliesin: Those are gold coins. You're not making it rain, you're making it hail, for god's sakes.
Marisha: Does that get to come with us, or is it bottle service? Because if this is bottle service, we're here for the night.
Travis: Okay, maybe there's champagne though, yes?
Matt: He comes back a little later with these two dark green glass wine bottles that have this heavy leather wrapped around them and bolted together at certain places. It looks like leather at times, but as you get closer, you feel it's actually hard. It's almost like a chitinous armor on the outside of the glass.
Travis: This was meant for me.
Matt: Both of these vials are given to you with heavy corks that are wax-coated over the top. "Here you are."
Travis: Oh! May I start a tab? No? Fine. Then I give, shit. (mutters) How much do I owe?
Laura: 700. TRAVIS 700. Here's 800 gold.
Sam: Oh my god.
Matt: "Thank you very much, and please, do let me know if you require anything else."
Travis: No problems.
Matt: And he exits the room.
Taliesin: I have never hated you so much before, in my entire life.
Travis: Prepare to drink like kings.
Liam: I feel the opposite way. I'm very proud.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Grog, I think this bottle's more well-armored than we are.
Travis: Yeah, it's like amazing animal-skin Maker's Mark. So how do we crack this bitch open?
Sam: Guys, I need you to be clear-headed tonight!
Taliesin: I'm having a glass of this. We've just paid a fortune for it.
Laura: We're saving a bottle.
Taliesin: We are saving a bottle.
Travis: Right. Are there any opening utensils around, because I don't want to unsheathe--
Taliesin: May I sword it?
Matt: You may.
Taliesin: I'm going to sword it.
Laura: But don't take your sword out, because we're not allowed to bring our weapons out.
Taliesin: Oh, there's no weapon in here?
Matt: You're currently private in the room.
Taliesin: Oh, we're private in the room.
Marisha: I thought this was an open tent-commune thing.
Matt: It's an open ceiling, but there are rooms segmented by cloth and what looks like sandstone walls, so there are little pockets and alcoves, and you guys currently have one that you're in right now.
Taliesin: It's not no weapons, it's just no usage of them.
Liam: Let's keep them sheathed, he said at the gate. But we are pretty hidden.
Taliesin: I'll just pop it.
Matt: Comes off, and the cork flies and bounces off one of the nearby walls. The smell that comes to you is extremely strong. It resembles a very vinegar turned wine mixed with this, for lack of a better term, a very earthy scent. It's almost herbal, medicinal. It's not at all what you would have expected for something so expensive.
Travis: Who wants to be first? Keyleth?
Marisha: Fill me up. Oh wait, you want me to go first?
Laura: I want a shot.
Travis: You want a shot?
Sam: Percival just took some.
Matt: As it touches your tongue, that smell transitions into a very acidic taste. It actually burns your tongue, and it goes numb within a matter of seconds. It is not a delightful flavor, and as the tongue goes numb, the back of the throat goes numb as you swallow. As the numbness continues down the rest of the body, the flavor has not improved at all, but it brings this universal numbness. And as the slight pain of the burn subsides, you, with just but a few sips, become extremely intoxicated, but also just numb.
Liam: How is it?
Marisha: How is it?
Taliesin: (slurring) Not very good.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: (slurring) But if--
Laura: Oh, he's fucking wasted.
Marisha: I slap him.
Taliesin: (slurring) You should do that again. That felt really good. I'll do it.
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: Liquid MDMA.
Marisha: I take a sip.
Laura: I'm not drinking mine. Here, Grog.
Marisha: I want to know! I take a sip.
Matt: You take a sip, and the same sensation takes, and the numbness sets in, this slight vibration at the back of the skull. Elements of this remind you of being very drunk, with but a few sips.
Liam: Hey, can you hear me? Yeah? You all right?
Marisha: (slurring) Oh holy shit.
Marisha: (slurring) This is so weird.
Taliesin: (slurring) This is so weird.
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: (slurring) We're good.
Liam: I take them by the cheeks. Can you feel this?
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: You can?
Marisha: (affirmative grunt)
Liam: Can you feel this?
Taliesin: (affirmative grunt)
Marisha: (affirmative grunt)
Travis: Does it taste good?
Taliesin: (dissenting grunt)
Marisha: (dissenting grunt)
Liam: Do you recommend it?
Taliesin: (non-committal grunt) (laughter)
Marisha: (non-committal grunt) (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) It hurts man, oh my god!
Laura: Are you going to try it, Grog? (laughter)
Liam: I am not going to have a sip of that right now. Definitely sometime, but--
Laura: Back in the mansion, maybe.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: But not when we have to do something tonight.
Taliesin: (slurring) What do we have to do?
Laura: As charming as you two are right now.
Travis: I'm going to stopper it and then I'm going to put the extra bottle in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: You didn't have any?
Travis: Nope.
Liam: Just these two?
Travis: (laughing) Money well spent!
Laura: Can I step out and find that waiter that we paid for?
Liam: Yeah, you're both really cute right now, but you're useless.
Marisha: I lean on Vax a little bit.
Laura: Wonderful beverages you just served us. How long does that last?
Matt: "Depends on how much you're drinking."
Laura: Just a tiny bit.
Matt: "Hour, maybe."
Laura: Fabulous. They came with quite a price tag, didn't they?
Matt: "'It's very dangerous to harvest and create, yes."
Laura: I could assume. What exactly is in?
Liam: Yes, what are they harvested from?
Matt: He thinks a minute, then goes, "I don't know which part of the sandkheg it is, but it is taken from the usually venomous bile or spittle of the creature."
Taliesin: (slurring) That's really good bile!
Travis: It's a living thing.
Laura: I'm assuming, I mean, back in the city that we're from--
Matt: "Mind you, it is refined and pickled by the finest of various-- It is a delicacy across Ank'Harel and northern areas of Marquet. I was merely fulfilling the request of your companion."
Taliesin: (slurring) No, it's very good.
Laura: Thank you so much. Where we're from, usually when purchasing such a great and expensive item, room service is included. I'm assuming we have somewhere to stay for the night?
Taliesin: (slurring) I don't think that it's that kind of place.
Matt: "I mean, you are welcome to stay, should you pay an evening price, yes, but that is not part of the price of the drink of which you have purchased, no."
Laura: Oh. Cultural differences! Good to know.
Taliesin: (slurring) We have to move.
Liam: Hey. Can you say your full name right now?
Taliesin: (slurred) Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third of Whitestone.
Sam: Don't say the W word!
Taliesin: (slurring) Whitestone?
Sam: Okay, it's fine now.
Taliesin: (slurring) What? (shushing)
Travis: How long until you have to meet this guy at the casino?
Taliesin: (slurring) Why're you talking? Just (shushes).
Sam: What time is it? Has the sun gone down?
Matt: No, you guys woke up maybe two and a half hours ago.
Taliesin: Day drinking! Yes!
Matt: You're maybe getting close to noon. The sun, last you saw before you got here, was close to the center of the sky.
Travis: Well, we've got time to kill, right?
Laura: We need to go find the Debt's Respite and maybe get a room.
Sam: Is that where we're going to sleep tonight?
Laura: That's where the Scarbearers are. We can get a room here.
Liam: And your deal is this evening, yes?
Sam: Yeah, we've got some time for that.
Travis: So we take off for the Debt's Respite.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading the charge for that?
Travis: No, you're not. I will.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check, if you don't mind.
Sam: Investigation. You're terrible at those.
Marisha: (laughing) This is everything I wanted.
Taliesin: I'm so happy right now.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 investigation check. Within ten minutes you've asked the right questions between a number of various street urchins and street salespersons, to be directed straight towards the Debt's Respite.
Sam: I wrote it down correctly, Matt.
Matt: In following the direction, you end up walking up to what looks like a rather rundown-looking establishment. The broken glass windows and missing front door lead you to think that perhaps it's been abandoned for months. Looks a little rough and ramshackle.
Laura: But they said this was being guarded by the Hand of Ord. Interesting.
Sam: My contact in the underworld said that this was a place that is a known hangout for seedy types. Right? Am I remembering that correctly?
Laura: No, the guard at the front of the city told us this was one of the places that you could stay, and it was guarded.
Matt: He said it was a place you could stay, because you were asking for taverns and inns.
Liam: We have accounts from two different people, and they're two different opinions.
Taliesin: It's like Yelp. But better. I'm going to knock. (knocking)
Matt: As you approach the front door, it's partially ajar and as you push it open, you can see the inside is a whole different story. As your eyes adjust to the interior you find actually a bustling business of barhands slinging tankards across seven stained wood tables, some of the folk look rather day-drunk, similar to these individuals, though it has worn a bit off since the original sip. And most look to be various miscreants or post-work farmers taking a break. The interior is familiar and probably closer to the taverns you're used to in more of the poorer districts of Emon and surrounding cities than some of the more luxurious areas you've recently found yourselves in. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth-- actually, Keyleth, make a perception check with disadvantage.
Marisha: Aw. I see why you're doing that. With disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Okay. Vex and Vax, as you guys walk into the room, you do catch off in the distance behind a series of barrels that are stacked and the edge of a shelf that contains rows and rows of glasses, tankards, plates, and various things. You just barely make out what looks to be an androgynous figure, face masked with dark blue and black cloth, with a hint of leather armor, hiding in the corner. Like barely visible to you and you can make out the details due to your very keen ability to gather your surroundings quickly.
Liam: Is the armor similar to that suit of armor we saw on the other guy?
Matt: Nope. This is very muddled, low leather armor.
Laura: Are they wearing a cloak?
Matt: Can't tell; their back's hidden, and they're quiet.
Laura: So they don't have something up? Do they have a hood over their head?
Matt: They have a hood and a mask. Looks to be like a cloth mask wrapped around him.
Liam: I'm going to hang by the two sobering-up twins over here and keep an eye on that person.
Matt: You guys also watch throughout all the various patrons and people that are wandering about this establishment, one figure stands out amongst the others. You see a bronze-scaled dragonborn: bulky and thick, muscular armored in light hides and bracers. He clutches an untouched mug that is brimming with an amber-colored ale and is lost in thought, staring off towards one of the broken windows that leads outside. Very heavy, muscular arms. Maybe not quite the height of Grog, but definitely a similar build.
Laura: Tail or no tail?
Matt: Sitting down, you can't tell.
Liam: You don't know.
Matt: What do you guys do?
Taliesin: (slurring) We're fine.
Laura: Wow. I guess I walk up to the tavernkeep.
Matt: There is no tavernkeep. There are barmaids walking around and passing drinks, but there is no barkeep right now.
Laura: I grab one of the barmaids. Who do we speak to about a room?
Matt: "You would speak to Treev," and points to the dragonborn, who is currently staring out of the window.
Laura: Oh. Well, there we go. I walk over.
Travis: I go with her.
Matt: He's spacing out. As soon as you approach he goes, (groans) "What do you want, bothering a fellow in mid-fantasy?"
Laura: Sorry, sir.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: We're interested in a room for the night, actually.
Matt: "All right, well, what's your name?"
Laura: Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "Vex'ahlia. Treev. Treev Bonebreaker." And grabs your arm. As opposed to a handshake, like a full-on forearm, meaty grasp. Treev. T-R-E-E-V. "Treev Bonebreaker. Current caretaker of this fine establishment. Looking for rooms? I've got three available."
Laura: Wonderful. Mind if I sit down?
Matt: "At this rate, sure. I doubt I'm going to find myself back to that dream. Anyway, what do you and your rather scrawny-looking friend there have to say?"
Travis: I look around.
Laura: We're actually here on a rather important mission from Emon.
Matt: "Never been there."
Laura: It was quite a beautiful city. Not as much anymore.
Matt: "Well, that's unfortunate. Sometimes cities fall to the lowest despots. It happens."
Laura: Yes, it does.
Matt: "Rooms?"
Laura: Yes. Three, you said?
Matt: "Three rooms available."
Laura: And how much would those rooms be?
Matt: "How many are staying?"
Sam: Six.
Laura: Six of us?
Matt: "And your bear?"
Laura: Well, yes, but he doesn't take up much space.
Matt: "Well we have to put a bear tax on this, you realize."
Laura: "A bear tax?"
Matt: "Yes. I haven't had a bear here before. Who knows what damage it can do? Consider it protection."
Laura: You know what? He can sleep outside, don't worry. Don't worry about the bear.
Matt: "All right. I take no responsibility what happens to your bear outside."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "That'll run you ten gold per room. 30 gold for the night."
Laura: (whispers) Ten gold? (louder) Are these really fancy rooms, then?
Matt: "No. God no. I don't know where you're from in Emon or what the prices are there, but here, it's expensive."
Laura: Every fucking thing is expensive here.
Taliesin: Can I attempt to start looking around the room to try and find anything interesting and try and be useful?
Matt: Make an investigation check with disadvantage.
Laura: Can I insight and see if he's just taking fucking advantage of us because we're tourists? I don't want to roll that one. I want to roll this one.
Taliesin: Investigation? 12.
Laura: Natural 20!
Marisha: Oh shit.
Matt: Yeah, he straight-up jacked the price up. He can see the foreigner on your face.
Laura: You know what? We probably don't need the three rooms. They offered us some over at The Shade. It's fine.
Matt: "Certainly. Whatever your business may be. Is that all you need?"
Laura: Are you from Tal'Dorei?
Matt: "Me? No. Not originally."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: So you haven't heard of Draconia? Can I see from here if he has a tail or not?
Matt: There is no tail behind him.
Laura: Have you heard?
Matt: "Of Draconia? Unfortunately."
Laura: Have you heard what happened?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Draconia has fallen.
Matt: Grabs his drink that he's holding up, slams it on the table. It spills over. "You fucking with me?"
Laura: No.
Matt: "Well, there's a reason for celebration." And just chugs the entire drink in one go, you can see his dragonborn gullet just accepting the entire drink in one gulp. (sighs)
Laura: Well, I'd be happy to tell you more detail for a reasonable price on the rooms.
Matt: (laughs) "Sit down. All of you. 15 gold for the lot. All the meaty details. Sure."
Laura: So we tell him.
Matt: You tell him about everything, and he listens in. He starts enjoying it, and eventually falls a bit, sinking in the stake of things, and eventually that celebration falls to acceptance.
Taliesin: Does anyone mind if I fill him in on the future of Draconia?
Sam: If you do it in a slurry speech, sure.
Taliesin: It's going to be slightly slurry, but at this point at least I'm English again. We have the next several weeks we were going to attempt to free the populace from their new lord and master. But in order to do that we are here on a mission. We're searching for something. We're searching for a one-eyed merchant warrior, and a cloak.
Matt: "Well look, if you're looking to hire, you've got to explain the task then. We do have a code. Fuck what the rumors say."
Taliesin: I've never found anyone who doesn't have a code who lived very long to tell about it.
Matt: "Aye. Long enough. What's the point in living without one? That's how you end up shivved in the stomach and left to bleed in the street. What you looking to hire for?"
Taliesin: We are looking for the one-eyed merchant warrior who wears the coat of Cabal's Ruin.
Matt: "I know who you're seeking, aye. Mistress Asharru."
Taliesin: Mistress Asharru?
Marisha: We have a name! Goddamn it.
Matt: "She's one of our finest, and expensive because of it. But friend, she's been off for a week since her last job, so mayhaps her schedule is open. Would have to inquire. Write me a summary of your job you have for her. I'll have it delivered. Her answer may take a week or so."
Taliesin: We do not have, sadly, a week or so. The dragon falls in two weeks.
Matt: "Well, write her a letter, she'll receive it, and she'll return to you when she sees it fit. Our business is our business. If you don't like it, shove off, find someone else."
Taliesin: Sadly no one else will do. Not that I want to inquire of the sort of business she's in, because that's inappropriate, but is she in the town at least? If we were to write her, could we get word to her quickly?
Matt: "Why, I can get word to her immediately, but it's up to her when she wants to respond."
Taliesin: Is there anything else you can tell me about her?
Matt: He starts giving you a curious look and goes, "You come in here asking to hire one of my finest and don't know what work she does?"
Taliesin: I know what work she does.
Matt: "What work do you need her for?"
Taliesin: We need to save the world.
Matt: "And you need her help to save the world."
Taliesin: Sadly, but true. We at the very least need her blessing.
Laura: While he's talking, can I keep an eye on the figure in the corner?
Matt: Yeah. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: There are things that have been released upon this earth that will burn everything. And they will make their way here. Draconia is gone. Tal'Dorei is gone. All swaths of civilization have been wiped off the earth.
Matt: "We've weathered beasts. We've weathered dragons here in Emon."
Taliesin: Not like we've seen.
Matt: "So be it. But nevertheless, you want to hire her, you've got to write her a proposal." And he slides across a piece of parchment with a small quill about it. "I'll deliver it, and she'll get back to you when she sees fit."
Sam: Does she have a normal price?
Matt: "Depends on the job you're asking. She'll set her price."
Sam: Okay.
Laura: 30 perception.
Matt: 30 perception? The figure is watching all of you intensely but has not moved an inch. All you've seen are the eyes move, but they've been trained on your entire group since you arrived.
Liam: I've been watching.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Could I ask, (coughs) other than gambling, what sort of entertainment can you find in this city?
Matt: "All sorts of entertainment. There's various singers, musicians, dancers, performers. If you're looking for company there's all sorts of entertainment in that regard, of all the spectrums. If you're looking for games, probably a few months out before we get to any sort of the gladiatorial events."
Travis: I'm sorry, could you just, a bit more on--
Matt: "That's months away."
Liam: There's no place for our friend to get into a scrap?
Matt: "Well, you could certainly find a scrap, but none that are sanctioned by the Hand, and they'll put you away."
Liam: Sorry, big man.
Matt: "Lest you have someone to duel you. That's a whole different business."
Travis: What? Duel?
Matt: "That's sanctioned by the law."
Travis: A duel? A one-on-one duel?
Matt: "If you challenge one to a duel and they accept, aye."
Travis: In this city, it's legal? Anytime? High noon, midnight, when?
Matt: "You just have to sanction it by the Hand. You have to make sure that you both agree to fight to the death, and the fight has to happen in the Bowl of Judgment."
Travis: The Bowl of Judgment?
Sam: The Bowl of Judgment?
Matt: "Sits about the Sandherald district outside of the Cerulean Palace."
Travis: Wait, is that that super fucking tall thing we saw?
Matt: "That's the Cerulean Palace. It's quite close to it, aye."
Laura: Are any items allowed in the bowl, or do you have to go in bare-handed?
Matt: "It depends on the sanctions of the Ord and the agreement you come to, but fisticuffs are great for the gladiatorial events, but if you're fighting to the death, sometimes it's nice to bring a blade in."
Marisha: So what type of people like to participate in these duels?
Matt: "The kind that got nothing to lose. The kind that got a point worth proving with their life. Those kind. Doesn't happen often. When it does happen, it's a spectacle."
Taliesin: Is there like a lighter fight that can be found?
Sam: Arm wrestling match.
Taliesin: Arm wrestling or-- I don't know, what would be worse less than--
Laura: UFC.
Marisha: Less than a Bowl of Judgment?
Sam: Cup of Truth? (laughter)
Taliesin: A Wok of Truth, maybe.
Marisha: Bowl of Wheaties.
Liam: Tablespoon of Wrath. (laughter)
Taliesin: This is really uncomfortable.
Matt: "A few months until the games begin, but until then, that's about the only way you'll find bloodshed here. At least that won't lend you up in prison."
Travis: All right.
Sam: Good to know.
Laura: Good to know.
Taliesin: I'm sitting and I'm starting to compose a letter.
Laura: How's his handwriting?
Taliesin: Flouncy.
Matt: You're starting to gain it back. What do you write?
Taliesin: I'm going to show everybody before I hand it in. I'm going to write the truth, top to bottom, of the world is peril, we are facing a battle, and she holds or knows of an item that would turn the tide, and I wish to know its price or know its rental.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: What are you asking her?
Marisha: I feel like that's not going to work.
Taliesin: I'm holding it. Before I hand it in I'm going to show. I don't feel that there is any deceit-- there is nothing I can think to say beyond the truth. We are either dealing with honest people, or we are not.
Marisha: I have a feeling that... yeah.
Laura: What if we just--
Taliesin: I'm also putting my rank and title and letting them know that I'm willing to--
Sam: Give away Vex's title?
Taliesin: I'm willing to give away Vex. Vex is entirely up for sale. No.
Travis: You're planning to recruit this person?
Taliesin: I'm not looking to recruit this person. I'm looking to rent or buy an object that she owns, or perhaps even trade, and we'll put 400 gold.
Marisha: Just to meet with her?
Laura: Just to meet with her.
Taliesin: As an offer of a meeting.
Liam: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's not bad.
Matt: He takes it. He packages in in a small container, a leather container.
Marisha: Did you put in there that it had to be prompt? That it had to be prompt?
Taliesin: And that time is of the essence.
Matt: "Oh, don't worry." (whistles) Whistles through his fingers and the figure in the wall that you'd been watching steps forward and slowly walks towards the table. Holds up the scroll, and the figure leans in. Covers his mouth and he whispers into the ear of the figure. The figure takes the scroll, gives a nod to all of you, and walks out of the tavern. "He'll deliver that to her promptly, now be on your way. 15 gold."
Laura: Oh yes, of course! Thank you for the rooms.
Matt: Takes a keyring out and starts fudging through the keys, pulls a few off and tosses them to you across the table. "All right, you've got it for a night."
Liam: I heard Grog. I'm going to follow out the door, go stealth.
Matt: Okay. You vanish out the door. Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. As you glance out the door and pull outside-- you're going stealth as well, you said? Roll stealth.
Liam: That is 25.
Matt: 25. Okay. You turn around the corner just as you see a flash of dark cloth around the edge of the Debt's Respite. You rush off to the edge and look around the corner way and down the alley. You can see the figure, full on, arms out to the side rushed behind, going into a very fast run, down the shaded hallway.
Liam: Shaded hallway?
Matt: The alleyway.
Liam: I'll follow.
Matt: Okay, so you continue to follow.
Liam: At a distance.
Matt: All right. Following the masked figure, you continue to give chance. It darts erratically, zig-zagging between areas. You can see this is a very trained pattern to lose anybody following them, but you're also trained in following those that wish not to be followed. Make another perception check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: You come around one corner, and you can see there's a wall that ends there, and you see just a little slip of material pass. And as you glance over, you can see the figure has jumped down onto a lower walkway onto what appears to be a recessed sector of this part of Ank'Harel, and has already darted beneath a nearby bridge and overpass that walks across to another series of buildings. You leap over, keeping in the shadow, and give chase down that way. You turn around underneath the bridge and you can see underneath the bridge, there is an archway that leads into a dark path down an actual hallway beneath the series of buildings you just saw ahead of you. Make another perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. You look down the hallway, and you see the shadow of the figure framed against what looks to be another opening on the opposite side but the sunlight is coming through. You can just see the dark outline as it darts forward and then leaps off again, down the right past that exit. You follow, and you look off the side just as you see the figure slink behind one large crate next to a storage section outside of a warehouse. It ducks behind another one. Darts up to a building that looks to be shuttered and closed. It looks like a furniture store with a little sign at the top that says, "A Kingly Home." It moves an empty rain barrel to the side and slips the leather case through a hole that was previously hidden by the barrel, dropping it inside the building, slides the barrel over it again. Looks back and forth. Make another stealth check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. Doesn't seem to make notice, and then darts off, leaping, leaping up onto a rooftop and vanishing off.
Liam: You said, "A Kingly Home"?
Matt: A Kingly Home.
Liam: I'm going to stealth back to the Debt's Respite.
Matt: Keeping a very close watch on the path you took and marking it mentally back to the Debt's Respite. It's probably a good mile off from where you guys were, if not a little further. You guys continue your conversation, go about your own business. Eventually, Vax returns with the information, the path of wherever this letter was dropped off to.
Travis: Just curious, have you ever had the Sandkheg Hide?
Matt: "Are you serious?"
Travis: Yeah. I'm just asking.
Matt: "No, I ain't drinking that bullshit."
Travis: Really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Too stiff for you?
Matt: "Too stiff for anyone! It's-- what?"
Travis: I mean, I hear only real bosses can drink that jazz.
Matt: "That's not a drink. That's probably squeezed from the arsehole of some sort of beast out in the desert. I prefer my stuff taken from berries and the sweet stuff."
Travis: What do you mean, some beast? Who'd make a drink out of some animal's whatever?
Matt: "Have you have some, have you tasted it?"
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: "Then I guess you know what an animal's bum tastes like, eh?"
Travis: (sputters) Hold on. You mean they squeeze the asshole of something out there?
Matt: "Oh, completely!"
Travis: No!
Matt: "They hold it down and just squeeze its abdomen and the whole sandkheg spews out into this little glass barrel and then you pay for it. Top dollar."
Travis: Yeah, it's 300 something gold!
Matt: "Oh, did you buy some?"
Travis: No.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: You brain is filled with image of whatever creature your imagination has come up with being held down.
Travis: It's a giant, hairy water yak.
Matt: And it is squeezing some sort of yellowish liquid from its abdomen into a glass wine bottle, and you're now looking over at Percy and Keyleth who had just had sips of this earlier. It's not sitting well with your stomach.
Travis: We were gifted a bottle, and a couple of my friends had partook.
Matt: (cackles)
Travis: They say the stuff we had is A-plus.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Vax now appears at the edge of the table.
Laura: Oh, hi!
Liam: Hey. Took a little walk.
Laura: Let's go to the rooms. Let's check it out. How about that?
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Thank you for the rooms. Breakfast? Is there breakfast here?
Matt: (scoffs) "No, you find your own food."
Laura: Awesome.
Marisha: Does he still have some drink in front of him?
Matt: It hasn't been filled since, no.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Matt: Do you guys head to your rooms? Okay. You make your way up to the rooms. They're all clean, serviceable, nothing too fancy, but functional rooms. Each with two beds.
Taliesin: I want to check for anything unusual, if there's anything iffy about the rooms.
Matt: Investigation check.
Laura: Oh, I would follow suit.
Matt: Investigation check.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of fucking--
Matt: Natural one?
Taliesin: No. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Nothing seems to be out of place or out of the ordinary.
Taliesin: Obviously.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13? Seems to be a room.
Sam: I'm just going to check under the beds, that's it.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: 29!
Matt: 29. You find dust, dead insects, a dried-out rodent husk, and that's it.
Liam: Grog, you want to bunk up?
Travis: Yeah, sure. Are we going two to a room?
Liam: Yeah, there's six of us.
Matt: It's also about 3 00 in the afternoon.
Liam: I know that. I'm not going to go lie down on the floor. I just thought I'd call dibs.
Travis: Yeah. Cool.
Laura: Scanlan, then. Me and you?
Sam: Sure!
Laura: No. I'm kidding. I don't want to be in the same room with you at all.
Sam: Oh, I need a bucket and a mop.
Laura: No. You're with him.
Marisha: I'm with Vex.
Taliesin: Yes. What?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Have fun!
Taliesin: With-- not-- no!
Liam: That's later.
Laura: What did you see?
Liam: Yeah, so we've got a backup plan because I followed whoever that person was back to where they dropped off. We should probably honor the offer first. If that goes sideways, then we have a backup plan.
Taliesin: It's so rare that we're actually given an opportunity to be honest about everything. We might as well try it once, see if we like it.
Sam: But do you know where this person receives her messages?
Liam: Absolutely.
Taliesin: Good.
Travis: Where is it?
Liam: Well, I don't know the names of the streets. I remember what it looked like. If you want to follow me, it's about a mile off. It looked like a furniture store. A Kingly Rest.
Laura: And you didn't even have to say jenga!
Liam: Wonders never cease.
Travis: A Kingly Rest. All right.
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Liam: Well, the casino's tonight. The deal's off. We can't get Grog in a fight.
Laura: Do you have a red shirt, Scanlan? Do we need to get you one?
Sam: Do we own anything red? Grog?
Travis: What?
Sam: Do we have anything red?
Travis: We have three fancy robes left.
Matt: You do not own a red shirt, but you could probably find one. Not too difficult.
Sam: All right. I'll find one. Take 20 minutes.
Matt: It doesn't take you too long. Costs you two silver pieces. You find a nice red shirt, billowing sleeves. It's totally up your alley.
Sam: Okay, great!
Travis: Can we go back out to the bazaar? Are far from there, or are we still close?
Matt: He's gone through the bazaar. You're not too far from it. Maybe a ten-minute walk.
Travis: They sell any weapons?
Laura: And potions. We need potions.
Taliesin: Trinkets.
Travis: Can I look and see if people are selling weapons?
Matt: You walk around. and there are weapons being sold.
Travis: Are there any exotic weapons?
Matt: No. Most weapons you find here are ornamental; they're for decoration. They're for putting above mantelpieces. There are various blades that have bolting mechanisms in the back where you can easily mount them to a wall. None of them, that you can see, at least, that are open in this bazaar for sale, are presented as an actual item for warfare.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Is there a magic shop?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Marisha: Come on, Percy. Roll something good. That's better!
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. Asking about, you do come to, within the bazaar, a small wooden building that's like a hut, but it's constructed of dark wood panels. It resembles those strange marionette performance boxes.
Taliesin: Punch and Judy box, yeah.
Matt: Except it just has this one frazzled-looking young woman standing there with long strands of curly dark brown hair. Red lips, dark eyeshadow. She's eagerly looking out with a sign in the front that reads, "Oddities and Eccentricities."
Taliesin: Good day.
Marisha: Be pleased.
Matt: "Good day."
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased to you as well."
Taliesin: I'm stocked up on eccentricities, but if you have any oddities for sale, I'd be very interested.
Matt: "There are many oddities at my disposal. I'm Nisaba."
Taliesin: Percival. Hello.
Matt: "What kind of oddities are you looking for?"
Taliesin: Honestly, this is my first time in the city, and I'm trying to get a sense of what's available for sale and what sorts of things one would find in the city, so really, I'm interested in touring your stock, especially if you have anything exotic.
Matt: "Well, let me show you." Over the next five minutes, she brings out all sorts of strange knickknacks. It's essentially a display from the most awkward of vintage Salvation Armies you've ever come across.
Taliesin: God, we've found a hipster.
Matt: However, you do catch a quick flash of what appears to be some small crystalline vials that appear to be strapped to some sort of leather bandolier.
Taliesin: Well, that's interesting. What do you call that?
Matt: "This is for, well, a gentleman who passed through many years ago, who claimed to be a great alchemist, sold this off when he had come into a lot of debt within the city, so I made a good price. No one has really showed much interest in it."
Taliesin: Interesting. May I? May I take a look at it?
Matt: "You may."
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: The leather's finely made, if a little worn. The chemicals inside-- one of them does have a familiar color, a deep herbal red. This looks to be some sort of a low to medium level healing potion, most likely, from your experience in the use of that. The two others are grayish and murky and don't really draw your attention or anything you're familiar with.
Taliesin: Interesting.
Marisha: Percy, what's that?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's quite nice, though, isn't it?
Marisha: Well. Can I do a check on the other two potions to see with my potion knowledge? My potion sense?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Not bad. Just straight intelligence? 15.
Matt: 15. They do appear to have been prepared in the way that you prepare magically enchanted vials for potions themselves, but you're not really able to make out just at a glance. You'd have to spend quite a time to make out what their nature is.
Marisha: I'd have to look at it. Not familiar, sorry. That looks like a health potion, though.
Taliesin: Yeah. It does look a bit--
Marisha: Healthy.
Sam: It's like Storage Wars. Just buy it. Who knows what's in there?
Taliesin: What were you hoping to unload for it?
Matt: "Well, knowing that is now a magic potion of healing and two other magical potions, that is a very valuable belt with its contents. I would sell you just the belt for five silver pieces. To include the vials, and they do come as a set, unfortunately, that would run you 275 gold pieces."
Taliesin: Now, see, we don't know what kind of healing potion that is, and those other two vials could have-- there is an expiration date on those things. And how long have you had it?
Matt: "We've had it for a number of years."
Taliesin: A number of years? Well, in that case, they've probably gone stale by now. I would say 75 gold at the very best.
Matt: (chuckles) "That is not going to work." She reaches out and takes the belt away from you and sets it back down on the inside.
Taliesin: 75 gold will not do you for that, then?
Matt: "For the belt, maybe."
Taliesin: For the belt, obviously. We've already established that that's in the silver range and certainly not touching the gold.
Matt: "Right, but you're willing to have and to offer that 75 gold for it, please."
Taliesin: 75 gold for the entire set.
Matt: "No, it's not going to work. I'm sorry."
Taliesin: No, and of course that makes sense that a hundred gold for that entire set would be very fair.
Liam: I'm starting to take a nap against a column standing up.
Sam: Just buy it.
Taliesin: 100 gold. You've had it for so long.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: This is going to go terribly. Where's my persuasion? Ooh, that's almost a number. Oh, good. 16?
Matt: She goes, "225 gold for the set."
Taliesin: 200. And an acknowledgement and compliment to your stunning hair. I'm attempting to flirt very poorly.
Travis: (laughing) That eyebrow.
Matt: Make a charisma check.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: Just a straight charisma modifier to your roll.
Liam: Come on, snitch.
Taliesin: Come on. 12.
Laura: You flirted with grass better!
Matt: She goes, "I appreciate your patronage, but I am a patient woman, and that is how I hold business." (laughter)
Travis: Stonewalled!
Taliesin: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Taliesin: I feel like I should have learned some sort of lesson here. I'm just not entirely sure what it was.
Marisha: Oh, you know--
Taliesin: Hardly matters, I suppose.
Marisha: Maybe you'll come to it at the end of being in Ank'Harel.
Travis: Hey, guys. I had a thought. You know we were all supposed to have a meeting with the king? And I haven't been paying attention if anyone's watching, and we got time to kill. Should we go have a talk with the big man?
Laura: Or at least put in for an audience.
Travis: Yeah. Who knows if they'll even get to us today?
Taliesin: I'm sobering up a bit. Which we should probably do that.
Laura: Does it seem like a long walk towards the Cerulean Palace?
Matt: Maybe a 45-minute to an hour walk.
Liam: We've got hours and hours before we have to do anything.
Taliesin: We do. It's 4 00 in the afternoon.
Laura: What time's the sun set here? Can I ask somebody?
Matt: You ask around. It looks to probably be about four hours from sunset.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Sam: All right. Fine. Let's go.
Marisha: Plus, the best way to see a new city is to walk, you guys!
Taliesin: Wait, hold on. I have to open my Pokémon.
Matt: So you guys are making your way towards the Cerulean Palace. As you approach the large, extremely imposing palace, you come upon what looks to be an endless series of stairs that brings you to the upper platform that is the central portion of the city where the palace seems to reside, eventually peaking in the Sandherald district that you were referred to earlier as the location of the palace and where the Bowl of Judgment exists. You step up to the very top of the stairs to find yourself already breathless at the sight of the immense purple-blue-colored palace. A dozen towers reach for the clouds, the daylight peeking through their slightly translucent material, like glassy waters ever-frozen in a fall. The central tower, the one that caught your eye, that ends in a large cup-like position, rises above all of them with a slight spiral-type texture to the outside of the palace that is incredibly tall amongst the rest of the cityscape. As you get closer, you can see the main palace structure presents hundreds of arches pointed at their apex in its structure, smaller and smaller as it recesses further into the palace. Its very architectural build is a marvel, and seems to both have consistency and a chaotic feel to the placement of some of these arches too, in size. It's a very strange but fascinating structure. You can also see turquoise detailing and trim against many of the pillars and carvings and statues that adorn the exterior of the grounds of this palace. As you approach what appear to be the front gates that ascend, with a very bright blue turquoise exterior, close to 50 Hands of Ord patrol various elements of the grounds around it. It looks like there are actual pockets of grass and gardens that exist around the Cerulean Palace in here. The topography changes almost to feel like it belongs entirely anywhere but the middle of the desert. The guards do eye you suspiciously as you approach, and you watch as one armored woman, her dark hair hidden mostly beneath an ornate helmet of brass and blue, approaches you guys. "Welcome to the Cerulean Palace. I must ask your business here."
Laura: Forgive us for our intrusion. We come seeking an audience of J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Our emperor does not take meetings. My apologies, but I must ask you to leave."
Taliesin: We are, in fact, a group of ambassadors from the continent of Emon, from the cities of--
Marisha: Continent of Tal'Dorei, city of Emon. It concerns the fate of the world.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Which one?
Taliesin: Not that one. That one. See? Listen to me. I'm not taking credit for that.
Marisha: 23. No, 24.
Matt: 24. "Let me inquire with the Grand Maven." She turns around, her armor clinking, and walks back to the palace, leaving you guys there amongst these courtyard grounds. A few moments pass before she returns, the doors opening. As she descends, next to her you see an older woman with these long, ceremonial robes that drag behind her, spilling across the stairs as she descends, seemingly dozens of gemmed bracelets that jingle as she walks with each step. She wears a tall headdress with what looks like brass quills that press behind her head and down her back. As she approaches you all, the woman earlier that you spoke to, the Hand that approached you, stays behind quietly and watches, weapon at the ready. The woman steps forward with a smile, and unlike the abrasive appearance that most of the Hand have given, she seems to be more welcoming, and gives, for the first time since you've been here, a very formal welcoming bow with her hand before her, the other hand out. Says, "Be pleased, everyone."
All: Be pleased.
Matt: "I must apologize. We were not aware of your arrival here. I am the Grand Maven Gameshega. Please, enter and follow me."
Travis: She's the what?
Marisha: Gameshega?
Matt: Gameshega.
Laura: Gameshega.
Liam: Gameshega.
Marisha: Gameshega?
Matt: Gameshega.
Liam: Gameshega.
Taliesin: This is good. This is very good.
Matt: As she walks past you and the female Hand that saw you earlier steps aside and watches you as you pass, then ends up stepping behind you and flanking, keeping a watch from the back as you guys are led up the final staircase, through the front turquoise gates of the Cerulean Palace, and they close behind you with a resounding (impact), the impact echoing through these long halls. From the interior, massive pointed archways that lead down ornately decorated halls that echo with each footfall that hits across what looks like endless white and black bespeckled marble. She leads you through a series of hallways, more Hands walking past, as well as a number of other robed individuals. What appears to be a central chamber that has a number of steps and seats, where it looks like various philosophers are in mid-heated discussion in once again, this same language that you have not heard on your ears before. You are eventually brought to a very intricate and decorated waiting room, with some finely upholstered silk chairs, couches. The Grand Maven stops. "If you would not mind, please have a seat."
Taliesin: Of course.
Sam: Sure, yeah.
Matt: She walks into a nearby doorway. It looks like a single door that leads into a small-looking room, from the brief moment you have to see it. The door closes and you hear a (magic sound). Two minutes pass. Five minutes pass. Ten eerie, quiet minutes pass.
Travis: Windows in this room?
Matt: No windows in this particular room, but you notice as you take a close look, the roofs, while they are built of this deep blue, almost glass-like thick crystal, they're ever so slightly translucent, and it gives this general blue glow about the entire room. You can't make out any details from the outside, but there is this strange translucence to the entire structure.
Travis: Was that the only door to the room?
Matt: There is the hallway that you left behind, but there standing in the doorway is the same Hand that approached you guys and has been keeping an eye the entire time.
Laura: He's in the room with us?
Matt: Is away from you, standing in the large archway hall that led you into this waiting room.
Laura: I'm up and pacing the room, trying to pace near the door that she went through so I can keep an ear on the door.
Travis: I walk up to the guard, and I say, sorry. I really should have peed before I came in. Is there a privy I could use?
Matt: She glances at you. "You look like a strapping young man. Perhaps you can hold onto that for a time."
Travis: It looks that way, but I also have a strapping-sized bladder, and I've been known to leave strapping-sized messes in corners. You see, I don't really come from all this finery, so the side of the wall is just as good with me. It's just I'm trying to be polite.
Matt: She leans behind the hallway. (foreign language) "Just a moment." Another guard walks up behind and kicks a bucket into the room.
Travis: That'll do.
Liam: Put up or shut up.
Laura: Can I hear anything from the other side of the door?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'm laughing out loud.
Sam: One?
Matt: You have your ear up against the wall.
Laura: I didn't want to have my ear against the wall. I wanted to be subtly doing it.
Matt: Well, you're subtly doing it, and there's nothing. You get closer and closer, and there's nothing. The rest of you hear (magic sounds), but you're still-- Eventually, the door opens again, and there the Grand Maven stands again. She looks up to the rest of you. "Come with me. You have been granted an audience." She steps back into the chamber.
Laura: That happened much easier than I expected.
Travis: Thank you for the bucket. I'll hold it.
Laura: Are you sure, Grog?
Liam: We were convincing.
Sam: They must know who we are.
Taliesin: Trust our luck. Our luck is going. I'm walking into this.
Sam: Anyone says jenga, kill everyone we meet.
Liam: It's the only plan we have.
Taliesin: I'm walking into it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You walk into what is a cylindrical chamber of smooth blue-purple quartz-like material with four strands of heavy chains taut between the ceiling and floor, about 15 feet above you. No other exit. You all enter and the door closes behind you, the Maven still relaxing, her arms to her side, her headdress still giving her this ominous presence. Looks up, and there's a (impact) shuddering sound. Suddenly, the bland, uncharacteristic walls, compared to the rest of the palace, begin to slide past the chains, now making this rattling sound as the floor itself seems to be lurching. You feel a bit of pressure in the room that wasn't there before. You're all being lifted, and the walls, now no longer walled in by the rest of the palace, you can now see this occasional traveling-down line as the spiral on the outside of the tower you once saw now surrounds you. The walls are much thinner than the rest of the palace, as you can see through this somewhat-translucent glass exterior the entirety of Emon surrounding you from upon high as it goes lower and lower as you're lifted higher and higher into this tower.
Laura: This is miraculous!
Matt: It's very off-putting, but beautiful at the same time. Everything's seen through this shimmering, somewhat-refracted blue passage. As you go higher and higher, you can see the countless homes, walls, and towers getting smaller and smaller, other towers eventually ending as you go higher in the tower. The Maven says, "I request you do not touch the walls, please."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: I really want to touch the walls.
Matt: The view reveals the entirety of the city around you, and beyond that, the distant dunes and the desert that seems to have no end. You view a far-off mountainscape a little bit in the northern direction that just begins to peek past your view, then (boom) the floor ceases again. You all seem to lurch for a moment, yourself, an inch before you catch yourself on your feet. The Maven catches herself, very used to this transition. You now see behind her, where it has stopped, there is another set of doors, similar to the ones you entered from in the bottom portion of this tower. The door opens, (creak) and you can see the next room is a set of staircases of the same color that slowly curl off and disappear upward above you. "Please, follow me." She walks in, her robe dragging behind her. You guys give enough berth for it to follow. As you're led up the stairway, choosing right or left, they both lead to the upper platform in what is the top of the central tower of the Cerulean Palace. As you enter this room, you see close to a hundred dangling silk tapestries from 50 or 60 feet up of multitudes of different colors; rainbowscapes of beautiful translucent cloths and silks, gently flowing with breezes and mingling and mixing into each other around the outside of the wall. High arched windows on each side, and behind, what looks to be a large opening reveals passing clouds surrounding this height and obfuscating certain portions as they meet with the height of this tower's apex. You see a large balcony from the opposite side of the room that is opened from its own similar-sized arch that extends outward. It has a railing about four feet up that is an opening that overlooks in open air all above the city to see. In the center of the chamber, you see a series of step-like platforms, circular, that rise up upon each other, and in the center, you see what seems to be a tall throne of bronze and sapphire that probably sits ten feet up from the base. Thin, but extremely long and widens towards the top. You can see hundreds of sapphires put into and set into this shiny, ruddy metallic material that frames the entirety of the throne. And there sitting atop this throne, you see a slender, human-like entity wearing no jewelry, no ceremonial adornments, no crown, just a simple brown cotton shirt over simple, elegant pants. Bare feet, no shoes. Androgynous and beautiful; you're unable to make out the sex of this creature. It's not a man, nor elf. Not fey, but something somewhat alien, almost. The skin a deep-set reddish brown, smooth and impeccable. The features are extremely fine and delicate. The eyes are what catch you: black like night, but the pupils, burning points of molten metal. The entity smiles and stands off the throne. Now, at this height, seeing it standing almost as tall as Grog, by comparison. The limbs are elongated. Extends a hand towards you as you step into the chamber. "Welcome to Ank'Harel, heroes of Tal'Dorei. I am J'mon Sa Ord, and it is my pleasure to greet you." And that is where we'll pick up our session in two weeks.
Laura: Oh shit, two weeks.
Matt: Two weeks.
Marisha: Two weeks.
Sam: Wow, guys. We did a lot of strange things.
Marisha: Yes, that was a weird day.
Travis: It's the pharaoh king from Stargate.
Matt: Yeah. We have two weeks until we pick up from that point in the story. Next week, look forward once again to Liam running his awesome one-shot.
Liam: I've got a party planned for you!
Matt: It's going to be awesome. It's been fun. But anyway, guys, thank you so much. Hope you had a fun time. Much love to all of you in the community. You're awesome; thank you so much for your support. Thank you for supporting our wonderful charities. 826 has been awesome, and they keep showing up. We saw recently in Target ads, actually, which is fantastic, so thank you guys so much for keeping up with them. You can still give them money. You can still support 826LA, as well as any of the other charities we have listed in our Guide to Critmas on the website. Those are great ways to give and great ways to support all of these wonderful people out there doing wonderful things.
Travis: And thank you, Loot Crate.
Matt: And thank you, Loot Crate, for your support of this show and support of our community, giving them an awesome discount. However, most of us will now adjourn to finish signing the posters forever.
Laura: Some of us are done.
Taliesin: Some of us will be doing it until the end of time.
Matt: Finishing for a lot of us.
Taliesin: Are we finishing tonight?
Matt: Finishing this weekend, so they should be going out soon to you guys. Thank you for your patience. The first batch of posters are now out. This batch will go out soon.
Liam: The desert awaits, Matt.
Matt: The desert waits for us, and it is much needed. Much love to you all. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. And get the somewhat adjusted, altered countdown to us going live.
Travis: False start, offense.
Matt: It's great. But yes, welcome. We have just a couple of announcements to do tonight. Nothing too long and crazy. First and--
Sam: Mine's really long, Matt.
Matt: Okay, Sam's is really long. Speaking of which, let's go ahead and get us into our wonderful sponsor for tonight, Loot Crate.
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Loot Crate. Sam, if you want to tell us a little about Loot Crate.
Sam: You guys, Loot Crate. The theme this month is Magical. Brands included Dr. Strange, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and more. Please make a special call out to the below Dr. Strange Q-Fig Loot Crate has announced will be in this month's crate. I just did. (laughter)
Sam: But tonight I've prepared, because we all need just some theater today. I've prepared for us a small radio play.
All: Ooh!
Sam: I'd like each of you to read a part in.
Liam: Pass 'em down, pass 'em down.
Sam: Pass it down, keep passing it down. I didn't know Ashley was going to be here, so, Ashley, you can read with Travis. You are both--
Marisha: Sam!
Sam: You are both doing it together.
Marisha: The first line--
Sam: Guys, calm down. It's sort of a Dust Bowl type of a play I wrote.
Marisha: Sam!
Sam: I wrote a play, okay?
Marisha: Do I have to say this?
Sam: Yes! You do! Come on! Guys, okay, I'll be reading stage direction, Taliesin is playing Junior, Marisha is playing Mama, Liam is Pa, Laura is playing Sam Riegel. And Travis and Laura are-- Travis and Ashley are the radio sound effects duo. Let's see how this goes. August, 1929, the Badlands, South Dakota. Lights up on the McCallister Farm. Mama, a sturdy, country woman, comes in from the windy, dusty farm and slams the door. Sound effects!
Ashley: (wind noises)
Travis: (ke-thunk)
Marisha: "Junior? Junior! Git yer slowpoke, molasses ass down here."
Sam: Oh! That's me! Enter Junior, a simpleton, down the stairs.
Travis: (ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk, ke-kunk)
Sam: Good sound effects, guys.
Taliesin: "Sorry I didn't do no chores, Mama. I'm a simpleton!" What are you doing to me?
Marisha: "You'll be sorry when I run this cat-o-nine tails over your rear end."
Ashley: (whip sound)
Sam: Yeah, good sound effect, good sound effect.
Taliesin: "It ain't my fault because school was late because Teacher Sally died the evening before last."
Sam: Come on! Project, project!
Taliesin: "It ain't my fault school was late because, well, Teacher Sally died this evening before last."
Marisha: "Not sweet, sweet Sally. My rear end, I'm going to miss her. What did her in?" I don't even know what the fuck--
Sam: Enter Pa, a drunk. He smashes a beer bottle against the family cat.
Liam: (thumps)
Laura: No, you're not the sound effects.
Travis: (glass shattering)
Ashley: (cat snarling)
Sam: There you go. (laughter)
Liam: "Oh, same thing that kills us all around here. Dust poisoning. As we all know the Dust Bowl's full of radioactive dust. It melts your face clean off of the bone."
Marisha: "It's true. And dust ebola is the second leading cause of death in the dust bowl. My rear end just can't stand this dusty dust. Deadly dust."
Sam: It should be noted that the playwright did no historical research on the Dust Bowl. (laughter)
Sam: Junior.
Taliesin: "Here, Ma, I found your bagpipes to play at the dust funeral."
Ashley: (awful yet great impression of bagpipes) (laughter)
Sam: Good sound effects!
Liam: "Oh, Lord, what will we ever do with this dust?!"
Sam: Enter Sam Riegel, a strapping traveling salesman from the big city, played by Laura.
Laura: "Hi, folks! Handsome Sam Riegel here. Only thing more handsome than me is this here Loot Crate, featuring X-X-X."
Sam: I was supposed to put in actual stuff. Promo link "lootcrate.com/criticalrole." Keep going. (laughter)
Laura: "Once you enjoy the geeky gear inside, you can use the box to clean up, well, all this dust!"
Marisha: "Can it be? A box than can cure our woes and pick us up back onto our dusty rear ends?" What's with-- why?
All: Hooray!
Sam: And so the McCallisters used a dusty old vacuum cleaner--
Travis: (vacuum noises)
Sam: And their Loot Crates to clean up all the dust in the Dust Bowl. Thus saving their farm and the American Dream. (cheering)
Travis: Holy shit. It keeps getting better.
Sam: I'm a playwright, guys.
Marisha: A few on the fly rewrites there.
Matt: And you know, based on our viewership tonight, it's a pretty good opening night. (laughter)
Matt: Far better than most playwrights.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: So, well done, Sam.
Sam: Good sound effects, guys.
Laura: Yeah, that was good sound effects.
Matt: Awesome. Well. Next up, we have a quick announcement that a special guest is going to come in here and tag me out. We have Brian Foster. Go ahead and tag. Boom! (cheering)
Brian: Hello, hello, hello. Man, it's been a Chris Hardweek, hasn't it?
All: Oh!
Brian: There's a giant note here that says, "Kill Grog. He's gotten too powerful." All right, so we're going to talk about Talks Machina, which is the new Critical Role after-slash-talk show. (cheering)
Brian: We've all been working on this along with a lot of people at Geek & Sundry for a super long time. So we're super excited about it. It's going to start this Tuesday at 7:00pm. You can watch it on Twitch for the first four episodes, and then those are going to be available on the VOD for Twitch and on the Geek & Sundry website. You can also watch it on a website called Pro-ject Alpha dot com. (laughter)
Brian: We're going to have two or three members of the cast on every single week. Mostly from this cast. We're also going to have celebrity guests-- previous guests from Critical Role. We're going to let them back out. We're going to let 'em back out. And we're also going to have some super fans that are going to be able to be on the show. We're going to get all dirty and nerdy. We're going to talk about the previous week's episode. We're going to give away prizes every single week. We're also going to have the near-impossible task of picking out your fanart and gifs-- I said "gifs" because "jif" sounds so mushy. It's "gif", right? Yeah, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, living language; we decide.
Brian: It's been decided and decreed, ladies and gentlemen. So here's what we need from you-- We're going to give out a bunch of Critical Role merch, we're going to give out a bunch of D&D merch, we're going to give out stuff from our friends at Wyrmwood. (cheering)
Brian: We're going to give out, it says here, a shirtless picture of Travis Willingham riding a mechanical bull.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: The photoshoot is still TBD.
Brian: Oh, I see. Yes. (singing) He's waiting for an open tanning bed. Because we get so many-- there's so many thousands of tweets every Thursday night that go out about this amazing and weird and horrible show, we are asking that if you guys want to tweet a question for us to ask the cast live on the air, we're asking that you tweet @TalksMachina, which is the official Twitter handle for our show. And use the hashtag #AskTalksMachina because that way we can track 'em, make sure we get as many of your questions as we can on the show. Send your fanart and gifs to talksmachina@gmail.com anytime between Thursday nights during the show and Tuesdays at 9:00am Pacific Time. We're trying to feature fanart and gifs from each week's episodes since we're going to be talking about those episodes on the show on Tuesdays. So send those in. That's it. We're going to see you guys this Tuesday at 7:00pm on Twitch and Pro-ject Alpha dot com. Until then, it's high noon! (laughter)
Sam: Fix your mic there, Matt.
Travis: Yes! Look at the jaw, it's so forced.
Matt: Motherfucker. Didn't get enough of that at BlizzCon this past weekend. Okay, then. (laughs) Thank you, Brian Foster.
Ashley: That guy's hot! Is he single?
Matt: He's taken, unfortunately.
Ashley: Aw.
Matt: By you? All right, so, anyway we have one more quick announcement, Liam, if you want to take over for this.
Liam: Well it's not really an announcement, I'm just a willing accomplice with one of my favorite artist buddies. Sedona Parnham has sent something she has made specifically for Sam Riegel.
Sam: Oh, me? Oh. Why?
Liam: So it was sent to me on the sly, because you're so dear. To all of us.
Sam: Is it a radio play?
Liam: So dear. So charming. And now you will be well-rested. Please accept this gift.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm so excited.
Sam: What is this? Do I read it?
Liam: No, don't read-- it's nothing to read. Just open it up and show us all what you find.
Taliesin: Oh, my-- (laughter)
Sam: It's a pillow case. It's a pillow case.
Marisha: It's size appropriate.
Sam: The chest hair, the nipples. It's adorable, guys.
Laura: He's so cute!
Sam: This is 400 count Egyptian cotton here. (laughter)
Liam: There's only one other copy of that pillowcase, and it is mine. (laughter)
Travis: Gross. Gross.
Sam: Are we going to be sleeping on the same pillows at night?
Liam: Yeah. I mean, we need a blanket as well.
All: (singing) Somewhere out there, (simultaneous) someone's saying a prayer! (simultaneous) if love will see us through!
Travis: You're in different parts of the song.
Matt: For all you Critters who are under the age of 35, you have know idea what we're singing. I'm sorry.
Travis: Go watch American Tail and Land Before Time.
Liam: So that was from Sedona who is known as @anodesu on Twitter. She's done a ton of great art for this show. She's one of my favorites; she's a buddy now.
Sam: She's my favorite now.
Matt: Well, thank you, guys. Unless you have anything else to kick forward, I think we jump back into the chaos of the City of Brass and the elemental plane of fire on tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. Sorry, you waited too long, Taliesin. So, last we left off, Vox Machina was slowly making their way toward the final confrontation with Thordak, the Cinder King, as well as the end of the Chroma Conclave, hopefully, or the end of modern Tal'Dorei as we know it. One way or the other. You found yourselves preparing Fort Daxio for some sort of a plot to draw Thordak out. In the process, you took the rest of your intrepid adventurers to the fire elemental plane in search of the final Vestige that you had referred to yourself by the androsphinx earlier in your adventure. Upon arriving here, you spoke with a number of efreet that ran the outskirts of the City of Brass. Entered, found yourselves immediately traced and followed, and discovering that the society here is, well, very different than ones that you're used to. You managed to barely escape a confrontation in an alleyway with two efreet. You escaped on the path of two seemingly recent-made allies for the time being, led into their establishment in which jewelry is crafted, and with a plot to hopefully find whoever this fire giant is that holds onto the Plate of the Dawnmartyr. Many of you allowed chains to be affixed to your neck and wrists so you could pass as slaves in a society where they're relatively normal under the efreet that run the city. Your new friends, Senokir and Uten, are to help guide you in the direction of the next part of your venture. So. Picking up where we left off. You guys have been led out into this main street, watching the giant lava fountain that pours out into this deeply carved pit in the center of the ground. You see flickers of flame that occasionally burst out between the various bits of stonework that make up the floor in the center of the streets here. Looking up into the sky, you can see the deep reddish-orange hue of the skyline and one burning hot sun in the sky that doesn't seem to move from its position, but grows slightly dimmer as the day goes on. You are all led out into the street with Senokir and Uten leading you out into the main area. Senokir turns back to the rest of you, this slight half-smile on his face. "So, we are to find our way to the first giant you requested. This was the one named Whaska. Is that correct?"
Laura: (whispering) Whaska. (louder) Mm-hmm.
Matt: "Let us find our way to the Zenith Forge where he does most of his work."
Travis: Forge?
Matt: "Zenith Forge. Now come. Follow me." And he tugs the chains with a sudden burst and pulls you along. As you begin walking, he begins to talk about how: "Whaska is one of the few giants that still maintains the privilege of freedom. There was a coup within their people a few years ago, seemingly orchestrated by some of their own. As such most of the fire giants in the city either were cast out or were placed in chains. And the few that remain, one of which you'll speak with on this day, is one of the ones that sold them out. So. I hope you have your questions ready."
Travis: Yeah, for you? Shitloads.
Matt: "Shh."
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: Don't talk to your master in public.
Travis: That was hot. (laughter)
Liam: I feel like you're working some shit out, here. (laughter)
Travis: Do we have a safety word?
Matt: You did not establish one. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, no.
Travis: (weakly) Oklahoma. (laughter)
All: (singing) Oklahoma.
Matt: You're led through a multitude of streets, led along the outside of this large place that he points out to you that he refers to as the furnace. "That is where the Charcoal Palace exists and the sultan of the entire city. We won't be going there."
Laura: The Chuckle Palace?
Sam: The Chocolate Palace.
Matt: "The Charcoal Palace. You are listening; you are not supposed to speak."
Laura: (whispers) I'm sorry.
Liam: Like charcoal.
Matt: "Charcoal Palace." The air itself here, as you're spending more time outside-- and the interior of these buildings aren't meant to detract heat or cool either. Most if not all of the denizens here are well-tempered against the heat. As you guys are being dragged along, I need all of you who do not have fire resistance to go ahead and make another constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Travis: I'm a master of a good burn. Does that give me fire resistance?
Matt: Nope! So I think that you don't have to worry about it.
Marisha: I had cast fire resistance on me.
Matt: Yes, and how long does that last?
Marisha: It lasts an hour. Has it been an hour?
Matt: It's been about an hour now, so that's past.
Marisha: I'll recast.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a reroll.
Sam: This is a saving throw, or--?
Matt: A saving throw, yes. Constitution saving throw.
Sam: Am I allowed to inspire myself on a saving throw?
Matt: Only on ability checks, sorry.
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11, okay.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right. Vex?
Laura: Oh, 15.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Seven. I burn to death.
Matt: All of you manage for the most part to resist the heat. Your sweat is starting to become more of a prevalent downpour across your face. Pike, you take a point of exhaustion.
All: Oh no!
Ashley: I'm just feeling so tired.
Matt: So you are currently at disadvantage on ability checks.
Marisha: The heat makes you lethargic.
Travis: I'm very familiar with that.
Laura: Well, it does.
Matt: Travis can work you through the exhaustion levels.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Heading past the buildings and constructs you see these spires that come into these rounded point towers all made from some colored glass, some dark greens and blacks. You begin to see there are deep, carved, and well-manufactured waterways or what would be considered waterways in other cities. Except here, the actual molten lava from the Sea of Fire pours through. So there are large bridges that lead over these constantly bubbling and churning long aqueducts that are filled with molten rock.
Travis: In the ground or raised or--?
Matt: In the ground. Similar to how you see most city aqueducts constructed, except for the Sea of Fire spills into it. Anything going over there is uncomfortable as the heat grows astronomically as you pass over each bridge and the air itself becomes more sulfurous. And you find yourselves coughing autonomically as the fumes reach your lungs. You begin to pass by--
Liam: We're walking out in public at this point, right? And there's people about? We see other beings about?
Matt: You do. You see as the sun which--and you've been here for two hours now so you have some time. It's still very busy in the city. And as you pass by, you see many efreet on their own business. Some coasting at different levels of height, some just traversing through. Occasionally you come across strange, horned devil-like entities that work, walk in clusters.
Liam: So, question, because I put on the Ring of Invisibility before we left.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: But Senokir, I think, might have chuckled when I gave my sister a wet willie. So as we're walking, and I've got the ring on, as we pass people I'm doing this and looking to see if anyone is reacting to that.
Matt: No one else reacts except for Senokir. Who looks back towards you with this-- (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, God, that face.
Laura: Oh, no, he's so weird. I can hear you moving around me.
Liam: (fart noise)
Laura: Blends in with the sulfur; I don't care.
Matt: Being led through the street you eventually see two large, lithe gray-fleshed creatures that stalk by with these large hooked tails that bend over in front. You can see barbs sticking out of parts of their body and they move in clusters of three or four.
Laura: Wait, were they walking on two feet or--?
Matt: Two feet. They're bipedal. And they're stalking through--
Sam: Three feet.
Travis: With like big-ass scorpion tails?
Matt: It resembles that. The more you push into the city, the more diverse the populace becomes. And you do see the occasional human, the occasional elf, not being subjugated, though they do usually carry some sort of a bodyguard or a handful of servants at their side as well. But you do see devils walking amongst the people here. And many, many efreet that are all walking the streets with large scimitars at their side and with a uniform, a long silk vest of a dull grey charcoal pattern. And it looks to be a pendant that hangs around their neck that constantly churns with a flame. And it's a uniform for each of these, and you get the sense as they walk around singularly or in pairs, that these probably act as the patrol, as the guard of the city.
Travis: Those that are walkin' around that don't like have a bodyguard and don't seem to be enslaved, are they still wearing that white and gold cloak-y thing that our strange bit is wearing?
Matt: No. They are very diverse in their attire.
Travis: Really?
Matt: You get the sense that at least the outfits they're wearing is their signature outfit. But you also have a hard time grasping what the cultural intricacies are of the City of Brass. Being that you're Grog.
Travis: Hey, man.
Matt: As you're passing by these various aspects-- do you have a question?
Laura: Oh, I just wanted to whisper  Vax?
Liam: (coughs)
Laura: Can you pick these locks as we're walking?
Liam: (softly) Yeah.
Laura: Do it then. Subtly.
Liam: I will stealthily pick my sister's locks.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are walking past, and at this point Senokir is talking and he mentions off to the side, "We are now passing the street of artisans and the city market. This is what we call the Pyraklum. This is where we're going to find Whaska. This is where we're going to find the Zenith Forge and hopefully the end of your journey. But we can work out the specifics later." As this is happening, I need you to make a sleight of hand roll.
Liam: Get behind Grog.
Sam: (whispers) Sleight of hand roll, boy!
Liam: Well, I'm going to Luck that sucker.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's a 20.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a lockpicking check.
Liam: Okay. Okay, that's fine as well. That's 25.
Matt: Okay. It takes you the better part of about four or five blocks to very carefully, walking with your sister, keeping in pace with her gait, making sure not to rustle the chains or anything to distract Senokir or Uten as they walk along-- and Uten is being very, you know, very careful with his watch. Not just on you, but on the city overall. It's not like they're, you know, honed in on you per se, but very observant of the atmosphere. And you get the sense that Uten definitely, as far as the partnership goes, seems to be the more paranoid of the two of them. However as time goes on you eventually (click) hear the gentle release of the lock on one of her arm manacles and then slowly the other.
Liam: As I trail backwards behind her you hear twins, motherfucker! (laughter)
Matt: As you begin to approach a large black and gray building built from heavy, heavy stones--
Marisha: Can I talk to Uten a little bit while we're walking?
Travis: Is she picking your nose?
Liam: I thought the same thing! It's a scratch, no pick!
Marisha: So, do you play tour guide often to newcomers in this town?
Matt: Uten says, "It is not often that we take newcomers under our wing like this. Usually they are either customers or, well, to be arrested shortly. So, no, this is probably the first tour we've given. Senokir seems to strangely enjoy it."
Marisha: Playing tour guide?
Matt: "Apparently!" Motions over and Senokir, other hand out, is like, "And around this way, you can see the Fenstral Spire, which is a wonderful craft fair that happens once every two weeks!" Uten goes back to you.
Laura: He's making shit up as he's walking.
Marisha: Seems he has quite a love for the City of Brass. How long have you all been residents here?
Matt: "We've been in business together for about the better part of ten years. I've only been here about 12. It was a very dangerous scavenge to begin, but at least the laws of the normal world do not apply here. I have no idea how long Senokir's been here. He keeps a lot to himself, that one, but I trust him."
Marisha: And your business mainly deals in--
Matt: "Fine jewelry. I showed you our establishment."
Marisha: Well, as you mentioned, people ending in arrest, are you bounty hunters?
Matt: "No! I must admit, our life is not as interesting as you might be expecting, and I am sorry for that. I will say, probably should not be talking so much right now."
Marisha: Sure. Go, slaves! Walk! Forward! Like you do!
Travis: Why are you talking to us like that?
Marisha: Because-- shut up, slave! And I smack Grog with the flail.
Matt: Doesn't physically hurt, but emotionally, there's a scar.
Travis: I'm wounded! I've been gashed open!
Marisha: Forward march! (whip crack)
Taliesin: To be fair, he didn't say Oklahoma.
Marisha: You never said Oklahoma.
Travis: It's dangerous to keep a race car at a red, I'm just saying, I'm a race car at a fucking red. Pulp Fiction!
Matt: As you continue pushing forward, eventually you come to that gray building with heavy gray and dark stones. It's large, square in shape, and you see an oversized chimney that bellows out constant black smoke that pours upward into infinity. There are a number of stacks like that throughout the entirety of the city, hundreds that all eventually bleed together as they all mingle and join in the atmosphere, whatever this atmosphere is consisting of. The large doors are partially open, they're about 20 feet tall and about 20 feet as wide as well. They are made from a very dark wood, but as you get close, it's just a textured stone. You see a dull light from the inside.
Sam: Where are we, Master?
Matt: "Welcome to the Zenith Forge. So, once we enter, I would have to be the one to ask all the questions, but that would be difficult for us to do. So the choice is yours. Either we try and find a careful way to funnel questions, or we put our cards on the table and you do the talking."
Marisha: Well, I can alter myself to look like you, if you can hang back.
Matt: "You already look like Uten and other compatriots. You can still speak, I just want to make sure that, well, our slaves don't talk out of turn."
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: Have you spoken with a fire giant before?
Matt: "It's been a while. Since the upset socially, I found it best to not deal with them outside of a customer-patron relationship."
Travis: So weird. Are they good conversationalists?
Matt: "They're curious."
Ashley: You seem a little bit nervous. I can't really tell because you're so strange in a wonderful way. (laughter)
Matt: "You're sweet, little one."
Ashley: Thank you.
Matt: "They're very big."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "And consider that since they kept their freedom, they're probably rather cunning."
Ashley: Bigger than him?
Matt: "You'll see."
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: As he begins to tug the chains and pull you through the doorway.
Sam: Shit. What questions are we asking?
Laura: I guess we have to ask, like, hey do you have any cool collections? Do you play cards? Have you won a lot? Stuff like that.
Marisha: Yeah. What's going to make him give us this thing anyway? Do we have anything to give him?
Laura: Well, aren't we going to try and steal it once we see it? Or are we really going to try and purchase it?
Travis: Maybe he's got beef with somebody in the city and we'll go out and jack 'em up if he'll tell us where--
Laura: Or maybe if we see that he has it then we can challenge him to a game of cards?
Marisha: Or maybe-- oh!
Sam: If we see that he has it. How do we know that he has it?
Travis: Yeah, he might not have it.
Marisha: Yeah, he might not have it.
Liam: You could also chat with him and I could walk over and take it.
Marisha: Well maybe he won't know its value.
Travis: It's a suit of armor, though.
Laura: That he can't fit into because he's huge and it's for normal people.
Marisha: You still have your Locate Item, correct?
Laura: I do! Oh yeah!
Sam: Use it. Now!
Laura: Okay! I use it.
Taliesin: Now!
Matt: You're going to stop as you're being pulled into the foyer of this building in chains, and you're going to begin to cast the spell.
Laura: Oh, do I have to stop? I can't do it as we're walking?
Matt: I mean you can do it, it's a visual thing.
Taliesin: We can hold him.
Marisha: Senokir, hold?
Taliesin: One moment!
Marisha: Senokir?
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: We're going to--
Marisha: Hang on, a little bit of preparation on our end, if you don't mind.
Matt: "All right. Then decide. I mean, if you wish to progress--"
Laura: As he's talking I start doing it. (laughter)
Matt: All right, it's really quick. And you basically have to pull out your component from the side there, it's a little twig and you snap it. And you continue the ritual. All right. You concentrate for a second as he's talking, and currently no. You do not sense it.
Laura: Okay. And that lasts for ten minutes?
Marisha: But it can point us in the right direction.
Matt: It lasts for up to ten minutes, yeah.
Travis: Was it 1000 feet?
Matt: 1000 feet.
Travis: Radius.
Laura: Senokir, how large is the forge?
Matt: "Well, here it's a few rooms. It's large enough to house Whaska and his servants to construct the crafts that they are good at."
Travis: What do they construct?
Matt: "As far as I know, arms, armor. You see, fire giants, they find their sense of self-worth in society by their craftsmanship. So it's a very important thing for some."
Travis: Right. Yeah. So, like, wheels? Or like weapons? Arms? You said arms.
Matt: "I said arms."
Travis: I have a hard time listening when you talk like that.
Matt: "Would you like me to speak slower?"
Travis: It might help, you know--
Laura: No! That's all right.
Taliesin: No. That's just fine.
Matt: "So. Are you to funnel questions, or do you wish to ask as a troupe?"
Travis: Funnel them.
Taliesin: Funnel them.
Laura: Funnel them.
Matt: "Then decide on your questions now, or covertly speak once we enter. But we cannot stay here in the open and continue to talk long."
Sam: Three questions, quick.
Travis: Yeah. Has he heard of the Dawnmartyr?
Taliesin: We're looking for a suit of armor he may have won in a card game.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Looking--
Travis: And maybe he didn't win it, but has he seen it, heard of it--
Laura: Right. Has he seen a suit of armor--
Taliesin: --that vanished during a card game?
Travis: Question two. Does he know where it may be?
Taliesin: It has great emotional value.
Travis: And question three, if he doesn't want to tell us where, is there someone that he has an errand that he need run in exchange for--
Marisha: Do we mention the Suutan bloodline or do you think that would be bad blood? Is that bad?
Travis: (singing) Hey maybe now we've got--
All: (singing) --bad blood!
Laura: I don't know. Does Senokir think that that would be bad?
Marisha: Is it a bad idea to mention the Suutan bloodline?
Matt: "I don't know." (laughter)
Marisha: I'm sorry, you just seem to know so much about this fine city.
Matt: "I know enough. But I don't know of the bloodline specifically. I've heard of it. You can certainly inquire within. That's why we're here!"
Travis: Yeah, that's three! Has he heard of them, does he know where it is and if he won't tell us, does he need an errand run, and Suutan bloodline.
Laura: Senokir, where are you from originally?
Matt: "These questions aren't pertinent at the moment."
Laura: That's true. I was just curious; you're so interesting.
Matt: "Thank you. Now, shall we?"
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Matt: Gives a tug on the chain, leads you guys inside.
Marisha: Sorry, guys.
Matt: The interior is very dimly lit. Thankfully, most of you have some form of darkvision. This is an open, heavy hall where, in the distance, you can see four different forges that are burning simultaneously. They are being fed by a small trail of the exterior sea of lava that is being funneled into the back corner. Within, you can see there is a large anvil in the center of the room as well as a number of smaller anvils off to the side. It appears to be four human-sized figures-- you can make out the shadow of them in the darkness. They appear to be human or human-like and they're in the process of moving things behind. They have troughs of water so they can quench the heated weapons. There at the center anvil, you see a large, hulking figure standing. Dark black leather apron across the torso, currently holding with heavy tongs this large, superheated piece of metal. Red sparks fly and illuminate the room with one hit. The second splash of light, as you see this piece of metal being slowly rotated from side to side. It's beaten into a heavier shape, the dark metal having a bladed edge to it, the actual length of it probably twice the size of Grog.
Liam: What's the guesstimate on this fella's height?
Matt: I'd say in the neighborhood of 20 feet. 16 to 20 feet from this vantage point.
Laura: I guess he's the size of the zombie giants we fought.
Marisha: In Whitestone.
Matt: (hammering) "So? Go."
Marisha: You want me to talk first? Yeah, no, okay.
Matt: "Well, you're the one who wants to ask questions."
Marisha: Yeah. I got this.
Travis: Don't fuck it up.
Laura: Don't fuck it up.
Marisha: Thanks, guys.
Sam: I'm hanging back behind Percy here.
Marisha: Does this guy have a name, Senokir?
Laura: Whaska.
Marisha: Right. Sorry. Good day, fair Whaska. Strong Whaska.
Matt: The last hit strikes the blade before the hammer pulls back. The currently hunched and focused fire giant suddenly pulls back, and is standing. You see the glowing iron metal off the side, gently gliding across the ground and scraping the stone before it comes to rest at the side. The giant stands at its full height. You can see the heavily red bearded chin of itself gently singed on the edges. The dark gray ash-like skin of the face looks down at you, the eyes glowing with piercing red dots through the shadow. "Yes?"
Marisha: Hi. I am Keyleth of the Ashari druids. Sorry. I was curious if I could ask you a few questions and just take a moment of your time, which I'm sure is very valuable.
Matt: The metal blade lifts and smacks the ground with a resounding (ting) sound that rings. All the other individuals working at the forges stop their work and look up.
Marisha: We promise we can make it worth your time.
Matt: The giant looks back. Does this with his hand, you hear the wind resistance across his massive arm, and all the rest of the servants gather their materials and begin to finish what they're doing quickly and set them aside. As they begin to go about finishing up their business, Whaska takes the large, unfinished metal blade and sets it onto the anvil, puts the tongs down with this heavy, echoing clack in this large chamber. The apron gets removed and tossed over the rest of the materials and tools and walks up (slow, heavy footsteps) and stands there looking straight down at all of you, towering over your group, backlit from the glow of the red forge hue behind him. "You may ask your questions."
Marisha: We are in search of a piece of armor, something that holds great weight and many legends behind it.
Matt: "Then I have probably made it." (chuckles)
Marisha: Maybe you have. It is called the Plate of the Dawnmartyr. Are you familiar with this?
Matt: His eyes squint a bit. "I am not familiar with this. I did not make this armor you ask."
Marisha: I don't believe it is from this realm, but it resides here. It was won by a fire giant, as yourself, in a game of cards.
Matt: "A game of cards?"
Marisha: Or some call them card games. (sighs and laughter)
Matt: "I may know who you would actually be seeking."
Marisha: Really? That would be phenomenal information.
Matt: "This information that would lead you to this powerful, legendary, sought-after armor you seek-- is it worth a lot to you?"
Marisha: Well look, you shouldn't compare it to you or the things you've made, right? I'm sure--
Matt: He crosses his arms. You hear the clatter of the metal bracers he has on cling against each other as his muscles tense.
Marisha: Yes, it's very valuable for us to find it! Yes.
Matt: "Then--" He begins to walk over to the side (footsteps) grabs something in the shadow and you hear this scraping sound (creak) of heavy wood being dragged across stone as he lifts up and slams in front of you a table. A little bit larger height than you, you can look just above it, but it's a relatively large table. (boom) "Then make your offer."
Marisha: I'm assuming you don't want me to--
Travis: (coughs) Jewels.
Marisha: Right. (quietly) Do we still have all those jewels?
Laura: Ask Senokir what he means.
Marisha: I look at Whaska and I say  Let me confer with my other masters. Hey, Senokir, what does he want? What do you think is fair here?
Matt: "Well, usually as a craftsman, they want something of their craft, perhaps."
Marisha: Craft? They want something-- okay.
Matt: "Or you could always ask."
Marisha: Sure. Yeah. I'll ask. Whaska!
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: In speaking with my fellow masters, we want to make sure we give you something that is fair and desired. Is there anything that you might have on your wish list?
Matt: He reaches forwards and rummages through a small pouch that's affixed to the side of his belt. When I say a small pouch, small by his comparison, the pouch is about the size of you, Keyleth, and as his fingers dig around inside you hear the clanging of heavy metal and various other objects slamming into each other. As he pulls out some sort of strange, small cylinder, he lifts it to his eye and peers through it.
Marisha: Oh, he's looking to see what we got!
Matt: Scans through.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: "For servants you all walk with many enchanted, powerful, and desirable affixions to yourselves."
Marisha: You are a very intelligent and observant man.
Matt: Puts away the cylinder into the pouch.
Marisha: Giant, fire, respected fire giant.
Matt: "Offer me some of what you could give up. And should it be worth the information you seek, it will be yours."
Marisha: Let me once again confer with my masters and enchanted servants. Okay, guys, what have we got?
Taliesin: I've got a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Laura: Don't you have a lot of fucking weapons in your Bag of Holding?
Travis: They're just normal weapons. There's a Greatsword of Frenzy, but--
Laura: That's not bad. Greatsword of Frenzy!
Marisha: Yeah, Greatsword of Frenzy, yeah. Whatever. And you said, a ring?
Taliesin: I've got a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Travis: Oh! My war mask! My war helmet.
Marisha: It's not magical, though.
Sam: You built that thing!
Laura: Oh, that's right, the helmet.
Travis: It's crafted, though. It's like--
Sam: But it's so ugly.
Laura: Yeah, but it's hideous. And they said they didn't do it very well.
Taliesin: We did okay.
Travis: It's inscripted. It's got my title on the inside.
Marisha: I've got my magic choker.
Sam: That won't even fit his thumb!
Taliesin: I would put it on Pinterest. Maybe we could tell him it's a thimble. We could tell him it's a handcrafted thimble.
Liam: How high up is that side?
Matt: It's about eight feet up.
Travis: Don't fucking-- don't even.
Liam: All right, that's pretty tall, that's pretty high.
Matt: Yeah, you'd have to leap for that, man. You're not pickpocketing a giant without some high rolls. Mind you, you can certainly try. I would love for you to try.
Travis: Got to feed those forges with something!
Marisha: Okay. I have a Ring of Protection +1 that no one's been using because it's just a Ring of Protection +1. Which is good, by the way.
Taliesin: And I have the Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Liam: I have two Vestiges.
Laura: Do you want to try this Greatsword of Frenzy?
Marisha: Yeah, let's do the Greatsword.
Travis: What about the Alchemy Jug?
Taliesin: No!
Liam: No way!
Travis: Which we have used-- what?
Laura: Doesn't matter, it's too cool! You make mayonnaise out of that all the time!
Marisha: And I have my +1 magic necklace.
Taliesin: Are you using that?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You hear the heavy foot taps of an impatient--
Marisha: Okay, all right. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take the Greatsword and the Ring of Lightning Resistance and put it on the table.
Matt: Can someone run that to me real fast, if you don't mind?
Sam: Coming!
Taliesin: (hums "Yakety Sax")
Marisha: I'm glad we didn't sell any of this stuff over the course of time.
Matt: So you take the big Greatsword and (crash) put it on there, and take the ring, place it up there with it. Both of his large, meaty fire giant hands grasp the side of the table as he leans down and looks them over very intently. Takes the blade, holds it in his hands. "This is a very good start."
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Well, lucky you! I also happen to have this awesome Magic Choker +1.
Travis: Choker? Did you offer the fire giant a fucking choker?
Taliesin: He can wear it as a pinkie ring.
Marisha: I also offered him a tiny ring. He's going to use it.
Taliesin: It's going to be like a little eyebrow piercing.
Matt: As you place it there, he glances at it for a second. The little, burning pupils of the giant look up towards you. "It was a strong start. Not a very strong follow up." As he leans back up, he says--
Marisha: Wait! That's a two-for-one deal, because it also comes with this Ring of Protection. You just hadn't let me get that far yet.
Travis: Arms, arms!
Laura: He doesn't want jewelry, he wants arms!
Marisha: Oh, he wants arms, right. It's a Ring of Protection. That's cool.
Laura: Yeah, but it's not weapons.
Matt: He seems unmoved by the presentation of the ring. He says, "You are to make one more offer. If you do not, I will tell the Illuminated of the dubious outsiders masquerading as servants. Slaves sent to undermine the rule of the The Grand Sultan of the Efreet, The Lord of the Flame, The Potentate Incandescent, The Tempering and Eternal Flame of Truth, The Most Puissant of Hunters, Marshall of the Order of the Fiery Heart, The Smoldering Dictator, The Crimson Firebrand Marrake al-Sidaan al-Hariq ben Lazan."
Travis: God bless you.
Matt: "So. What is your final offer?"
Marisha: Was that one man's resume?
Travis: Vax, give him all of your Vestiges! (laughter)
Marisha: What if we give him some of the dragon scales?
Travis: What about the black sapphire?
Laura: I mean, we do have dragon scales. We do have a fuck-ton of dragon scales.
Sam: But he wants arms!
Marisha: Hang on! Whaska! A great craftsman such as yourself deserves only the finest of materials. How about some (whispers) dragon scales? Dragonhide? White dragon, what kind of dragonhide? White dragonhide.
Matt: One large hard raises up, and begins to tug at the edge of his beard.
Marisha: A lot of white dragonhide. I think we even have a fair amount.
Travis: Leave it.
Laura: Just let it go.
Matt: "Make your offer."
Laura: Get it out of the bag of holding.
Matt: His finger taps the edge of the table.
Sam: Put it on the table, people.
Laura: Give him, like, 40 pounds of white dragonhide.
Marisha: Yeah, he needs a lot. He's gonna have a big loincloth. A really big loincloth.
Taliesin: That's going to be weird.
Travis: 40 pounds of white dragonhide.
Laura: Right? Can we do it like that?
Matt: Yeah. You go ahead and unveil and put 40 pounds of white dragonhide--
Marisha: I want to make sure it's like, "One, two, three, four, five--" Five minutes later, "37--"
Laura: But it's better if it's one big piece, as opposed to a bunch of tiny little pieces.
Matt: You manage to pull all of the hide out. With flourish. As you finish, Whaska's mouth turns into this wide grin, as his arms go out (thump) scoop it all to his end of the table. "Your respect will be remembered." He takes the handfuls of it, and the sword, puts the rings into the pouch, takes the sword and jams it into his belt, takes the hide, and walks over to the side and opens this large chest. Throws everything into the side of it. Closes it. And begins to walk over. As he walks away from it you hear this heavy metal click when he's about 15, 20 feet from the chest. He steps to the table. "Now--" He then rests his elbows on the table, folding his hands under his chin, leaning forward towards you, and looks over the rest of the troupe. "There are two other fire giants here. One is Sugan. Sugan, well, was the brains behind our positions. I have this foundry and this forge because Sugan led us against our people. He currently enslaved most of our kin, with my help, and with the help of Juuraiel, and her late husband, Guras. Sugan, he currently resides within the foundry itself, as a respected chain lord to the rest of his kind. Do not speak to Sugan. You seek Juuraiel. Juuraiel runs a powerful slag mine in the pits. Her home is outside the Shrine to Surtr, called the Smoking Hammer Shrine. Look for the spiraling tower of black iron and copper. If there is any problems--" And he reaches back, and pulls forward a small, square, metal icon. And he flicks it over towards you. It looks like a small piece of copper in his thumb. But as he flicks it in your direction, you reach out instinctively to grab it, Keyleth, and then realize, "Oh, shit!" And you have to back out of the way as it (loud thud). Roughly the size of a manhole cover.
Marisha: It's a ring?
Matt: It's a large piece of square metal. You look at it and it has a series of runes that you recognize as being Giant imprinted into the metal. "This will grant you respect and conversation with Juuraiel. Should she show any resistance, just tell her I gave it to you."
Marisha: Thank you. I go over and I start trying to (grunts) pick it up.
Matt: Make a strength check. (laughter)
Travis: Use your legs. Bend the knees.
Taliesin: Oh, no!
Liam: Pull a hammie?
Marisha: Eight total.
Matt: You can get it a few inches off the ground--
Marisha: Or just a check, right? Just a straight check?
Matt: Yeah, just with your modifier.
Marisha: Okay, then five.
Matt: You get it a few inches off the ground before it (crashing sound) hits the ground with a resounding clang.
Marisha: (hisses in pain)
Matt: Almost got your finger, but you're fine.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Do you want me to?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: C'mon, Beast Mode!
Laura: You're so strong, Pike.
Ashley: I'll give it a try.
Sam: C'mon, Pike! Lift that thing!
Laura: Get it!
Ashley: Oh, definitely not. Just doesn't even move. That's a seven.
Matt: Between the two of you, given about five minutes, you guys could eventually carry it.
Marisha: You wouldn't happen to have a wallet version, would you? Don't worry about it!
Taliesin: Can we put it in the Bag of Holding?
Matt: Grabs the table and moves it back to the space he got it. (thunderous claps) "Our business is done. Good luck. And should you find yourself in any trouble, you never heard my name." Turns back to the anvil, slowly puts on the apron, and goes right back to work. (metal ringing) Holds the metal over into the large furnace to the side to let it glow to a brighter orange, to white at the tip, and begins hammering once more. As you guys gather the rest of your strength to pull that along with you.
Laura: Sexiest fire giant I ever did see.
Liam: Who was that?
Matt: There is this awkward pause. Whaska stops and looks over. (laughter)
Travis: She's touched. Just don't worry about her.
Marisha: Oh, Whaska! Is it okay if I ask one last question?
Matt: "Depends on the question. What do you ask?"
Marisha: How do fire giants feel about the name, the Suutan-- Oh, wait. I already asked him that. Never mind. You know what, been a huge help. (laughter)
Travis: You're not going to fist-bump, or anything?
Matt: (metal ringing) Goes right back to hammering.
Sam: Have you heard of the Plate of the Dawnmartyr?
Marisha: Is it too late to roll an insight check to make sure he was telling us the whole story?
Matt: You could roll one now to gain his current composure while he's hammering the large sword.
Marisha: That's pretty good. 25.
Matt: He seems focused on his work and cares less about your presence now than he did when you entered.
Travis: How heavy is that thing?
Marisha: You know, it's more cumbersome? It's awkward.
Sam: Doesn't have handles.
Marisha: It's very wide. I can't really--
Sam: Like picking up a box.
Marisha: Yes. But it's not that heavy.
Travis: You guys are doing a great job with that, really.
Marisha: Thank you.
Taliesin: It's like a piece of pre-packaged Ikea furniture.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: How is it they didn't design this to fit into a car.
Matt: As Keyleth and Pike carry it along at an angle because of height difference.
Ashley: Got to take a second to switch hands.
Matt: Wait, wait, oh oh oh!
Marisha: You walk backwards.
Taliesin: We bought the new bed frame. It's called the "Nupe."
Travis: No you go first, you go first.
Ashley: I'll go backwards, I'll go backwards.
Travis: Turn it over!
Marisha: Are you okay going down the stairs? Okay, okay.
Ashley: Okay. (clanging sound effects)
Liam: As we leave, I give the saddest puppy stare to that wallet on the side of his belt and wish upon a star. And then I leave.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way out into the main thoroughfare. Senokir turns back. "Very well. I know where this shrine is, so follow me."
Laura: (imitates Senokir) Great. We will.
Ashley: (imitates Senokir) Great.
Travis: (whispers) Weird.
Matt: "Are you mocking me?"
Laura: What? What are you talking about?
Matt: "Right. Continue, please." Pulls the chains a little bit.
Travis: (choking noise)
Matt: An extended period of time to make it towards where the mines and the pits are for the next hour or so, walking through the streets. As you're heading in this northward direction, you pass by a series of intersections where a lot of these lava rivers merge and splinter off. You can see there are individuals that are taking elements of it and carrying off large metallic buckets. You also notice in the distance one very terrifying-looking structure. All the rest have this beautiful, grandiose design to them. There is one that looks like it is made of curved obsidian spikes, like a series of giant, clawed hands climbing up over themselves. It forms a bastion in the center of the city. This is on the outskirts of the furnace that you walked past or saw in the distance when you first left Senokir's establishment. Pressing beyond that, you notice that there is a heavy number of nasty-looking devilish entities that seem to be running patrol around the outside of that building. You get the essence that there's a heavy devil presence in the City of Brass. Devils of multiple kinds, you gather. Many you've never seen before. But they seem to be gathering around and have that same terrifying essence to them. You see some that are humanoid, but covered in long chains with hooks at the end, dragging on the ground behind them. You see some that are these nasty little impish looking creatures that leap from section to section and usually travel in packs. But they all have business; they carry small satchels at their side. They mingle with the rest of the efreet and the other denizens of the city unmolested, unbothered, unprovoked.
Liam: I wave at a couple. Quietly.
Matt: From a distance, you're not getting too close. No one seems to pay mind.
Laura: Senokir, what is that place?
Matt: "That is the embassy. We shouldn't go by there."
Travis: Why? What's in the embassy?
Matt: "Well, that's where the ambassadors to the Nine Hells reside."
Travis: Right. Nine. That's a lot.
Marisha: Is it like a cityscape?
Sam: We have diplomatic immunity.
Travis: Senokir, did that exchange go about the way you thought it would?
Matt: "Sure." (laughter)
Travis: Good.
Liam: This guy likes to party.
Matt: As you continue, eventually you come upon the outside of this beautiful temple that is made of hundreds of heavy, dark iron and metal hammers that are all molded together in this mish-mash that forms this giant archway. As you walk past it, Senokir pipes up again, "And that is the Smoking Hammer Shrine that was spoken of. Which means--" And he points over to the right. There you can see-- it resembles a home that is conical in its advancement. It's thick at the base, and it spirals upward, made of black metallic substance. Rough around the edges, like it's been pushed together, similar to the shrine you saw. But it's this spiral that continues upward. This very thick spiral that quickly tapers off into a point. You see there are levels to it, and there appear to be openings and windows. This is an abode of some kind. A very massive abode, and to a certain extent one of the more impressive buildings you've seen in this immediate vicinity.
Laura: Big enough for a giant to live in?
Matt: Easily. As you get to the front of the building, there are no windows that lead to the bottom floor. There is one very heavy door that is a half-circle. You're not sure how, where, or from which direction it opens, but it is this big, round, metal slab that stands there at the front. You do see a brass knob in the center of it, that is roughly about eye-height to you, Grog. And that's the extent of it. As you approach, Senokir turns around, "So I believe we've found our way to the home of Juuraiel, as you acquired the information about. Your turn."
Marisha: Yes, we know. Sorry.
Matt: "So? What is your intent here?"
Sam: Well, gang. I don't feel like we should say the name of the thing that we want, in case she doesn't know what it is?
Laura: Maybe describe it? I feel like the more we make it seem like it's valuable to us, the more they're going to ask in return. So maybe make it seem less valuable?
Liam: She won it in a card game and hung it on the wall as a decoration.
Laura: She could think it's a fucking trinket. It could be like nothing. It could be like a candlestick.
Travis: Do I know if giants have any natural enemies that they hate?
Matt: Other giants. Well, they have, depending on the type of giant, many natural enemies, usually that exist within the topography they're used to. You only really know about stone giants in the Cliffkeep. And maybe hill giants. There is no specific, sworn, vengeful enemies to the stone giants that you're aware of.
Travis: Did he say that Sugan, being the brains of the two, enslaved other giants?
Matt: You got the essence that there was a large coup. There was a larger free citizenship of fire giants that existed within the city. Through some circumstance, these three currently remaining giants sold the rest of their kind within the city into slavery or had them ousted. The three that did so elevated their social status and became more powerful figures within the City of Brass.
Travis: I think you might have to play him in a game of cards.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Wait, Keyleth will?
Marisha: No. I will not.
Laura: Scanlan will.
Marisha: That's a Scanlan or a Percy thing.
Sam: Me?!
Travis: (singing) You're a hustler, baby!
Liam: I don't want to do anything. I want you to win this in a game of cards. But I'll be a plan B. They're not going to see me.
Taliesin: If you have the magic still, we could find out precisely where the armor is.
Marisha: That's true. That spell lasts for ten minutes, the Locate Item spell.
Laura: So I'd have to cast it again. I only have one more level two spell because I don't have very many spells.
Marisha: I can cast it, because I shouldn't speak here.
Travis: You did so good, though.
Marisha: Thanks!
Travis: Oh, fair fire giant! Fair? Hammering at an anvil. 20 feet tall. Oh, fair, gentle fire giant!
Marisha: Oh, giant. My fair giant.
Travis: Do we do the spell when we get up there, or now?
Laura: Do it now, because it's 1,000 feet.
Marisha: I'll cast Locate Item.
Matt: All right. As you go and pull up your component, you snap a twig.
Marisha: No one's around and going to maim me, right?
Matt: You take a moment to wait until there's no immediate approaching individuals that might see it. As far as spells go, it still requires a lot of physical action, but you can keep it condensed. As soon as you finish, you feel the immediate glowing beacon of your intent within that structure.
Marisha: It's here.
Taliesin: Is it on the ground floor? Or does it feel like it's above us?
Matt: It appears to be maybe 25 feet up from where you currently are at an angle, on the inside of the building.
Marisha: It's going to be right on the inside, hanging on the wall.
Travis: Can't Vax do some Spider-Man shit and check out the windows? He's all invisible.
Sam: It's risky.
Travis: Why? If he falls, nobody will see it. We'll just hear it.
Liam: Yeah! And then you pretend like you tripped!
Marisha: Are there really high windows?
Matt: There are no windows on the bottom floor. On the second floor up, there are, yes. Which is about 40 feet up.
Laura: No, it's definitely on the first floor.
Marisha: They're 20 feet high, so, high up.
Laura: That's what it is. It's on the first floor, up high.
Liam: So let me go.
Sam: Yeah, dude! This is what you do!
Laura: He just said there were windows on the second floor.
Liam: I'm already climbing. Would this be acrobatics?
Matt: For climbing, this would be athletics.
Liam: Athletics. Dang it, Bobby. That's a 16.
Matt: Dang it, Bobby! All right. Thanks to the rough construction of this building, it isn't too difficult to find handholds, though there are certain moments where you have to leap and catch to get there. It takes you probably the better part of 15 minutes to eventually get up to that area. The first opening you see, even though it's a window, is an oval porthole in the side of that structure. As you glance inside, getting your arm up in there, you are inside a servants' quarters, but even the servants' quarters are very large. It's simple. You see two beds in there, but the beds are 30 feet long, 20 feet wide with various hides and furs that have been patched together in this quilt-like fashion, but haphazard in their stitching. Other than that, it's not very pretty.
Liam: I think there might be a lot of giants potentially in here at any one time.
Matt: You see two very large metallic pissing pots that currently reside at the edge of each bed.
Laura: Eww, you could take a swim in it! (disgusted noises)
Matt: Were you so inclined, you definitely could.
Liam: But nobody in here now?
Matt: Nobody in here now, no.
Liam: Are there any other windows along from where I am? I know they would be a ways off.
Matt: It's a ways off to the next one, but you could try to climb over if you'd like to.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: I need you to make another athletics check for me.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: You slowly shimmy over. While the rest of you guys are waiting, as you're sitting there, you can't see what's happening; you occasionally see a pebble (thunk) and a bit of dust fall. Senokir's like, "Well, how about we walk around for a moment, so we aren't looking weirdly in public doing nothing."
Sam: You're right. If you think we're looking weird, we should trust that.
Matt: "Well said." Tugs the chain, and you guys begin to be dragged in a heavy circle around the nearby street.
Marisha: I radio over the earpiece to Vax and say, hey, we're going to walk the block.
Liam: Yeah cool, I'm just hanging.
Matt: All right. You leap over, grasping, lose your hand for a second, and get back up there. The soreness is starting to kick in; you're not used to this much physical activity of this type of strength, and it's kicking your ass.
Liam: So fast, but so weak.
Matt: So fast, but so weak. It's already hot here, and the beads of sweat are pouring down your face at this point.
Liam: I have little indoor fans, like I'm a baseball mascot.
Matt: Yeah, basically. Thankfully you have fire resistance so you don't have to worry about the heat getting too much on you. It's more of the physical exertion that's getting you. You do eventually pull over to the next window. As you get to it, you pull up into the lip, and as you reach out to grab, your hand hits something. You look up, and you see that this particular opening has an imperfect, thick glass window or at least a glass surface that is currently blocking the entrance. This is actually a window that is closed.
Liam: Is it transparent?
Matt: Somewhat transparent, yes.
Liam: So it's just cloudy?
Matt: It's somewhat opaque, because of the nature of its creation it wasn't perfect glass. It's about that thick, and the entire oval is about six feet high, and about four feet wide.
Liam: Can I check for traps?
Matt: Sure, go for it. Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay, oh good, 27.
Matt: All right. This window is trapped. As you glance around, you can see that it is. It is a window that has a slot on the side. The glass is wider than the window in a slot that's pulled up through chains that you gather would probably lift it from the inside, like a winch that would pull it open or closed. However, on the bottom, you can see along the edge. On the very bottom edge, you can see some sort of slight bit of material that doesn't match both the glass or the blackened iron structure of this building. It's a silver plate that rests where the glass sits down. As soon as it would move, a weight would shift, and something would happen.
Liam: Looking at it, do I think I could disarm it from this side? Or is it something from the inside of the room?
Matt: It would need to be something from the inside. Even if you were to attempt to do it from the inside, you would have to be at the base of the structure. From this side, it's too big for you to do anything, really.
Liam: Okay, and I can't see shit.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Which gives you a total of?
Liam: Oh, perception? A total of 32.
Matt: All right. As you peer in and close your eye on the inside, you can see another bedroom similar to the one over there that you just passed by. But this one is exorbitant in its decor. You see beautiful deep red tapestries along each wall that are the full length of it. The bed itself is a canopy bed that is 40 feet tall with heavy dark silks and fabrics that dangle from it. This is a gaudy bedroom for some sort of a giant.
Liam: Any armor on the walls?
Matt: No armor visible from this perspective, no. You do see small pieces of art. There are other metallic trinkets that are built into the wall. But nothing that resembles armor, unfortunately.
Liam: Well, my arms are starting to do this thing so I'm going to start going down.
Taliesin: There's a giant velvet Elvis.
Matt: You eventually make your way down and wait for the rest of your group to return. You guys had a nice awkward walk being led quietly through the street and back around.
Travis: Can we be the monks from Monty Python?
Taliesin: Pie Iesu Domine. Dona Eis Requiem.
Matt: As you guys begin chanting to yourselves, Senokir goes, "Actually... sure, go ahead," and keeps pulling you along as you guys chant in whatever phrases you decide upon. You come back around and you see the rest of them arriving at the door, although they cannot see you. Senokir does glance over in your direction. "Ah, it appears that our walk was just enough time."
Laura: Oh shit, you can see him?
Matt: "I have my ways, yes."
Ashley: What kind of ways?
Matt: "Your brother is a fun character."
Laura: You mean a dick?
Matt: "From your standards, yes. Being from where I'm standing, I find it hilarious." (clipped laughter)
Travis: Oh god, his laugh's the worst.
Matt: "Now shall we?"
Ashley: Let's?
Sam: We don't even know how this door works. What if it's like a DeLorean and flips up or something?
Laura: Do you know how to open this door?
Ashley: Do we just knock?
Matt: "Well, let's try. I have not been here." Just knocks on it. It barely makes a noise.
Travis: Sounds like bubbles popping.
Matt: It's like the knuckle against the stonework; it's making this dull, awful sound. Nothing.
Travis: Should I knock? Do you want me to knock, or do you just want me to knock?
Sam: Knock.
Taliesin: Knock.
Marisha: Knock.
Travis: Which one was that, I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: The big one.
Travis: Okay. Can I lean back and slug the door using siege?
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll an attack. No weapon bonus though, just your strength.
Travis: Yeah, so that's a 15.
Matt: Okay. So that's your strength bonus and your proficiency modifier?
Travis: Not my proficiency modifier.
Matt: So that would be 20. You reach back (heavy impact) and you watch as his hand hits the section where the engraved metal door is, dents inward, and leaves this big heavy dent in the front and the impact is like a dull thunderous clap of lightning. You hear it echo on the inside.
Ashley: It's engraved with something?
Matt: There was some very faint texture or pattern to it. Yeah, a design that was built into it.
Travis: Knuckles. By the way, can I see that manhole cover you guys have been carrying around this whole time?
Marisha: Yeah, sure.
Travis: It's got Giant runes on it. Runes of Giant.
Marisha: Help me. Hey, Pike, can you help prop it up on that side?
Travis: Do I recognize any of these runes?
Matt: You recognize it's Giant. You cannot read.
Travis: Yep. This is very important script. It says that you must carry this at all times, and if you let it go prematurely you will die.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: I don't think he's telling the truth.
Taliesin: Better safe than sorry, though.
Matt: Grog, make a deception check.
Ashley: We'll hold it.
Travis: Natural 20!
Marisha: What! Bullshit! Goddamn it.
Matt: Which is a grand total of?
Travis: It's a grand total of 21.
Matt: Keyleth, Pike, I need you guys to both roll insight checks.
Taliesin: This is the first time that actual Travis has really leaked into Grog.
Laura: Yeah, no shit.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: The stars are aligning.
Ashley: That's a 14.
Matt: Okay. Suddenly, as Grog says this, you realize, him being of giant kin and the seriousness in his eyes, and the stark intensity in the way he describes this: If you drop this, something terrible is going to happen!
Marisha: Pike, I need to readjust my grip! Here, I want to put it on my back.
Ashley: Grog, maybe you should hold it then because we're not as strong as you.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't want to drop it. Will it kill all of us? Is it a blast radius thing?
Travis: The fable goes on to say that if you hand it to one of your friends, you will shit everywhere. Immediate bowel loss. Green apple splatters all over your feet, just awful.
Ashley: That doesn't sound true.
Travis: The giant tales are to be respected.
Matt: You probably don't believe the second half, but you do believe the first half.
Travis: It is a fable.
Sam: So it could be metaphor.
Ashley: Safe than sorry, we'll just hold it.
Matt: It's at this point you hear this (thunk) and you hear this heavy, low (clicking) as the sound of chains being tightened and winding forward are followed by the large doorway rising up.
Laura: Oh, it lifts!
Liam: Does it get stuck with the dent?
Matt: You watch as it rises, and there is a small carved slit where the knob itself rises up and fits as the door entirely lifts into the structure leaving the front walkway open and there standing, you see with arms off to the side apparently finishing the rotation of this chain--
Sam: A wench.
Matt: No, you see two male fire giants, fully armored with large blocky black metal swords staring down at you from each side.
Marisha: What are they wearing?
Matt: They are both wearing dark plated scale mail, and both of them have these black bands of metal across their neck that have a small, pulsing red gem in the center.
Sam: But Matthew, are they fuckable, though? Those guards? Would you do them?
Matt: Scanlan, that's up to you, man. You've done some freaky shit in your time. Although in this circumstance you'd be the gerbil.
Sam: I'm the gerbil.
Marisha: Lemmiwinks!
Matt: You are Lemmiwinks in this. If you want to gain some experience, that's up to you.
Taliesin: And really interesting fanart.
Matt: Anyway. They both stand there expectantly, saying nothing.
Travis: Is this where we let the master do the talking?
Marisha: We're here to speak with Juuraiel.
Matt: There's a small pause. You hear a voice echo from further back in the room, though you see no source for it, "What is your business with this Juuraiel?"
Marisha: We have a deal we'd like to make. We have a token of our-- We want to play cards?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Oh Jesus.
Travis: Why are you talking? Persuasion check?
Marisha: I'm the only one not in chains! I'm the only one who can! It's bullshit!
Laura: You could have made any of us look like not--
Marisha: No, I can't. It's only a self spell or else I would've. Oh, that's not too bad. Persuasion? 18.
Matt: There's a pause and you hear a few heavy footfalls, getting louder as they go. Emerging from around the side, you see now a tall, broad-shouldered, female fire giant with a very strong square jaw. Her hair is pulled into this long red braid that dangles past her lower back and you can see it drifting behind her with this large metal ring that it's braided into at the bottom. She's not wearing any armor at the moment, just wearing casual clothes, and these clothes are lined with gold and platinum. This is a very expensive ware that she has on, as well as rings that encrust both of her hands. As she steps forward and looks out towards you. "So you want to play cards and make a deal you say?"
Marisha: I lift with Pike the big manhole cover.
Matt: She reaches over and grabs it, from both of you.
Travis: The fables were a lie!
Ashley: We're safe.
Matt: She glances over it, and puts it over in her hands. "So, you have spoken with Whaska?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Okay, I will hear what you have to say. Let's hear your deal. Let them in!" She turns around and walks across to the end of the room, as the two giants step to the side, removing their crossed swords from the entryway that scrape across the stone. And you may enter the premises.
Laura: I want to look around immediately, all the walls.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 29.
Matt: As you guys walk in this central chamber, the foyer, if you will, it's beautiful. The use of autumn colors mixed with various golds and metallics to create this archway that is a band of brass, a band of gold, a band of platinum, a band of brass, and repeats itself onward. It has this tunnel-like feel, and within each of these walls, there are a number of weapons. Large, giant-sized weapons that are bolted into the wall and have beautiful runes inscribed within, and wooden plaques on the bottom that contain language that only you recognize, but can't read. There are shelves that contain large books that are locked up behind glass and chains roped across it. This is a collection. This is like a small personal museum. To your size, it is huge. To Juuraiel's size, it's like a nice den.
Liam: Are there any pieces of armor with a sun on it?
Matt: As you guys continue inward, there is a large desk on the opposite side, as well as a few comfortable chairs off to the sides and a staircase that spirals upward to a second floor. There are very bright red burning torches that the flame itself would be a heavy bonfire by comparison to any of you. It burns and licks the edge of the interior without any damage done to the beautiful construct of the foyer. This desk at the end, which she has now walked around and sat on the opposite side, is made up of beautiful dark green wood and has gold leaf designs all throughout the legs. Everything here speaks of projected affluence. Juuraiel, this fire giant you have come across, makes a statement with her wealth, with everything she presents. The other two giants that you saw at the entryway, who had the binding on their necks, close the door behind them, place their weapons up leaning against the wall, and both lumber behind you as you walk in, slowly keeping watch as you progress inward. Juuraiel raises her finger and says, "Could you please bring a means of my guests to speak eye to eye?" And the two giants diverge slightly, both grab two of the chairs and scoot them in, up to the edge of the desk. These chairs are about head height to both of you at the resting point, so you'll have to climb up into them, and then probably get to be up at the desk level.
Liam: The cards are going to be like giant novelty cards.
Travis: Can I ask a question? In my bag, I have two vials of fox's cunning. Is that a potion?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I drink one?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Travis: It's so hot outside! I'm so thirsty! I would like just a sip. I had it made because I'm an idiot. Just in case the sewer plate says "eat these and enjoy" or something.
Laura: Yeah. She already took it, though. I'm looking at the walls at around 20 to 25 feet. Do I see it, up high on the ceiling? Because I've been looking.
Matt: As you guys get to the desk itself, on the back wall behind the desk, above her shoulder, you see a beautiful ruby shield that refracts the light in the room. It's roughly, from head to toe, Grog's size. It's pointed at the bottom and rises up almost like it's designed to look like a flame. It has this uneven, flickering, frozen in time of the construct of the top of the shield. On the other side of her other shoulder, you see, much smaller in size, but a beautiful set of-- make sure I get the description right on this-- beautiful brass armor with priceless cut rubies all across the rest of the silver inlay of the armor itself.
Laura: You're going to be blinging out; we got to get it!
Liam: How many feet up the wall?
Matt: It is about 25 to 30 feet up the wall. It's up where it's resting about the top height of the shield, so there's an even point and it's about five feet down from the ceiling.
Laura: Should we let just Keyleth and Senokir up on the chairs?
Sam: I would like a seat at the table, if that's all right?
Marisha: Let me get us out of this. Juuraiel? Do you mind if we speak candidly and dispose of our guises that led us here?
Matt: "But of course. You've already presented trust from one of my allies. You are safe within here."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on the whole allies thing?
Matt: You may.
Laura: I was having difficulty choosing. 19?
Travis: I told you the fables were true!
Sam: Oh yeah, you know, like Loot Crate and stuff.
Taliesin: Loot Crate. Magical Loot Crate.
Sam: Doctor Strange. Use 'criticalrole' for 10% off your Loot Crate guys, code 'criticalrole'!
Matt: You drank the potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So you have advantage on intelligence checks.
Travis: Nice. Do I gain any temporary intelligence?
Matt: There's a clarity in your mind that hasn't been there in a while, not since being an eagle.
Travis: Do I look over at the symbols and do they all of a sudden start to mean something?
Matt: No?
Laura: Oh no, you can't read still.
Matt: You need to learn to read still.
Taliesin: You have a deeper understanding of the tragedy of that.
Travis: I got to A, B, C. We'll work on it.
Liam: While you don't recognize them as letters, they're like little characters that you're familiar with: the burly guy, and then the cross guy, he's holding swords.
Travis: Yeah, that's the tree. Yep, that one's the wiener.
Sam: Keyleth, may I speak?
Marisha: I said we'd dropped our guises so yes, everyone, you can take your slave robes off now.
Sam: We're all chained.
Travis: Not wearing robes.
Matt: You see Senokir looks over at Uten.
Marisha: Senokir, can we--?
Matt: "Not to worry. Uten, if you don't mind." Uten pulls out the ring of keys that he has and goes through and begins undoing your guys' shackles. This will take a little while.
Travis: Did the door to the room close?
Matt: It's closed. The two servant giants closed it. Juuraiel leans forward with a grin, "So, please. What do you come here requesting?"
Sam: Hello. Hi, there. Hi.
Matt: "Even smaller!" And now leans in real close to the edge of the desk. The massive size of her face and the breath; it's delightful. It's a combination of rotting vegetation and very dry earth. But her teeth are gleaming. The smile is interested in whatever you're about to say.
Sam: Hi there. I'm a bit of a gambler. I'm known around the worlds as being one of the luckiest men with a deck of cards you've ever met. I've won games in many of the different planes. I see that you collect many treasures that you've won in matches as well. Is that true?
Matt: Eyes shift back and forth over the rest of you here, "I have an interest in games of chance on occasion, yes. So, you come all this way to play games?"
Sam: Yes, I have. I spend my life just playing games. It's my livelihood. I've won many things over the years. In fact, all of these great people, large and small next to me, I won in various card games around the planes. That one over there, the big one, I won him in a game of Gin Rummy in the Feywild. This guy I picked up in a game of Fish. I'm here to collect, possibly, one of your items, if that's all right with you?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: 32. (laughter)
Matt: Leans even farther forward, to where it's about two feet between you and her large eyes that have come in, and her chin is scraping against the wood to get a really good look at you. She looks over, her red pupils slowly inspecting you. The grin grows even wider as she leans back, "Well, you intrigue me, small one. If your luck has been so great as to collect these fine specimens of strangers and you bring them all with you to such a place. Where do you hail from, if I might ask?"
Sam: Places. That information is not relevant right now.
Matt: "Fair enough. So! You come to play me for what?"
Sam: Maybe I'll decide after our match.
Matt: "Well, I need to know what the ante is, so I can ask for a suitable request for my side."
Sam: Certainly.
Taliesin: I'm going to lean in and-- (no vocals)
Sam: There's a large ruby shield back there, is that true?
Matt: "Ah, yes."
Sam: He wants that, but I think his taste sucks. So I'm going to go for that brass piece of armor back there.
Matt: "Ah, interesting. So you wish to play for the armor?"
Sam: Sure, I'm a little man, and it might help me in a fight someday if I ever lose.
Matt: "Fair enough. So." She leans behind and pulls out a wooden box from a small cubby. And you now look behind the desk and there are a series of cubbies that are embedded in the wall. And there are different things that she's thrown in there. She pulls out this wooden box, unlocks it with her heavy fingers, and opens it. She pulls out a deck of cards that is larger than what you're used to playing with, but small enough that you could functionally hold a hand. Small from her perspective. Kind of. (laughter)
Sam: Let me cut the cards.
Travis: And you die.
Matt: She takes it and closes the box. Begins to shuffle them, without even looking away from you. As she looks at you, she cocks a bit of a half-smile to one side and says, "So for that, do you know the history of this? For you to come so far to play a game, there may be a reason you come. And the thing you select for the game we play has much value to you."
Sam: Honestly, the game itself is what's of value to me. I am just happy to win and keep my winning streak alive. What I get out of it is meaningless.
Matt: "Okay."
Sam: But if you'd like to enlighten me on that object--
Matt: "We will play three hands. The winner of two takes the pot."
Laura: (dry heaves)
Matt: "Request the armor. Me, I request your friends."
Laura: I knew that's where she was going to go with this.
Sam: Well, I was going to offer one of your choosing. But you've only offered me one of your items.
Matt: "Take it or leave it. If you truly have no idea what this armor is worth, perhaps you wish to choose another thing to ante."
Sam: You seem attached to it. I want it. I'll have it.
Matt: "How badly do you want it?"
Sam: Certainly badly enough to risk these scoundrels.
Matt: "Then we have an accord."
Sam: We do.
Marisha: Hell yeah! Let's do this!
Travis: I've never been an ante before.
Liam: Stone-cold gnome.
Taliesin: So many bad ideas start with--
Laura: Do we need to all sit on the table, then?
Marisha: Does it work like Vegas? Are all the odds on the house?
Travis: Is it wizard's chess?
Sam: May I ask what game we're playing? Blackjack? Are we playing--
Travis: Strip poker!
Sam: Strip poker? Five-card stud? (laughter)
Matt: "We refer to it as the Tinder Start. But you probably know of it as the Gambit of Ord."
Sam: We've played this before?
Marisha: Wait, did we end up playing it?
Matt: This is the thing you didn't end up playing.
Marisha: Fucking fuck! We didn't end up playing this. But wait, we remember the rules?
Matt: You didn't play it. You, make an intelligence check. Being a bard that you are. And add a +2 to it.
Travis: Get the Hand Cone out!
Sam: 21.
Matt: You have played this game.
Laura: Thank god! Do you suck at it?
Sam: I suck at everything.
Matt: The hand is represented. Each of you roll a d8, but you keep the die hidden. Then you both roll a d6, and then keep it secret. Then you both roll a d4, and then reveal them all together. But you can raise it as you wish.
Travis: You raise after each roll?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What's the goal? What are you trying to get to?
Matt: The highest number between the three rolls. But you can fold if you want to. This usually is done in a betting type circumstance, so we'll see how things go from here. Anyway, finishes shuffling. Tosses you a series of cards. Takes a couple cards for herself. Sets the deck aside, right in front of her. The two guards in the back, by the way, we hear them stepping away and retrieve their weapons, and head back behind you guys. Just keeping them at their sides.
Liam: So in this room, let's say you're her, and we're all where we are, and the giants are behind the group, is that about right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And how much room is there behind her and the wall?
Matt: Maybe 15 feet, 20 feet.
Liam: I'm going to slowly tippie-toe around the side of the wall, carefully avoiding giants. I want to stand not directly behind her, but off at an angle.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Okay. You both take a look at your hands. Go ahead and roll a d8. Okay.
Sam: And now?
Matt: So, for this circumstance, we'll go ahead and take a d6. Roll it and put it next to the die. All right. And now take a d4.
Sam: And if we fold, do we start over?
Matt: If you fold, you lose the round.
Sam: Oh, well then it's just a number.
Laura: So it's just numbers, at this point?
Matt: At this point, yeah. You walked into a game of her choice.
Laura: There's no way to cheat.
Liam: So there's three rolls in a row, and she's done two. Can we see them from where I am?
Matt: You currently went around the table?
Liam: Yeah, I'm at an angle, but I'm a lot lower than she is.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Luck. That's fine. 22.
Matt: You get a good glance at the first two cards, yes.
Liam: Can I (mutters inaudibly) in the earring, as quiet as a mouse? Can I just breathe it?
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: With advantage?
Matt: Not with advantage because it's an audio thing.
Liam: Is it three rolls? I don't understand the game.
Laura: There's no way we can cheat! Because the ante's already on the table!
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to wait.
Laura: Right, there's no way to cheat?
Matt: That you can think of.
Laura: Unless you can fudge the dice!
Marisha: But that's risky.
Laura: It's technically cards.
Matt: It's cards. The dice is just the mechanic for it. Take a look at your hand.
Sam: I know my hand. Wait, am I rolling the d4 or no?
Matt: We rolled the d8 and the d6. She looks down and goes, "All right. So, to make this even more interesting. I'll wait. Let us see how the first hand goes, shall we?" And she puts her third card in front of her, face down. Roll now.
Sam: (quietly) Not good, you guys.
Matt: "And call." And she turns the cards over. "Four, six, one." A total of 11.
Sam: One, five, two. Total of eight.
Matt: "That is an unfortunate way to open it, my small friend. But you seem keen on winning, and I respect that." She takes the cards, places them to the side. Deals out a new hand, brings it back to her. "Shall we begin?" Go ahead and roll your d8.
Sam: Oh, man, this is just straight rolls.
Travis: We're going to kill everybody in this motherfucking house!
Laura: There's no way to fucking sleight of hand this shit, is there?
Marisha: Can he add his Bardic Inspiration?
Matt: No, this isn't an ability check.
Ashley: If I cast Enhance Ability on him?
Laura: Maybe, can you pray for Sarenrae?
Matt: This is quite literally a game of chance. If you wanted to try and fuck around with a creative way to cheat, you're welcome to try. That could also go very poorly, depending on how it goes. Before you do the next one, she stops and goes, "So, as I was going to say before. How about, as your friends are the ante on the table, throw yourself in as well?"
Sam: And what will you give me if I win?
Matt: "Perhaps the ruby shield?"
Sam: I love myself a lot. A lot more than a bunch of rubies and a handle, I'll tell you that much. If I'm giving myself to slavery forever, I want something a hell of a lot better than that. I'm a man who's won 500 straight card games in a row. You think these slaves are something? You should see what I have at home.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: 32.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: She nods.
Sam: I'll give you myself as a slave if you do not draw your next card and skip straight to the third, and that's your number. I get all three.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: Oh, nice, dude!
Laura: Oh, hopefully she didn't roll an eight on that first one.
Matt: She rolled, the first die is placed there.
Laura: She rolled an eight?!?
Travis: She rolled an eight?!?
Sam: Oh, fucking balls. Fuck balls. (laughter)
Laura: We have to be ready to fight. Grab it and then Jenga out.
Matt: She rolled her last card but is not showing.
Ashley: But take the shield, too, though. Take the shield!
Sam: (whispers) Pretty bad.
Taliesin: No, we're good. Tell her to show her last card.
Laura: Maybe it's a one.
Matt: It's a two. "A ten. What did you roll?"
Taliesin: I cast Minor Illusion on the first card, to turn the three into an eight.
Matt: As you begin to mutter the incantation under your breath, she says, "I would not recommend bringing incantations into our game of chance."
Sam: Before I reveal my cards, I have one more proposal.
Matt: "Yes?"
Sam: (whispers) I don't know what it is. (laughter)
Laura: Maybe we can perform for her?
Sam: I'll come clean with you. We know exactly what that fucking piece of armor is.
Matt: "I had a feeling." (laughter)
Sam: We want it. We're not leaving here without it. I'm sorry, I'm not going to show you my cards. Because before I do, you'll be dead. Sorry, guys.
Matt: She turns her head to the side, "You do not want to walk this path, do you? Because if you truly cherish the lives that you and your friends here have, based on your current change in tone, this tells me that they now belong to me. Perhaps you would wish to continue to make this agreement you came to make. Show me your card."
Sam: I drew a three, and a three, and a three.
Travis: Oh, that sucks!
Matt: "By one each time. Perhaps it was time for you to lose cards after all. Based on our agreement, you and your friends are now property of Juuraiel. However, I see that you are traveled. You seem capable. You are bold. You walk in here after acquiring the will of Whaska. So, you want freedom, yes?"
Sam: Yes?
Matt: "Then perhaps there is a favor you can do for me. In exchange for this favor, I will nullify our contract, and you will be free to go. Does this sound viable?"
Sam: Possibly. Is it a card game?
Matt: "The other choice is you are now mine. Or, as you threatened boldly before, that I was to die. But I can say, given the current place that you reside, the enchantments I have on this room, the friends of mine that I have at your back, you will not have the outcome you wish."
Sam: What is your offer?
Matt: "Do you agree?"
Laura: Did you ever meet a dragon named Thordak?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Fuck. Big red guy? Took a lot of fire giants with him?
Matt: "There are a number of red dragons that walk."
Laura: This one was special. He had an enormous jewel in his chest.
Matt: "Sounds worthwhile. But do you agree to our arrangement?"
Sam: Just curious, can we draw the third hand? I just want to feel what it feels like to win once.
Ashley: What about best out of five? You're probably so bored with life; why not?
Sam: My slave speaks the truth.
Matt: "You are full of spunk and life. And you are foolish. Do you agree to our accord?"
Sam: I'm really curious about this last hand. If you beat me in this last hand, I agree.
Matt: "If I beat you in this hand, you agree. Otherwise, what? I still own you?"
Sam: Yes. Well, that's the deal.
Travis: Yeah, I like that. Maybe you'll win one.
Ashley: One more hand?
Matt: "We will see who wins this hand for your own sake."
Sam: Thank you. That would make me feel so much better about myself.
Matt: "It does not change our deal." First die. Second. And third. She reveals four, four, four. Literally rolled all fours.
Travis: God! Matt! You!
Taliesin: Wow.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: I'm really just bad at everything.
Travis: Did you roll an 11?
Sam: I rolled an 11.
Matt: Oh my God!
Travis: You are a deity.
Matt: I wish I had this luck in Vegas! Like, literal gambling.
Travis: It's just four hours.
Sam: Best seven out of 13! (laughter)
Matt: "You have agreed to our accord as per the agreement."
Sam: I have agreed. I'm already your slave, so I couldn't really say no. So yes, I agree to our accord. What favor can I grant you?
Matt: "You will have your freedom and the armor you seek. My lover does not live because of an altercation with one who frequents the city. My partner, Drogat, died needlessly in the streets of an innocent altercation with Ghurrix, a pit fiend that lives at the embassy."
Laura: (groaning) Ah jeez.
Sam: Sorry, we're not supposed to go to the embassy. We were told so by our tour guide.
Matt: "Oh, you should never go to the embassy. But this Ghurrix is tied up with a lot of politics in this city. As much as I would love to squeeze what infernal life he has, I fear it would cause the execution of me and mine. So, I sit and fester with the need of vengeance. I need you, if you're as capable as you promise, to go and find Ghurrix, in whatever way you see fit, and carve the life from his body. Now, Ghurrix frequents the Arches, which is the slave market of the city, where he finds rare and unique servants for the Nine Hells and his masters there. Goes about once a week and is probably due there in a day or two. Go, slay Ghurrix, and return to me with no mention and no trace that can be brought back to my home. Then the armor is yours, as is your freedom. There is no agreement. You've already agreed. So go."
Sam: Yes, we accept. Thank you, my master, we will go do so right away. Two days, you say?
Matt: "Two days, yes."
Laura: Does that mean we don't have to answer to you anymore? You're equal to us?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: High five, yeah!
Sam: I release you from your slavery.
Marisha: And into another one.
Sam: What does he look like?
Matt: She reaches down to the side of the desk, and pulls out a very small book, relative size, and flips through, and opens a page to turn towards you. "This is what I seek to see destroyed. You can tell, Ghurrix wears a symbol of his station. It is a thick, black chain. And at the bottom, it has the symbol of two manacles intertwined within a red symbol that pulses with anger. That is your mark."
Sam: Are you sure you don't want just a game of Pinochle instead?
Matt: "You try my patience, small one."
Sam: Please, call me Kenny Rogers.
Matt: "Two days. Go!"
Sam: Let's go, slaves! I'm sorry, equals, peers, let's go!
Matt: As you guys step down, the two giant guards step back and begin to walk towards the door to let you out.
Laura: Actually, madam, master. Do you have any symbols that you can give us, like something we could show people so they don't try to claim us for themselves? Because we're a lot smaller than everyone else here. Something that shows that we're your slaves?
Matt: "Hmm." She gets up from behind the desk, and walks up the stairs for a moment.
Laura: Is she out of the room?
Matt: She's out of the room, currently.
Laura: And two other giants are behind us?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: What are they doing?
Matt: They're standing watching all of you.
Laura: All of us except for--
Liam: I'm standing there, but I'm not--
Laura: Jump up and fucking see how it's attached to the wall!
Travis: How big is the suit of armor, the Dawnmartyr?
Matt: It would fit a human. A minute passes. You hear the footfalls return. As she comes down the stairs, with her hand in a fist, she throws her hand open. Hitting the ground, and scattering across the stonework, some of them stopping at your feet or beyond, a series of black, metal rings that match the ones that the two giants wear around their neck.
Travis: But smaller.
Matt: But smaller. Various sizes. There's probably like a dozen or so you can pick from. Some will fit better than others. "These I had made, but I had no need for servants of your size until today. So, go. These should be enough."
Laura: Thank you. They're lovely.
Travis: Yeah, I put mine on. I like it a lot.
Sam: Have a lovely afternoon.
Matt: "You as well. Good luck. Please, kill it. Return."
Travis: Do we want to stay the night here?
Marisha: Yeah, I was going to ask that.
Sam: Gross, but okay, go ahead.
Travis: A quick query. We're, like, visitors. We don't really have a place to stay. Now that we're yours, do you have like a broom cupboard?
Matt: Senokir pipes up and goes, "Actually, you're welcome to stay at our place. We have facilities that could function. Besides, it's a lot of chain we have to carry back now."
Taliesin: It's true.
Laura: We'll do you the favor, Senokir, of carrying this chain back to your place.
Matt: "That's wonderful, thank you."
Laura: A favor for a favor. (giggles)
Matt: "Indeed. We'll talk soon about mine."
Travis: He's going to wear us like winter coats. Going to make a suit out of our skin.
Marisha: Nice lampshade.
Laura: Ooh, his eyebrows literally going up when you said that. I think he wants to do it.
Matt: So, the door is lifted. You guys are led back out onto the street. Closes behind you. The time that has passed now, I need everyone once again to roll another constitution saving throw.
Travis: But I drank that Fox's Cunning.
Marisha: Am I okay?
Taliesin: We're going to be fine, anyway. We have the mansion.
Travis: 24.
Taliesin: 11.
Sam: 20.
Marisha: Do I still have fire resist?
Matt: Your fire resist would have gone away. You could cast it again.
Marisha: I'll just roll this time. It's just straight constitution?
Laura: Saving throw.
Ashley: With a saving throw?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: So roll another.
Matt: Well, no. You roll and then you add your saving throw bonus.
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: Four.
Ashley: Three!
Matt: All right. Pike, Vex, Keyleth, and Percy all suffer a point of exhaustion. Pike, your speed is halved right now.
Laura: Oh no, Pike, but you're already so little!
Ashley: My what's halved?
Matt: Your speed is halved, so you are trailing behind everybody.
Laura: Grog, pick her up, she looks like she needs some water.
Ashley: Grog, I'm just so tired.
Travis: You look so mopey.
Ashley: I feel very mopey.
Travis: Did you want a piggyback ride?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: All right, I pick her up and I put her on my shoulder.
Matt: You guys eventually make your way back, being led by Senokir back to his establishment. Let's go ahead and take a little break for now. Go ahead and use the restroom--
Travis: You looked like the creepy guy was saying we should take a break for just a second.
Matt: "That would be frightening, wouldn't it?" All right, guys, we'll be back in just a few minutes, we'll see you in a second. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone to Critical Role. That was terrible.
Travis: The timing. Well, she's been gone.
Matt: She's been gone a while. It's okay, welcome back.
Ashley: I'm sorry.
Matt: Ashley, you're amazing.
Ashley: I'm just not working right now.
Matt: That's okay. So. You guys have returned to Senokir and Uten's establishment to rest until you feel is necessary to undertake this endeavor. But it is your guys' prerogative as to if you want to wait over the next day, day and a half to jump to it or is there anything you want to do to prepare for this circumstance? What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Let's sleep in the mansion so we can gain some of our--
Laura: Yeah let's sleep in the mansion till we can at least get rid of this heat.
Sam: If it's a day or two, we could go back to Daxio and check and come back. But then we'd have to get back into the city. That's probably a terrible idea.
Marisha: Can I bamf right here? What's your name? What is Simma sina--
Travis: Sequin.
Marisha: Senokir. Took a ten-minute break and that's it. Senokir, is there a way we could-- If I wanted to Plane Shift home, is there a way that I could Plane Shift right back here and not get, you know, our heads chopped off for it?
Matt: "I don't know. Is there?"
Marisha: Let me check, guys. You know, let me check the druidic texts and see what they say.
Matt: Specifically, you can choose a target in general terms. It'll probably bring you right back to where you arrived here. So you'd be back to the outside of the city.
Liam: At the respawn point.
Marisha: Well, I can't say Senokir's jewelry shop in the City of Brass?
Matt: You can specify a target or destination in general terms. So the City of Brass or Dispater on the second level of the Nine Hells. You appear in or near that destination.
Sam: No guarantee that we'd be back in. So we should stay.
Matt: Up to you. Crapshoot, it's possible.
Laura: As long as we know that Allura will send us a message if something goes wrong.
Liam: Did it get dark out at all? Or no?
Matt: Actually, by this time, as you guys have gotten back and ended this rest you guys have really come to get really thirsty, and as the exhaustion hits in, you all continue to reach for your waterskins and they're dried up.
Taliesin: We should go back into the mansion.
Sam: I agree.
Matt: The sun, however, has gone to a darker red color, like a soft eclipse almost. And as it does, the heat remains but the light gets dimmer and dimmer into a red twilight. And as it does, the city shuts down. Everybody goes home, locks up, and nothing but the efreet that you saw wandering the streets earlier with the little flaming brooches or amulets in the uniform outfit wander the streets.
Laura: Why doesn't anyone go outside at night?
Matt: Pardon me. (sneezes)
Marisha: Bless you.
Laura: Bless you, Senokir.
Matt: (sneezes)
Travis: Give me a third one.
Marisha: Bless you again.
Matt: Fuck you. Hate you so much. Live gaming. You ask this to Senokir?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "That's largely because the Illuminated maintain a curfew. And if you don't follow the curfew, you'll wind up in chains."
Laura: Okay. Different chains than regular chains?
Matt: "At first, yes."
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Waterskins from our servants--
Liam: Who's that guy? What is that guy?
Offscreen: Thanks, Gov'ner.
Laura: What are we at?
Matt: "Kill him." (laughter)
Matt: "If you require water I can procure that for you, if you like."
Laura: Hmm?
Matt: "If you want water I can procure that for you."
Taliesin: Can we get water from the--
Sam: Well, we have water in his fucking jug.
Laura: Yeah. We've got so much water.
Marisha: I can also create water.
Laura: Yeah, but he's got a jug full of it.
Marisha: Pike and I can create water. Me and Pike both can.
Travis: I can create water. Don't say it like it's cool.
Taliesin: They're not speaking in metaphor. We know you can create water.
Matt: All right, so, what do you guys wish to do?
Liam: I mean, are we in a hurry, do we want to try to make this happen tonight?
Taliesin: Let's mansion for the night and then I think in the morning. We can't find him tonight. Can we?
Liam: I'm not talking about him, I'm talking about doubling back to the house and trying to get through the servants' window.
Sam: You really want to try to break into this fire giant's house?
Liam: If we're in a hurry, I mean we've killed some pretty gnarly things, I know they're big. So are we.
Laura: She could be gnarlier than the giants that we've fought.
Travis: And there might be an unbelievable amount of fire giants in that building.
Sam: Or traps.
Marisha: Or allies nearby. It's in the middle of a city.
Liam: Yeah. And I'm sure the other thing will be super easy.
Laura: The pit fiend?
Liam: It's on the table. I mean, whatever, you know. I'm going to follow your lead.
Sam: You want to do a smash and grab?
Laura: Run in, grab the armor, Plane Shift out. Can they chase us down if we do that?
Marisha: Classic B&E? Plane Shift takes a minute--
Laura: No, it's instant. Remember, we checked it.
Matt: It's an action.
Marisha: It takes an action. As long as we're all in a circle holding hands.
Travis: Oh shit.
Taliesin: And what happens if you can't Plane Shift out of that house? We probably want to get out of the house and then Plane Shift.
Marisha: In case it's magically locked down?
Taliesin: In case it's magically locked down.
Laura: Yeah, that's pretty smart.
Taliesin: In which the phrase, "I have many enchantments upon my home," led me to believe there's probably--
Travis: I mean, I really don't see what the problem is, right? Hellfiend goes, "Oh, time to go shopping for slaves." He walks up to the Arches, we set a trap, Vax goes stabby-stab-stab, Percy goes (gunshot), Pike goes, (high-pitched) "Hi", and like, donesky!
Taliesin: You're writing the best children's book ever.
Laura: I mean, I'm down, I think that's a great plan, Grog.
Marisha: He also said that the pit fiend could be there in one to two days.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: Could be there tomorrow?
Marisha: Also, do we know how much time passes in the fire plane versus the real world?
Matt: You're not entirely certain, comparatively the time. You feel like you've been here for, I mean, a while. By the cycle of the sun-like light source in the sky here on the plane, it seems like you've been here for about a day.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Do we remember any type of relative time jump when we were here last time in and out?
Matt: No, but you were only here for maybe a handful of hours last time you guys came here.
Travis: Were you worried about being away from Fort Daxio for too long?
Liam: Yeah, that's what I was suggesting.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean we could come back to Thordak just destroyed everything.
Travis: Can't we scry on the fort?
Marisha: I can't scry between dimensions.
Matt: It has to be on the same plane.
Laura: Can you scry on the pit fiend?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: We know what it looks like.
Laura: And you know like a thing for him, right? We know his name.
Travis: Thank you, watering boy.
Marisha: Yes, I could.
Sam: Cabin boy, thank you.
Travis: That's what I meant! That's what I wanted to say!
Marisha: Yeah, can I use the scrying eye to try and scry on the pit fiend?
Matt: You certainly can. So you have secondhand knowledge of the pit fiend.
Marisha: And trying to imagine his emblem that she described with the two manacles and the black chain, because that was pretty cool.
Matt: So, focusing on the emblem that you were described, you close your eyes and concentrate, holding the orb of scrying within your grasp. Okay. What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: What's the spell DC of the scrying orb?
Marisha: It doesn't say.
Matt: It would be 15. Unless you cast the spell, right?
Marisha: Yeah, I get to do it, so it should still be mine, right?
Matt: Usually it would be set for the item, but for the purposes of this it won't make a huge difference. What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19, okay yeah, so it won't make a difference. You close your eyes and you see a brief fuzzy vision of the city from your perspective and then your vision jumps suddenly and comes to fire, then comes to black, then comes to a quick view of that weird citadel, carved out of black obsidian hands reaching over each other, the one that you saw earlier, the embassy. Then you feel a wall and you're thrust through a series of walls, not able to really take in any visuals, the process is so fast, wall after wall, then you come to a darkened room, a wide chamber that contains a long series of papers and scrolls that are laid out in a specific format. You can see, chained to the walls, individuals moaning and crying. And you see, sitting in this small circle in the center of the floor, a humanoid-- a humanoid in the sense that it has arms or legs-- but you see the pit fiend sitting there, almost meditating, eyes closed, large teeth, jagged and pointed, coming out of its large jaw, dark red horns that curve behind its head, these large wings that are folded around it from the back as it sits its knees out, crosslegged, its arms resting upon the edges, eyes closed. It appears to be sleeping. Or at least resting.
Marisha: Can I get a focus on what the slaves look like?
Matt: Unfortunately you can't, the target of your scry is about the most you can focus on; you can give a blurry atmosphere around them, you can barely pick up the aspect of their presence, but that's the most you can do with the scry spell.
Marisha: Okay. Well, he appears to be in his bedroom, definitely in the citadel. As she said.
Laura: Does he have any, like, cuts on him, anything that looks weak?
Marisha: He had big gnarly teeth and slaves.
Ashley: Did he look scary?
Marisha: He looked very unpleasant.
Travis: But it's just him, right? One dude?
Sam: We could take one dude!
Marisha: Well, he also had a bunch of people chained to the wall, and this was after my vision being slammed through several walls. It seemed to be very deep in the labyrinth that is the embassy, which seems like a labyrinth.
Laura: So we'll have to wait until he comes out.
Taliesin: Can we trick him into the mansion?
Sam: The mansion door, I think, is only ten feet tall.
Laura: How tall is he?
Sam: 20?
Matt: Best that you could tell, probably close to 15 feet.
Laura: He could duck in.
Marisha: He's a little taller than Grog.
Ashley: What kind of slaves did it look like he had? All types?
Marisha: I tried to look. I couldn't tell. Looked like a nice variety.
Laura: If we said, "Hey, I heard there's really good slaves up in this mansion--"
Sam: And then what do we do in the mansion?
Taliesin: We can quietly attack him from all sides. Have a fight that won't draw the attention of the guards.
Sam: Something tells me that people fight in this city a lot.
Laura: Yeah, but I don't think the slaves attack the owners very often.
Taliesin: There's nothing we could damage in there that would remain damaged.
Marisha: Unless we tried to use ourselves as slave bait again, put a few of us on the auction.
Liam: You seemed to be able to talk Yenk into doing whatever you wanted. Do you think you could do that with this guy?
Sam: I could certainly make an appearance of Yenk.
Liam: I meant convince him to come inside.
Sam: You mean Dominate him?
Laura: He could be much more intelligent than Yenk was, though.
Liam: Could be.
Sam: I can try.
Taliesin: He wears jewelry.
Marisha: He has a logo.
Travis: He meditates.
Laura: He meditates?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Bikram yoga.
Laura: Is that the hot one?
Taliesin: That is the hot one.
Travis: Should we go recon on the auction as slave shopping or whatever it is?
Laura: In the morning. Not now.
Travis: Set up the door outside of the market or whatever.
Sam: So, he's going to the auction to slave shop?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Unique slaves. He likes unique slaves.
Sam: Seems crazy that a gigantic fucking pit boss, whatever he is, would be like, "Oh, sure, I'll step into this creepy door, weird stranger!"
Laura: The mansion door is rather creepy, isn't it?
Sam: Yeah, for sure! Everything about me is creepy, guys!
Travis: But it's unique, and what if inside the door we make it look even more unique?
Laura: Yeah, can't you make the mansion look like anything you want?
Matt: Within reason.
Travis: That's important to say.
Matt: There are limitations. It's still a mansion.
Laura: I mean, if it looks like a sexy den or something.
Travis: Yeah, and if he doesn't come in the door, then we kill him.
Sam: This seems like a plan C to me. Convincing a giant killing machine to step into a nice house seems like it's a desperate plan of people without anything at all.
Taliesin: He's not a giant killing machine, he's a businessman looking to purchase--
Travis: What, do we go and make a deal with the devil? (goofy chuckle)
Sam: The deal is we just attack him and kill him! What's the big deal? We were sent on a killing mission here.
Taliesin: Where are we going to kill him?
Sam: Wherever we see him! Let's talk to Sonny here, creepy Sonny.
Liam: What about this? This is a terrible idea. Could one of us goad him into following us out of his abode or some building, somewhere, and you plop the mansion door outside the actual door? So he goes to try to leave the tavern or whatever the fuck, he goes into our house?
Laura: Ultimately, if we can get him in a building and then back out of the building, great. But if we can get him in that building, why can't we get him in the fucking mansion?
Matt: As far as you understand, for a person to walk into the mansion, they have to know they're walking into the mansion.
Sam: So we can definitely entice them. You guys can pose as slaves and show him some amazing feats and say, "There's more where that came from, inside the mansion!" but if he says no, then what's our plan?
Matt: Senokir pipes up at this point. He's been listening in to this whole conversation off to the side. He goes, "If you are indeed going to fight a creature of this esteem, I will request to not be present. Thus, you will be masterless in this city. I don't know how to protect you the way you look."
Travis: Don't we have the neck rings, the collars, to mock that we're--
Matt: "Perhaps. That will be helpful. Just make sure you have a solid story, or another way of masking yourself. Otherwise--"
Sam: I can make us all look different. What would make us passable in the city?
Matt: "Well, dressed more like us, or the others who are free. It all depends on what you can look like."
Travis: Less appealing. Less different.
Matt: "Or, at least, amongst the elite of this city, where you won't be bothered."
Sam: I can make us all robes and stuff.
Ashley: Don't we want to look unique for him to want--
Laura: One of us.
Marisha: Seeming allows you to tailor us, right?
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: Actually, what does Seeming allow?
Sam: I can shrink or grow us by a foot, change our general appearance and clothing.
Marisha: How about we do a little bit of both? We can have a few of us, maybe two, as slaves, the rest as masters, walking around incognito. Once one of us gets sold off, we track him back so we're not fighting a member of the Embassy of the City of Brass in the middle of the market.
Laura: That would be bad.
Liam: I like the mansion idea. What if we pitched the mansion as a traveling magical boutique slave shop? Artisan slave shop? We lube this guy up in a loincloth and this guy after a hard day's tinkering, and we sell them! This guy can sell anything! This guy could sell a hunk of shit to the Emperor of Emon.
Marisha: These people have seen a lot of shit, not just one hunk of shit.
Laura: What if you and I dressed in exact, identical clothing, and then we're unique? We're, you know, twin slaves?
Taliesin: I was actually going to say quintuplets. We could all look the same.
Marisha: Is that a fantasy that people have?
Taliesin: It is now.
Liam: That's the plan!
Sam: I'm sorry, what's going on? We're all looking like you?
Liam: We're septuplets! Sextuplets! And you're the salesman.
Sam: I'm selling a group of identical sextuplet slaves and the advantage is just that they look cool? "Check out my slaves; they all look alike!"
Travis: If you give us one order, we all understand the order!
Taliesin: Somehow, a stamp with an upside-down airplane is worth a fortune. This, obviously, is more rare.
Sam: I could make you all other ways unique.
Liam: I mean, we're fairly attractive! I feel like six of us would be worth the price of admission.
Laura: Although you can only grow us or shrink us by a foot, so this would be a really little--
Taliesin: We'll make her taller and you two shorter.
Marisha: Can I also throw out that maybe six might be pushing it a little? Maybe we should drop it down to, like, quadruplets?
Taliesin: No! Because six is what he's walking around with! He's got more back in his shop!
Liam: It's got the word "sex" right in it! Sextuplets! Sex sells! Sextuplets sell!
Travis: You can do it. Magic door, sextuplets.
Sam: I love this idea, don't get me wrong, but I feel like convincing him that you are able-bodied slaves with magical abilities might be even more of icing on the cake than, "Hey, they look alike!"
Travis: I like that! You vamp, baby, you do whatever. Do what you do. SAM; All right, and when it doesn't work, Sonny, can we fight him right there in the Arches? Will people be like, "What the fuck's going on? Arrest them all!"
Matt: "He is a known entity in this city. If you wish to fight him in the open, I would recommend having a way of perhaps having the Illuminated on your side."
Sam: That's the guards?
Matt: "That is the guard."
Liam: Artisanal half-elf slaves.
Laura: Wait. If we can convince them that he's broken a law of some sort--
Travis: Bribes.
Laura: Bribes.
Sam: We could also try to convince them that he's broken a law or done something horrible.
Laura: What's against the law here?
Matt: "Well, going against the sultan is the most grievous of things. He is a paranoid one."
Laura: He's the one in the big-- no.
Matt: "In the Charcoal Palace."
Sam: I could make the image of our mark standing out there in the middle of the Arches, cursing the sultan's name and pissing all over the place.
Travis: Right, but listen, I don't know if we have enough to bribe all the efreet. What if we went to the Charcoal Palace, spewed a tale, and said that this pit fiend is plotting to overthrow the Charcoal Palace and all we want is to remove the problem for him?
Matt: "I can really recommend you not go near that palace."
Laura: Yeah, let's not do that.
Travis: So, we do it.
Laura: No, let's not.
Matt: "They have wards to pierce through lies. You will find yourselves never heard from again, if you have falsehood in your midst."
Taliesin: Does the sultan mark his slaves?
Matt: "The sultan, I imagine, would, though I am not aware of it myself."
Taliesin: Does he have a seal?
Matt: "I believe so."
Taliesin: If we were to sell ourselves as slaves, we could be marked as the property of the sultan.
Sam: And then what?
Taliesin: And then we could claim that he was trying to steal property of the sultan.
Sam: Are we still sextuplets in this scenario?
Taliesin: You don't get to negotiate that aspect. Even if we're just sneaking back into the house and stealing the armor, we're doing it as identical sextuplets. There's no fighting that anymore.
Liam: One addendum. Our sizes don't change, right?
Sam: I can make you a foot taller or smaller.
Liam: We could be the Matryoshka nesting dolls. From biggest to smallest. That's unique!
Sam: That is unique.
Marisha: I feel like we're spending a lot of time on this, and maybe not enough time on our battle plan.
Liam: Oh, that would go to shit anyway.
Sam: Okay, so far, let's recap. Recap, vote, and move on.
Laura: Senokir, if you saw a bunch of people who looked the same, that went from small to big, wouldn't you want them as slaves?
Matt: "Depending."
Laura: They were totally hot, too.
Matt: "Probably."
Ashley: And also, if they had skills, each of them had a separate skill?
Matt: "Most likely. There are many unique slaves that pass through the Arches."
Laura: Oh, really? What's the most unique one you've ever seen?
Matt: "They've had a few celestials through before. Those generally fetch a pretty penny with the individuals you're speaking about. The winged ones, they apparently are very sought-after by the Nine Hells."
Laura: Wings! You have wings!
Marisha: Or we could Seeming wings?
Laura: Yeah, but they could probably see through that shit! His are real!
Liam: So far, only Cinnabons here has been able to see through my shit.
Laura: I feel like they'd be able to tell. But whatever.
Taliesin: If each of the sextuplets-- I'm never going to get tired of saying that-- were unique in their own way, and yours was that you had a trace of celestial which is why you have wings?
Travis: Do we still want to try and get him in the mansion?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: So wait, I'm going to recap these plans, here. Plan A, making us all sextuplets and trying to get him into the mansion.
Travis: Celestial sextuplets.
Sam: Plan B, we're all sextuplets--
Matt: Seeming does not add wings. It has the same arrangement of body parts. But if one of them has wings, you could change those wings into a different color.
Marisha: Can I use Alter Self, because Alter Self gives-- because I can give myself gills and stuff like that.
Sam: So, Plan A, again, sextuplets, slaves, mansion. Plan B, we're still sextuplets, but this time, we're somehow framing him for dishonoring the sultan and then attacking him in the middle of the square.
Taliesin: Which is why Plan A is much better.
Sam: Plan C, still sextuplets, that doesn't change, but now we're just ambushing him in the center of the Arches and we've paid off the guards to turn a blind eye.
Taliesin: We don't have enough money to pay off the guards.
Sam: We have tons of money!
Laura: We don't have that much money.
Sam: I mean, we could bribe them with six identical slaves. So what's it going to be? Plan A, the mansion that's certainly going to fail? Plan B, the framing job? Or Plan C, the bribery slash ambush?
Laura: Plan A, into plan B if it doesn't work!
Sam: All right, great!
Taliesin: Remember, we're just to show off. You've got more.
Sam: Of course I've got more.
Laura: What is the sultan's name?
Matt: "The sultan's name is the Grand Sultan of the Efreet, the Lord of Flame, the Potentate Incandescent, the Tempering and Eternal Flame of Truth, the Most Puissant of Hunters, Marshal of the Order of the Fiery Heart, the Smoldering Dictator, the Crimson Firebrand, Marrake al-Sidan al-Hariq ben Lazen."
Marisha: It's like when you start the little Halloween sing-y things.
Laura: I almost got it memorized though.
Travis: I thought Percy's was long, shit.
Taliesin: Mine's better.
Liam: Scan-Man, can you rearrange the inside of the mansion to look like whatever you want--
Sam: Yeah, what would it be? A slave auction house?
Liam: Could it be a theater for presentation, or a ring to show off amazing skills? Wings, arrows?
Sam: A circus side-show thing?
Taliesin: Somewhere between the Folies Bergere and Caligula's living room.
Sam: Caligula's living room, I can do.
Marisha: Maybe have a little side area with hookah and some nice dancers, you know? As he watches, to add to the atmosphere?
Sam: I mean, sure, I can do some of these things. Within reason. Right?
Matt: Maybe.
Sam: Once the mansion is built, does it stay built? It rebuilds every time?
Taliesin: I think it's like a Windows PC. You can change the desktop settings.
Marisha: What if the ladies went on a redecorating tear really fast?
Laura: They hung a bunch of fabric up and lit some candles?
Marisha: Dim the lights.
Matt: It's still a mansion. You have an indoor foyer. You can customize any other floor plan you like, and the decor of it, but it still looks like a mansion.
Laura: So we can put pieces of fabric up.
Ashley: Opium den style.
Liam: Can we build a stage out of chickens?
Taliesin: You could have little slave chickens.
Sam: I mean, that sounds so great. I'm on board. Let's try this stupid, crazy plan. So, we're going to go to the Arches tomorrow, disguised as the slaves of what's-her-butt?
Laura: Juuraiel?
Taliesin: You've already made a sale, and you have more back at the--
Sam: Sure. So, you're slaves, I'm a slave-master. What do I look like?
Laura: Whatever you want to look like.
Sam: No, I've got to look like a slave-master. Senny, what would I look like?
Matt: "I would recommend not being a pink-skinned gnome like yourself. Perhaps something that could live in this city."
Laura: Like maybe an imp!
Matt: "An imp would be interesting."
Sam: An imp with jewelry and such?
Matt: "However, an imp would not be solo and would probably still be behooven to the Nine Hells, and would work and be considered a subordinate to a pit fiend. I would not recommend an imp."
Sam: Give me a thing.
Laura: Something little.
Matt: "Perhaps an azer."
Laura: What is that?
Matt: "Well, as you would consider, close to them-- a dwarf. You may have seen a few." You've seen a couple of strange individuals throughout the city as you've walked by. They're dwarf-like, they're thick, they're muscular. They look like a dwarf, except for instead of hair and a beard, it's fire. A wreath of fire across dark grey, almost obsidian skin.
Taliesin: Baby Ghost Rider.
Laura: Awesome! Be one of those!
Matt: To give you a specific visual, to give you a feel for what I'm talking about here, when I say--
Taliesin: That's baby Ghost Rider!
Laura: That is awesome!
Sam: I'm in.
Liam: (high-pitched) Flames!
Liam: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Taliesin: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Matt: (high-pitched) Flames on the side of my face! Heaving, heaving breaths.
Sam: I'll make a mansion for the night. We'll all take a rest and then go tomorrow.
Matt: "I was going to make some beds. We have--"
Laura: Oh, that's so kind of you! But we have beds that are specific to us, and we--
Taliesin: Just the break from the heat is the only thing that would force us to deny your hospitality.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: But we will keep the door to our rooms, of course, in your abode.
Matt: "Of course. We'll discuss soon our arrangement. Good night."
Taliesin: Why does he keep doing that?!
Ashley: Should one of us sleep in his house?
Laura: No, nobody should!
Taliesin: There's something wrong in it. There's something in the basement.
Travis: I have a quick request. Before I go to sleep, can I try and find Pike and see if she will teach me the alphabet, before my fox's cunning wears off?
Taliesin: That's the saddest thing I've ever heard.
Matt: You go and find Pike in her room. She comes to the door, already groggy, no pun intended. Sorry about that. You open your door and you see Grog standing there, looking a little sheepish.
Ashley: Grog, what's wrong?
Travis: Yeah, look, I had trouble sleeping, and I actually know Giant, but I can't read it. Do you think maybe, before this fancy smart-potion wears off, you could teach me some letters?
Ashley: Well, if we have a book or something, I could. A Beginning to Read Giant, is there anything like that where I could know what the letters are?
Travis: Well no, I don't see a lot of Giant, just even Common or--
Ashley: Just Common letters? Yes, I can show you the alphabet. I'll write it out. Okay? Do you know how to spell your name? Okay. It's very easy. You have four letters in your name, but there are two of the same letter. So you really only have three letters in your name.
Travis: How many-- I'm not so hot on the numbers, either.
Ashley: Okay, well, we won't talk about numbers. Okay, what's the first letter of the alphabet? This you know.
Travis: G.
Ashley: That's the first letter of your name.
Travis: Oh, it is!
Ashley: Yes, but that's not the first letter of the alphabet. You've said it before. Ah--
Travis: Ah-- I. Hey!
Ashley: Oh! It's the first letter, well, you wouldn't know that, because you don't know how to spell.
Travis: Fucking A, this is tough.
Ashley: Oh! You said it!
Travis: Fucking? A?
Ashley: A! A is the first letter of the alphabet.
Travis: A. Ay. A. A.
Ashley: And we can keep going-- (laughter)
Matt: Okay, for the purposes of the narrative, you spend the next few hours with Pike in your room, beginning to learn elements of the alphabet of Common. You go through enough of it where you pick up some of it and as the potion fades, so does the memory of the last three hours. (yelling)
Marisha: That's so mean!
Matt: This is Flowers for Grogernon. But it wouldn't have mattered because the Common alphabet and Giant runics are totally different things.
Travis: Yeah, totally. I just wanted to know something.
Ashley: Did I at least teach him how to spell his name?
Matt: Make an intelligence check, Grog.
Travis: Do I still-- no, it wore off, right? I don't have advantage.
Laura: You can do it, Grog! Roll a natural 20!
Matt: I'll say, as you feel the potion fading from you--
Travis: I burp, and I get a little bubble?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll an intelligence check.
Travis: Oh, that's even worse. Aw, minus two, fuck! Twelve.
Matt: You get "Gr--" and that's where it ends.
Travis: My cursive is sweet. I'm so tired. You know, I've learned all of these but I'm really sleepy.
Ashley: We'll keep working on it.
Travis: I'm not sure we will. But yeah, keep working. Good night. Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You sleep so well, okay?
Liam: Smash cut to a year later where he's going, "See. Kevdak. Run."
Ashley: No! That's so cute! Before I go to sleep, I am going to cast Lesser Restoration on myself, to maybe get rid of one point of exhaustion.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Out of curiosity, sleeping outside of the effects of the heat should make--
Matt: That'd the Greater Restoration, technically, to try and--
Liam: There's AC in here, isn't there?
Taliesin: There's AC.
Laura: In the mansion. Not in the studio. (laughter)
Matt: Greater Restoration reduces exhaustion. But you can do that as well.
Ashley: I'll cast Greater Restoration before bed.
Matt: Okay. So you reduce a level of exhaustion.
Taliesin: I am going to send a little time working on a couple things for the fort when we get back. Netting ammo for the trebuchet, just a sketch. To start to design a very simple bolo for the trebuchet.
Matt: Okay. Just designing?
Taliesin: Just penciling and then penciling-- I've got a notion for a watch tower that's super super simple. Platform for two people, tops, with a rope that connects to a bell so when you start heading down it, it goes (high voice) Fuck!
Matt: Great. All right. So, as you guys all come to consciousness the next day, you gather your things and you step out of the mansion into the center of Senokir's shop.
Marisha: Do we recover our point of exhaustion when we sleep?
Matt: With the long rest, you recover a point of exhaustion, so you'll all back to baseline, including you, Pike, because your Greater Restoration. Your spells are recovered, HP is recovered, if there was any loss of it. So, the day is yours, what do you wish to do?
Sam: Go to The Arches. The golden arches. Wait, first we've got to cast Seeming.
Marisha: Are we going to scout-- I guess we still need Seeming.
Ashley: So we're all going to look like Vax?
Laura: And Vex.
Ashley: And Vex. All the girls are going to look like Vex.
Liam: Three Vex's, I mean, it's kind of the same.
Laura: I mean, yeah, but one's got boobs.
Liam: Which one?
Laura: Which one? (laughter)
Sam: We're going, right? All right. So, yes, I'll cast Seeming on everyone. Making them various level heights of Vex and Vax, I guess. (laughter)
Laura: (shouting) This is awesome.
Sam: And they're slaves, right? They're slaves. Tattered clothing.
Laura: No. No, make us look like good slaves.
Taliesin: Simple white robes.
Sam: All right. Simple tattered white robes. (laughter)
Laura: No, I want to look pretty.
Ashley: You're so rich, you want us clean.
Laura: Make us clean, like pretty slaves.
Sam: You're clean. That's right. You're the best of the best. You would have the best robes. Right?
Ashley: Like Princess Leia, Jabba the Hut.
Sam: Totally right. The best, finest simple white.
Travis: And we still have the neck thing.
Sam: Absolutely. And wait, am I making him celestial-ish?
Laura: Oh yeah, make his wings, when they come out, like white wings.
Sam: Is that a celestial? What does a celestial look like? Do they glow all the time?
Taliesin: They have white wings, correct?
Matt: Most angelic entities have white or gold wings.
Marisha: Did we find out if I could Alter Self wings?
Matt: You could not. It has to be the same physical structure.
Travis: Wait a minute. We don't want him walking through the streets, to The Arches, as a celestial. We want to get him in the house.
Taliesin: When he pops his wings, the wings will be gold.
Travis: Yeah, we haven't started walking though.
Liam: Can they be gold, delayed later, when they pop out?
Matt: We'll find out.
Liam: Oh, shit. Well.
Ashley: Can you hide them under a cape?
Sam: I don't know where you hide them normally.
Laura: They only last for an hour.
Liam: In my shoulder blades.
Sam: They're in you? Ew.
Liam: Yeah, well, it feels that way.
Sam: Are you Wolverine?
Taliesin: We are learning way too much about everyone.
Travis: So Seeming on everybody but Vax, right?
Sam: No.
Laura: No. Why?
Liam: The Seeming on us-- We look like us already.
Laura: It's just clothes, though.
Travis: Have we headed to The Arches yet?
Sam: We're walking there right now.
Travis: We're going to walk with a celestial in the middle of the streets?
Laura: No, we're saying we're not making his wings look like that yet, dude.
Matt: You guys are not sure where The Arches are.
Laura: Oh. Senokir?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Should we maybe go scout the location first as regular slaves?
Laura: No.
Sam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "What do you require?"
Laura: Hi, where are The Arches?
Matt: "Do you require guidance there? Uten, why don't you bring them to The Arches. I will not be joining you."
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: "I wish not to get involved with a pit fiend. I will ask though, just to be safe, if I could have, of your choice, one small bauble to remember you by. As we still have an arrangement to discuss, and knowing, to an extent, your capabilities, there's a chance that you might escape without returning to me."
Liam: Is that for memories or for some voodoo shit?
Laura: It's voodoo shit.
Matt: "It is to make sure that should you abscond without upholding your end of the deal, I can find you."
Liam: From each of us or--
Travis: I can give him one of the Sandkheg bottles.
Marisha: No, it's okay. I Druidcraft a band around his arm.
Matt: "Thank you. That'll die soon."
Marisha: You can, like, preserve it.
Travis: No, it's going to die, Keyleth. Don't--
Matt: "It'll still function. It just will be lifeless. So, continue please. Stay safe."
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Yeah, great.
Travis: We go.
Matt: Uten is like, "Okay, follow me. I will lead you." Even he is looking a little weird over at Senokir.
Sam: And when I cast Seeming, I also cast it on myself, making myself look like an azer?
Matt: An azer. The flaming beard dwarf.
Sam: Yeah, I don't know if I can make flames with Seeming.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of the illusion you can pull off something that resembles flames enough to the point where it should pass.
Sam: All right, great.
Matt: All right, so, as you guys walk out into the city, you are lead by Uten on a similar path that led you by the Pyriculum where you met Whaska, but you continue past that in the northeast direction heading towards, as he tells you as you pass, near the naval grounds of the Sea of Fire. Beyond that, you guys find the streets become wider and the network of clusters of metal cages begin to adorn portions of the center street islands. Within these cages, you see humanoids of all walks of life, creatures, beasts; it's a collection, a veritable zoo of entities from all the planes, all bound to various cages, chains, and other elements, whereas efreeti individually bark from top in a language you don't understand. You see large banners and streamers set across elements of the road to mark various segments of this area, and at this point Uten turns to you and goes, "Well, you have officially reached The Arches. I will bid you adieu as I also will not want to deal with a pit fiend. Good luck."
Laura: Wait, Uten.
Matt: (sighs) "Yes."
Laura: So what happens? Are these all for sale then and--?
Matt: "All the ones that do not look like they're yelling for you to buy something. Most likely."
Laura: Okay, and then other people come through. So, if you like do the door thing here then this could potentially be a market.
Marisha: Is it okay to just set up shop?
Matt: "If you are convincing enough."
Laura: Convincing enough?
Liam: Do we need a shingle to put out front?
Sam: A sign?
Liam: Flowers to make it look pretty?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you shape something?
Liam: Oh my god, you look just like my sister! You look just like me! That is fucking weird-- (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to go stand over by Grog. I'll talk to you later, never mind.
Matt: You go walk over to Grog and look up at a much larger, slightly butcher version of yourself staring down at you.
Liam: Yeah! Slightly? Completely butcher! (laughter)
Travis: What's up, me?
Sam: Are we going to pose and start selling?
Laura: I mean, we'll set up shop and only sell to him.
Marisha: I could also, theoretically-- I just don't know well these things can see through other things. I could do Hallucinatory Terrain right around this and make us look like a little legit kiosk. With a little entrance incorporating your door.
Sam: How much can you change the--
Marisha: I can control it as much as I want.
Taliesin: Can you grow a gazebo?
Laura: Yeah, but people will see the gazebo appear out of nowhere.
Taliesin: It's a magical tent.
Sam: What do we need to sell people? We just need a slab to put them up on. To say, "Look here, there's this one for sale."
Laura: Yeah, but we need the mansion door to get him inside so we're not going to have us outside. Are we?
Sam: Yeah, of course, we're going to have you guys outside. How else are we going to convince him that there is more good stuff inside?
Laura: Oh, I understand.
Liam: We're the showroom window.
Taliesin: Can you grow a gazebo out of grapevines?
Sam: Or just a stone slab? We don't need much. Let's not break the bank.
Marisha: I mean, I could do some Druidcraft but that's minor. Growing a gazebo out of vines, that's Plant Growth. I guess I could do Plant Growth fairly instantly, without the full-- because it's a one or the other kind of a thing.
Laura: I thought you said Hallucinatory Terrain?
Sam: Why do we need a fucking gazebo?
Laura: Let's just fucking stand here.
Liam: We don't want to look like Three Card Monte guys with a cardboard box--
Laura: What if we danced?
Sam: Matthew, what does everyone else have around them?
Marisha: I still feel like if we are a crowd of slaves at a door--
Sam: What are the other kiosks? Are there any?
Matt: There are many scenarios in which you see people being sold. You find elevated wooden platforms, you find metallic stages that are being lifted by slaves, held up, where the barker shouts out among them. There are all sorts of presentations, each person is trying to shout over the other. Many of the various humanoids and efreeti you see in the vicinity are all yelling over each other and trying to catch attention. It's this weird constant barking, almost auction type atmosphere, where it's a lot of din, noise, music, and voices shouting over each other. It's also very crowded in this area. There are a couple small parts, there's like an alleyway nearby where there is a little more of an opening. Like if there was a spot to set up it would be there, if not there's-- probably could traverse the rest of the vicinity of the slave market but currently where you are that's the one space that's not too close to an existing shop.
Travis: Set up there.
Laura: Yeah, set up there. Then Grog, you lift him up and make him look super tall and we're doing this around him.
Travis: The celestial will sell itself. We don't need anything fancy.
Liam: In a row, in a row.
Laura: In a row, doing the same move.
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft some nice inviting looking bushes?
Travis: Shrubs?
Marisha: Shrubs, yeah.
Matt: Sure, which will definitely catch attention because no vegetation exists here for the most part.
Marisha: Never mind, then.
Matt: I'm just saying it would catch attention if you want people to look in your area.
Taliesin: No, it will be fancy. I think it will be fancy.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Plants where there are no plants is fancy.
Travis: What?
Ashley: And if a slave can do that, that's pretty special.
Travis: Maybe we wait until we see him so we don't get unwanted buyers.
Ashley: Maybe you can do some flair as people are walking by.
Sam: Should we sit here and wait for a while?
Travis: Yup.
Taliesin: Let's keep an eye out. Why doesn't whichever one of us is the one that can be sneaky and look around.
Liam: We all need to be voguing.
Travis: We're staying together.
Laura: We'll look as we're voguing.
Taliesin: All right. All right.
Travis: We wait to see if the pit fiend shows himself.
Sam: Can you guys all do like the Robert Palmer video? (laughter)
Matt: (singing) Simply irresistible.
Laura: Do you want to give us instruments and we'll all play something?
Sam: Sure, sure. I'll play a little ditty. We'll jam to it.
Matt: There is a series of smaller buildings in the area. There is the main street that runs through here and across that street is where there are many of the various slave blocks and larger platforms set. You guys find the entrance to this alley way, which curves around behind you and there is a large wall that leads to another section beyond that. This is where you begin to set up or where you're planning to set up shop. So you guys wait there for a while. Looking about, you can see, most of the people that are selling slaves there-- some of them are humanoid, some of them are kobold servants, some of them are worse for wear, looking like they are hoping to get sold soon before they expire. You do see, across the way, two young boys maybe about 15 or so years old, light blue-- (laughter)
Matt: No, Scanlan, no. (laughter)
Matt: Light blue skin and pupil-less. They are held by red-colored chains and they look broken of spirit and they are both sitting with a hunch.
Laura: Aw, can we get them? Go get them.
Sam: Poor Nightcrawler.
Laura: Go get them and see if we can get them.
Travis: Are they celestials?
Sam: I am going to go over there and buy these two kids? For what?
Laura: Maybe and then we can set them free once we're out of here.
Sam: All right.
Travis: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: No, leave them alone.
Sam: This isn't our fight.
Travis: Stay on target.
Sam: Do one of you want to go over there and say hi, slave to slave?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go over there.
Sam: Yeah, sure, go on.
Matt: Okay, Vex, by the way, your alignment's back up to Chaotic Good.
Laura: Oh! (fake sobs)
Matt: That was the last little push there with that instance.
Liam: I murder an old lady. (laughter)
Liam: Welcome back.
Matt: All right, so what are you doing?
Sam: I'll walk over with her so it doesn't seem weird that my slave is wandering around, I suppose. I guess?
Laura: Yeah, talk to the guy and I'll talk to the slaves.
Sam: They have an owner?
Matt: Yeah, as you approach the two of them, with the red chain around their necks and arms and they are leaning over the edge of the small wooden platform looking dejected at the ground. And approaching them, the skin itself is like a soft white porcelain with a slight translucent blue hue to it, white pupiless eyes. They look human, but they are beautiful and out of place here. Even in their destitution, you can't help but be struck by their presence. Both their chains are currently locked to this stump that is in the center of this wooden platform and behind it you see this grotesque-looking dwarf in very fine clothing that is very very dirty and old. He stands there clutching the edges of his lapel going, "All right, we've got here before you two, two I found and kept beneath my will. For sale. With angel blood within them."
Sam: (French accent) Hello, I am slave master Francois Australia and I am curious about your two angel boys. (laughter)
Matt: "Well, if you're looking to purchase, these will both set you back about 10,000 gold apiece or 18 for the set."
Sam: (French accent) What can they do? I would be curious to find out.
Matt: (whispering) "Whatever the fuck they can do I don't know. I wasn't selling them for their skillset. I was selling them for their uniqueness."
Sam: (French accent) How do you know anything about these boys? How did you get them?
Matt: "What's it to you, small one?"
Sam: (French accent) I like to see a chain of ownership so I know that the previous owner will not hunt me down and kill me in the night!
Matt: "There is no previous owner! I went and got them myself! The chain of ownership is this chain right here." He points to the one on the stump. You can see greasy black hair that is parted in the middle, mustache comes down into a weirdly fluffy beard that has weird oily portions of it. He's an awful-looking dwarf. "So, are you going to buy or shall I wait for the ones I'm looking for?"
Sam: (French accent) Which ones are those? (laughter)
Matt: "Piss off."
Laura: (whispering) Offer him 15 for the pair.
Sam: (French accent) (whispering) Merci. (normal volume) Would you take 15 for both of them?
Matt: "Are your ears clogged? I said ten each or 18 for the bundle!"
Sam: (French accent) Yes, but you don't seem to know where they come from, who they belonged to before. It's a risk that is possibly worth 3,000 gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: This is how Sam wooed me in 2008. (laughter)
Sam: Is this persuasion, solely? 20.
Matt: "Cash on hand? 15. (whispering) Don't tell anyone I said that."
Sam: (French accent) Oui. Oh, slave, can I have the gold? (laughter)
Sam: (normal voice) Are we really going to do this?
Laura: Yeah, we are going to buy them. We are buying them!
Travis: We're taking in everything.
Laura: They're so young! They're innocents.
Taliesin: And then we have extra slaves, it's beautiful.
Matt: "Haha. Well, it's been fine doing business with you." He puts the coins away, pulls out a piece of paper. "What's your full name?"
Sam: (French accent) Francois Bertrand Jean-Luc Australia. (laugher)
Matt: "Here you are. Transference of ownership." Grabs the chains, unhooks them, takes the lock and hands it to you. "They're yours to take. Now you two shove off! Do what the man says."
Sam: (French accent) Do they have names?
Matt: "No! It's your choice to name them!"
Sam: Au revoir.
Matt: So as the two of you walk back with these two chained boys who walk behind you--
Laura: Do you speak Common?
Matt: (stuttering) "Yes."
Laura: How did he find you?
Matt: "Well, we--" They both look at each other. "It doesn't matter, it's you who own us now."
Laura: It matters, dear.
Taliesin: Let's not have this conversation with them yet, sister, until all has been taken care of.
Laura: Ugh. (retching)
Travis: I see why we got them now. Even better bait.
Laura: Come stand over with us.
Taliesin: What, sister?
Liam: (retching)
Marisha: This is what we are now.
Liam: Grog, slap me really hard across the face right now.
Travis: Done.
Matt: Oh! He hits you and it's numb for minute. You realize, why is the world sideways? He knocked you to the ground.
Liam: Sweet, sweet ignorance.
Taliesin: Do you need a hand up, brother?
Travis: Stop hitting yourself.
Liam: I'm taking off a hit point.
Matt: The two children follow you back. They are chained and you have them at your disposal. What are you guys going to do?
Travis: We're waiting.
Sam: We're just waiting, I guess.
Laura: Do we have the mansion up?
Sam: Not yet. I'll say to the boys  You two, have you been for sale for more than a day or two?
Matt: "He's had us here for three days. Sorry."
Sam: It's all right. In that time have you seen a large red thing with big wings?
Matt: They both recoil, "No, no!"
Sam: Okay, all right. Thank you. We just wait, I suppose.
Laura: Yeah, I guess so.
Sam: You want to go buy a few more?
Laura: No, no, no, sorry. I'm sorry.
Ashley: You could just say, Angels for sale!
Liam: Wait, did you drop a bunch of gold on them?
Laura: No! No, no, no, we got an amazing deal.
Liam: Like how much?
Laura: Like, 50 gold. It was so affordable.
Taliesin: I want to do an insight check on that.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Insight check, okay, that's 22.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Laura: With my gold. Yikes, no, I don't win.
Matt: She is lying through her teeth.
Taliesin: You're an idiot and I'm very proud of you. Don't do that again.
Laura: Don't talk to me right now. Just don't. (laughter)
Taliesin: What if I were to do a very strange accent?
Laura: No, also not attractive.
Sam: (Vex impersonation) What if you were to talk like Vex?
Laura: Don't! Stop. (laughter)
Liam: I have found, put your hand up here like this when you're talking to them because Percival sounds like Percival.
Matt: While they're talking, Keyleth, you notice, across the way, the dwarf they had spoken to and purchased these two from has packed up his things and looks around, pulls a wand out, does a large circle, and him and his kiosk vanishes.
Liam: We fit right in.
Marisha: See, there are a lot of pop-up vendors here, guys.
Taliesin: Good to know. So if you summon your magical room--
Marisha: Maybe you'll be more impressive.
Sam: Makes sense.
Travis: Can I survey the road in the direction of the embassy. Do we see anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural one.
Laura: Aw, man!
Matt: You look over in the direction of the embassy and you stare at the embassy and from this far away it's hard to make out the shape but--
Travis: It looks like the letter ah--
Taliesin: You only know two. Pick one. (laughter)
Travis: And I stay there.
Taliesin: G and R, that's what you've got.
Laura: That is so sad.
Marisha: I could try and scry on him while we wait.
Sam: Yeah, scry again.
Travis: Nobody else wants to check the road?
Marisha: There is an alley behind us that we set up in front of?
Matt: Yes, there is an alley behind you for about 20 or so feet and then it curves off.
Marisha: Does anyone seem to be behind the alley?
Matt: From what you can see currently, no.
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Marisha: Do you want to come with me back into the alley for a little bit and watch, in case anyone sees? You could be giving me a good firm scolding, just in case.
Laura: Scanlan should be visible at all times.
Marisha: Well, it takes a minute to do the Scrying.
Sam: Vax, Vex, don't argue, we'll get through this. I mean, I'm going to go back with you so--
Marisha: Stand guard, I'll be right back.
Sam: Sure, I'll stand watch.
Marisha: I go back to a little dark corner and I pull out the Scrying Eye.
Taliesin: Pike--
Ashley: No, no, my name is Vex.
Taliesin: Vex, sister, do you want to perhaps do a walk around with the two boys and see if we can't attract some attention?
Ashley: Sure.
Sam: We're splitting the party.
Taliesin: I'm not getting far but I'm going to take the two boys--
Laura: You be careful with them.
Taliesin: I'll be very careful with them. I'm going to say, don't talk to anyone, don't look anyone in the eye, and don't answer any questions without my permission, do you understand?
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: And don't be scared.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: I've got a plan, follow my lead. This should be interesting.
Matt: As you guys begin to wander off with the two boys, Keyleth, you hold the scry crystal in your hand and, as you focus, you see this flash of heat in your mind and then darkness again. The spell has no effect.
Laura: He's not even here.
Sam: Or he's blocking it somehow.
Laura: No, I bet he's in the fucking Nine Hells right now.
Sam: Getting some money to go and come to the slave market.
Laura: Yeah, he's probably sold all the people that were hanging out with him last time.
Matt: Just so you're aware, the scry spell fails if they're not on your plane of existence or if they succeed their saving throw.
Sam: Ah!
Taliesin: You can try again in ten minutes.
Marisha: I can try again.
Taliesin: I'm going to look around for something interesting.
Matt: Okay, you begin to walk around, you hear the barking of various heavy-throated creatures. You come across this large, it looks almost like a wolf or dog but the face is a little less pronounced like a wolf and a little more humanoid in the front, but it is still bestial and monstrous. The coat is gray and matted and you can see these long fangs protruding. It barks and snarls but every single time it reaches for the bars-- and the bars themselves look like a flimsy wood-- but as it tries to tear at them or bite there is a spark of arcane energy and it backs up and seems to recoil from the attack and begins to pace back and forth in its cage again.
Taliesin: I try and discern who runs this establishment.
Matt: You also see behind that, there are two more cages that contain these very large insect-like creatures that have very long bodies with multiple legs, looks like a set of eight or so legs, almost like an oversized praying mantis, the giant pincers in the front, but they are currently collapsed on the ground within their cages resting in the heat. Behind them you see an individual that appears to be a similar racial background as Senokir, but is older with this red and graying goatee that comes to a very defined point at the end of the chin and is currently sitting, sipping off of a wine skin and watching you. (slurp)
Taliesin: Most humble greetings, good master.
Ashley: I'll bow as well.
Taliesin: My sister and I have been sent by our owner to peruse the market for things that he might enjoy and I have been asked to inquire upon the nature of what you're selling and your suggested price. Never making eye contact.
Matt: "Very well. We have today, and today only, two ankhegs for sale. Mind you, not bound. The will is yours to break. And one barghest at the front. The prices: the ankhegs are 500 gold apiece, the barghest, 8,000 gold."
Taliesin: My master is always interested in creatures of unusual disposition and he will be excited to know what you have for sale. I thank you for your time. May I please leave your-- I've lost my brain.
Matt: "Yes, please, go."
Taliesin: I bow, I back off properly. What are you feeding me in this cup? (laughter)
Matt: As time progresses and you guys have been wandering around, eventually the image does come across your mind as you wish to-- You wanted to Scry again?
Marisha: Yeah, whenever I can.
Matt: Okay. Still no success, unfortunately.
Taliesin: I'm making sure that the whole market knows that there is someone perusing and purchasing for unusual creatures and making sure they see the weird twins and the two angelic-- I'm making a show of it. And I'm making a show of our non-chained obedience.
Matt: As it progresses, the actual twins, you notice far up the way to where The Arches begin, you see a sight you've been seeking this entire time. You see a large, deep red entity begin strolling down the street with its burly rippling armored muscles, its giant red wings flared out behind it, its horned head and crest piercing the sky behind it as its burning eyes and fanged jaw and mouth. He lumps forward with each step, and as it does, you begin to see the essence of the necklace that had been described previously, dangling around its neck.
Liam: Preemptive jenga.
Sam: All right, we go back to the sales area.
Taliesin: We're not going to hurry. We're going to meander so that maybe we get seen.
Ashley: He gets a glimpse, yeah.
Liam: Can I tell you something really quick? I am super impressed with you. That was very kind. That's it. Get ready.
Matt: As you guys wait in the spot that you've chosen, the pit fiend, as you've rightfully designated it at this point, begins walking through and slowly making its way through the crowd. As it glances around, you can see it strolling up to a few bars and running its claws across. You hear the (clanking) sound of it-- thank you, Criss Angel. You see it running its claws across the bars with a heavy (clanking). It seems disinterested by many of the creatures that it passes by.
Marisha: Should I do something theatrical? Magicky?
Sam: I'll play a song. (singing) Hot in the city, hot in the city tonight! Tonight!
Matt: Make a perform check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: (heavy footsteps) It begins to eventually cross paths with the alley where you guys are situated. It turns its head and looks down to you, with your flaming beard and fire-wreathed head, playing your song. It slows its gait ever so slightly. It is an imposing and frightening entity. Even just being in its presence, even as you play the best you can, you feel everything almost slowed down in its proximity as its sheer immensity passes you, leaving you in its shadow for a momentary bit of time. In that moment, you feel the back of your neck stand on end. All the hairs immediately come to full point. You feel cold and alone as it sets its eyes upon you. It moves its gaze beyond and continues walking.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk by with the slaves.
Matt: Okay, so you come by, the other direction, as you guys finish your meandering. As you walk by, it (footsteps stopping). Looks at the two boys that you've procured and slows.
Sam: I'll call out to Percy  (French accent) It's no use! No one has enough money for our slaves! Forget it. We should clean up and go home.
Taliesin: Of course, master.
Ashley: Of course, sir. We tried so hard.
Matt: The pit fiend has turned about and is standing there with its arms crossed, watching this transpire maybe halfway up the block where you guys had set up. Its eyes narrow with a bright spark of yellow light that situates where its face is. (heavy footsteps) It saunters up in your direction, looks over to where the rest of you are, and where the two--
Sam: Is he coming over?
Matt: He's heading in your direction.
Sam: Okay, I'll summon the magnificent mansion door, and I'll say to the slaves: (French accent) All right, it was worth a try, but we must pack it in.
Matt: As you're saying this, the pit fiend puts a hand up. Its mouth doesn't move but you hear a voice piercing deep inside your head. It says, "Stop. I have discourse to make with you, small one."
Sam: But of course. I am here to sell, if you are here to buy.
Matt: "I have interest with your aasimar."
Sam: (French accent) They are for sale, for a good price.
Taliesin: I've already brought them into the mansion. I've already handed them off and said: Put them very far downstairs. Hide them.
Matt: You bring them into the mansion?
Taliesin: Oh yeah. I've brought them into the mansion and have put them downstairs. The servants are taking them down.
Sam: (French accent) We have already packed up for the day, but if this is a serious business proposal, well, I can go in and fetch them.
Matt: The creature leans down toward you, the pit fiend's very presence itself almost causing the air to vibrate around you. Though it is not the largest creature that you've faced, there is something about its presence that is purely evil. A bastion of power across all elements of the cosmos that you haven't had stare you down at this proximity. As it leans forward, the voice once again pierces the center of your brain. "It would do well to bring them forth."
Sam: (French accent) I cannot just communicate with them. Would you join me inside my shop? There you will see many other fine specimens.
Matt: "What is your price?"
Sam: (French accent) Well, you haven't seen what I have to offer.
Matt: "I have seen enough."
Sam: (French accent) So you are not interested in the naga, the goristro, the other celestial beings? The orcs?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Deceiving the devil, come on, baby!
Sam: 31.
Liam: (airhorn noises)
Matt: "Perhaps in time, but now I seek the aasimar in your possession."
Liam: But I did the airhorn!
Sam: (French accent) If you please, and with due respect, I do not see any jewelry or fineries on your person. Can you afford such prices that I will quote you?
Matt: As you say this, the eyes narrow. It leans back as its head cocks slightly. "Have you never done business in this city before?"
Sam: (French accent) I'm afraid that I haven't. But if you are serious, and it seems that you are by the way that you are not moving your mouth--
Matt: He begins walking away from you.
Sam: (French accent) Wait! Would you like to come inside with me and see them for yourself?
Matt: It has completely written you off and is walking northward, back from whence it came.
Travis: Quick, throw a price out!
Sam: (French accent) 30,000 apiece!
Matt: (footsteps) Slows its gait, turns around, (footsteps) keeps walking.
Sam: (French accent) 10,000!
Matt: It stops. Turns around and starts heading back toward you. (footsteps) The voice once again pierces, this time even more intense, more oppressive. You've seen shadow. You've never really felt it inside you before. The voice itself presses against your will. You hear it say, "Your price is acceptable. You know the Embassy is good to pay. Present the charges, and I will take them."
Laura: Can I come out and bow before Scanlan and say, "Forgive me, master, for interrupting, but the female aasimar is fighting back."
Sam: (French accent) Well, put her-- ugh-- I'm so sorry, sir. I must go deal with this. I don't want to make you wait here. You are clearly a man of respect.
Matt: "I will wait." It stays there, across the way, with its arms crossed, about ten feet from you.
Sam: (French accent) I will be right back, I promise.
Laura: I know she is much more powerful than the boys, but we cannot control her.
Sam: Did she use the magic?
Laura: All of it, my master! All of the magic!
Sam: Oh my god. Oh my god! I run into the mansion.
Matt: I would like you to make a deception check and you to make a deception check, please.
Travis: (laughing) Did she use the magic?
Sam: Can I inspire myself? Can I, after I know my roll?
Matt: Yeah, that's part of what's good about it.
Sam: Oh. Well, then fucking yes, I'll inspire myself. That helps.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Sam: One.
Matt: That's an auto-fail.
Laura: I rolled a 28.
Sam: Hey, she's good!
Matt: Well, as you charge in, and you're staying outside of the door? You watch as the creature, staring at Scanlan-- or his persona-- talk to you and then charge through the doorway. The pit fiend (sniffs) looks over to you.
Sam: Inside the mansion, I run up to Grog and I say: Cut me! Cut my face, cut my arms, cut me. Right now.
Travis: Okay, I pick him up by the top of his head and I do a one, two, three!
Laura: While I'm outside, I say  Could I offer you some refreshments, great master?
Matt: The voice echoes through your head in a way that is genuinely the stuff of nightmares. You feel your will crack slightly at its presence. It says, "No."
Laura: (small voice) Okay.
Travis: I also spit in your eye so it starts to water.
Sam: Great. I run out of the mansion. (French accent) Oh my god! Oh! It's incredible in there! She is so powerful! She cut me with her mind! Please, come with me, I will need help with this.
Matt: The voice says, "Your deceptions are angering and useless. If there is no business to be had, I will let the embassy know. You will not have business in this city ever again."
Liam: I slowly flex out my black wings, slowly, and lower them, and take a step half-covering you, and say, Are you all right, master? Do you need my help?
Sam: I think so? I'll say to the young man  All right, I am sorry to play these games and haggle with prices. I will go fetch them immediately. I'll go in the mansion and yell: Fucking jenga! We've got to fucking kill this guy! We've got to go kill him right now! Come on! Let's go!
Travis: Well, we're inside. Do we want to set up a sneak attack? Can we?
Laura: It's too late!
Travis: Why?
Laura: Because he's outside, dude! I'm out there with him. So is Vax.
Travis: Who's inside the mansion?
Marisha: We didn't really specify.
Matt: Yeah, you're in the alleyway still.
Marisha: I'm in the alleyway with the twins.
Liam: How are the twins and boss-man here arranged in the alley, or outside the door?
Matt: The doorway is in the alley. It's right where the alley meets the street. Keyleth is behind the alley. The twins are on the sides of the doorway, so you guys are along the sidewalk of the street. Grog is inside, along with Scanlan, Percy, and Pike.
Liam: What's our proximity to him?
Matt: He's about 15 feet from you guys. He's across the street, at this point, with his arms crossed, keeping a distance.
Marisha: 15 feet across the street?
Sam: I can go out with the two angels, get him to come over and look at them, at least. Then you guys can pour out? I don't know.
Travis: You can bring them out in front of the house if you want to. Then when he walks over we can--
Sam: Yeah, bring them up.
Laura: I don't want him to hurt them.
Marisha: I packed this, just in case.
Sam: You want to be an angel?
Marisha: No, I packed Feeblemind.
Laura: What does that do?
Sam: It could maybe work.
Marisha: It's an 8th-level spell, and it makes him stupid.
Sam: Can you look like an angel?
Marisha: No. Well, I could use Alter Self.
Laura: Can you make yourself step out-- no, I said there was a female.
Marisha: As one of the female aasimar?
Matt: You guys are having this conversation over your earpiece?
Sam: No, but we're in the-- oh shit. She's not there.
Matt: I was going to say. But you're in direct line of sight to the pit fiend.
Laura: So I'm not saying anything. I'm sorry.
Marisha: This guy has to make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: All right, you do whatever you want. Give me the angels. I'm going to go back out there.
Marisha: Do you want me to try and make this guy stupid?
Sam: Yeah, if you can! Do whatever you can! All I'm trying to do is get him to stay long enough for you guys to do something.
Travis: Yeah, get him to come toward the door.
Marisha: He's 15 feet away?
Sam: Are you inside the mansion?
Marisha: No, I'm outside. I'm in the alleyway. How many feet away am I from him?
Matt: From him right now? About 35 feet.
Marisha: Is he aware of my presence?
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: I'm going to saunter further down the alleyway. This has a 150-foot range.
Matt: Okay, so you pull even further back? Okay, make a stealth check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I've got the angels. I'm walking back out. Right?
Laura: No!
Ashley: I'll be behind them.
Matt: Okay, so Pike is coming out with the two aasimar.
Laura: Fuck.
Travis: I'll exit the mansion too, and start walking toward the embassy a few steps, slowly. Just to get distance.
Laura: I get ready. The minute, well, never mind.
Marisha: Okay. So wait, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm going outside with the two angels.
Matt: So, you exit with the reddish chains in hand and both of the boys exit with you. As soon as they walk out of the portal and they see, across the way, the pit fiend standing there with his arms crossed, they both (gasps) you hear the breath escape their lungs as the fear hits them. The pit fiend's arms go lax. You can see a bit of a smile on its face, now. It looks like its pensive frustration in waiting has been expended. The voice says, "You will be paid."
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Money first.
Sam: I don't want to fucking bargain with this thing.
Marisha: As he goes to hand over the chains, right as he goes to reach for it, I'm going to do Feeblemind.
Matt: Feeblemind, okay.
Marisha: Jesus fucking Christ!
Sam: Don't miss and hit me, babe!
Matt: All righty, what's the DC on this?
Marisha: He's got to make an intelligence saving throw.
Matt: Correct, and what's your spell DC?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. Okay.
Laura: Oh god. Natural one, natural one.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Matt: All right. As it takes one step forward toward Scanlan, you, in the back of the alleyway, extend your finger. You watch as this slight shift of light travels forward, like a slight ripple, almost like a miniature breaking of the sound barrier. Strikes across the air. Seems to collide with the front of the pit fiend. As it hits, the energy (fizzling) dissipates, not affecting its form. You watch as the pit fiend suddenly, its attention--
Marisha: He takes 4d6 psychic damage.
Matt: He does.
Liam: Was Scanlan walking toward him, or had they gotten right up against each other?
Laura: I release Trinket from my crystal necklace.
Marisha: He saved from it, didn't he?
Matt: He does not appear affected by the ability.
Marisha: He's not affected by the ability?!
Matt: I mean, he took damage, but the Feeblemind did not seem to alter him.
Laura: Are there any of the efreeti guards around?
Matt: Currently, you do not see any. However, let's go ahead and pick up this confrontation next week. It's 11:00. If we jump into this now, we'll be here past midnight.
Taliesin: No, yeah, we're calling it.
Marisha: Gives us time to think.
Laura: We took too long.
Matt: It's all good.
Taliesin: This got wonderfully bad.
Liam: I'm going to forget by next week. Is Scanlan walking toward him, or had Scanlan gotten right next to him?
Matt: Scanlan stepped out of the door and walked out just enough-- Scanlan is probably ten feet from the door, there, right behind him, just emerged from the doorway. He's about ten feet from Scanlan, and 15 from-- Correct. I'll set up the arrangement for next week. I'll put something together for you guys so you know what we're going to start with next week. But yeah, we're going to jump in, next Thursday, into a mid-street City of Brass battle.
Liam: Sextuplets!
Sam: Vex, Vax, Vax, Vex, Vex, and Vax!
Matt: Here's the one thing I'm going to leave you with, because I feel this is important. As soon as you guys watch this slight dissipation of arcane energy splash across the torso and head of the pit fiend, and it steps onto its back foot, and you all realize this is the Jenga moment. As you're preparing to go into combat, you watch as the pit fiend narrows its eyes and, from immediately to its left, a small, localized gateway tears open and out from it you watch a humanoid female with large, red, feathered wings, carrying some sort of glowing lasso or rope at her side, armor, and a large weapon, with a bow slung across her shoulder, flies out next to the pit fiend. "You rang?"
Laura: Aw, fuck.
Matt: And that's where we'll pick up next week.
Laura: We're doomed.
Matt: So, we'll see you guys next week. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ashley, for coming and playing.
Ashley: I won't be here next week.
Matt: You won't be here next week? Aw, you're filming Thursday? Aw.
Liam: What you going to be working on?
Ashley: I don't know. Stuffs and stuffs.
Travis: Yay, Pike!
Marisha: We'll get you that armor!
Matt: Well, guys, thank you very much. Have a good night, rest well. Thank you, Loot Crate. Is it Thursday yet? See you guys soon. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight is going to be interesting based on where we left off last time, but before we get to all of that, let me get through tonight's announcements for you guys so we can get to the game proper. For those of you who are drinking: first shot, there you go. First and foremost, tonight's episode is brought to you by our good friends at Loot Crate!
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: Sam, did you want to take us away?
Sam: Guys! Loot Crate has a brand new theme for December, Revolution! They're always watching, they've designed a system to keep you down, they're meddlesome, it's time for a revolution! Here's the thing. Every week I do these sort of funny bits about Loot Crate. This week, it's going to be hard for me, because-- to get real with you guys for a second-- my son, this morning, at his preschool they found that his pre-school's bunny has deceased. (sympathetic noises)
Sam: And so they wanted me-- I talked to some of the kids. Some of the kids are actually-- they like the show? And they asked if I could bring the bunny in a Loot Crate to pay tribute.
Laura: I do not believe you. You're not--
Sam: So it's here. Because this makes the bunny sort of part of the show. And the kids and the parents helped a little, they wrote a little something to commemorate the bunny and I'm going to read that for the kids. For the kids! What can be said about Dennis the Hopper? The bestest bunny the Little Explorer's classroom ever had, the way he always jumped left paw first, or nibbled on Olivia's Yo Gabba Gabba backpack? The way he pooped whenever Maddie picked him up. We'll miss your floppy ears, your soft fur, but most of all, your inner beauty. Love, the Little Explorers: Maddie, Olivia, Salinger, Paris, Justice, Woodley, Appalonia, DeGrass, Garvey, Barack, Sashimi, Neptune, Sevigny, Coachella, Aaliyah, Walnut, and Kevin.
Marisha: To be fair, that sounds like a southern California school. Silverlake!
Sam: And now to honor their request to make the bunny part of Critical Role forever, I'm going to--
Travis: Don't touch it, man!
Sam: We'll miss you, Dennis.
Travis: How long has that chicken been sitting in that box?
Sam: Little long. (laughter)
Liam: Hi to PETA, by the way.
Travis: Fucking hell. We have these amazing Loot Crate DX boxes!
Matt: Go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the promo code CriticalRole, one word, you get 10% off your first month of Loot Crate. Sam couldn't say that because his mouth is full of bunny. But let's go ahead and open.
Marisha: The DX boxes aren't the clothes boxes, are they?
Laura: No, no no. That's Loot Crate Clothes. But wait!
Matt: That's actually really cool.
Laura: Is there Gears of War stuff in here? I thought there might be.
Matt: All about the Harry Potter blanket.
Laura: Shut up!
Travis: I'm a Baratheon, man, this means a lot to me!
Matt: Look at this blanket, guys  Wanded, and Extremely Dangerous.
Marisha: It's going to take me the whole unboxing to get it open.
Travis: Holy shit!
Taliesin: There's a Witcher Wild Hunt medallion paperweight.
Matt: I need more of these medallions, by the way.
Liam: Is that an Eye of Acomodo for my shirt?!
Laura: What's the Harry Potter thing?
Travis: It's a Hogwarts book clip.
Matt: You're slowly becoming more and more your character.
Liam: Yeah, he talks just like this!
Taliesin: This is not kidding around, this is kind of intense!
Sam: Does that go on your car, what is that?
Taliesin: It's a paperweight. You could brain somebody with this.
Matt: This will be a murder weapon in some case over the next year.
Travis: This is so legit!
Taliesin: That's a bottle opener right there.
Travis: Since 1963, drawing what acid does to your brain.
Laura: Thanks, Loot Crate!
Marisha: This is my further transformation to actually becoming Melisandre in School of Thrones.
Sam: Did we show this yet?
Marisha: Yeah, if anyone doesn't know, Matt produced, and I helped him in it, we were in this web series called School of Thrones, like four years ago. You make a cameo in it.
Taliesin: Yeah, I have a cameo in it.
Matt: It's ridiculous.
Marisha: It's basically Game of Thrones in a John Hughes film. Just watch it.
Matt: Watch it!
Laura: I really like this.
Taliesin: I'm stealing some of this stuff.
Travis: I'm a Slytherin prefect, you need to go to bed, Mr. Mercer. I apparently have an accent for some reason.
Sam: Guys, I'm going to keep the box in case the preschool's parrot dies.
Travis: Yeah, you going to start a pet cemetery?
Matt: Awesome. Thank you, Loot Crate. As a heads up, guys, next week on December 6th from 6:00 to 7:00pm, they're doing a Puzzle Quest special stream here on Geek & Sundry, and a number of us are going to be there with Ivan. Big thank you to Magic the Gathering Puzzle Quest for putting this together. You guys probably remember back in September a few of us showed up for Game the Game Goes Critical, and thanks to you guys supporting that show, they've come back to have us go ahead and do this again. So we'll be here next Tuesday from 6:00 to 7:00, leading right up into Talks Machina, messing around. You can check out their game, Magic the Gathering Puzzle Quest, on iOS and Android devices, and we'll see you guys hopefully next Tuesday. (air horn)
Sam: Whoa!
Travis: Wow. That's so appropriate.
Liam: That's my butt!
Matt: I approve now. If that happens during the game at any given point in time, that's disadvantage. (air horn)
Matt: Unless it's really funny.
Liam: Sound the horns.
Matt: Choose carefully, Liam. Choose carefully. It's like telling a kid he can choose his own punishment, it's dangerous. Also, we're helping support the amazing charity, Worldbuilders, with Patrick Rothfuss and a number of other great authors. You can find out more at worldbuilders.org. They bring the power of readers and writers and all that type of creativity together, to raise money to help make the world a better place. Go check it out, it's a wonderful group and we'll hopefully be doing more things with them coming up in the near future. Those announcements will come as we go forward, but Patrick Rothfuss, who's a friend of the show, was a guest on Critical Role--
Liam: I'm not really very familiar with Patrick Rothfuss--
Matt: You should read some of his stuff, it's pretty good, he's a good writer. And apparently is now making a show with Lin-Manuel.
Marisha: I hear they're besties. He's actually my new bestie.
Matt: That's right, yeah, you got a cool ring.
Marisha: Yeah, he gave me a ring, yeah. My new best friend.
Sam: He put a ring on it?!
Taliesin: It is the six degrees of Lin-Manuel now, isn't it? Kevin Bacon has been unthroned.
Matt: We're all slowly making our way towards getting him on the show. That's the goal.
Taliesin: Lin-Manuel, on the show.
Liam: I'm willing to wait for it.
Marisha: Lin-Manuel, on this show. This one.
Matt: Next up, this next Monday, actually, we are doing the final wrap-up episode of Force Grey: Giant Hunters live at the Egyptian Theater here in Hollywood from 5:00-8:30pm next Monday. We'll also be streaming it. The tickets are free, by the way, so if you're in the vicinity, go ahead and get some tickets, come join us. We have a great cast, a couple of new members are joining in for this. It's going to be a lot of fun and a great finale for the Force Grey series. Those who watched the Acquisitions Inc series and their PAX game, there might be a few fun little nods in there as well. So, anyway, much love to you guys if you can make it, if not we'll see you on Twitch on Monday regardless! And last but not least, here on Geek & Sundry there is coming up the Dick and Johnson Ultimate Christmas Special, with lots of familiar faces. Zach Carr is DMing this, it's a kick ass and chew bubblegum game, I'm sure you've seen it probably on Game the Game before, it's a great game. It's been on a few other projects here. But Hector and Keller, they're going to be playing through your favorite BFF duo to save everything in the world. There might be some cameos, a bunch of rapid-fire cameos throughout the show, so check out the Dick and Johnson Save Christmas special at December 12, at 4:00pm Pacific here on Twitch. It's going to be fun.
Travis: That is the best name.
Matt: Might be showing up off screen, just to heckle people. Or more. We'll find out. All right, any other announcements?
Liam: Yeah, she's trying to keep it on the down low, but Laura doesn't have any of her dice, really. She has three sets instead of the usual ten.
Laura: I brought my bag of dice home for the holiday and then I didn't bring it--
Sam: Why did you bring it home?
Laura: I maybe was going to give some of our dice to our winners for the costume contest.
Sam: But instead--
Laura: I just left them at home.
Sam: I have a bag of dice in there that I've never used.
Laura: I have a lot of dice, I just don't have all my dice, you guys. I still have a bunch up here.
Travis: She literally has 300 over here.
Laura: I do, I have a lot. But thank you!
Taliesin: We're doomed.
Marisha: Speaking of charities, before we go on. Speaking of charities, I would still like to give a shout-out to 826LA, who we so love and support. They're great. People will send us tweets being like, "Hey, do you guys still support 826LA?" Always, I don't think you can stop supporting 826LA.
Taliesin: I don't know, they know what they did.
Marisha: I don't know, they know what they did.
Taliesin: And they have their own shop also, and if you're interested you can go and shop at 826, and they have super cool posters and books. And buttons, and all sorts of stuff that you can get that they put out that are super super cool.
Marisha: And I've seen people take you up on your suggestion that it's always a great date place.
Taliesin: It is such a good date place.
Marisha: We've had people tweet at us and be like, we took you up on that, and it is a good date place, because they have cute store fronts, so you should go.
Taliesin: Yeah. The actual quality of the date is not guaranteed, but the quality of the venue--
Marisha: No. That depends on you.
Taliesin: No. That depends on you.
Marisha: And we can't help that.
Sam: Could you do a wedding there if you wanted to?
Taliesin: A very small one.
Sam: Or a bar mitzvah, or maybe a bris?
Taliesin: A very small wedding, or a wedding with small people.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All righty then. On that note, unless anyone else has anything to say we are going to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. Including my party. Who need to calm the fuck down. (laughter)
Liam: Party!
Matt: So, picking up where we left off last time. The group of intrepid adventurers known as Vox Machina have been making their way through their quest to take down the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons who have been terrorizing the countryside in Tal'Dorei under the rule of Thordak the Cinder King, a great, powerful, and seemingly elementally charged ancient red dragon who sits in the center of the city of Emon. After gathering the rest of the artifacts you guys have been seeking, called the Vestiges of Divergence, the last one being found in the City of Brass upon the Fire Elemental Plane, you traveled back to Fort Daxio, a northern fort north of Emon, where you were planning a trap of some kind for Thordak. Upon arriving with two charges of yours, two previously enslaved celestial-blooded boys that you found in the City of Brass, you all traveled across the planes, with the help of Keyleth, back to Fort Daxio to find the landscape scarred with recent flame and apparently a battle raging at the outer gate. That is where we left off. So, you guys, looking northward, you can see the large plumes of black smoke billowing up from the direction of the fort. The outer wall seems to have sustained some damage. You can see a number of flying entities swooping in. Dozens of them, while you can hear the distant sound of combat, shouts and battle. You guys, as you land and realize this, you can see the two slaves, who have now been freed and taken with you, both look immediately wide eyed and freaked out and closed off. What are you guys doing?
Travis: This is fine.
Marisha: So much safer here, kids.
Laura: We need to get them safe.
Sam: Who safe? The place is on fire. They're not safe.
Laura: I take off on my broom and fly up in the air.
Sam: Ah! Wait! You forgot your hat!
Laura: I want to see up and over the wall and see what's going on on the inside.
Matt: Okay. So you fly up and head up over the front wall.
Laura: I don't want to go in, I just want to look.
Matt: Right. So you fly up and get a vantage point to see what's going on over the wall.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: You're going to get seen.
Matt: As you crest up in the air, you notice that there are a number of soldiers currently battling possibly a hundred or more lizard men that have swarmed into the fort, as well as a number of-- and go ahead and make a perception check actually to see if you can make some good detailed elements out.
Travis: First roll of the night.
Laura: First roll, first roll, first roll. Here we go. 27.
Matt: 27. All right. These are wyvern riders. This is a group of wyvern riders, with lizard men, that have swooped in. You can see a number of the siege elements that have been built by Percy over there, some have been firing off on the inside or at least ones that were installed in the actual fort base. You also see a distant explosion, a flash of light on one of the walls on the inside. There is the outer wall, and there is a courtyard in the actual fortress itself. The front gates to the inner courtyard have already been breached, and most of the battle is happening inside the main courtyard.
Travis: Are we outside the courtyard or inside?
Matt: As you're noticing this, you watch as two wyverns are now swooping in your direction from the outside of the outer wall.
Sam: Because they saw you.
Marisha: So we're on the outside of the wall?
Matt: You guys are far south, probably a good quarter-mile south of the fort, on the outside of the wall.
Taliesin: I say we starting making our way and deal with this.
Laura: Yeah. I draw-- are they close enough to shoot them?
Matt: You can wait until they're close enough. They're a little bit out of your range right now.
Taliesin: Is it possible they're out of Bad News' range or is that even humanly possible?
Matt: You know what, as of right now, you could probably hit one of them with Bad News.
Taliesin: All right. I double check. Speak now or forever hold your peace, I'm doing this.
Matt: What's the long range on it?
Taliesin: 1,200.
Matt: Okay. You bear down and you--
Taliesin: 1,200 feet. 1,200 feet.
Matt: Yeah. Go for it. And Laura, you still have to wait at this point. You're readying your shot.
Laura: Yeah. But I Hunter's Mark one of them.
Matt: Okay. Aiming for--
Laura: Oh wait, it's probably a ranged thing too.
Matt: It's okay. You're currently selecting a wyvern or the rider to fire at?
Laura: The rider.
Taliesin: All right. Taking a shot. Oh, that'll do! 30.
Matt: The explosion from the front of the muzzle of Bad News fires off, the spark and flame and smoke billowing forth. The shot has no impact. It looks like, from gauging at this distance, it was just outside of the range.
Laura: Oh, they're 1,200 feet away, they're that far?
Matt: It's hard to gauge really, at that distance, whether or not they were there, but apparently the bullet lost momentum by the time it reached their position.
Taliesin: Okay. Reload.
Marisha: Let's move in.
Laura: Can I shout down and yell, get the boys safe! But I don't know who I'm shouting it to, just one of you guys--
Travis: More impassioned.
Laura: (yelling) Get the boys safe!
Sam: Oh my god. We have to get these boys to safety.
Travis: Do we?
Marisha: Why don't we have them run? Have them run. Yeah. I grab them and I say, run that way. Don't die. They're good.
Laura: Seriously?
Taliesin: Actually, I've got a better idea.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Hand them one of the stones.
Marisha: All right, yeah, sure. I hand them a gatestone.
Taliesin: We'll find you when it's safe. Hide wherever you need to. Stay away from the castle. We will find you when it's safe.
Marisha: Hide in the bushes, don't go far.
Sam: Or go anywhere.
Matt: They nod and they take the stone, and they start running off towards the western edge of this valley, which has the two cliffsides that come into the valley here. A lot of the nearby brush appears to have been burned on the way.
Marisha: Oh, fuck. I say, try and stay unseen!
Matt: They go darting off, keeping low, and you get the sense that they're used to fleeing, so they dart off, arm in arm, rushing off towards the side of the valley wall.
Sam: So they're gone forever.
Matt: You have time to reload before they get close enough for her to fire, so if you want to take another shot.
Taliesin: Sure. I'll take another shot.
Laura: Should I hang out and wait or should we--
Taliesin: Actually, let's head as a group towards this. I say we run and we take everything that's heading towards us. I'll wait until they're close enough that I can get a good--
Marisha: We all charge for the gate.
Matt: Okay, so you guys are all charging towards the outer gate. What are you doing, Vex? You watch the rest of your party darting--
Marisha: I Message to Vex, and I say, what do you see? How many wyverns are there? Do you see any dragons?
Laura: Do I see any dragons?
Matt: Currently you do not see any dragons at the--
Laura: I don't see any dragons, but it looks like about a hundred enemies.
Sam: Hundred! Is that true? I missed that one.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's a lot.
Sam: (laughing) That's more than two.
Travis: Is it?
Liam: What do you sense? Do you sense dragons?
Laura: Well, that's going to take a minute.
Liam: I'd work on that.
Sam: All right, let's just charge in blindly! There's no cover out here, right?
Matt: There is no cover.
Sam: Let's take out those fucking riders.
Marisha: We have an Avengers moment. We're running. Like Guardians of the Galaxy!
Travis: That's like Chariots of Fire. You're doing the wrong music.
Marisha: Okay, you know what, any movie where they run in slow motion toward something, which happens a lot.
Matt: There you go. As you guys are charging towards the blown-open gates to the outer courtyard of Fort Daxio, with Vex swooping down on her broom with the bow out, you watch as these wyvern riders come swooping down in your direction. Their claws extended, their tails and stingers out forward, they come swooping down. Go ahead and take a shot. You can take a shot as well.
Taliesin: I'm taking my first shot. I'm also making it a wing shot.
Laura: So I Hunter's Marked them as soon as they were close enough.
Matt: Yes. Hunter's Mark. There's two, and a third one has joined, a little behind now. They're coming upon you. Which one do you Hunter's Mark?
Laura: The one that's biggest?
Matt: Hard to gauge at this distance.
Laura: The one that's closest.
Matt: Okay, there you go.
Taliesin: Wing shot, first one.
Laura: And I am a third level rogue now.
Taliesin: 30.
Laura: So I get advantage on my attack, if they haven't attacked me yet, right? If they haven't taken a turn?
Matt: I believe, looking at the specifics there--
Laura: As an assassin? At your third level, you get advantage if you get the drop, if they haven't taken a turn yet.
Matt: Technically--
Laura: They're moving?
Matt: They know you're around. This is less like they haven't acted yet. They've been acting. Every round, they've been dashing toward you. So you do not have the drop on them, as they've been making a beeline since the beginning. Apologies.
Laura: Well, all right. I guess I'll just have a 32 attack, then.
Matt: Okay, I want you and Percy to both roll damage on those attacks, as these are both guided at the same individual.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: 21, and then-- That is awesome.
Taliesin: 26 points of damage, and he has to make a strength save against becoming prone.
Laura: Do I get sneak attack on this?
Matt: No, you would not, unfortunately.
Laura: Okay, so it's just 21 damage, with four of lightning.
Matt: Okay! So, as you hear the explosion at the front of the muzzle of Bad News take off, the arrow whizzing through the air, both impacting into each side of the wyvern, you watch as one of its wings tears open. It tumbles forward, the rider thrown off its back and clutching onto its reins, flipping over the side as it corkscrews and slams into the ground about 150, 200 feet behind you, skidding across the dirt.
Laura: Oh, I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage!
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: An additional three.
Matt: Okay. Effectively slammed and left behind in the dust right now, it's going to have to get up and rush to try and catch up to you guys. The other two are swooping down now and have managed to get up--
Laura: Do I get my second attack?
Matt: You do get your second attack, yes. You could as well, for your round.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: Same thing, with a drop.
Sam: Can I extend my arm, with my Wand of Fireballs ready to shoot?
Matt: Yeah, actually.
Laura: 18 damage.
Sam: How far are they?
Matt: At this point, they're maybe 150 feet from you.
Taliesin: I don't crit on a 19 yet, do I?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Do you ever get that?
Matt: At a higher level.
Laura: Trinket crits on a 19.
Matt: Trinket's cool like that.
Marisha: Why can't you be Trinket? We love the bear more than you, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh, I know. 32 to hit.
Matt: And the save? What's the DC, again?
Taliesin: I believe it's--
Matt: You have to write down your DC, man.
Taliesin: I used to. Oh, 19. It's there, I just couldn't see.
Matt: There you go. This one now, as you guys both-- you pull back and release your second arrow, and you take Bad News, reload it, and then fire again-- you watch as this time, one of the wings breaks at the hinge. It folds under itself. The rider, this time, as opposed to holding on, is thrown and plummets the rest of the distance, hitting the ground with a very heavy (splat) against the stonework, his head scattering. The wyvern ends up slamming into the ground and skidding off into a big cloud of dust behind you as well, as you guys continue pushing forward. However, that does complete your round. The last one does swoop down and is going to-- You're making the loudest noise and got the most attention, so it's going to swoop in your direction, Percival. It's going to come on down, it's going to make two attacks on you, and then harry and lift up. That's with its bite. That's going to be a miss. It goes to snatch at you with its bite, and you duck out of the way. However, the stinger comes up from behind. That is a 19 to hit.
Taliesin: That just barely hits.
Matt: Just barely hits? Okay. As the stinger slams into your shoulder, that is ten points of piercing damage. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: One of those again, okay. Ten points of damage and a constitution saving throw.
Travis: (singing) Roll high, you blue-haired motherfucker.
Sam: It's, like, blue and purple.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a Resolve.
Matt: Okay, to take that saving throw again? Go for it.
Taliesin: That's even worse. Do I have to take the worse one for the Resolve?
Matt: It's whatever you rolled the second time, I think.
Taliesin: Can I burn another Resolve, just to fuck it, because this is annoying me?
Liam: If it's like Luck, it's a no.
Matt: Let me double check, just a moment.
Laura: Does it petrify you?
Taliesin: I'll find out!
Matt: All right, so. This is your Indomitable? Not Resolve, your Indomitable. You must use the new roll.
Taliesin: Okay, that's a 12.
Matt: A 12? No. All right, so, as the poison courses through your body, the stinger itself pulling forth, you see a bit of black-greenish liquid spill out as it pulls itself out of the wound. You suffer 24 points of poison damage as it then lifts back up out of range and is going to circle around. You guys all still running? You see Percy get hit.
Sam: Can I take my Fireball shot?
Matt: You can now. Because it was coming very close before you had the opportunity to hit, it swings up past and you can now, reaching behind, get a Fireball wand shot if you want.
Sam: I will take my Fireball wand shot.
Liam: How high in the air is it?
Matt: At this point now, as it swooped past, it's about 40, 45 feet away? A safe enough distance for the Fireball to not blow up his own party.
Sam: It's got a DC of 15, that wand.
Matt: That is a no. It rolled a three. So go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Can I fire more than one charge, or should I have said that already?
Matt: You should have said that at the beginning. It's a basic.
Sam: Never mind. So, it's 8d6, right?
Matt: 8d6, you got it. And what are you doing, Vax?
Liam: If I can attack, I'm throwing daggers.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that, as it sweeps past after getting the rapid stinger into the chest.
Liam: First gets 26, second is a 19.
Matt: Okay, both hit.
Liam: Okay, dagger, dagger, dagger.
Sam: 33.
Liam: 14 for the first, and the second is eight. That's it. It's within 40 feet, you said?
Matt: Yeah, as it swoops past.
Liam: I am going to Channel Divinity and use a Vow of-- oh, I can't. Can I ditch the second attack?
Matt: Nah, you've already confirmed it.
Sam: Also, Matthew, I don't know if this affects anything. I am exhausted. Does that change anything?
Matt: Correct. You have one point of exhaustion, which means that your ability checks are at disadvantage. Keyleth, Grog, do you guys want to do anything while it passes overhead?
Marisha: You go first.
Travis: No, please, ladies first. No, I insist.
Marisha: Okay. I run to Percy and I grab and pick him up and keep running, and I say, let me know if you're poisoned.
Taliesin: Do I feel--?
Matt: It was a burning pain through your body, but it subsided after the original poison coursed through your body. So you fought it off sufficiently afterward.
Marisha: Okay, I help him up and I say, come on! And we keep running.
Matt: Okay, you guys keep running. Grog?
Travis: The one that Vax shot that hit the ground--
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: Yeah, whatever.
Matt: Yeah, that's 200 feet behind you.
Travis: Oh, it's 200 feet.
Matt: You guys have been running this whole time as it went overhead and crashed into the ground behind you.
Travis: Oh, I'm good.
Matt: Okay, you guys just keep running? Okay. So, as you guys continue to run forward, it swings around after the Fireball detonates, and you see it wobble in the air for a second. 33 points. The rider has turned to ash, blown off the top of it. The wyvern, however, has still found its target and turns around and on its own is swooping back towards the group of you guys. You're now about halfway towards the front gate of the keep, of Fort Daxio. You guys, both Percy and Vex, with ranged weapons, you can take your shot now as it's turning around and returning to you guys, still charging forward.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right, so you move your Hunter's Mark over to that guy? Go for it.
Laura: 25.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: 23.
Matt: All right. 23 damage, nice. All righty.
Laura: On the first arrow.
Matt: Yes. Second one?
Laura: That is, what, 23? Yeah. 23.
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Right, so there's five plus three for this, and it's plus eight damage-- Oh, to hit! Okay. Both hit. I was like, that's really high damage for arrows! My apologies.
Travis: Two ones in a row.
Laura: Shut up! Ugh! 13.
Matt: 13 damage?
Laura: Three ones in a row!
Travis: I guess you've got to throw those dice away! Only 900 left.
Matt: So running forward, you turn around behind, over your shoulder. You switch your actual direction of arrows you normally fire with and turn the other way. Both arrows sink into it and you see it wobble in the air. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to take, on the fall-down, I put Bad News away and I pull Animus out because it's closer now. So I can take easier pot shots at it. 31.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: How many shots, can I take a full round of shots, or--?
Matt: You can if you want to.
Taliesin: I'll take a full round. 31. 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: And 33.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Where are my d10s at? That's not a d10. There we go. That's three shots, it's 17--
Sam: So much math!
Taliesin: I'm making sure I do this right because-- 24 points, 34 points, 41 points of damage plus--
Matt: Not on one hit. That's all of his attacks.
Taliesin: Three, it's three, yeah. 41 points of damage plus ten points of psychic damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: That was three shots.
Matt: All righty, so all three shots pelt it in the chest. You can see giant sections of its meaty chest blown open and it's streaking dark wyvern blood behind it. However, it's still flying. The fervor on its face as it's near death is causing it to get more intense as it swoops down toward you. Streaking out, the tail ends up curling beneath. It's going to take a shot toward you, Percy, as you were the one that most recently hit it and did the most damage. With the bite, that is a 24 to hit.
Taliesin: Oh, that hits.
Matt: And the stinger is at only a 13 to hit.
Taliesin: That does not hit!
Matt: So, the stinger, seeing it coming this way, you duck out of the way. However, its giant wyvern jaws clamp down and streak across your shoulder as the momentum pulls it past, dragging it across the back. For that, you suffer ten points of piercing damage.
Marisha: That's not too bad.
Matt: As it comes down at that point, it's back in range for any of you melee folk that want to take a swing at it. Grog?
Travis: Can I rage, and can I take a swing at Falcor, please?
Matt: Yes, you can!
Travis: Okay! Lovely.
Liam: We have no initiative, so I don't know who's where. Am I close enough to go after Grog?
Matt: Yes. I'm keeping tabs because this is more of a flyby as you guys are running.
Travis: Could I make it a reckless attack, please?
Matt: Sure, yeah. A lot of these are happening simultaneously.
Travis: 25.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Nine, 22, plus two points of necrotic, 24.
Matt: Okay, as it swoops down and bites into Percy's arm as it drags up in the air, you watch as a very fast-running Grog, who's been ahead of the group at this point, his speed is higher than anybody, spins around, axe in the air, and carves right through the front of its chest to its back. It (screeching) and slides into two pieces that then scatter into the ground, smearing black darkness across the dry, desert floor. You guys continue to run forward. Currently, all your harrying wyverns are way too far behind and damaged or not paying attention, before you guys are just now reaching the outside of the busted Fort Daxio outer wall, where the front gates are collapsed inward and slightly burned.
Travis: Didn't seem like that big of a problem. That was not so tough.
Laura: There's a hundred more guys inside, Grog!
Travis: I know, you keep saying that number, like I know what it means, so let's get it on.
Marisha: Grog, Grog! 100 needs three hands to make.
Travis: How many hands?
Marisha: It needs--
Travis: How many?
Laura: Keep running!
Marisha: Okay. Keep running! Keep running!
Taliesin: It's not helpful.
Matt: You guys all go into the front gates?
Laura: I'm on the broom, so I'm up and over the wall.
Matt: Okay. You come up over the top of the wall. As you get up over the top, immediately you see they have two large ballistae. The number of ballistae installed throughout the walls here, two of them have already been torn apart and whoever was manning them is lying on the ground, torn open and dead. But you do also see other dead lizardmen. It looks like a fight has been going on for a short time here and has been a back and forth. As you guys come into the main courtyard, you find the ground is charred with small flames that are still burning on bushes, and elements of piles of broken wood and things that were part of the encampment that just caught fire. You can see groups of lizardmen battling various soldiers, some of them still screaming and the sound of lizard-like battle cries as they charge in, slamming weapon against weapon, shield against face. This is an actual small-scale war happening inside here. It's hard to tell which side is winning. A lot of the soldiers are better-trained, but occasionally you watch as a wyvern swoops down and picks up a soldier and throws them off the side, and slams into the ground, no longer moving.
Marisha: Do we see anyone we know?
Sam: Where's Elle?
Marisha: Do we see Allura?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: Come on, opal dice. That's not bad! 26.
Sam: Oh, disadvantage.
Matt: Disadvantage for you, buddy.
Sam: Oh, okay. 14.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, as soon as you dart inside and glance over, you can see nobody that catches your familiar eye. Everyone who is in armor is in full armor. They're all in the actual Fort Daxio defense regalia and they are covered in blood, they're covered in soot and they are not paying attention to you because they are fighting for their lives right now. You can see there are a number of tents to the side, dried trees that have burnt out entirely. You can see a number of the trebuchets that you have repaired earlier that have already torn down, or at least have suffered partial damage from fire or other elements, bludgeoning.
Marisha: But there doesn't seem to be any tabards from Emon, or any tabards from Syngorn or anything like that?
Matt: No. It looks like when this began, currently only Daxio's army was here. And is here currently.
Marisha: I mean, that still sucks. But okay.
Matt: Yeah. You do watch and see as currently, there is no tension toward you because the battles happening right now are still happening. You see multiple soldiers gathering around wyverns that have been dragged to the ground with chain or have nets thrown over them, and soldiers are gashing, running up and slashing and stabbing as they can, while the lizardman carves its way through, and takes its spear and starts piercing out with its shield. As you look around, nothing but insanity going around. What are you guys doing?
Laura: Are there any clusters that look like not a lot of our soldiers around, just lizardmen? Or is it all mixed in together?
Matt: It's all mixed in right now. It's a free-for-all. There's no group of lizardmen sitting around and waiting out for a target.
Laura: Are there any wyverns in the sky that don't see us?
Matt: There are a number of wyverns scattered that are currently swooping down and being part of the chaos.
Marisha: About how many wyverns?
Matt: Currently not engaged on the ground? I'd say about seven.
Travis: Can I go full murderhobo status and find a group of people on the ground that need help?
Matt: Yeah, totally.
Laura: I want to try to get a sneak attack on one of the wyverns.
Marisha: I'm going to also go for the wyverns.
Taliesin: I'm going to activate my spider-climbing boots and going to reload and I'm going to start walking around and pot-shotting anything on the ground that's giving trouble. If I see somebody, I'm shooting until they stop.
Matt: Okay. There are masses of lizardmen in this area that are in the middle of the fray. As soon as you guys storm in and start making noise, making your presence know, a number of them who are waiting for a way to pierce in and get their weapons into the last of these soldiers that are fighting off, as best they can, the last stand they have here at the outside of Fort Daxio, some of them turn over their shoulders and see you and start rushing in. You guys, with ranged weapons, you go first. Go ahead and roll attacks on this.
Laura: I get advantage because the wyverns don't see me, right?
Matt: The wyverns have not seen you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Actually, make a stealth check, just to make sure you've made your way in carefully. They're not paying attention to you, but they may or may not see you out of their peripheral.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Okay, yeah. The one you're aiming at has not seen you.
Laura: Okay. 33.
Matt: 33 hits.
Taliesin: I am going to cast on whatever the biggest one is, and I'm going to cast Hex, which I still have. And I'm taking my first shot. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: Gun jam!
Travis: Damn it!
Laura: 31. 31 on the first hit.
Taliesin: I take five points of damage.
Matt: Okay. What was that, the first one?
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31, nice!
Laura: And the same, it's another 35 attack.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Before I went down, I do 15 points of damage plus four points of psychic damage before the gun jammed.
Laura: 25 on the second.
Matt: 25 damage? Great! So that one you're aiming at had already taken some damage in the battle. Its rider had already been torn off of it and it's basically on automatic tear-and-destroy mode. Both of your arrows-- one finds the side of its throat. As it whips its head around to look at the direction it came with, this one finds the eye at front of its snout, sinks in, and it slowly, limply falls out in the air and smashes into the ground, maybe 25 feet to your right.
Taliesin: It also would have taken six points of necrotic damage to it, so.
Matt: Okay, cool. You're aiming at the same one as her?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You guys (impact). This poor wyvern gets torn asunder.
Travis: Poor, my ass!
Laura: Poor your ass!
Matt: (laughs) Poor Travis' ass!
Sam: Tall cup of Travis' ass.
Matt: You watch as a number of these lizardmen, six to be exact, all start rushing in towards you guys as they were firing at the wyvern in the air. What are you guys doing at this point? You just have a wave of them coming at you right now.
Liam: I'm following Grog to get his scraps.
Marisha: They're coming at us?
Matt: Yeah, you guys are still clustered together.
Marisha: Is it a group of-- how many?
Matt: Six. They're just charging straight at you. Some have swords, shields, and spears like (snarling).
Marisha: Before anything crazy happens, I'm going to go ahead and pull up the Spire of Conflux and I'm going to Fireball right where they are.
Matt: As they're charging in, you watch the staff slam into the ground. As it slams into the ground, you can see at the very tip, there's a small piece of crystalline energy that begins to go from a dull greenish-blue to a bright red. And as it hits the apex of its glow, a single beam of red energy streaks forward towards them as they're all charging. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 19 on the Spire?!
Matt: Well, it's whatever her spell DC is when she cast it.
Sam: Damn!
Matt: And no, none of them make it! So go ahead and roll the damage on that.
Marisha: Wait, Fireball. I don't know this damage.
Sam: 8d6. Radius 20.
Marisha: Give me two. I get to reroll ones, too, because it's fire damage.
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: And I got three ones. So those will all get rerolled.
Sam: Is that true?
Marisha: That is true.
Matt: It's an ability of the Spire.
Taliesin: That's nuts.
Marisha: Ten, 15, 25 points.
Matt: 25 points of damage?
Sam: There's another six up there, the red one.
Marisha: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight! 25, 30 points of damage.
Matt: 30 points of fire damage.
Marisha: Thanks, Sam! MATT; As you guys are getting your weapons ready, you have both your daggers out at the side. You have your axe at the batter-up position. You watch as suddenly they burst into red flame and a number of their charred, burning bodies tumble to the ground, motionless. As the fire subsides, all six have been destroyed by the blast from the Fireball.
Travis: That's what we were going to do, right? Yeah! That's basically what we had in mind.
Liam: This knife does the same fucking thing.
Travis: I thought so. I've see it happen. Really, I have. Impressive, Keyleth. Impressive. Yeah. Point it towards the enemies, okay?
Matt: As the chaos is still happening, you watch as another blast of flame explodes on the top tower that is the front of the fortress itself, and you hear what sounds like dual Wilhelm screams as two guys who were situated on the top, running to of the ballista, get blown off and both slam into the ground, faces and necks snapped from the impact on the floor. Looking up in that direction, you watch as another streak of bluish-green arcane energy shoots up a few hundred feet into the sky, and it (poof), as a sort of signal for them.
Marisha: No, no, no!
Matt: You look up top as you see one wyvern is curling its way, perched up on the edge of it. And there, jumping onto its back, you see an elf. An elf with longish, blonde hair. Robes that are bloodied. It gets up and holds onto the reins.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point? He's probably about 80 feet from you. You guys are halfway across the courtyard to the actual fortress.
Liam: He's up on the wall?
Sam: Can I shoot him with lightning?
Matt: If you want to get close.
Sam: I mean, that's a 100-foot range.
Matt: So, yes. You could.
Sam: He's a bad guy?
Laura: I don't know!
Marisha: He's on a wyvern, so I'm going to say maybe.
Laura: Can I shoot him with a Bramble Shot?
Matt: About 45 feet up.
Laura: I want to try to shoot him with a Bramble Shot.
Matt: Shoot him?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay!
Sam: He's on a bad wyvern, right? This is a bad guy.
Laura: I think so.
Matt: For the purposes of this, guys, we're going to go ahead and roll initiative.
Laura: He's a bad guy!
Matt: Well, you don't know if he's a bad guy or not! But he's on the battlefield.
Laura: That's why I'm Bramble Shotting him. Because I'm trying to tangle him up.
Matt: Pike has been having a hard time keeping up with everyone with her tiny, short legs.
Laura: Pike!
Marisha: Come on, Pike! Come on!
Taliesin: I'm rolling really poorly.
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Laura: Do you have your snitch?
Taliesin: Yeah. It's just rolling poorly.
Laura: Do you want one of mine?
Taliesin: No, no.
Travis: Take your clothes off, Taliesin, reset.
Sam: I'll take my clothes off. If it'll inspire us.
Laura: Oh, no. What is it? Do it, Sam!
Travis: Do it slowly. Do it. (yelling)
Travis: Holy fuck!
Liam: Triple disadvantage for the night!
Taliesin: We're dead, we're going to die.
Sam: It's on. (laughter)
Travis: For the rest of the game, you've got to look at that--
Liam: May the odds be ever in your favor. (laughter)
Matt: Forgot to mention the new GM Tips episode is out this week, talking about how to deal with Player Character deaths. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, man! If I died in this shirt, it would be the worst way. (laughter)
Matt: Oh my god! Sam! Sam!
Liam: We've never seen the picture at that size. And it makes me want to Goonies-style cut a hole in the mouth.
Matt: No one should ever say, "I want to cut a hole in the mouth of a picture of you." I do want to say that is pretty much life-size, which is really creepy.
Sam: I wish I could do what Travis can do with his pecs, but I-- (laughter)
Travis: You're there, you're there.
Matt: With you guys on the battlefield, let's roll initiative.
All: We did.
Travis: We have to do it again?
Taliesin: I'd love to do it again.
Matt: (sing-song) Sorry!
Marisha: That was funny.
Matt: You guys.
Sam: He's a bad guy, right? I mean, we can kill him, right?
Travis: Kill him anyway. And find out later.
Taliesin: We can also take out his ride.
Laura: Yeah, we can take out the wyvern.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Laura: 25.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Nice. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 15.
Matt: I need someone to roll for Pike, by the way.
Laura: Eight. I don't know what Pike's initiative is.
Matt: I think it's plus one, so add that-- Nine. All right. So 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13. Oh, go ahead.
Sam: Oh, 11.
Taliesin: I don't have my sword working.
Matt: Grog, what did you get?
Travis: Eight.
Laura: Aww, you and Pike fighting together.
Matt: Top of the round, as you see this figure get onto the wyvern up top. Bloodied, grabbing on to the reins, looking over the top, Vex, you're up first.
Laura: I'm going to shoot a Bramble Shot at him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 20?
Matt: 20. Hits.
Travis: This man, this man is an elf, right?
Laura: 16. And then the DC is 16.
Matt: 16 damage and DC of 16. Is it strength?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: No, that's a 15.
Laura: Oh! Then he's restrained!
Matt: Does he take additional damage from the Bramble Shot?
Laura: Yeah, he takes 16 damage.
Matt: 16 total from the shot, okay.
Laura: 16 damage from the shot, as far as I know.
Matt: It's your normal arrow damage plus whatever it tells you to roll on that.
Laura: I get another of my arrow damage?
Matt: It's your arrow damage, and then that on top of it.
Laura: What?! I didn't know that! That's so cool!
Liam: How far is he from us at this point?
Matt: At this point, he's--
Laura: Is it sneak attack?
Matt: He did not see you, so yes.
Sam: What are you restraining?
Laura: The thing on top. Hopefully he doesn't have a hold of the reins, so-- Now I've lost track. 28 damage plus the 16 from the Bramble Shot.
Matt: Gotcha. As you reach out and fire the arrow, you watch him glance over the wall. His eyes go wide as the arrow (impact) pierces his chest and sprouts into 20 to 25 tiny bramble-like vines that wrap around him and wrap around his body as he gets pushed back and falls off the back of the wyvern, out of sight. Make a perception check.
Laura: Okay. 21?
Matt: Okay. As you see his expression as he falls back, it jogs your memory a little bit. You do recognize him. This is Gatekeeper Xanthas. He was the gatekeeper at the Traverse Junction in the Emon Alabaster Lyceum, the place that had the Teleportation Circles, the guy who was always at the desk waiting for you every time.
Laura: Oh, that guy! That was annoyed with us every time we--
Marisha: He hated us?
Matt: He was annoyed with you.
Marisha: He hated us. What's his name?
Matt: Xanthas. Gatekeeper Xanthas. You watch him just get thrown off the back of the wyvern, slammed past, out of sight.
Marisha: Hey, wonder why we hated him, we can't remember his name, Seeker Xanthas.
Sam: Huh, why is he here? Odd.
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Well, if he's from Emon, and Emon is currently under Thordak's reign--
Laura: Yeah, he's probably working for him.
Travis: I think we should trust him.
Laura: We should definitely trust him.
Taliesin: He's currently a veggie burrito at the moment, let's keep him that way.
Laura: Should I fly towards him?
Taliesin: I dunno. Why are you asking--?
Laura: I'm going to fly. I'm going to try get towards him.
Taliesin: I'm having my own problem.
Matt: So, at full speed on your broom, broom speed is what again? It should be on the broom.
Laura: I don't have a broom paper. I never got a broom paper because I kind of stole it. It wasn't given to me.
Matt: I'm sure it does have one. I'll look it up right now, but you need to keep in mind what your movement is on your broom.
Laura: I think it's like 120.
Marisha: It's, like, exactly what I need to get there. How far away is he? It's that much.
Matt: It's like, ten
Travis: It's 40. I'm saying it's 40.
Laura: No. It's, I'd say, 50.
Matt: Flying speed  50 feet.
Travis: Don't raise your hand like you got it right.
Laura: I did! I said 50, right before he said it.
Sam: Yes, you also said ten, 120, 180 and 50.
Travis: It's playing Rock-Paper-Scissors and going-- Got it!
Matt: As you rush in on the broom and look over, the wyvern still has its claws up on the edge of the walls, (snarls), looking around. You can see it's taken a few hits, a few arrows sticking out of it. However, from the explosion that happened, the two ballistae up there don't appear to be damaged. But you have no current view of Xanthas.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So, that ending your turn, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: Jeez. How far away is that little rock right at the bottom of that platform that you've got Vex on? How far is that from me?
Matt: That rock? It's about maybe 40 feet?
Liam: And how high is the wall?
Matt: Up here? Probably about 30 feet tall.
Liam: Okay. Do I see any wood or anything, a barrel or anything besides stone sticking out?
Matt: No. Not in that rock, no. It's a piece of stone that's sticking out.
Liam: I am going to hold everything until the rest of the party goes this round.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth?
Marisha: Okay. Is there anyone else coming at us?
Matt: Currently, no.There are a number of the wyvern riders and-- going to place these guys over here so I go and do that-- You do see lizardmen off to the side that are in the middle of a struggle. A soldier over there, and a number of lizardmen that are currently bashing at the front gates, trying to get through the main door into the--
Marisha: Okay. Where did you say where the wyvern riders were, again? Roughly, in the air?
Matt: You have three that are on the ground right now that have nets thrown over them or chains pulled across, holding them down. And there are a number that are high up in the air right now, circling, looking for a way to swoop down and grab somebody. A few have their eyes on Vex.
Marisha: Are they clustering together?
Matt: They're maybe 40 feet apart right now.
Marisha: Oh, yeah? They're each 40 feet?
Matt: At the least.
Marisha: Fuck. Okay, you know what? And how far away am I from them?
Matt: From the closest one to you? About 80 feet.
Marisha: Jesus.
Taliesin: We have to start moving in a direction.
Travis: Towards the door, right? And then try to get the--
Marisha: I was going to try and get these guys out, but okay. How many are busting through the door? How many lizardmen?
Matt: There are currently six pushed against it. And there are a few that are moving off in this direction to go join them.
Marisha: To bust through. Those are bad guys?
Matt: Yeah. They're currently slamming into the door and hitting it and trying to find their way through.
Marisha: Well, let's Fireball them again. That was fun!
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Will it set the gate on fire?
Taliesin: Not if you place it right.
Matt: From what you can tell and what you remember, the gate itself is mostly stone and iron.
Marisha: So let's blow that shit up.
Matt: All right. So keep track of the charges you're using. They all fail.
Marisha: I can see both of them.
Travis: They all fail?
Matt: Yeah, they all fail. Rolling nothing tonight.
Marisha: Oh, I have another eight. All of them? All six of them? I'm drunk with power. It's 6d8?
Sam: No, 8d6.
Marisha: 8d6! (counts)
Taliesin: Reroll.
Marisha: Yeah, I get to reroll ones.
Sam: Cocked.
Marisha: That's also cocked. That one bumped it from what it was--
Sam: It was a four.
Marisha: It was a four, okay. So six, ten, 18, 20, five, 30 again. No, 31!
Matt: 31. (explosion) This one seed of arcane red energy that shoots forth from the staff slams into the door, and you watch as they're all thrown backwards, screaming through the air, the blast incinerating their bodies and scattering them to the four winds.
Laura: Fucking shit, Keyleth!
Liam: Fire walk with me, Red.
Marisha: I feel like this thing should come with a child warning. Oh, jeez.
Travis: Wait, that smoked all of them?
Matt: All of those there, yeah. You see groups of wyvern riders that are currently fighting off the guards. Keyleth, do you want to move or are you staying there?
Marisha: We were all running towards the door, right? We're all trying to get in?
Matt: That's up to you.
Marisha: We're all trying to get in?
Taliesin: I'm heading that way.
Marisha: I start heading that way.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Why'd you say it so nonchalant?
Laura: Oh no, oh no!
Marisha: It's always like it's a bad idea.
Matt: I'm asking if you'd-- Vax stayed there. Up to you.
Marisha: Well, he held his turn.
Liam: Yep. I can't do anything now. I have to wait until everyone's done.
Matt: Yeah. You are staying here. All right, ends Keyleth's turn, Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to use my action to try and clear my gun.
Matt: Okay. Tinkering check.
Taliesin: Tinkering check, so that's nice. It's 18! It's fine!
Matt: All right. You get the gun to function.
Taliesin: I take six steps forward.
Sam: (sings) I take six steps back.
Taliesin: And then I use my bonus action...
Liam: (singing) We go together because--
Laura: (singing) We go together because--
Sam: (singing) We go together because--
All: (singing) --opposites attract! And you know--
Matt: It's not your turn, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, sorry. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action to move my Hex to one of the wyverns that is currently under the net.
Matt: Right here? The wyvern or the rider?
Taliesin: The wyvern. Yeah. It's fighting everybody too, right?
Matt: Correct. It's thrashing about.
Taliesin: Okay, it's going to make life easier for everybody.
Matt: Cool. So that finishes your round then, Percy. Scanlan, now it's your turn.
Sam: Oh! I'll move forward with the rest of the gang, if I can. I don't know. I'll Lightning Bolt the wyvern up there who was holding the elf. Not knowing what he is or if he's good or bad.
Matt: You're rushing forward on your tiny, gnome feet, arm out in front, release a bolt of energy that slams into the front of the edge of the tower itself. And as you coast it upward, it burns a dark spot across the stonework before slamming into the wyvern itself. The wyvern tries to dodge out of the way. What is the DC on that?
Sam: That would be 19, since I didn't call it.
Matt: That's true.
Travis: (sings) That's true.
Matt: (sings) That's true. (speaking) No, it does not succeed!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: It has no dex bonus, so it's a straight 15.
Sam: 8d6? Wow! 37!
Matt: (explosion) It hits the wyvern, who's already taken a few blows. It shrieks back, looks down, its eyes zeroed in on you, its wings out, looks like it's about to go into a jumping dive. Okay.
Sam: Oh, I will also inspire Vax with a dirty limerick.
Liam: Give it to me.
Sam: So, this is a random-- There was a young lady named Spruce/ whose favorite thrill was a goose/ Just the sight of a thumb/ made her tuchus all numb/ and her bowels got excited and loose.
Travis: Oh god! (groans in disgust)
Taliesin: Why? Why?!
Travis: Where did you? Where?! What?!
Liam: I feel so brave. (laughter)
Sam: Let that story inspire you, Vax! Don't be loose like her bowels! Be firm like a mighty oak! (laughter)
Liam: I stand a full inch taller now.
Matt: You do. And take your d12 inspiration die.
Taliesin: This is not what this book was meant for!
Liam: It's from the frogurt shop. (laughter)
Marisha: His ability to weaponize things--
Taliesin: I'm going to get a volume for next Christmas.
Matt: All righty. And with that, ending your turn, the wyvern up at the top swoops down, right up to you, Scanlan. Mouth open, stinger out to the side.
Sam: I'll Cutting Words this one.
Matt: Okay. Well, its bite goes to strike you and I can almost guarantee you it misses with a 14. The stinger, however (whoosh).
Sam: Oh wait! No, no. That hits.
Taliesin: You have a plus two.
Sam: No, I think I only have a plus two if I-- No, I think it's a straight 14 because I don't wear anything anymore.
Matt: That's true, you didn't-- All right, so.
Laura: You took off all your armor?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: If you have the armor on, it doesn't have to be attuned, you still get some--
Sam: I think I'm at 12, plus the armor that I'm wearing is plus two, so.
Matt: So it's 14. That does hit you exactly, yeah.
Sam: But I said I was going to Cutting Words it, which probably should help.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and--
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. The bite goes to clamp down, and as you--
Sam: Oh! As I look at him, I-- shit! I-- Ah! I just show him my chest hair. I tuft it out into a quick little ponytail.
Matt: The wyvern pulls back its head, confused, and the jaw snaps shut as it rears, its wings out, strangely. Its tail comes back, angrily. How many bardic inspiration die have you spent since your last battle, by the way?
Sam: I only spent one on the last battle. I did a bunch of reactions last battle, but I only used one inspiration last battle.
Matt: Right. Cutting Words also uses a bardic inspiration, I believe--
Sam: Oh, it does? Then this is five.
Matt: I believe... Let me check.
Sam: I used three Cutting Words last time, and one inspiration.
Matt: Yeah, you have to use your bardic inspiration dice. So that's five.
Sam: So this is five. And I think I have six total? No?
Matt: You get as many as your wisdom modifier-- I'm sorry, your charisma modifier.
Sam: That's six. So yeah, I have one more.
Matt: One more. So the stinger comes swooping down towards you, and that is a nine! It rolled a two. The tail whips past your head, no impact.
Laura: You're just so teeny, Scanlan.
Sam: I am.
Matt: Pike's turn! Pike rushing forward as (panting). Looking around, who here looks pretty rough, if anybody?
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm a little rough, I could use some love.
Marisha: And I could use some love.
Taliesin: Yeah, either of us. I'm a little lower than you. But you're--
Marisha: I'm running with Percy.
Taliesin: Yeah. We're together.
Marisha: If she wants to give us a group hug?
Matt: Well, she can only get up to you right now, Keyleth, at the moment.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Because of her stumpy legs.
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: Stumpy legs.
Laura: They're slender and fabulous! All right?
Sam: Yeah. They're muscular. Svelte.
Liam: Monster calves.
Matt: Fucking stumpy! (laughter)
Matt: She's going to use her 3rd-level Cure Wounds on you, Keyleth.
Marisha: Aw, thanks, Pike!
Matt: Two eights and a five. This is 16, 21, plus five. You heal 26 hit points. That was a really good healing roll for a level three. All righty. That ends Pike's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah! So, I'll run up, because nobody fucks with Scanlan when I'm around. So I run up to the wyvern. Yeah. And I would like to take my axe and swing it in its stupid face.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Reckless Attack. Great Weapon Master.
Sam: Frenzy. Rage.
Laura: All of it. (growling) All of it!
Matt: He's not frenzied yet.
Travis: 28 minus five is 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: How'd you do that, Grog?!
Travis: Shhh!
Sam: Doing the math?
Travis: 25 plus ten is 35.
Matt: Okay. Second strike, you want to do it? As you rush and slam the axe into its side, it buries a good three inches into the chest, and as it's pulled back, its tail is still recoiling from the attack on Scanlan. Looks back to you and you see its attention's geared on you, but it's pretty rough.
Travis: Pretty rough? Yeah! I just want to finish off this little meat popsicle.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: Same thing.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 19 plus a million. 33. No! Minus five. 28.
Matt: 28. As you pull the axe out this time, as it's rearing back and looking angrily at you, you chuckle to yourself as you throw the axe up in the air. It spins once and you catch it, and you jam it right in the center of its skull. It goes from rearing angrily to lights out. And it hits the ground instantaneously, collapsing into a heap as you wedge the blade out from the center of its forehead.
Travis: Amazing. Can I use my--
Matt: You still have about 20 feet of movement, by the way.
Travis: Can I-- Yeah. I'll move towards the group on the left.
Matt: That side?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Don't you get an attack again if you killed something?
Travis: Oh! Oh! Yes! Thank you! Very good point! With my bloodaxe, if I kill a creature, I gain ten temporary hit points.
Matt: Yeah. So you now have ten temporary hit points on top of what you had.
Travis: Beautiful. And I don't think I get another hit. It's only criticals that I--
Laura: Oh! Okay. Well, still.
Travis: But still, yeah, yeah.
Matt: All right. So that ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's the end of the round.
Liam: Do I have a go? Do I get to go?
Matt: That's right. You held to wait until everybody else has a go.
Liam: Question  can I call out, Vex! Catch!
Laura: Huh?
Liam: And softball-pitch Whisper up to her?
Matt: Okay. So you-- go ahead and roll an attack roll.
Laura: It just stabs me.
Liam: Sure. 26.
Matt: 26. Okay. As the dagger whips up past you, you look down and see the thrown dagger. Do you want to try and catch it?
Laura: Sure.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: This should be pretty good.
Laura: Where's my thing?
Liam: This does involve me. Can I use my Luck for her to re-roll that?
Laura: 21.
Matt: No, unfortunately. You reach out and catch the blade and it cuts across your hand a little bit. Which at that point, if you want to--
Liam: Bamf!
Matt: As your turn to travel with it, it's the damage that needs to happen, it's the impact. So you do take four points of piercing damage, as you try and catch it from the front of the blade in your hand, and the speed at which it's thrown is-- you feel the impact--
Laura: And then I brace the broom to catch him--
Matt: At which point, the blade, all of a sudden, swirls with dark, shadow energy and your brother appears at your side.
Liam: And I would like to use my bonus action to cast Lay on Hands and give her four hit points.
Laura: Aww, buddy! (laughs) That's so great.
Liam: That's it, just four. I get to choose how many
Laura: Thanks! I catch him on the broom and hand him the--
Liam: And I'll use my movement to scooch my uncomfortable crotch onto this stick you ride all over the place. (groans)
Matt: All righty. Your movement is now, on the broom, reduced to 20 feet, with two people on it.
Liam: Cool.
Laura: What are you going to do?
Matt: At which point, you see the wyverns and the riders start thrashing about. Some of them have spears that're jamming out from the middle of the net. You watch as this guy spins around and takes out three out of the guards that all just collapse to the ground. One takes a stinger to the face, another one gets bitten and has its head broken in the process, while a third one gets a spear to the front of the chest.
Marisha: This wyvern asshole did that?
Matt: Over here, yeah. He's hurt, but he's been taking out a lot of the guards along the way. The rest of these lizard guards do a full double dash this way past that guard there, who's giving chase. These guys all rush up to try and make their way to the front door again. They can't really do anything yet to the door, but they can get there. At this point in time--
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: Vex, Vax.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: From your vantage point, up at the top on the broom, you hear this distant echoing horn sound, this (low horn noise).
Laura: Shit.
Matt: It's echoing through the valley. You glance over your shoulder and you see a bead of burning red light making its way in your direction. Wings flapping. It's closer than you think, and as it comes closer and closer towards you--
Laura: Thordak comes and kills us all, right?!
Marisha: Yeah, this is-- Happy 2016!
Matt: You feel the blood rush from your face as your immediate instinct is, "Oh god. The Cinder King is here." While there are flames involved, the size is not as immense as you would expect from Thordak. Instead what you see is a large, red, winged bird with flames trailing off the edges of its wings flapping in your direction, coming over the wall on the outside of the fortress. On its back you see a humanoid, but much larger than anyone of your size, armored with dark black and grayish-silver-trimmed iron armor, a giant maul in one hand, itself reddish flame-like hair. This is a fire giant, similar to the ones you encountered in the City of Brass, riding on the back of this ember-roc-type creature. As it comes cruising over the top, you hear it, holding a horn in its other hand, start shouting out, "The Cinder King calls for swift execution! I deliver his hate with absolute strength." And it swoops into a dive toward the front side of the gate. At a full speed at this point, it coasts right beneath both of you, swinging the hammer in the air. I need both of you guys to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Would evasion work for this?
Matt: No. Well, evasion is against any spell.
Liam: Spell, that's what I thought, I just wanted to check.
Laura: Do we get advantage for anything?
Matt: Let me check quick. (laughs) You do not get advantage for anything.
Laura: (laughs) Why, though?
Matt: But I admire you checking for any given possibility.
Laura: 16 for me.
Liam: I'm going to use my last Luck.
Sam: You have inspiration.
Liam: Oh, I do, and I can add it to that save, right?
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Good. Oh, then I'm 29. I rolled 11 off of that. Thanks for the limerick.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. So you manage to lift up onto the broom, almost doing a complete handstand to get out of the way, however, the bottom of it catches your sister in the side of her leg, causes the broom to lurch, and begin to lose control of it. You both manage to hold on to the broom.
Laura: That's good.
Matt: But you, from the impact of the hammer, do suffer 16 points of bludgeoning damage. As the bird, now in a full dive, slams in a giant fiery crash into the front two gates of the keep.
Liam: How close was it to us? If it hit us?
Matt: It swooped right underneath you.
Liam: Can I do an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No, because you were trying to get out of the way.
Liam: All right.
Matt: To do that, you would have been fully off the broom and you would fall.
Liam: Understand, understand.
Matt: As it (swoosh) into this full dive, slams into the two front gates which explode into a cloud of dust, broken rock, masonry, and iron. You watch as the dust settles briefly. Now the giant is stepping off of the back of this giant flaming bird and looks around, clutching its hammer in its hand.
Laura: Fuck. (yelling)
Sam: That's large! That's like from a different set of action figures.
Travis: I think the scale is wrong, Matt, I think you accidentally put things that are bigger than us on the map.
Laura: This is like when I made my Barbies date my G.I. Joes. (laughter)
Marisha: Why is G.I. Joe so much shorter than Barbie? Damn it!
Taliesin: Did the lizard man take damage, by the way?
Matt: Actually yeah, as the dust clears, the lizard men that were at the gate were all destroyed in the impact, crushed, their bones broken, and you can see one arm twitching out of the center of the rubble. The doors are currently blown open and off the hinges, there.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: All righty, and then--
Sam: We need some sort of miracle here! What we need is some sort of miracle!
Matt: Fresh off the airplane.
Ashley: Hello, everybody!
Liam: Divine Intervention!
Sam: (singing) We need a hero!
Matt: That is awesome.
Ashley: I've lost my voice a little bit, but you know what? Fuck it! Der-n-der!
Matt: I want a shirt that says that. "Fuck it! Der-n-der!"
Travis: They'll get that in the store as soon as possible.
Matt: Indeed. All righty, so, bringing us to the top. As they both stand there, the flames still emanating out from the impact, the lizardmen scattered and broken at the gate, the battle still waging on in the vicinity, you see as two other battles over here, the wyvern rider on this wyvern is stabbed in the head and is killed. The wyvern is still around, but it takes another guard out behind it. Over here, this guy continues to fight and takes out two of the guards, but there is still one behind that is holding strong. Top of the round, Vex. What do you want to do, as you just barely gather control over the broom again?
Laura: Is that within range of you, to throw something at it and bamf there, or--?
Liam: Ish. We'll find out.
Laura: I'm going to try to fly over. Am I able to get to the roof above him?
Matt: Over here? Yeah, you can.
Laura: Okay, I'll go there and land.
Matt: Okay. So you both make your way over, landing on the roof. There you can see Xanthas is still bound by the vines, his eyes wide. He's like, "What are you doing? Release me!"
Laura: I'm going to ignore him and Hunter's Mark the giant, and then try to hit him from above.
Matt: Okay, so, getting right up to the edge, arrow off to the side, go for it.
Laura: 21 on the first one.
Matt: 21 on the first one? Hits.
Laura: Yes! And that's Hunter's Mark and sneak attack, right?
Matt: Technically, he went past you, saw you, impacted you with him-- or she did, sorry-- It is well aware where you went and knows that you-- There's no sneak attack. I'm sorry.
Laura: Damn it! Fine, fine.
Matt: You'd have to hide somewhere to try and get sneak attack.
Laura: Oh, and that's a bonus action, right?
Matt: Correct. Which you used to move your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Which I did, yeah, so don't worry about it.
Matt: Vax, you're up on deck.
Laura: 18 plus four lightning damage.
Matt: 18 plus four, nice.
Laura: Oh, and then again! I attack him again!
Matt: Go for it! One arrow--
Laura: And it definitely hits him! It's, like, 30-something.
Matt: Sure, that hits! Go for it.
Laura: Argh. 17 plus four lightning damage!
Matt: All righty. Both arrows (impact). One slams into the armor and sticks into it about three or four inches, and you can see the giant female fire giant glances at her shoulder angrily and looks up over the top, at you.
Laura: Oh, and I want to back up away. I want to back away from the--
Travis: I will woo her.
Laura: So she can't see me no more!
Matt: At the full movement it would've taken you to get there, with your brother on your back, that's as far as you can get.
Laura: Can I crouch? Is that within my movement, to crouch?
Matt: You're crouching, but you're not hiding. You do have some cover because of the edge of the wall. She sees you, but you have a little bit of cover. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Is the giant within 60 feet of me?
Matt: The giant may or may not be. You currently have to get over to the edge to see it.
Liam: All right, so I'm going to move up to the edge. I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Hunter's Mark.
Sam: You can't do that! That's not one of your spells!
Laura: We're twins, you guys!
Travis: Oh my god, I'm going to barf.
Matt: That's from being a vengeance paladin?
Liam: Vengeance paladin, yes. Level up! And then I'm going to throw Whisper at the back of her head and hope that it hits.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Jeebus. Let's try that again. That is-- I'm going to use--
Laura: No, that's a good hit!
Liam: Mm, yeah. 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: All right. Okay. So-- and I'm going to bamf there.
Matt: Okay. No sneak attack on this.
Liam: No, I know. And the damage is 12 plus psychic damage is eight! 20. And then I want to use my movement, even though I can't disengage--
Matt: Did you roll your Hunter's Mark on that?
Liam: Oh, no, I-- Thanks, Mattie!
Matt: You just used it!
Liam: 21. Just one.
Marisha: Now people are going to scream "Hunter's Mark!" at you on the internet!
Liam: I can't wait! I love you internet! I love you so much! And then, even though I'm not using disengage, I'm going to use my movement to back the fuck up into that doorway.
Matt: Okay. As you back up into that doorway, she swings around, the giant maul arcing in your direction. A great maul, actually, specifically. That is 24 to hit.
Liam: I'll use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay, in order to take half damage? All righty, so, that comes to-- oof. This is going to be fun for you.
Liam: So much fun.
Matt: All righty, let's get the dice out for this. Oh, I have the wrong dice. There we go.
Liam: Guys, I have 105 hit points. I am swole.
Marisha: Welcome to triple digits! Congratulations, you joined the rest of us!
Matt: You take 31 bludgeoning damage, halved to 15. It-- whack!-- slams you into the shoulder. You dodge out of the way and the momentum actually hits you and the inertia shoves you into the side of the doorway. You catch yourself.
Liam: Thank you! (grunting)
Matt: All right, that ends your turn? Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, I am going to Tidal Wave these motherfuckers. Yeah! Still have that packed from the Fire Plane, what's up! So I don't have a-- do we have a laser pointer in the house?
Taliesin: It's not in your bag?
Marisha: You know, it's funny. We bought, like, ten laser pointers, forever ago.
Sam: You know, it's fine. Matt will just point at random until he finds the spot that you're looking for.
Taliesin: Warmer, warmer, colder, colder, warmer.
Marisha: I had a laser pointer.
Liam: Here's one, here's one.
Marisha: Hey, I think this is mine!
Travis: Yeah, sure it is!
Liam: Use it!
Sam: Tidal Wave!
Marisha: Yeah, 30 feet long, ten foot wide, ten foot tall. Everything must make a dexterity save.
Matt: So you're trying to do it this way?
Marisha: That's exactly what I'm doing.
Matt: All right, so it comes bursting through. All right, they both need to make a dexterity saving throw against a DC 19, correct?
Laura: 19, yes, right?
Marisha: Yep!
Matt: That is a 17 for the giant, no. And that is a seven for the roc. So no, they both take 4d8 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: And they are knocked prone, and if they are flamey, then all unprotected flames are distinguished.
Sam: Extinguished.
Matt: It is the creature's nature--
Taliesin: They're very distinguished. They have little fun mustaches.
Marisha: They're dapper!
Matt: They both fall prone, but the nature of their flames is natural. It is part of their actual physicality, so the flames do not get extinguished.
Marisha: So they don't take extra water damage? So 4d8?
Matt: No, but the water does slam into the bird. You see steam rise up as it impacts. The flames darken a little bit and subside briefly. Both of them are knocked off their feet into the ground as you watch the tidal wave curl up, slam into both of them, and then spill out and spread across the ground, putting out this fire here, actually.
Marisha: So 21 damage, and they're knocked prone. 21 damage.
Matt: Yep, great. That finishes your turn, Keyleth, or do you want to move?
Marisha: I'll stay where I am, actually.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to the general, as she stands.
Laura: Oh god, she's a general!
Matt: At half of her movement there. She, extremely angry, gets up. (growls) "Oh, that's not playing fair!"
Marisha: You looked like you needed a bath!
Matt: Looks back at a piece of the rubble, grabs it-- actually is going to use her Flaming Anger, which is an ability she has. She gets extremely furious and tenses up. You can see muscles bulging in her forehead. She grabs a big chunk of the nearby rubble. You watch as the rubble, already on fire from the impact, the fiery impact of the site, begins to heat up. Lobs it at you.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: That is a natural one. As it goes whoosh, and tumbles past--
Marisha: Can I watch it, be like--
Matt: Yeah, it goes off and actually impacts one of the wyverns flying through the sky and hits it. It goes down over the outer wall.
Liam: Echoing from in the gate, you hear, woo!
Marisha: You've got a good arm!
Matt: Using her Flaming Anger, however, she angrily grabs another piece, this one even larger. Both hands over the head, the great maul hanging at her side, and throws it at you. This time, that is a 19 to hit.
Marisha: Heh, uh, yeah. That hits.
Matt: Okay. You suffer 33 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact, plus ten points of fire damage from the heat, as it slams into you, almost knocking you onto your back. You manage to catch yourself, but the pieces of it hit you and then break apart and fall to the ground around you. You find your whole front side charred from the impact. With the rest of her movement, is going to-- let's see, she only has 20 feet. One, two, three, four, in your direction, picking her great maul up with her hand and swinging it. Thank you, boyfriend glasses delivery. Ends the general's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay!
Matt: Scanlan, you're on deck.
Marisha: She throws rocks!
Taliesin: Okay, now that this is happening, I've decided-- I'm already committed to this wyvern and rider over in the corner that have not ceased to be a problem. I assume that they have not ceased to be a problem at this point.
Matt: They're not currently harrying you, no. They're fighting off guards.
Taliesin: But they're going to become a problem if they kill those guards.
Matt: Possibly. If they kill the guards.
Taliesin: Okay, that'll do! So I'm going to take three shots at that wyvern. I'm going to start shooting at the wyvern. So, first attack. He's held down by a net?
Matt: He is, but two of the guys who were holding the net have died off, so it's almost negligible at this point. He can't get the wings going, but if the net is removed or he manages to get the net off, it'll be fine.
Taliesin: All right, I'll take a sharpshooter shot at him. So, that's-- oh, for the fuck's sake. That's a gun jam.
Laura: Oh no!
Taliesin: Yep, that's another one.
Sam: How many guns you got?
Taliesin: I've got a lot, but I keep-- Ugh, god, that hurt. Okay. That really hurt. Took ten points of psychic damage, because that's funny. I'm irritated. I'm putting that away and I'm pulling out Bad News and taking a shot with Bad News at him because I've got just enough of a round to do that. Another sharpshooter shot, because I'm irritated. Come on. Oh, for fuck's sake.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Did you die?
Taliesin: Yeah, I died. I'm dead.
Matt: In a terrible round for Percy, as you walk forward in the center, you turn to the side, fire at the wyvern, get one shot that immediately locks up. You feel the reeling feedback, psychic feedback from Animus, course through you. You put it away, pull out Bad News, take aim. As you fire, that horrible silent click sound as you pull back. You hold it away from you, just in time, as the flame backs up in the butt end of the weapon just flares outward. You can see, this is going to need a little work to get it working again.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, but this is getting stupid. You know, it's almost worth-- It really does suck. That legit sucks.
Matt: You want to move, or anything else you want to do on your turn?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, no, I am. I'm paying a deadly price for this shit right now. I'm going to run toward the-- that's some sort of bastille weapon over there? Is there a-- No, to your-- yeah, right there.
Matt: Right there? That is a crate and a chest.
Taliesin: What's the thing in the circle?
Matt: Oh, this right here, you mean? Oh, that is one of the trebuchets that you had repaired and one of the ones that isn't damaged yet.
Taliesin: I'm running toward it.
Sam: Oh yeah, use the battlefield!
Marisha: Press 'x' to use!
Matt: There you go. It is loaded. It has not been used. It looks like the men that were currently fighting the wyvern across the way had loaded it up and then were assaulted when they threw the net over. So it currently is ready for use.
Taliesin: Okay!
Marisha: Hot.
Matt: It is a difficult thing to aim. That ends Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm going to move over to the right, towards Grog, a bit. Just to get away from everybody else. And I will-- We need to hit this giant, right?
Laura: Yeah! Kill it!
Sam: So I will (sings) Bigby's Hand! But I have very few spell slots left, so it's going to have to be at level seven.
Matt: Okay. 7th-level Bigby's Hand.
Sam: I will punch him in his giant solar plexus.
Matt: The giant?
Sam: Her! Her giant solar plexus. It's a she.
Matt: Yes it is.
Liam: It's ten feet above your head.
Sam: Okay. With my hand cone, if that helps.
Liam: Fuck, that shirt.
Matt: With your hand cone.
Liam: Hold the hand cone to the shirt.
Laura: Just, like, right here. (laughter)
Matt: All righty, so Bigby's Hand appears, goes into a Clenched Fist. Go ahead and make a spell attack.
Sam: Oh! Because it's a melee attack-- spell attack?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21 hits! And so it's cast at seventh level.
Sam: Yes, it's 8d8.
Laura: Whoa!
Liam: So handsome!
Sam: Do you have any d8s over here?
Taliesin: I do. There's another d8.
Marisha: Here's some more.
Sam: Okay. Oh wow! That's all of them. That's eight.
Marisha: It feels better that way. Ooh! Those are good rolls!
Taliesin: Those are very nice-looking d8s.
Matt: Oh, Vax? I also need you to make a constitution saving roll.
Liam: Great.
Sam: 40.
Matt: 40! Ooh!
Liam: For what?
Matt: You have a concentration check for your Hunter's Mark?
Liam: Oh, awesome! I love-- I know all about spells! It's a one.
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: But I have Luck, so I'm going to roll again
Matt: Okay. Go ahead.
Liam: I have Luck! It's within the rules, yeah. Concentration, straight--
Matt: No-- constitution, yeah.
Liam: Constitution, straight 16.
Matt: Okay, you maintain concentration, you're fine. All right, so, as you conjure Bigby's Hand, you see the purple energy trail off your fingers, and as your bring your hand back into an uppercut motion, you watch as the air in front of the giant, and she begins stomping forward in the direction of Keyleth and Pike, the energy forms into this giant purple fist of smoke that just sucker-punches her right in the gut. She looks down, confused and angry, at this fist that turns into a middle finger immediately. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah!
Sam: You know me well.
Matt: You've moved ten feet that way. You still have--
Sam: Is anyone within range of my Healing Words?
Matt: You have, looks to be Pike, Keyleth and Grog all within range.
Sam: Keyleth's hurt, right?
Marisha: I am hurt.
Sam: Okay. I will give her some Healing Words.
Matt: Second level?
Marisha: Heal me. With your words.
Sam: I will heal you with my words. So that's 2d4 plus six, right? Wow, awesome. Eight. (laughter)
Marisha: All right. I'll take it.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Yeah, 71 hit points.
Matt: There you go. That ends Scanlan's turn. All right, so. Vex, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw, if you could?
Laura: Oh, that asshole that I'm standing next to. Fucking dick!
Ashley: Get him.
Laura: That's a seven.
Matt: It's a seven. As you, looking off the side, getting your arrows ready for a second round, you can hear a couple of whispers off to your side. As you glance over, you make eye contact with Xanthas, who has managed to shrug off the bramble vines around his body. As soon as he finishes talking, he points a finger towards you. And you're listening. You snap to attention.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: And he goes, "Why don't you take a walk off the edge of that tower right there?"
Ashley: No!
Sam: (whispers) Wait a second, you can't do that!
Laura: But when I'm doing it, I'm also still intelligent, right?
Matt: You're still intelligent, oh.
Travis: Oh, and you look good doing it. You look good walking right off that edge.
Laura: I'm going to walk off of it. I look at him, I walk off it. Can I pull out my broom as I walk off the edge and land on the broom? Because I did what he told me, technically?
Matt: Yeah, so he's a--
Ashley: But he didn't say to not use your broom.
Matt: Just double-checking to make sure I could make him do this.
All: (singing) Off the catwalk.
Sam: I don't think you can command someone to hurt themselves.
Matt: It doesn't say that you can't.
Sam: Really?
Laura: Really?!
Matt: Each time it takes damage, it gets to retake the saving throw.
Taliesin: Once you complete his instructions, you can do anything you want.
Laura: No, that's what I mean. I'm going to walk off the edge and pull out the broom.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And just fly.
Matt: Okay. Yeah. So you come up and you go off the edge. And you have the broom there. All right. And you're coasting there with your broom.
Laura: And I give him a thumbs-up. Thanks, Boss!
Matt: And he darts down the stairs into the building. And as he's rushing off, he's like, "All right. Shoot your friends!" (laughter)
Matt: He shouts it over his shoulder as he goes. (laughter)
Liam: That was awesome.
Matt: So now it is Pike's turn.
Ashley: Okay. So, getting up to speed here. So Percy's kind of low?
Travis: Percy!
Taliesin: Yes, I'm low.
Ashley: Okay. I have on my Sprinter's Boots.
Marisha: You're next to me.
Ashley: I'm next to you?
Laura: And Percy's over by the trebuchet in the corner.
Ashley: Can I make it to the trebuchet in the corner with my Sprinter's Boots or even without?
Matt: Not without, you couldn't. You could, but it would take your whole turn.
Ashley: Okay, then I will use my Sprinter's Boots.
Matt: All right.
Liam: You sound like you're an actual gnome.
Laura: Yeah, you really do.
Matt: You get over there at the trebuchet.
Ashley: Okay. So I'll cast Cure Wounds-- Percy?
Laura: Taliesin, you guys are talking so loud.
Sam: Controversial spell use over here-- Controversial! It will be addressed on Talks Machina!
Taliesin: He's trying to argue that you'll be taking damage and I'm trying to show him that he's wrong.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Laura: Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: You're welcome.
Laura: Damn you, Scanlan.
Sam: If I were DM-ing--
Liam: (air horn sounds) (laughter)
Liam: Is that okay?
Matt: I'll allow it.
Liam: It was on them.
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: No, because now I can't do it to Scanlan. Okay, so what are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 59.
Ashley: Okay. So let's do a 3rd-level Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. by the way, you used one earlier. So you have one more 3rd-level spell slot after this.
Laura: Matt did a 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Before you got here. Just so you know.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe I should do-- I'm going to do a fourth level. Because we need you.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm not very-- I'm not being very useful at the moment, but yeah. I'll get back there.
Ashley: Well, you're at the trebuchet now. Okay.
Matt: Grog, you're on deck, by the way.
Travis: Can I ask you a question while she's waiting?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: A prone enemy. Do you get advantage on them? If they're prone?
Matt: If they are prone, with melee attacks in the vicinity?
Travis: That's a natural crit, right? No, that's--
Matt: No, it has advantage if you're within five feet of it.
Travis: Got it.
Ashley: 23.
Laura: 23, Percy!
Taliesin: Yay! Thank you!
Ashley: And then-- shoot! I was going to do something before I moved, but I forgot. So now, for my bonus action, I'm going to create a beautiful, divine sword, Spiritual Weapon, and put it up to the belly of the giant.
Sam: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: All right. At what level are you casting this?
Laura: (whispers) Cast it really high.
Matt: You've already used your 3rd-level-- 4th-level spell, so you have to use your 2nd-level.
Ashley: I have four 3rd-levels, so I think I actually have an extra 3rd-level. Because of the necklace.
Matt: Okay. You have an extra one, then. But do keep in mind, you've already cast a 3rd-level spell this round-- a 4th-level spell, so if you're doing a bonus action, it can only be 2nd-level or lower. So it would be at 2nd-level.
Ashley: All right.
Sam: Can you use four 3rd-level spells to be one 12th-level spell? (laughter)
Matt: Sure. Why not? (laughter)
Marisha: Because I want to do a Fire-transport-via-plants-ball.
Ashley: Okay, I'll just do it at second.
Matt: That would be messy.
Ashley: I'll just do it at second level, then.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn, Pike? All right. Grog?
Travis: I'll run up to the bird-fire creature. And taking advantage of him being on the ground, I would like to go into a frenzied rage! And I would like to whale on this piece of shit.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: At advantage, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Not as a-- I don't have to declare Reckless?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Great! I will do Great Weapon Master. That and minus five is 22?
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice! Second one is 14, 28 minus-- that is 23?
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Six minus-- 21.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: All three hit.
Travis: All three hit.
Liam: Get him, Grog.
Travis: 18. Necrotic, four points. Oh god! 21. 31 for the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: 33.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And the third one. 20, 30.
Matt: 30. All right, that's 64 points of damage in one round against the creature.
Laura: What?!
Matt: As you rush in and start whaling on it, you almost don't notice the proximity of it. The heat is so hot that you suffer ten points of fire damage just being that close to it. Your skin starts to burn and the edges of your beard begins to singe and curl in.
Travis: Hey, hey! That sucks! Ten points of burning damage.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: "Burning" damage.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn?
Travis: It does.
Matt: All right. With that, it goes to the large ember-roc's turn.
Travis: (laughs) Hi! (laughter)
Matt: All righty. It's going to go ahead and use an action to attempt its Inferno.
Travis: Its what?
Matt: Its Inferno. It begins to beat its wings extremely heavily. And as it does, the heated air and the flames begin to billow up from around it. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, Grog.
Travis: Do I get advantage on these when I'm raging? I do, because I have Danger Sense.
Matt: You do.
Travis: Natural 20. (cheering, air horn sounds)
Matt: All right. Oh, that's-- good thing, too, that was six, six, five, four on the d4 roll. That was nice. All right, so that is 21 points of fire damage, reduced to half. So ten.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Ten points of fire damage, again. And you are not blown back.
Travis: How's the beard doing?
Matt: It's burning a little bit, you're starting to smell the hair singeing, it's making you angry even in your-- angrier
Travis: Just like Hagrid's, with the dragon egg?
Matt: A little bit, yeah. You're like, oh god! However, you do not get pushed back, and as it's taking off with its wings, as part of the maneuver, you do get an attack of opportunity at it, if you want to take it.
Ashley: Get him.
Travis: Reckless. 21.
Matt: 40. It doesn't get all way over to them, it gets--
Ashley: Go away.
Sam: Go away.
Travis: It's a 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It swoops in the air, as you smash your axe in the air towards-- (crash offscreen) Like that. (laughter)
Matt: How much damage?
Travis: 23 with one point of necrotic.
Matt: Nice. 23. And you smack it, it shrieks in the impact, but its wings still (whoosh), it arcs over and lands on the ground, right behind Pike and Percy. You guys feel the impact.
Travis: We were just starting to talk! Come on!
Matt: All right. Top of the round now. This fellow over here, who's now been loading up the ballista, is going to go ahead and fire it at the bird.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Sam: It's our guy.
Travis: It's a bird.
Matt: That actually hits. (cheering)
Travis: Percy!
Matt: That is 12 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Good job, Percy! Good job!
Taliesin: I had a whole crew of people. I've got people.
Marisha: I got friends.
Matt: All righty. And over here, during this fray, this guy manages to destroy the last guard, dispatch him and get the rest of the net off.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So that takes his full turn, but now that is available over there.
Marisha: He's available, yo!
Matt: These three guards, one of them dies but in the process, they do manage to hack down the rest of the wyverns, the wyvern does die.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: This wyvern does dispatch the last guard, however, and manages to take off its chain, which is currently lodged into the back of the wyvern. It pulls it forth from the wound with a spray of blood, and now the wyvern is no longer bound. So you now have two wyvern riders on the battlefield.
Travis: Oh, so much fun. Awesome.
Matt: Vex, it's your turn. You have to attack your friends.
Laura: I don't get to make a saving throw?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Fuck!
Matt: Actually, Dominate Person, I don't think you do! It's when you take damage. Let me see. Yeah.
Laura: Maybe he has to tell me who to attack.
Taliesin: It's take damage.
Laura: It's when I take damage?
Taliesin: You have to take damage, you have to complete all of your actions.
Laura: Oh, shit! I should have just fallen off the fucking roof.
Matt: That was your choice.
Taliesin: You can't do that now, though.
Matt: Nope. You are on your broom, and you look down, and the person who's closest to you of your friends is Grog. And so you're like, "Well, I've got to attack my friends." Make two shots against him.
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog.
Travis: I don't believe you.
Laura: Oh! Natural one! (laughter)
Travis: It's true!
Laura: And 20!
Travis: Oh. That's a 20-- Oh. I thought you meant natural.
Laura: No, no, no.
Matt: 20 hits. So go ahead and roll damage against Grog with one arrow. Grog, as you angrily finish slashing as the ember-roc flies overhead, one arrow hits the ground next to you. You're like, "What the hell?" And then you feel the pain right in the back of the neck as an arrow has embedded itself about two inches into your meaty goliath throat.
Laura: 15 piercing damage.
Travis: Halved to seven?
Laura: I didn't even Hunter's Mark you, Grog! I'm sorry!
Matt: Remember, you don't halve the lightning damage it deals.
Laura: I don't?
Matt: No. Because the lightning damage is different beyond the piercing. So how much is--?
Laura: Oh. It was four lightning damage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: So, total four-- and then the other half--?
Laura: It was 11 piercing damage.
Matt: So you take five plus four, so you take nine points of damage total from that shot. All right.
Laura: Sorry.
Travis: That's okay, I'll get you later.
Matt: You're going to stand there for a moment and--
Laura: That's it? That's all I do?
Matt: I mean, you can move around if you want to. You've just got to attack your friends when it comes to your action.
Ashley: How do we get-- we have to--
Travis: Punch yourself in the face!
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I can't. I don't know to punch myself in the face.
Travis: I'm going to punch you in the face.
Sam: Vex is working with them! Kill her. (laughter)
Sam: I knew this day would come.
Laura: I'm not aware of what I'm doing. I just think, "I need to kill my friends."
Matt: Yeah, it's an impulse. It's like, "Okay, no worries."
Laura: Okay. I'm just going to be up here! Shooting you guys!
Matt: Okay. That ends Vex's turn. Vax?
Liam: If I go four down diagonally towards the giant, I'll be within ten feet, yeah?
Matt: This way?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Three, four, five. You can get within ten feet, or you can get right up to it if you want to.
Liam: I don't want to.
Matt: Okay, so you can get within ten feet of her.
Liam: Yeah. I am going to use bonus action to cast Vow of Enmity against her.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That sounds awesome.
Liam: With the feathers bristling in my armor. And then I'm going to use the rest of my movement to back straight back towards the wall, another two or three squares, I think.
Ashley: Dang it, you're so cool!
Liam: And I'm going to chuck-- well, we're good. We've got Bigby's Hand right in her private area. But I'm now going to throw Whisper at her back.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I should have advantage because she's busy.
Matt: Well, advantage because she's busy--
Laura: And your vow.
Liam: Well, and the vow. Either way. It doesn't stack.
Matt: No, you have advantage on attack rolls against the creature for one minute.
Liam: Right.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: That or Bigby's.
Matt: Well, Bigby's isn't threatening, technically. So it's--
Liam: So 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: So four. That's the dice before I add anything. And then-- Does psychic damage get damage? It's a die. I don't know, I haven't done it.
Laura: Doubled? You double all your dice.
Liam: All your dice.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Was it a critical hit?
Liam: No. Sorry.
Matt: Yeah, you don't double the dice.
Liam: Ten, and then. Don't message me, internet. Ten, 14, 19, 'cause I don't care, 22, 27, 33, 34, 37. Plus Hunter's Mark. 38, plus my plus eight to the dagger is--
Laura: Wow.
Matt: Rogues, man.
Liam: 42.
Matt: 42. Nice.
Liam: And that's it.
Matt: 42 points of impact. Are you staying back?
Liam: I'm out of movement, aren't I?
Matt: I mean, you threw Whisper at it.
Liam: But the bonus action was for the Vow of Enmity, I believe.
Matt: Right. I'm saying, when you threw Whisper, you weren't travelling with it.
Liam: No, no, no.
Matt: Okay, good. Just making sure. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. So we have a giant bird, and another giant bird, and they're all really angry at us, right?
Matt: It's one giant bird, and then angry wyverns.
Marisha: And then tiny, tiny dragons with wings. Okay. Where's the wyvern?
Matt: That's a wyvern there, and there's a wyvern over there.
Laura: There's a wyvern, and there's a wyvern.
Marisha: (singing) Kill the wyvern, kill the wyvern!
All: (singing) Kill the wyvern!
Taliesin: We're a little weird tonight.
Marisha: That happened. Yeah, we kind of are, aren't we?
Taliesin: This is a musical episode.
Matt: I will fight you, Sam.
Marisha: Man, I'm going to go ahead and cast Call Lightning, I guess?
Matt: Okay!
Marisha: And I'm going to bring it down on the wyvern that's fucking shit up next to Percy.
Matt: All righty. So dexterity saving throw to that wyvern right there?
Marisha: Yup, that's the daddy.
Matt: That is a six! That is a very failed saving throw. So that is--
Marisha: 3d10.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: That's not a great roll. Ten points of lightning damage.
Matt: Ten points of lightning damage to it. So, to the wyvern, right?
Marisha: To the wyvern.
Matt: Yeah. So the wyvern rider barely pulls out of the way as the bolt of lightning from the slowly conjured storm in the sky strikes out and slams into the back of the wyvern. You see the energy arcing through its body before it dissipates, and the wyvern shakes from the impact, looks around angrily. The rider pulls the reins and gets it refocused.
Marisha: Well, technically, doesn't Call Lightning: every creature within five feet of that point must make a dexterity saving throw?
Matt: It is every creature! Which the-- that's a natural one.
Marisha: So he also takes the ten points of damage.
Matt: Yes. So, they both get hit. While he dodges, the arcing energy actually travels through his body, grounding himself to the creature. So they both take damage.
Marisha: And then I'm going to use my bonus action to go-- let's go air elemental.
Laura: Looked like she was smelling her armpit as she did that.
Marisha: (sniffs) Pit check is good! (laughter)
Travis: Kentucky.
Matt: Perfect. (laughter)
Matt: All righty. You are now an air elemental. You can move in your elemental form. You haven't moved yet. So you can still move in your form if you want.
Marisha: Can I levitate a little? Get in the air a little bit?
Laura: It's fabulous in the air. It's really good.
Matt: You're ever-so-slightly levitating.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right, there you go, Keyleth.
Marisha: Thanks, bruh.
Matt: All right, now it's General (inaudible)'s turn.
Travis: General what, did you say her name?
Matt: I didn't. You don't know it.
Travis: Use your consonants, Mercer!
Sam: General Grievous.
Matt: I said too much. No. That would be so hackneyed.
Taliesin: General Chaos. General Calamity?
Matt: So, after taking the blow to the chest, is going to go straight for you, Grog. You're a big old target who came forward and slammed and has dealt a crapton of damage.
Travis: Be honest, she is attracted to me as well.
Matt: Probably. As she turns with the floating hand and the floating sword, waving it by the hammer, watches as its ember-roc slams over towards Percy and Pike. Feels pretty confident, sees you, a little more of a heartier target. Points the hammer at you and says, "You will be my charge tonight!" and starts walking to you.
Laura: No, no, no.
Ashley: Get away from him. Get away from him!
Matt: See if it recharges. It does not recharge Flaming Anger, unfortunately, but will take two great maul attacks against you.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: You're my charge. Yeah, boy.
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: It hits.
Matt: And a 23 to hit.
Travis: That hits, too.
Matt: All righty. So you take, for the first hit, 40 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half to 20.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And the second strike, not as good a roll.
Travis: Blinks with frustration.
Matt: I know. 29 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to--
Travis: 14?
Matt: 14. So brings the hammer back, right into your shoulder, and it sends you off your feet. You catch yourself from the impact of the blow as the hammer spins around and catches you in the other side, right at the solar plexus, almost knocking the wind out of you. You feel your feet skid into the dry sand and dirt beneath your feet, and a little smile curls in the corner of your face.
Travis: Ooh, Miss Piggy! That tickled. Can I use Retaliation to give her what's good for?
Matt: You've already used your reaction this round.
Travis: Oh, you're right! I did! Damn it!
Matt: Sorry.
Travis: Good call.
Matt: But next turn I'm sure you'll be able to give her what for. Percival, it's your turn. As you're standing there, the presence, the heat of this creature near you, you immediately suffer four points of fire damage just from being in the proximity of this entity.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm cool. I'm going to try and-- Okay, out of curiosity, is that little trebuchet there, is that more-or-less pointed at the wyvern right now?
Matt: More or less, you'd probably have to rotate it a little bit. There is a large crank that has to be rotated to shift its direction.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- is it possible that I can get this shot off in one round?
Matt: It is possible, if you make a strength check to get it to move to its place right now.
Taliesin: It's not like I've got a lot of options here. Like, everything's going pretty iffy as it is.
Matt: So you're ignoring the bird for now and you're going for the trebuchet against the wyvern?
Taliesin: There's honestly not a lot I can do about the bird right now.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: If I try to run from the bird, is it within striking distance of me?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Okay. Well, hardly matters. All right. Let's-- 'It Hardly Matters' is the name of the game. I'm going to see if I can get this-- I guess I'm going to make a strength check to try and--
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: Standard strength check?
Ashley: Come on.
Laura: You can do it, Percy!
Marisha: The adrenaline kicks in! Oh!
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait. I'm burning my Resolve.
Matt: That's saving throws.
Taliesin: Is it just saving throws? It's not--?
Matt: It's only for saving throws, not for ability checks.
Taliesin: Oh! Okay, so I'm not burning that, then. Then that does not do anything.
Matt: What did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a two. So I got a three.
Matt: Yeah. You go and grab the ratchet and it's stuck. It begins to shift a little bit. You're not sure if it's going to line up.
Taliesin: Then I'm going to jump over that thing and run into the tent, 'cause I'm goddamn useless right now.
Matt: Okay. You leap over and make your way inside the tent.
Taliesin: Now I'm going to burn an Action Surge.
Matt: As you rush away, the creature reaches out with one of its claws and rakes towards your back.
Liam: He's keeping you humble tonight.
Matt: It's going to be a 20 to hit.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: Okay. The claw streaks across your back. You feel the pain and the sudden rush of adrenaline hit you at the impact. That's going to be 14 points of slashing damage to your back.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm 64.
Ashley: 64. Okay.
Marisha: Question.
Matt: Yes?
Marisha: Are we inside the fort walls?
Matt: You're inside the outer walls. This is the actual front of the fort itself.
Marisha: We're inside the outer walls. So the ones that were trying to go through that door were trying to get through the inner walls?
Matt: Into the actual fortress itself. Yes.
Marisha: Okay. So we've gotten through one layer of wall?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And we're trying to get through the other layer?
Laura: Well, they're trying to get through the wall.
Marisha: Everyone seems to be. Just clarifying. Continue.
Matt: Yes. Percy. You said you're taking your Action Surge?
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus for a heal, so I'm going to--
Matt: Second Wind?
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a Second Wind, my only Second Wind, and take 16 points back. And then I'm going to burn my Action Surge to try and fix the Pepperbox. The Animus box.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Thankfully the difficulty is not horrible. Okay. And that's fine! Again. So the Animus is back in action--
Matt: Okay, as you duck inside, clear your mind for a second, focus, pull out your tools with your Action Surge and quickly find the one section of the barrel that had somehow sprung off and was loose. You click it back into place, look up, it spins. Functional, clear and fine.
Liam: Did he blow on it like an NES cartridge?
Matt: Yeah! (laughter)
Taliesin: Yeah! (laughter)
Taliesin: Boy! That took a lot. But I'm now hiding in that tent. I'm definitely hiding in that as far back into that tent as I could have got.
Matt: That ends your turn. (laughter)
Ashley: Right at the door. Just in case.
Marisha: It's made of polyester. It's real bad.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Scanlan. You're up.
Sam: I take a few steps towards Grog, if I can. Over to my left a little bit, just so I could get a clear shot-- Sorry, other left. So I get a clear shot on the fire giant. With Bigby's Hand, I'm going to do the Sugar Ray Leonard thing where it's going round and round and round, but before he punches, I'm going to fire a Lightning Bolt at it.
Matt: Yes, not a problem. All right. That will--
Liam: So in love!
Matt: It might singe a bit of the fur on the side of your skivvies there, Grog, but a bolt of lightning coasts right past you.
Travis: Skivvies all right. Beard not so much.
Matt: Yeah. Fair enough. This is a dexterity saving throw. That is a 17 dex save. That does not make the DC, the giant gets full damage.
Sam: 8d6.
Laura: Grog's poor ass. (laughter)
Liam: Grog, is that an extra mace over there?
Marisha: Oh, god.
Travis: Kashaw, somewhere, goes "Ah!"
Marisha: Gets a nosebleed.
Sam: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay, so you release the bolt of lightning, and then just as the lightning hits the front of the giant's chest, as it was focusing on Grog, it looks over and sees where the lightning bolt came from just as the (whack) across the chin. Go ahead and roll a--
Sam: So, the initial spell was level seven, but subsequent actions--
Matt: It maintains the level you cast it.
Sam: Really? So it's another 8d8?
Matt: Yeah, well, you have to roll to hit to see if you hit it first.
Sam: Okay. Oh yes, roll d20, right, this is a spell attack. Whiffed.
Marisha: What'd you get?
Sam: A natural one.
All: Oh no!
Matt: You watch as it swings towards the giant, staring at you, at the last minute glances out and she sees the fist and ducks back, slow-motion passes past her chin. As the jaw clenches, the teeth grinding underneath, you see the jagged broken tops of the giant teeth as the eyes (whoosh) right back to you.
Sam: Oh boy. That was less Sugar Ray Leonard and more just, like, Sugar Ray. (laughter)
Matt: I'm going to put Bigby's Hand on the other side now for that.
Sam: (singing) Every morning when I wake up. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: I almost want to give you inspiration for that. Sure. Take back your bardic inspiration for that, sure.
Sam: Oh! Great!
Matt: Scanlan, you want to stay where you are or you going to move? You still have ten more feet of movement if you want it.
Sam: I mean, she's coming for me, so I'll just back up ten feet.
Matt: All right. There you go, all right.
Taliesin: Run!
Matt: Now, darting from out from the side here, Xanthas runs out, looks over the wall, sees you floating above. "Keep attacking your friends!"
Marisha: Fucking dick. Can we take him out? He was always an asshole. Come on.
Laura: Obviously he's a bad guy. Obviously he's a bad guy now.
Ashley: Would you consider him a friend?
Marisha: He was always annoyed by us.
Laura: Oh yeah, do I like him so much now?
Matt: Oh he's great.
Laura: He's my friend?
Matt: Well, I mean-- You are considered charmed by him, so yes.
Laura: He's my friend, cool.
Matt: Yep. Seems like an ally at this point. Focusing on that, keeping you informed--
Marisha: But Vex, he never had any redeeming qualities.
Laura: I love him, he's my best friend.
Marisha: This is the first time we're hearing of this!
Laura: Xanthas is my best friend forever!
Taliesin: You don't know him like she does.
Marisha: (chuckle) They spent a lot of time together.
Matt: Okay. Is going to look down and points his finger across and a beam of reddish energy comes coursing to the ground and explodes right there in the center of this area, actually right in the center with the fire elemental, so I need Grog, Scanlan, and Keyleth to all make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Cool!
Ashley: This guy's the worst.
Taliesin: This is technically a magic--
Matt: This is a Fireball.
Travis: (singing) Natural 20.
Marisha: Ouch, jeez, I rolled a two.
Sam: Disadvantage on ability checks, not saves.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: 11.
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Okay, that's full damage to Keyleth and Scanlan, half damage to Grog, as this is a 5th-level Fireball.
Marisha: 5th-level Fireball?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Who did this?
Matt: Little punk over here that was on top and went down inside and came out the other side.
Marisha: Wait, is that Xanthas?
Matt: Xanthas, yeah.
Travis: Does that break his--
Matt: It's not concentration, no.
Travis: I know a lot about magic, you guys.
Matt: 33 points of fire damage to Scanlan, 33 points of damage to Keyleth in her elemental form, and 15 points of fire damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Yay.
Matt: And after firing, he ducks down to the side, and he doesn't do much 'cause he still has partial cover while he's behind the top of that wall right now.
Ashley: He sucks!
Marisha: What a doucher.
Laura: I like him, you guys, I think he's great.
Matt: That ends his turn. Pike, you're up. At the beginning of your turn, due to the proximity of the heat of the bird behind you, the giant ember-roc, you would take eight points of fire damage, but it's reduced to four because of your armor's fire resistance. So that's four points of fire damage.
Ashley: So, I have a quick question.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: So the thing that Percy was trying to do with the trebuchet. Did it not work because it wasn't--?
Taliesin: Because I'm weak.
Ashley: You're weak, okay. I want to try and give it a go.
Matt: Okay. By the way, your sword should have attacked last round when you summoned it, so go ahead and make a spell attack with it just because I totally forgot about that.
Ashley: Ugh, what do I roll?
Matt: Just roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier. You're up next, Grog.
Ashley: Ooh, 28!
Matt: That hits! Go ahead and roll the damage for your spiritual weapon.
Ashley: 2d6?
Matt: That is 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: All right, so that's an additional eight points of damage to the giant. Okay, so, continuing your turn--
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to try to--
Matt: Winch it? All right, so as you see Percy run off, you reach up, go ahead and make a strength check.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: You got it.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: 12? Okay, that's fine. (cheering)
Matt: You grab it and (grunts) and it takes a second, but you begin getting the winch to move around. As it does, does it begins to rotate. How far are you rotating it? Who are you aiming it towards?
Ashley: I'm going to point it right at the fire bird.
Matt: Okay. As you pull the winch around, and there's a little trigger underneath as you get it in place that's kind of holding it.
Ashley: (bink)
Matt: As Pike (bink), the trebuchet, the sudden momentum of the direct inertia to momentum, the device spins over top and lobs this large boulder within this giant sling over and slamming right towards the face of the ember-roc. That's an 18. Go ahead and roll 4d12 damage.
Sam: Heavy duty. d12s!
Matt: It's a siege weapon, man.
Laura: That's 4d12 right there.
Matt: It's meant to destroy walls.
Sam: Wow.
Ashley: 27!
Matt: 27 points of bludgeoning damage to the ember-roc's face as it slams in, the rock breaks across its skull. And its head rears back from the impact and it stumbles back a bit, shaking its head. You can see part of its beak is cracked now from the impact. Blinking its eyes and shrieking.
Marisha: Oh, Buddy.
Matt: No, it's trying to kill your friends.
Ashley: Wait, aren't we attacking him?
Matt: You can still move if you'd like, and you have your bonus action to move your sword over if you'd like.
Ashley: Okay, bonus action, is there only one charge on that thing? Can I keep doing it, or no?
Matt: Every round, it lasts for a minute.
Ashley: Okay, I guess for my bonus action I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on Percy.
Matt: Okay, for the Spiritual Weapon, just so you know--
Laura: I'll bet that's concentration.
Matt: Well no, it's not concentration. But you can choose to use your bonus action to have the sword attack, or cast a spell and the sword just does nothing.
Ashley: I guess it's not going to help you. I'm going to use the spiritual weapon.
Matt: Okay, so the bonus action is the sword toward the giant, or the bird?
Ashley: Toward the giant.
Matt: The sword swings out of the way, arcs through the air, roll another spell attack.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Ashley: I'm going to use Guided Strike to add ten.
Matt: Okay!
Ashley: Oh but no, I don't want to, is it too late to retract that?
Matt: If you want to.
Ashley: I wanted to use that for something bigger.
Travis: Something bigger than the fire giant?
Laura: Something bigger than the spiritual weapon.
Ashley: It's not going to do that much damage.
Taliesin: Yeah, something that does more damage than the spiritual weapon.
Matt: Yeah, I mean you don't have to, it's up to you.
Ashley: No, it's okay. I'll wait for something bigger.
Matt: Okay so the blade arcs over and slams into the armor of the giant and the giant kind of shrugs it off. No damage. You just couldn't quite impact against the creature's flesh. You still can move if you want to.
Ashley: I'm going to stay.
Matt: You're going to stay there?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. The trebuchet is expended, by the way, it would have to be loaded. And to load that thing, it takes quite a few people. Just so you're aware it's probably not going to be useful again in this battle. There are other weapons in the field.
Liam: Everybody to the trebuchet.
Marisha: All hands on deck!
Matt: Heave ho! All right, Pike, that ends your turn?
Ashley: Well, I'll move out a little bit then, I didn't know it would take so much. Towards the giant.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I don't know why!
Matt: That's about as far as you can get there.
Ashley: All right!
Matt: Staying in melee range of the creature or do you want to leave its melee range? It will get a strike at you if you do. Actually, it will not because it already stuck at Percy so you can go there, you're fine. All right, that ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I see the giant eyeing Scanlan and I'm like: I thought you said I was your charge. You are not cheating on me this early in our relationship. And I take both of my attacks at general hot fire giant's face. Reckless. Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 30 minus five is 25!
Matt: Hits.
Travis: 26 minus five is 21?
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Awesome! 34 for the first one, with six points of necrotic. 41.
Matt: 41 points of damage on that one.
Travis: I rolled a d12 plus 13.
Matt: Oh, a straight 12 on that one? Oh, that's nasty. All right. You still have your bonus action.
Travis: I do! I would like to hit him again!
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Not that great. 21.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 26, with five points of necrotic.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Jeez.
Marisha: Let's take this bird down.
Matt: You did over 100 points of damage in one round of combat.
All: What?!
Ashley: That's so much, Grog.
Travis: Look, I am a one-fire-giant kind of guy. I get very upset about these things.
Matt: So with Bigby's Hand floating on one side and a glowing sword on the other, the giant focusing on Scanlan, you get angry and just release this torrent of strikes. Pulling back, from the blade you can see dark blood begin to pour from the plates and the giant is wounded, but it's grinning. And its attention swings back to you.
Travis: I told you I was worth a date.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah. That's it.
Matt: All right. The bird, who has watched Pike run past, after being slammed in the face by the trebuchet, angrily steps forward here. First let's see if it regenerates that. It does recover its inferno ability, however, it is going to unleash a bite and two claw attacks on you. That is a natural 20 on the bite.
Travis: No, Pike!
Matt: That is a 19 to hit on the first claw attack.
Ashley: No.
Matt: And that is a 23 to hit. So a bite and a claw attack. The bite is a critical, unfortunately. So as that one comes to strike you, that is 19 plus 2d8 fire damage. So you take 30 points of slashing damage.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Plus ten points of fire damage reduced to half, so five. Actually, it would have been 20, so that's ten points of fire damage.
Ashley: I have resistance to fire.
Matt: Right, it would have been 20.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: But then, because he did a melee attack on you.
Ashley: Yeah, he did a melee attack so the attacker suffers 2d6.
Matt: Is that fire damage?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: You watch as there's a burst of flame but it seems to have no affect on the creature.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: This creature is fire by nature.
Travis: Naughty by nature?
Matt: Possibly. All right, and it's going to begin flanking around you.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: After it does its strikes it-- (stomps). That brings us to the top of the round. Now, this guy is going to spend his turn loading up and then taking another shot at the bird there. That one unfortunately goes wide. It fires and slams into the ground and a big cloud of dust and rock gets thrown into the air as the large bolt jettisons into the floor, wasted shot there. This wyvern over here is going to fly up.
Laura: And attack me!
Matt: No, he's going to go after Keyleth, the air elemental form there.
Marisha: Bring it.
Matt: This wyvern here is going to rush over to Scanlan. And these guys are going to rush in and try and aid Scanlan against this.
Marisha: Hoping to get hit. Hit me, come on, hit me!
Matt: So we have the wyvern against you, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Bite attack is a two! No, that is not going to hit.
Marisha: Negatory.
Matt: The stinger is going to be an 18 to hit.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Matt: So you take 11 points of piercing damage. Are you immune to poison?
Marisha: Huh? No, I'm immune to poison. Elemental.
Matt: That's what I figured. So you just take 11 points of piercing damage from that strike.
Marisha: I'm good. I'm good.
Matt: The other wyvern is going to swing down. I forgot, the wyvern rider is going to take an attack at you.
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: I forgot, he's on there too. He swings down with his giant club. That's going to be a 21 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You suffer nine points of bludgeoning damage from the wyvern rider. You Scanlan, the wyvern is going to strike at you with both its bite and its--
Sam: I would like to Cutting Words the first one.
Matt: Okay. You can decide whether or not to Cutting Words, I'm just giving you this because you've seen them fight. The bite is painful, the stinger is where the poison is.
Sam: I'll save it for that one.
Matt: Save it for that one, if you're going to.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: But that was a 23 to hit.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: And the stinger is a 21.
Sam: Well, I Cutting Words that one.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So I'll sing at it  (singing) I don't want to die! Get your wings off me baby, get your wings off me baby. I don't want to die. All around the world! Only a seven.
Matt: 21 minus seven is 14.
Sam: That's my AC.
Matt: Ooh.
Liam: You're being punished for using that song.
Matt: Yeah. So you take 11 points of piercing damage for the bite. And you take 11 points of piercing damage from the stinger, and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: No problem.
Taliesin: High.
Sam: High. Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. You manage to-- you take 12 points of poison damage.
Sam: In addition to what you already said, 11 and 11? So 12 more.
Matt: Correct. And I need you to make constitution saving throws for each of those for your concentration. You have advantage on these. Because of your Warcaster feat.
Sam: So wait, that's two concentration rolls?
Matt: Yeah, advantage on the-- you make two of them, yeah.
Sam: 17 plus something.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. Next one with advantage.
Sam: Natural 20. Two natural 20's!
Matt: All righty, and the wyvern rider is going to take a swing at you.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: That is a 22.
Sam: Yeah, it hits.
Matt: You take nine points of bludgeoning damage as it smacks you over the head with a giant club.
Ashley: Are you okay!?
Matt: I need you to make another constitution saving throw with advantage.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Because you're being hacked like crazy here.
Sam: Another natural 20.
Ashley: Shut the fuck up.
Sam: The other one was a three. Three and a 20.
Matt: There you go. Warcaster, man. Warcaster is a great feat. All right, that ends their turn, it is now Vex's turn.
Laura: Yes, can I attack my best buddy?
Liam: Who is that?
Laura: Xanthas. He's my best friend.
Matt: It's more of a telepathic thing.
Laura: Motherfuck!
Matt: You know what he's referring to.
Travis: Have you been writing his name and your name in your notebook?
Laura: With hearts around it and everything.
Matt: You are such a lawyer. No, for this you're going to keep taking shots at Grog.
Laura: Fine!
Travis: Now, there are lots of people to choose from. She doesn't have to pick the most handsome.
Laura: Hey Grog, what's your AC?
Travis: Why, what did you do?
Laura: Because I got a 26 and a 29.
Matt: Yeah, you get hit. And the first one gets sneak attack damage because technically you're working on--
Laura: You!
Liam: She just Boromir'd your ass.
Marisha: Oh no! Not Boromir!
Ashley: Oh, are we going to die?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: Boromir was my favorite.
Ashley: Scanlan, run in the tent.
Laura: 17.
Travis: What, damage?
Laura: Piercing damage.
Matt: With the sneak attack?
Laura: Halved. Huh? Yeah, that's with the sneak attack.
Matt: Okay, so half of that it puts you at eight points of piercing damage.
Laura: And then, oh, four lightning damage.
Travis: So four total.
Laura: Oh, that's just the first attack! Oh no! I'm sorry!
Taliesin: Has no one noticed that she's doing this yet, by the way? No one has commented that she's doing this.
Travis: Well, now I'm going to catch on.
Laura: 20 on the second attack.
Matt: So ten.
Laura: So ten damage on the second plus three lightning.
Matt: Okay, so 13.
Travis: 25. I'm keeping track of this.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: (singing) I'm going to go because we don't get a break because we're fighting.
Liam: And stay down!
Matt: Okay Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I want to a little mini curve and go two squares this way and on the way I want to throw, as a bonus action, throw my Flametongue Dagger at my sister.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, so here we go. That hits, that's a 29. So she takes a total of seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and mark that on her sheet for her.
Liam: Okay. Minus seven awesome points. And then I want to walk up to the back of the giantess and stab her in the calf.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: She has a small cow?
Liam: A natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: Wait, is that with sneak attack?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Ooh! What! What?!
Sam: It's going to be like a million points of damage.
Taliesin: You're going to carve a Christmas animal out of her.
Liam: There are no numbers as high.
Marisha: Yes. Get it. Get it! Big money, no whammies!
Sam: This is a fun game.
Marisha: This is great.
Ashley: I love Dungeons & Dragons.
Marisha: We don't know the damage on the inside yet, but this is fine.
Liam: Plus Hunter's Mark. Shit.
Matt: Which is also doubled, technically.
Liam: Yeah I know. Did I-- yes I did. I forgot just my straight-up bonus that doesn't get doubled. That is 64 points of damage.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Kill it!
Marisha: Kill it!
Liam: I want to to walk up and jab Whisper into the back of her calf and then slide it up the back of her leg, up the ass, up the small of her back as high as I can reach. Probably around the tailbone, I don't know.
Matt: Okay, as you jam it into the back of the calf, the armor plates give way to the impact of the blow. And she looks over her shoulder and tries to swing the maul out backwards. You're too low at this point as she pulls backwards, exposes further up and you just drive the blade upward. As you do you catch some sort of heavy vein as blood begins to just gout out of the wound. And you keep pushing upward, it won't go much past the thigh at this point, but she turns around and starts going unconscious from the rapid blood loss based on the wounds she's already sustained. She takes her hammer up to deliver a death blow down upon you and as she goes to reach for you, her fingers lack the strength to hold the blade and she tumbles forward. You pass to the side, sidestepping as her form slams into the dirt, knocking up dust around her on the ground. (air horn) (laughter)
Matt: Vex, I need you to go ahead and roll a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Because I stabbed you.
Laura: Roll low, roll low! Oh, I mean roll high! Roll high! Wisdom saving throw. 15.
Matt: 15 does not make it. However, technically, and this was my fault before, you do have advantage because it is a person who is not your ally. Or they're fighting your allies.
Laura: That's even worse.
Matt: Yep, so you're still dominated. Sorry.
Liam: But at least you lost some hit points.
Laura: Yay...
Liam: Seven.
Laura: I saw.
Matt: All right. So that ends Vax's turn, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay so, I have the wyvern in my face?
Matt: You do, yes. And the wyvern rider.
Marisha: And the wyvern rider? I'm going to do two slam attacks.
Matt: To the wyvern or the rider?
Marisha: What looks worse?
Matt: The wyvern.
Marisha: The wyvern, then.
Matt: The wyvern rider hasn't really been hurt.
Marisha: I'm going to take out the wyvern.
Matt: Okay go for it, roll two strikes.
Marisha: Okay. Okay, what am I adding? Hang on. Sorry, I'm the worst. Oh, plus five, okay so the first one is 18.
Matt: 18? Hits.
Marisha: And the second one is not as good. That's a 14.
Matt: 14 also hits.
Marisha: Really?
Matt: They don't have a high armor class.
Marisha: Aw, so they each take...
Matt: They've got a fair amount of hit points for their size, but their armor class isn't huge.
Marisha: Okay cool, so the first one is good. 13 plus five so 18 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And four plus three is seven plus five is 12. 12 for the second.
Matt: Gotcha. All right.
Marisha: And then I'm going to use a bonus action. I have never done this before. I'm going to use a bonus action, as a Circle of the Moon druid, to use one spell slot to heal 1d8 hit points.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Marisha: Ooh, seven! That's good!
Matt: All righty. So, as you slam the wyvern twice, whack! Whack! You can see it's being buffeted. The wings are trying to keep up from the sheer amount of wind that's swirling around it. The blows are almost knocking the rider off, and he's spent most of his round trying to hold on to it. It's looking pretty rough. It's barely keeping itself up in the air, but it's still standing in front of you.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Keyleth? All right.
Marisha: I'm going to keep him locked down.
Matt: Okay. It is not the general's turn, because the general is currently dead. Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to peek out the tent, just one step. I can see that the wyvern-- I take a look at the field and I see that--
Marisha: Sorry, sorry! Sorry, Jesus!
Taliesin: Okay, so that's happening, but I can see that we have a problem with Scanlan. So I'm going to take some shots at the creatures that are attacking Scanlan. I'm going to attack the wyvern, not the rider.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: First shot-- actually, you know what? I haven't tried this yet, and this could be fun. I'm going to try a piercing shot and see if I can hit the rider and the wyvern.
Matt: I will say that yes, you can, because they occupy the same space.
Taliesin: So, starting with the wyvern, and then-- all right. Come on, don't be an asshole. Eh, that's not terrible. 19?
Matt: 19 hits. So roll also for the--
Taliesin: Oh, for the rider? That's 25.
Matt: Also hits, so with a single shot, it shoots through the neck and actually pierces the shoulder of the rider at the same time.
Laura: That's sick.
Matt: Roll damage once, and it'll go for both of them.
Taliesin: So that's okay. That's 11 points of damage and three points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay, so they both take a total of 14 points of damage. It hits them both. The rider is looking really messed up from the impact. It looks like it hit something on the neck and is now bleeding onto its chest. It looks a little dazed from the impact. The wyvern is hurt, wounded, and the other guards are still stabbing at it with their weapons. So it's not quite at death's door, but it's looking pretty--
Taliesin: I'm going to take another double shot at the two of them. That's a 26 to hit.
Matt: Hits, all right.
Taliesin: And then the second one, which jumped, is 30 to hit.
Matt: Okay, so roll damage and then they both take the next hit.
Taliesin: Better. 15 points of normal damage, three points of psychic damage.
Matt: So 18 total? This time, as the wyvern rears up from the damage from the first impact, the pain causing it to put its wings out and puff up, it goes through the wing and takes out the temple of the rider. The rider is immediately killed and falls off the back.
Taliesin: Which means I still have one shot left.
Matt: The wyvern is now in the process of trying to get its wings up. It's realized how badly it's hurt and is going to attempt to flee.
Taliesin: That's fine. I'm going to take one more shot. I'm going to do a sharpshooter shot at the wyvern. I'm also going to, just to be an asshole, I'm going to do a push shot at him. I'm going to do a torso push. So that's, double-checking, okay. That's fucking terrible. God damn it. Again.
Matt: Again? He's going to aim and the same mechanism-- You're having a reverse Percy day. Wow! There is balance!
Taliesin: And another ten points of psychic damage.
Liam: This is just balancing for the Thordak fight. It's all right.
Taliesin: And I've lost that grit point, because I burned that grit point on the bird. So, ow! Run back in the tent. God damn it.
Matt: All right, that finishes Percy's turn.
Taliesin: And deep into the tent. Like, halfway into the tent.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up?
Matt: Just curled up and shaking.
Sam: Okay. My Bigby's Hand is still working, right?
Matt: Yeah, you didn't break concentration.
Sam: I can move it, how far?
Matt: You can move it--
Sam: Move it up to 60 feet. Is that going to get back to me in time?
Matt: To you? Yeah. You can get it to anything in the battlefield.
Sam: I want it to do a 60-foot punch on the wyvern in front of me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll.
Travis: Hadouken!
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Tiger!
Taliesin: I did well, and then I jammed again. I've done, like, 30 points of damage to myself.
Sam: Oh wait, I have to do a spell attack first.
Laura: I've done more than that to everybody else.
Sam: No! 15.
Matt: 15 hits. Armor class is low on the wyverns.
Sam: So then, oh, it's a lot. It's already up to 26. Oh. 42.
Matt: Okay. The wyvern begins lifting up in the air, trying to escape now. It's sitting here, whipping out. The guards are backing up, afraid to get too close. You see Scanlan concentrating. As the wyvern gets about 15 feet off the ground, Bigby's Hand swoops up, grabs it, and then plants it right onto the jagged rock behind it, piercing it--
Travis: You made wyvern juice!
Matt: It weakly goes limp against the bladed rock.
Laura: Sick.
Matt: That was your bonus action. You still have your action and your movement, if you like. The two guards next to you are like, "We're at your aid, sir!"
Sam: I might need it. Flank me! We're going into battle!
Travis: "Flank me." I don't think that means what you think it means.
Sam: So I'll-- I still have an action, right?
Matt: Action and movement, yeah.
Sam: I should probably heal myself, right? Nah. I'll run toward the fight. Oh wait, there's a wyvern right there, isn't there? Ooh, I don't want them to kill me.
Marisha: There's also a wyvern on my ass.
Sam: All right, I'll attack the wyvern next to Marisha's ass. I mean, Keyleth's ass. With another Lightning Bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I have one more level three spell.
Matt: All righty, so the wyvern makes a-- Not with a two, it doesn't. And for the rider. The rider does get a natural 20, so it does take half damage.
Sam: Okay. So 8d6. I got it.
Liam: What's it like looking at this shirt-mare all night?
Matt: I'm trying not to.
Liam: Hey, my eyes are up here.
Matt: It's a great exercise in focus.
Sam: 23.
Matt: I hate you so much. With that, the rider takes the impact of the Lightning Bolt and whips its head back around angrily. However, the wyvern beneath it gets blasted by the bolt of lightning and throws it back. The rider gets just enough back, and the wyvern falls to the ground, unconscious and slowly dying.
Marisha: You got that wyvern on my ass! Thanks, man!
Sam: And then I use my movement to grab both of the guards and cower behind them. Close them like a door in front of me.
Matt: Okay, so you move behind them, guarding you right there. You now have two bodyguards flanking you at that moment. All right. It is Xanthas' turn, now.
Laura: (groaning) I mean, he's so cool, but I mean, he sucks a little bit.
Marisha: He's not that cool.
Laura: No, I mean, he's really cool, you guys. He's the coolest.
Matt: He sees the giant fall, but the firebird is still in combat. There's other wyverns floating around, some being taken down in the distance from other guards. It looks like the tide of battle is shifting, now, at this point. You guys, in helping out the guys around you, both gave a morale boost and shifted the tide. You can see, the other wyverns, the lizardmen, have been for the most part dispatched within the courtyard around you. However, Xanthas, looking down and seeing the circumstance, kind of, "Uh, um, argh!" Releases his hand. This is going to be against you, Vax. This is going to be a Chain Lighting.
Liam: I will use Evasion, of course.
Laura: That's good, that's good.
Matt: That's a good call on that one. All right. Chain Lighting's a little bit of a bitch, here. Let me pull it up. There we go. Sixth level. All right, so, I need Vax, Grog, and Pike to all make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Roll so high!
Travis: Danger Sense!
Sam: Ashley Johnson!
Laura: Ashley Jenkins!
Ashley: 15.
Liam: I didn't do too well. I only got 14.
Travis: 17.
Matt: Okay, both of you fail. What did you get?
Liam: 14.
Matt: All three of you fail.
Liam: Half damage for me.
Travis: What'd you have to roll to succeed?
Ashley: I was just going to take my turn!
Matt: I know! Well, that is 50 points.
Travis: Five zero?!
Matt: Five zero. 50 points of lightning damage to Pike, Vax, and Grog. It's a 6th-level spell, and he had a pretty damn high roll, actually.
Ashley: I hate him!
Matt: So yeah. You take half that damage.
Laura: (gasps) You're alive!
Ashley: Oh, that's true!
Laura: You're wearing your armor!
Ashley: If you're knocked unconscious by an attack or spell, a blast of healing flames surrounds you! You immediately regain five hit points and are lifted to your feet. All hostile creatures within 15 feet of you must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Or take fire damage.
Matt: Or take fire damage, yeah. It doesn't affect the creature. You guys watch as the lightning streaks out from the top of the wall. Slams into the back of Vax, who-- You arc up, your whole body seizing at the sudden burst of electrical energy, which then bursts outward into Grog and Pike. Grog, it hits you and your muscles tense and you drop the axe for a second. You reach down and push through the pain and pick it back up. Pike, it slams into you and you watch as the light shines up around you, the smoke emanating from underneath the plate armor. You fall to the ground. There's a brief moment of silence, and then suddenly, this bright reddish-orange energy bursts out from beneath the armor, through the neck, through the sides of the plate, and you lift up about three or four feet off the ground before landing back on the ground, restored with a little bit of health. This burst of flame arcs out around you.
Travis: Jean Grey! That's amazing!
Ashley: I growl!
Matt: Xanthas then goes, "Okay!" and darts back inside.
Laura: I hate him!
Ashley: He's the worst!
Matt: All right, that brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Okay! I sound so puny with this voice! I'm going to try my tried and true pal, Guiding Bolt! I'm going to Guiding Bolt at fifth level, right in the belly of the beast.
Matt: So you're going to turn around to this giant, angry ember-roc and Guiding Bolt it into the stomach. All righty. Let's get over here for that assault. At fifth level, you said? All righty, that would be 8d6 radiant damage if you hit. You make a ranged spell attack. It is right up against you in a ranged format, so you're probably going to have to step back because it is ranged. Or it's disadvantage to hit. Up to you.
Laura: Don't take a step back, he'll hit you!
Ashley: Maybe he'll fail!
Marisha: Would he get a strike of opportunity on her?
Matt: He might. It's your call. Or take disadvantage on the strike, because it is a ranged attack.
Marisha: Wait, wait. Is it the big bird? He might have reach. It might not be out of his range.
Matt: If you're still within melee with him, you'll have to step out of melee to not get the disadvantage. In doing that, he might get an attack of opportunity on you. It's not just within five feet, it's getting out of the creature's ability.
Ashley: I'll do the disadvantage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll twice, adding your spell attack.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Ashley: Adding my spell attack? Okay. So, 14.
Matt: Okay, roll again.
Laura: No, that was with disadvantage.
Ashley: I rolled two at the same time.
Matt: Oh, with disadvantage? That does hit, actually.
Ashley: It does?
Matt: Just barely. It doesn't have a high armor.
Ashley: Ooh! Okay, so 8d6? Okay, so how many of these, (counting). Oh, these were bad rolls. Well, that's a-- (counting)
Sam: No break tonight, guys.
Matt: Nope, sorry. We've been off for two weeks.
Ashley: Do I add anything? It's just those? 22.
Matt: 22 points of radiant damage against it. As you blast it, this giant flash of divine energy bursts around it, causing this glittering beacon. The next attack against it has advantage, period. You can see the creature itself, its flames are starting to flicker. It looks angry, and it looks wounded. That end your turn, Pike? Are you going to move? Oh, you can bonus action with the sword toward it and attack it if you want. So go ahead and make another spell attack.
Ashley: Okay. Guh.
Laura: That hit, because you needed a 14.
Ashley: Oh yeah.
Matt: So, 1d8 plus five, if it's higher than what you last rolled.
Ashley: 1d8 plus five.
Matt: Grog, you're up next.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: 11.
Matt: 11? To hit?
Ashley: No, 11 damage.
Matt: Oh, damage, sorry. 11 damage to the creature. So, as the blade arcs past, striking again, you can see another flash of divine energy. Technically that would've had advantage, I just realized, because that's the next attack against it. So roll again.
Ashley: Roll that again?
Matt: Roll the d20 again.
Laura: Oh, because if you get a critical--
Ashley: Ooh, yeah, that hits.
Matt: Okay, so it's fine. I was seeing if it was going to critical or not.
Ashley: So another? Oh, oh, sorry.
Matt: Yeah, because the Guiding Bolt gave advantage on the next attack, and the next attack was the sword. So the beacon fades. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: Stupid big bird! I run over and I would like to hit the giant flaming piece of shit. Reckless, Great Weapon Master. All the lasagna. 31 minus five is 27.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: No, 31 minus five is 26.
Laura: It doesn't matter, it hits.
Matt: You have to roll a 14 or higher to hit.
Travis: That's good to know. That's a 17.
Matt: 17 hits. That's higher than 14.
Travis: And I'll do all three. 14.
Matt: 14 hits, yeah. So, all three hit.
Sam: Kaboom, kaboom, ka-blow.
Travis: 20, 21, 31. 31.
Matt: 31? All righty.
Travis: Eight, 21, 24, 34.
Matt: All right, 34?
Travis: Yeah. Six, 19, 21, 31.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this?
Travis: I hit it twice with my axe, and with the third one I pick up Pike and I use her to slice the bird open! Come on, Pikey-poo!
Matt: Wielding Pike like a two-handed gnome, you drop the axe on the first two strikes, the creature stepping backward. You jump up in the air and, getting about neck-height, you swing Pike with all your strength. Pike, you feel your jowls get pulled from the g-forces of the sheer strength of the arc. What weapon are you using in the battle?
Ashley: Oh, I'm using my Mace of Disruption.
Matt: So as the mace comes through, it slams into the side of the skull of the ember roc. Your hands go numb from the impact as the vibration shivers through your body. You watch as the beak and the side of the skull crack and cave inward. With a little (squeak) sound, it just falls over on the ground.
Ashley: Yeah! Grog, it felt like I did it!
Travis: You did do it! Monstah! Give me a growl!
Ashley: Arrr! I'm a monstah!
Marisha: That was the cutest thing!
Travis: I turn around and I look up at Vex and I say, fucking cut it out!
Laura: I say, good job! I'm going to hit you in a minute!
Ashley: Oh, that's right, we still have him and her.
Matt: All right, so we go back to the first round. The two soldiers that are guarding you are like, "What would you like, sir? Where are we going?"
Sam: Is anyone out there who wants to kill me?
Marisha: There's still the guy on the ground. Right under my face.
Sam: You two go kill that guy, I'll go somewhere else!
Matt: Okay. They both, using their full--
Liam: Just killed a pit fiend.
Matt: They get all the way up to it. They don't have a chance to attack, but they're surrounding it with their weapons drawn. They're going to probably brutalize it pretty badly next round. All right. For the purposes of this round, too, you hear a sound from up in the hallway, where Xanthas was. (pained shout) You watch as Xanthas goes flying out a few feet and lands on his back. You watch as a small, brown bit of hair races across, a giant, gleaming Holy Avenger goes across the air--
Travis: Yes! Platinum greatsword!
Laura: Who was it?! It's Kima?
Matt: It's Kima. (yelling)
Matt: She says, "Bahamut strike you down, you knife-eared son of a bitch!" The blade coming down--
Sam: Defenestrated. (laughter)
Matt: Here we go. That is a 15 to hit. That hits against his armor class. And a natural 20.
Marisha: Get it girl.
Travis: End him. End him.
Laura: Does he need to make a constitution check?
Matt: Oh, he will. It is a concentration spell. Ooh, double sixes on the first one.
Travis: Don't you wanna shoot me again?
Laura: I'm pretty sure. No, right now I definitely want to shoot you again.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Matt: 21 points of damage on the first strike. On the critical, that is 25. Oof, that's rough. So, having to make a concentration check on both on those. The first one is a 15, succeeds on the first hit. The second one does not!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: It's half damage, he rolled a ten, he needed to roll 13 or higher.
Marisha: That was on the critical, right?
Matt: Yeah, it was on the critical. So the concentration spell ends, you have control of your mind again.
Laura: Tell me it's my turn.
Matt: After that and Kima unloading on him, yes, it is.
Ashley: Yeah, get him.
Travis: How many points of damage did he take?
Matt: From that total round, with the Divine Smite from her strike, he took 62 points of damage from her.
Laura: I'm gonna fly right above him and shoot directly down onto his face.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: You coast over, looking down at him on the ground. He is prone currently, so you have disadvantage on the attacks.
Laura: (triumphant laughter) And Kima's standing next to him?
Matt: Yeah.
Matt: Disadvantage.
Laura: Oh, he's prone?
Matt: He's prone.
Laura: Why do I get disadvantage because he's prone?
Matt: It's ranged attack, so when things are on the ground, they're a little harder--
Liam: If Kima's next to him, as a rogue, does it cancel out and she gets advantage from her ally?
Matt: You don't get advantage from an ally being adjacent. You get to sneak attack them if they're adjacent.
Liam: Thanks.
Matt: No worries.
Sam: You got this.
Laura: Psh. Six-- no, 18?
Matt: Hits. His armor class isn't very high. He's a little mage dude.
Laura: 18, and the other one definitely hits. 20.
Matt: Yeah, both still hit with disadvantage.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: And you get sneak attack--
Laura: And I Hunter's Mark him because he's a fucking dick!
Matt: All right. You do get sneak attack on the first hit because Kima is adjacent to him.
Laura: Well, all right. 18. Where's my dice? 28 on the first hit!
Matt: 28 on the first hit, nice.
Ashley: He made a mistake.
Laura: 13.
Travis: He made a mistake.
Laura: 17 on the second hit.
Matt: 17 on the second hit?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: He was always an asshole! Always.
Laura: That's right. I'm gonna say, I always thought you were a dick back in Emon. Don't fuck with me! Then I shoot him straight through the face.
Matt: As he's on the ground--
Taliesin: His heart breaks before the arrow hits. (laughter)
Marisha: He always had a crush on you! (laughter)
Matt: He puts his finger up as you nock the first arrow, and he goes "Wait, I--" and the first arrow hits him in the shoulder. He's like "No, (nervous laughter) we can--" and he gets that far into the second sentence before the arrow (impact) through his face. (whimpers, trails off) And the finger goes limp as his eyes go a little dead in the face.
Liam: Slightly sad.
Laura: I turn back round and I go, sorry, Grog.
Matt: Kima looks up and you and goes, (frustrated noise) "He was mine!"
Laura: No, Kima. He was mine. (laughter)
Matt: She takes the blade and (impact) stabs him anyway. (laughter)
Matt: You see some of the wyverns, the few surviving now, are starting to scatter and head back towards Emon. It looks like the ranks have broken and the tide has definitely turned at this point. As you all begin to gather yourselves, the last lizard man on the ground over there is just being repeatedly stabbed by the guards until it's no longer moving, and bludgeoned by the air elemental that's lording over it. You begin to gather yourselves to consider the next course of action. We're going to take a quick bathroom break--
Laura: At ten o'clock, a bathroom break?
Marisha: Quick bathroom break.
Sam: We need a pause.
Matt: There's a little more in store here. We'll be back here in a minute guys, we'll see you in a sec. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. We have returned from our break. Real fast, we had two winners. We had one winner from last week since we had no episode, so we did two this time in the chat. The winners are Super Gimpo Man, who won a flamebox elder hero vault from Wyrmwood. And we have a second winner, is Southern Dragon 22, won a purple heart dice box.
Sam: That's the one that I have.
Matt: It's that color right there, for one of the deckboxes. So Super Gimpo Man and Southern Dragon 22 congratulations, well done.
Marisha: It does grant you cock lightning, that's true. It's like a 5th-level spell.
Matt: All right, guys, so, the dust of the battle settling, the plumes of smoke slowly beginning to dissipate as the fires burn out from the previous struggle. The remaining living soldiers begin to gather their dead and wounded. And you guys begin to reconvene as allies towards the broken front doors to the outside of Fort Daxio.
Laura: I search Xanthas' body.
Matt: You search his body?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I'll search the giant.
Marisha: Can I scavenge from the ember-roc?
Matt: Sure, if you want to.
Travis: Could I ask Pike to heal me a little bit, please?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Where are you at?
Travis: Oh, you know, like a two-digit number.
Liam: What?
Matt: How many points do you have, Grog?
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25 hitpoints on Grog.
Sam: I got nine.
Laura: Oh no, he asked. Does that mean that something's going to happen right now?
Matt: I don't know.
Laura: We need to sleep, let's all sleep. Let's go to sleep right now.
Matt: Right now? It doesn't work that way. All right, so as you guys are looting, the giant has giant black iron plate mail on, which is very heavy, it is-- it's going to take a few hands to pull off.
Travis: Not if we tagteam.
Matt: As well as her great maul, which is also very large.
Liam: Gauche.
Matt: And about 812 gold pieces.
Liam: I'll take those.
Travis: Like so big that I couldn't even wield it?
Matt: You could hold it, but you couldn't wield it, yes. Sizewise, it's maybe about three feet taller than you, from head to pommel. And the weight of it is unwieldy for your size.
Travis: 30 points.
Ashley: I heal him 30 points with my last...
Matt: Okay. You find on Xanthas-- you find 1,098 gold pieces.
Sam: I'll take that.
Matt: You find a potion of superior healing that he didn't have a chance to use. And there appears to be a wand that is shattered.
Marisha: Take it.
Laura: I'm taking it, of course I'm taking it.
Matt: It looks like it has broken, and there's a little bit of a burn mark on the wood the wand was crafted from.
Laura: Okay. I inspect it. It doesn't do anything when I inspect it.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Take a look, Hermione.
Laura: But I'm doing it because Grog told me to, and he's brilliant.
Travis: I know.
Laura: 11.
Liam: Check out the brain on Vex.
Matt: Definitely busted. And it was once a wand.
Laura: Cool cool cool.
Travis: Are you sure it's not a twig?
Matt: I hate you so much, Sam. Nothing, continue.
Travis: He never saw the bottom of it. Until now.
Matt: No, not until now.
Sam: Oh, is that true?
Matt: Yeah. I've been focused on... other things.
Sam: I printed some extras for you, Matt. Like, sign them for fans... it's high derp.
Matt: I blame you, internet. You're partially responsible for this. Oh boy. Some things never die.
Liam: That's a legacy.
Matt: It is a legacy, it's true. It's pretty great. One of the downsides of having hundreds of hours of video of you on the internet is those are everywhere.
Liam: We've all made awful faces and said stupid things.
Matt: It's wonderful. I'm glad you guys have come to enjoy it.
Marisha: They've all seen us pick our noses.
Matt: Probably, yeah. Somebody do a supercut, please.
Taliesin: Don't.
Matt: Too late, guys.
Taliesin: You're a horrible person. I have two guns to fix at some point.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make some repair checks while you're working on that.
Taliesin: Okay. Do I get a bonus if I'm not in the middle of combat, or is that still the same tinkering check?
Matt: Same tinkering check.
Taliesin: So number one, yes! That goes well, that's a 17. That was on Animus. And then Bad News, which is slightly easier to fix, does not fix.
Sam: Bad News.
Taliesin: Bad News is broken.
Matt: Yeah. Bad News, you're going to need supplies to fix.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to need to sit there with some money and spend some time with it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hey, Mom? I cleaned the dishes.
Ashley: Did we loot the giant?
Matt: Yes, the giant was looted. You're trying to carve something out of the ember-roc?
Marisha: Yes I am. Nature check?
Matt: Go ahead and make a nature check, with advantage.
Marisha: Gil, don't fuck me, Gil. Gil, god damn it, Gil. (laughter)
Marisha: But with advantage, it is a 25.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to pull a lot from the body, because the nature of the ember-roc, as it passes away, parts of it begin to turn to ash, but you do manage to pull from a portion of its torso what's called ember-roc oil. It is a flammable liquid that burns like a napalm.
Marisha: Like napalm?
Matt: You get about roughly a gallon of it to extract. Because the rest of it's ruined for it. It's worth about 750 gold, if you were to try and sell it. It's very volatile, depending on how you store it, just so you're aware.
Sam: Cool, man.
Liam: Oh man, drop some Mentos in there.
Marisha: Percy, do you have any vials left?
Taliesin: In theory, I should have some vials left.
Sam: Can it hold a gallon?
Taliesin: Not a gallon's worth.
Marisha: Not a gallon, but I just want a couple, and I hand a couple to Vex and Vax. Just a couple vials of the--
Matt: So you guys have a vial of ember-roc oil.
Marisha: Yep, nitroglycerin.
Matt: Kind of. In a way.
Marisha: You can either make a really great molotov cocktail, or maybe some flaming arrows.
Matt: You're not certain. The book that you have that details some of these creatures, the thing that you had found earlier in the campaign, it doesn't tell you details of how the actual liquid is triggered, it just says that it is fiery and burns very hot.
Travis: It's like the goo from Ghostbusters 2. "Talk angry."
Laura: "Talk sweet."
Matt: Sure. As you guys are taking this moment to figure this out, eventually you hear what sounds like the crumbling of stone, and a few rocks tumble out of the broken open entrance to the fortress, and you watch as a couple of guards begin to come out, their eyes wide. They look like they were in armor and ready to make the final stand. Among them, you see General Elle Gorgofon, the female head of this particular regiment of Fort Daxio, and Kima.
Marisha: But what about Allura?
Matt: You see them all emerge from it. Elle looks out to them. "So, you've done well. Little late, but thank you for the assist. We'll begin to gather our dead." She walks forward and gives you all a nod as she puts her helmet back on. Puts her blade aside and begins helping their soldiers begin to gather the dead in a pile. Kima steps up. You can see her teeth are clenched, and there's still a shaking of rage in her fists, and what looks to be streaks of dried tears across her cheek. "Xanthas betrayed us all. He arrived alone, bloodied, asked for aid and protection. Since Allura recognized him, we let him in. Stayed here for a short time, saying how bad things had become in Emon, and spoke with Allura alone. Something sensitive. We found her ten minutes later. Come with me."
Travis: Are you serious?
Matt: She steps over the stone and leads you inside of the fortress. She turns the corner, stops, staring into the room. As you guys approach, motions for you to follow her. You walk up to one of the small meeting chambers, the one that you met Elle with when you first arrived here. And as you begin to approach, Kima turns back and says, "It's okay. Friends are here." And you walk in and you see Allura sitting really scared in a corner in her robes, sitting in a chair with her knees pulled to her chest. Her eyes widen as she sees you all, and she gets up from her chair and runs over, and the person who's probably the first to walk in there would probably be Keyleth, at this point, and just wraps her arms around you and just holds you for a second and shakes.
Marisha: Are you okay? What happened? We thought you were dead for a second.
Matt: She backs away. (distressed sounds)
Marisha: Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. What's your name? What's your name? She's been Feebleminded. I turn to Kima. Was it Feeblemind?
Matt: "I-- I don't know what that is, I don't-- Can you help her?"
Marisha: Yes. It's a restoration spell.
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to cast a Greater Restoration on her. I have it. Can I-- well, I don't have any 5th-level left yet-- wow. I don't have any 5th-level left, but I have a seventh. Can I cast it at a seventh?
Matt: You do have a seventh.
Ashley: Yeah, can I cast it at that?
Matt: Oh, you can definitely cast it at a higher level. It doesn't affect it, but you can.
Sam: No, no, it doesn't affect the power of the spell. It doesn't make it a more powerful spell.
Ashley: This is so stressful.
Matt: It's all good. So as you approach-- Kima, as you begin to walk forward, your hands begin to glow as you reach out, your holy symbol beginning to burn with a bright whitish-orange color that mingles with the red and gold of the armor across your chest. As the glow sparks in your fingers, she goes (gasps).
Ashley: It's okay. It's okay. I'm going to help you.
Marisha: I try and calm her as best as I can to help Pike. Any assistance I can provide.
Matt: She reaches forward, slowly touches and grabs your hand, and as it does, you watch as the light transfers from your hands and gauntlets into her arms and upper sleeves. She winces from it, but you keep holding her tight, and as it passes up through, reaches her mind, her face, the glow passes through and lifts off her, like this gentle steam that lifts off her. Eyes roll back for a second and close. "You are a godsend, my dear."
Ashley: Oh, I grab her and hug her.
Matt: She pulls you in for a big hug and lifts you up off the ground for a second before-- "You're heavy now." Puts you back down.
Ashley: I just have so much armor on.
Matt: "That you do, that you do." As she pulls back, she looks at you all, and immediately, Grog and Vex, you feel yourselves pushed apart, as Kima rushes up and just grabs her around the side and says, "Don't do that again!" Holds her for a second. Allura just rubs her head and says, "I'm sorry. I should have been careful. We needed allies, I didn't know--" And Kima says, "You shut up," and she reaches up and gives her a kiss. She takes her and holds her to her chest. Allura holds her, and you hear Kima quietly sobbing for a moment, and she goes, "I-- well. It seems that things have moved a bit quicker in your absence. I think it's time to find what we have at our disposal and do what we can to finish this before it comes on us."
Laura: Did you receive any word back from the armies?
Matt: "They're about a day south of Emon. Syngorn has returned. Mikael is leading them northward. I haven't checked in. I'm sorry, I wanted-- I should have let you know. I couldn't, I didn't--"
Marisha: Allura, I'm sorry. We should have been those allies, here by your side, and we weren't, and I'm sorry.
Matt: "It seems you found what you went for. Let's hope it makes the difference."
Marisha: Yes. It seems it already has.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: We have something else. Where's the body?
Sam: What body?
Taliesin: We can interrogate him.
Laura: Xanthas?
Travis: Oh yeah, we can!
Marisha: I believe he's still on the wall.
Laura: Get that fucker!
Taliesin: Just because he's dead doesn't mean he doesn't have to talk to us now.
Travis: I'll go get him. I'll go get him. I go up and find the corpse of shitbag and bring it back.
Matt: At which point, Kima pushes away from Allura, her head still down. She sniffles back tears, looks up, punches her in the shoulder. Allura bumps back and rubs her shoulder. "I know." "You know." Kima turns around and walks out of the room in a little bit of a huff, her lower lip quivering. Allura now smiles for the first time since you came in. "All right. If you can, do your thing."
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Should I put him on the ground or just hold him? I'll hold him up.
Matt: So you bring back, dragging this bloody body, leaving this trail through the Fort. There's bits of rock and rubble around, and you're like, "Oops!" Drag him over them as you go.
Travis: Whoops, sorry, ooh, that's pouring out.
Matt: All right. So that is a 3rd-level spell.
Ashley: Because of the necklace, I have one 3rd-level spell left. Because I've used three.
Matt: Okay. So this would be the one. If you had it prepared, it has to be prepared. All righty. Great.
Sam: What are we asking this guy?
Travis: How many questions do we get?
Laura: We get three questions.
Sam: What are we asking?
Matt: Can ask the corpse up to five questions.
Laura: Why are you such a dick?
Marisha: You were always mean to us. Why?
Travis: You've been working with Thordak. What are his weaknesses?
Marisha: What did he want?
Taliesin: The defenses of the city.
Matt: Just be aware of the rule, too. The corpse is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile to it and it recognizes you as an enemy.
Ashley: So maybe just face it towards me?
Laura: Yeah, 'cause you're nice.
Matt: You can also discern lies, if you get a high enough insight. This is still-- this isn't free answers. This is still an interrogation.
Travis: What if we put a bag over his head?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: Who would he trust?
Liam: Lizard-skinned man.
Laura: Oh yeah. Could you make yourself look like a lizardman?
Sam: Yeah, sure, or I could make someone who we know talk--
Liam: But you're so good with words.
Sam: No, but I mean, I'm saying-- who would he trust? I can make that person, and I can make that person talk.
Matt: Well, technically, it's Pike asking the questions, since it is her spell, so whatever questions you ask have to go through her.
Marisha: We have the Hat of Disguise. Can you give her the Hat of Disguise?
Travis: What if you made yourself one of the lizardpeople, and then you had her down and you were using her to get info for Thordak?
Taliesin: I think he'll know that he's dead.
Marisha: You think he won't care?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So the trickery, I think it may be-- I would say it's probably either an appeal or a threat.
Laura: Let's try the appeal.
Sam: Let's build a game show set. He'll think he's on a Japanese game show. (laughter)
Marisha: Wipeout!
Laura: Let's try to make him like us.
Ashley: Let's try to make him like us. Like we were a friend, we're sad that he died.
Laura: Yeah, we'll all back out of view. Especially me.
Ashley: God, okay.
Sam: Do we know anything about his family? Because we could always play bad cop, too, and threaten his family.
Matt: You guys have not engaged him beyond a brief fuck-you-type conversation in and out.
Taliesin: I can threaten him. I can threaten him. I will threaten him if necessary, but we can try the carrot before the stick.
Sam: All right, so what are we asking? What are his weaknesses? Has Thordak had a visit from Greenie? Raishan?
Taliesin: How did they find out where we were?
Travis: Are there secret entrances into Emon?
Laura: Yeah, that's a good one!
Taliesin: What are the strengths of their army? What are their weaknesses?
Marisha: What does Thordak ultimately want?
Laura: Who does Thordak trust the most?
Taliesin: Who in the city, especially.
Laura: Yeah, who in the city does Thordak trust?
Liam: Do we want to ask him what he knows about the Clasp's activity?
Sam: We're up to 20 questions, now?
Laura: Four, we've got four!
Taliesin: Also, other questions may lead to other questions.
Laura: Okay, so that's good. Let's start with this, and then we'll see where it goes.
Matt: All right, what are you doing? Casting the spell?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so as Grog throws it on the ground, skids for a second, you begin casting the spell. As you're casting it, Kima walks up and kicks it one more time and then walks away. You finish-- it takes you-- it's a very quick action, but as you finish, you watch as the air itself seems to form this mist around the corpse, and the mist absorbs into the body. All of a sudden the jaw opens. Air fills its chest and the head leans up, the eyes still staring off into the distance, but it seems to be addressing you, Pike.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to walk over to him, and I'm going to put my hand on his face, and I'm going to say, my friend, I am so sorry that you've fallen in battle, but I had to bring you back to ask you some questions. I just got so nervous. (laughter)
Liam: Where's the beef?
Ashley: So we know that you've been working with Thordak and I have some questions. Has Thordak had a visit from Raishan?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: (quietly) Persuasion check!
Ashley: 22.
Matt: The head creaks a little bit as it tilts upward. You can hear the unnatural puppeteering of the body trying to speak, not the spirit but the body's memory. "He's had no visits. He speaks through his crystals."
Marisha: Okay, we knew that.
Taliesin: (quietly) How did they find out where we were? How did he find Fort Daxio?
Marisha: Well he speaks to his crystals.
Taliesin: But we don't know, like--
Marisha: Well, some dickhead ratted us out.
Taliesin: Who?
Ashley: I just have a couple, or four more questions for you? (laughter)
Ashley: And then I will let you go in peace. How did you know that we were at Fort Daxio?
Matt: "Naught but two days before, maybe less, a scouting party left Emon. Saw activity at the fort. And when they checked, they saw you. And you were marked."
Travis: Can you insight check a dead person?
Laura: Yeah, can we insight check him?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Vox Machina, I'm assuming, considering you left our--
Matt: You get the sense that might be what he's referring to, and you get the sense that long ago when you guys were high up on the broom looking out towards Emon, you missed seeing something that was possibly--
Laura: I remember that, we didn't roll high enough on perception. I rolled a 24 on insight.
Matt: Okay. So far none of the questions seem to be probing too deeply and he seems to be on the level with Pike.
Ashley: Do you know of any secret entrances into Emon?
Matt: "Secrets. Just the Traverse Junction."
Sam: Traverse Junction. We've heard of that before.
Marisha: Yeah, we have.
Matt: That's where he used to work. That's the--
Travis: The teleportation circle.
Matt: "Or the tunnels beneath. But those are where the Clasp reign dominion."
Travis: Two more.
Taliesin: Who within the city still fights-- who within the city still fights against the dragon? Who will be our allies, who can we trust?
Laura: That's a whole lot. Who within the city fights against Thordak?
Ashley: Are we looking for allies, like who doesn't--
Sam: Well we want to know who Thordak trusts and we want to know who Thordak doesn't--
Laura: We've only got two questions left.
Taliesin: Thordak doesn't trust anybody.
Marisha: Well, the Clasp is clearly working for him now.
Laura: What?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Well he said the tunnels the Clasp "reigns dominion," so--
Taliesin: That's where they-- that's theirs.
Liam: But they might still be resisting. I mean the question-- asking this shithead who still resists within the city will answer a lot of questions.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. Ask that.
Ashley: Who still in the city resists-- I have one job! I feel so-- (laughter)
Liam: Can you understand a word coming out of my mouth?
Ashley: Computer! Who still in the city resists Thordak?
Matt: "There are a few groups. But beneath the city the resistance builds. We've tried to smoke them out but they keep moving."
Laura: (whispers) So the Clasp is still resisting.
Liam: Could be.
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Kind of hard to read for a dead body, but seems to be legit.
Laura: On the up and up?
Ashley: We have one more question, but is there anything else?
Sam: Anything else? Allies?
Laura: Like, who does Thordak trust the most?
Taliesin: Or what does Thordak fear?
Travis: Yeah, yeah. I like that one.
Liam: Probably, probably. What about Greyskull Keep? Because there was a tunnel from Greyskull Keep into the city.
Taliesin: He might not know about that.
Ashley: He might not know about that.
Ashley: Is there anything or anyone that Thordak fears the most?
Matt: "Thordak has no fear. Thordak rules all."
Liam: Insight check.
Travis: Insight check.
Travis: One. (laughter)
Liam: Two.
Laura: Wait wait wait.
Matt: You can't all make insight checks to cover for the last person failing.
Taliesin: Four.
Laura: No, but I've been insight checking the whole damn time.
Matt: I know, I know.
Liam: But I get plus two so it's actually four, Matt, so spill his secrets.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Seems to be telling the truth from what he knows. You get the sense that in a strange way, while he was an intelligent fellow, he was also kind of a sniveling patsy. And the way that Kima's talked off the cuff since this began to happen, since you began to prepare for the corpse, she seems to have a history, or at least her and Allura both have a history with him in the city, and he was basically a spineless coward.
Marisha: Well, I mean, it makes sense, to a certain point. When you have a big enough ego you don't have any more fears, I guess.
Liam: Are we done with him?
Laura: That's it.
Sam: I don't think he's going to talk anymore. We should kill him.
Matt: The spell at this point has subsided and the last bit of energy and mist that had entered the body slowly drifts out of the open mouth and nose, (gasps), and the corpse goes cold.
Liam: You guys can fill me in, in a bit. And I grab his collar and drag him outside with the rest of the bodies and start overseeing the burning of the bodies.
Matt: Okay. And there are large pyres for a lot of the lizardmen corpses and wyvern pieces, they've all been thrown. All the rest of the dead soldiers have been rounded up and have blankets and cloth, whatever's nearby, to haul them over the wall and begin to recount who fell among them.
Laura: (gasps) Can I fly up in the air and see if I can spot the boys?
Taliesin: We have the stone, you can find the boys with the stone. If you would like to use the stone to pick up the boys--
Marisha: Here. I give the stone to Vex.
Matt: Okay. You concentrate on the stone for a minute. Your form begins to shift. Your physicality begins to almost liquefy and then swirls and vanishes from view. You open your eyes, and you're in shadow. You're in shade. You're in this little nook at the side of the rock crevasse, and you hear two voices go (surprised gasp). And you look immediately to your left and you see Hunin and Kyor are both there. One of them has dropped the crystal on the ground--
Laura: Don't drop it!
Matt: "Sorry! Sorry!"
Laura: No, no. That's okay.
Matt: "It started glowing and I got scared."
Laura: I put it in my pocket. I'm just so glad you're safe.
Matt: "I'm glad you're safe too. Is everything okay?"
Laura: Everything is wonderful. Do you want to come back to the fort? All the bad guys are dead.
Matt: They both look at each other. "Okay." And Hunin takes Kyor by the hand and they both walk after you as you make your way back towards Fort Daxio.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The rest of you--
Laura: I bamf Trinket out and let them ride on Trinket.
Matt: Okay! They both climb up after an awkward five minutes of trying to convince them that it's okay. Trinket nudges them a little bit and they get up on top.
Laura: He's got a taste for the celestial blood.
Matt: They're both riding on top of him and he's proudly walking. (bear grunts)
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Babysitter Trinket.
Taliesin: I say we sleep here for the evening. We also can go through whatever materials the invading army left behind. Cannibalize them for our own. I suppose we can eat.
Marisha: I talk to Allura, I guess.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Is she there?
Matt: Yeah, she's nearby. She was helping gather the dead, and she was talking with General Elle and getting the ideas of what the next course of action is and as you approach her she turns to you and as she recognizes your approach and goes, "Looking to probably make a jaunt to Whitestone shortly and see what we've gathered on that end. I can bring everyone with me if you'd like. You can stay here if you like, but..."
Sam: We should not leave them again.
Marisha: I would feel terrible leaving everyone again after we gathered everyone. Who cast that spell on you? Feeblemind, that's very high level magic.
Matt: "It is, and it was beyond the capability of that... man. But he pulled out a small wooden trinket in front of me which shattered and sent me into my stupor."
Marisha: It was Xanthas?
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: He had that wand that shattered.
Laura: He had that wand that shattered.
Marisha: Ah.
Sam: Did anyone escape the fight to go report back to home?
Laura: There were a couple wyverns that got away. That's why I don't know if it-- whatever.
Sam: So does the plan stay the same?
Travis: I mean we can come back and stage here but we can't leave anybody here.
Laura: Say that again?
Travis: We can stage here, but we can't leave anybody here.
Taliesin: No, we can't leave anybody here. But it's interesting. If we're lucky, he's going to send more troops to attack and we can be long gone by then.
Marisha: Be long gone? What happened to using this as our base?
Laura: They know about it!
Travis: We can stage here. We can rally here. We can't leave anybody here now.
Taliesin: We can't leave anybody here. We either abandon or we rally at this point. And now that we know there are forces underneath Emon, that is good news. That is very good news.
Marisha: Was it only the wyverns and the lizardmen that attacked?
Matt: "Initially. It seemed to be some sort of a shock force. Apparently, that fire giant was their reinforcements or a general, I know not. From what you've told me, at the very least. There weren't any powerful entities here at the get go, either. I don't think it was sent as a full-scale assault more than it was, at this stage, just enough to harry and see what was here."
Marisha: Who was in contact with Xanthras? Xanthras? Xanthas? Xanthas. Who was in contact with Xanthas?
Travis: Oh my lord.
Sam: Zenith.
Marisha: Zenith. Who was in contact with Xena the Warrior Princess?
Matt: Xanthas. "None of us were in contact with him. I hadn't seen him, probably in the better part of a year."
Marisha: Then how did he know?
Taliesin: They saw us.
Sam: They said the scouts spotted us.
Laura: Yeah. They spotted us with scouts.
Travis: You had your hood up, it's okay.
Liam: What of the elves? Did I hear correctly that Syngorn has sent forces?
Matt: "As far as I know and the information I have received from Syngorn, they've taken the rest of the troops under General Mikael Daxio as well as the forces of Syngorn and they're marching towards Emon, one day out."
Liam: One day out.
Laura: (groans) Oh my god.
Taliesin: We could meet them at Emon.
Sam: Wait, what?
Taliesin: They're marching towards Emon.
Sam: No. Wait, what?
Laura: Yeah. So they're a day away.
Sam: Is that true?
Matt: "They're making their way northward, towards Daxio."
Sam: Yeah, to us.
Marisha: Oh, to Daxio.
Matt: "They're a day out from Emon, but they have to-- it's in the pathway."
Sam: That's fine.
Taliesin: We want them here.
Marisha: That's not okay.
Sam: Well, where else are we gonna meet?
Marisha: Well, if they have to go through the battleground--
Sam: They don't have to go through, they can go around it; they're not idiots.
Matt: "They will, and in doing so, it's about a four-day journey on foot for those troops to make it here to Fort Daxio."
Laura: Okay. So we have four days.
Taliesin: We don't have four days.
Travis: I would volunteer that we should head south and meet them where they are.
Sam: On the outskirts of Emon.
Travis: Yep. Better than being here, 'cause we let people get away.
Marisha: We're sitting ducks here.
Sam: So we're gonna march all the troops out of here.
Laura: All the troops, which is like, 20 people left.
Travis: You gotta reposition once you give your position away.
Matt: As you as that, Elle pulls forward, her helmet under her arm. "Last count, looks like we have 55 strong surviving."
Travis: Yeah, we're gonna march all 55.
Marisha: Out of 200 that were here?
Sam: Remember that the original plan was for Thordak to know where we were, and send Raishan to kill us.
Marisha: Where the fuck is Raishan? Where is Raishan?
Laura: Well, we sent Raishan back to Whitestone with Asum and then we left, so for all we know Raishan's there.
Marisha: Allura, you were talking about going to Whitestone.
Matt: "That was my plan, yes."
Marisha: And what were all of your goals, again?
Sam: All of your goals?
Marisha: All of Allura's goals.
Marisha: What did you want to do in Whitestone?
Matt: "That's a very broad question."
Sam: We need to meet up with Raishan. We need to find a rally point.
Ashley: Open a magic cafe.
Taliesin: 55 men in a broken citadel is not a plan. It was a plan before, it's not a plan now. These things have to change.
Liam: We've an army close to Emon. We do have to talk to Raishan, though. I think we should go to Whitestone immediately, talk to her, and figure out if there's any news with her.
Sam: She was coming back there, right?
Travis: Yeah, is that where she is?
Laura: Potentially
Liam: But be ready to move to the army from Syngorn, quickly. It might be our best shot, our only shot?
Sam: Should we march these 55 blokes to the south while we go to Whitestone? I'll stay and march the troops while you guys go back to Whitestone.
Laura: No, we need to rest!
Marisha: Okay, hang on, hang on. What time of day is it?
Matt: At this point it's probably a little later afternoon; you're maybe an hour, hour and a half from sunset.
Marisha: All right. We can gather our most elite.
Laura: It started really strong.
Marisha: I can get a decent amount of people through if we Teleport Via Plants very quickly, but not all of them.
Laura: No.
Sam: I think the 55 will be okay if we send them off into the wilderness.
Marisha: Here's the thing, 55 people walking near Emon is not very covert. And it's clear that there are scouts everywhere; Fort Daxio was off the map until we showed up. No one was watching it until we showed up.
Liam: But we are out of time.
Marisha: But we are what Thordak is watching.
Taliesin: So we have to be very careful of where we go and what we do.
Marisha: We put everyone at risk no matter where we are.
Sam: No matter what, there's not gonna be another attack on Daxio in the next 24 hours. So we can go back to Whitestone, we can spend the night here and then go back, or go back now and spend a night and then bamf right back before there's any attack.
Taliesin: Or we can send half the troops, as many as we can, tonight, stay here, and in the morning send the rest, and we can go with them.
Marisha: To where Syngorn's army is?
Laura: But we're gonna have to bring those guys back out here, right? I mean, we're gonna have to march with the 55 guys. So why send them through to Whitestone? Why not sleep tonight, deep within the fort, wake up in the morning?
Liam: They rest up, we go--
Sam: To Whitestone? Get info, come back tomorrow if we need to.
Laura: Yeah, but we need to rest now.
Travis: You can't get 55 guys in the mansion, right?
Sam: The mansion, sure.
Liam: But the mansion can't travel.
Sam: Unless we spend the night here first before going to Whitestone bright and early in the morning.
Laura: Well, maybe we should do that.
Sam: We need to rest anyway. I'm at nine hit points.
Laura: Can you use the mansion tonight?
Sam: No, I can't.
Laura: So we sleep within the fort. Deep within the fort.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: What's left of the fort? What's undestroyed?
Matt: The fort's actually holding pretty well. Other than the front doors, which need to be repaired, and right now there isn't anything beyond just putting things in the way because of the impact of the giant. The outer wall's taken quite a bit of damage, but the fortress itself, for the most part, is standing.
Sam: We'll be okay for eight hours of sleep, and then we can go to Whitestone, ask around, come back if we need to. Let's go to sleep.
Marisha: Maybe we should have someone on watch.
Taliesin: Well, it is a fort.
Laura: We'll put the guards on watch.
Taliesin: They have a system.
Matt: General Elle says, "I can do that; don't worry. And don't make fun of my horns!"
Laura: I'm not, I'm not! I'm just saying that's the sound they'll make if they come.
Matt: "It's a very specific sound my soldiers are trained to hear."
Ashley: Of course, if you need us, you do blow that horn.
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: 'Cause we will hear it.
Matt: "Yes you will."
Taliesin: I need to sleep.
Laura: Let's find a bedroom and lay the fuck down.
Marisha: Are we sleeping in the fort?
Ashley: Is there a room with a big fireplace in it, and we can all just have a sleepover?
Matt: If you want to, there is a hearth in one of the common-room areas.
Laura: Is there somewhere to clean up?
Matt: They do. There are a few bathrooms that can be...
Ashley: Are there hides and things, like, fluffies we can lay on?
Matt: There's nothing terribly comfortable, but there are blankets. It does get cold this far north. It's not in the winter months anymore, but just south of the Cliffkeep Mountains in this area, it does get kinda chilly, so there are blankets, there are hides, there are things to keep warm in.
Liam: I mean, you just got used as a weapon; you might want a shower.
Ashley: Ah, I like the dirt.
Laura: I'm gonna go soak.
Marisha: I'm gonna crash as soon as I find something fluffy to fall on.
Matt: Okay. All right. The rest of you guys find yourselves to rest for the evening? Okay. Those who care to, you clean up, and find rest as well. The food is meager but serviceable, and you all find yourselves an evening's rest. Unperturbed, a good nine, ten hours pass of intense sleep as you all are sore, you are all exhausted-- although you do recover your point of exhaustion, Scanlan, that's gone-- as do you, from your frenzied rage-- You all come to consciousness shortly after daybreak, I'd say; you got to bed probably right around sunset, or a little bit past sunset, so it's just starting to get the sun over the mountains. The day is yours.
Liam: Well, we said what we were gonna do; we're gonna go to Whitestone.
Laura: Then let's fucking go to Whitestone. Yep. That's what we said we were gonna do.
Liam: Kiki, set us up.
Marisha: Sure.
Sam: We have any trees here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Allura raises her hand. "I can still take us there."
Laura: Fuck, yeah, that's right!
Matt: "That was the plan, but... I mean, it's up to you; we could find a tree, I suppose."
Laura: Okay, but I have two extra guys with us right now.
Matt: "Oh... I cannot do that, unfortunately."
Marisha: Okay, you know what? I can get us there, and Allura can get us back on the same day.
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Marisha: What are we getting at Whitestone?
Liam: We're gonna talk to Raishan.
Laura: See if Raishan's there.
Marisha: Is Raishan there?
Laura: Potentially!
Matt: "I haven't seen Raishan. We've been at the fort this entire time, waiting for your return."
Marisha: And she was getting Asum. You know what? Yeah. Let's go. All right!
Matt: All right. You find your way out to one of the slightly charred trees in the main courtyard area, you open the portal. (whoosh) as it opens, your two celestial-blooded children guide you through, as well as Kima and Allura, into Whitestone. You emerge from the Sun Tree in the morning hours there as well. The city is quiet. You can see that a lot of the guard has been gathering arms and armor just in case they were ever called to be part of this fray, and the city just seems to be on high alert. But everything is intact, Whitestone appears to be fine, and the castle looms northward from your current position. You guys make your way towards Whitestone Castle; the guards greet you and lead you inside. Within minutes, Cassandra has been summoned down and says, "Percival, thank God you've returned."
Taliesin: 'Thank God'? All right, why? What's happened?
Matt: "You're alive, that's--"
Taliesin: Oh! Yes.
Matt: "Look, the last time you left, you did not come back in the best of places! I'm just beginning to think--"
Taliesin: I just assume that everything is going to be bad news for the next-- Just assume that I'm going to assume everything is terrible every time I see you for the next two months. Yes, we're alive.
Matt: "Speaking of Asum."
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Matt: "Come."
Laura: Oh, Cassandra, are there rooms for these new guests?
Matt: "Who are these?"
Laura: They're the sweetest! This is, um... Keurig and Human. (laughter)
Matt: You're the best foster mom ever!
Laura: I have them written down somewhere, but I can't find it in my notes!
Liam: We met them at Booty, they're totally celestial--
Marisha: They're totally great, man!
Sam: Pumpkin latte...
Marisha: They can just crash on our couch for a few months.
Matt: You watch their noses scrunch a little as you entirely butcher their names.
Liam: They have, like, angel blood! (laughter)
Laura: What are their names again? I can't find it.
Matt: Hunin and Kyor.
Laura: Hunin and... Kyor?
Matt: Yes. K-Y-O-R.
Liam: Do you see all of this?
Laura: Got it. Angel babies. Writing it down.
Matt: "Yes, we can find them a room; that's fine. Not to worry."
Taliesin: We'll put them to work. They will be useful.
Matt: "Fine."
Sam: I mean, not right away. They've been slaves. Why don't we give them a day off?
Ashley: How old are they?
Matt: They're in their late teens. Mid- to late teens.
Sam: Why don't we just give them some schooling?
Laura: I guess they're about the same age as Cassandra, then, huh?
Matt: Cassandra's a little bit older. Though she doesn't act it. She acts, like, fifteen years her senior. And always has.
Taliesin: Yes. All right. Asum?
Matt: All right, you guys head upstairs with her; she leads you-- oh, no. She does not lead you upstairs. She leads you downstairs, through the tunnels, towards the ziggurat. And as she's walking along, she says, "Well. We've managed to relocate the meeting room. And it required a bit of careful discussion as to our current allies. As well, the transport was a bit awkward for Asum and his companion, and the dragon cannot maintain her usual form around the ziggurat, so just be ready."
Taliesin: I assumed.
Matt: As you guys make your way into the ziggurat chamber, you can see already there's the platform on the outside of the central area where the new situation is set. And you see there's a table, and you can already hear discussion off that way, and there are a few servants that are bringing food and drinks up there as part of the morning breakfast for those who are in their meeting. And you see there, right on the outskirts of the table, wrapped and curled up, a gargantuan green dragon with its head resting on its claws that is listening in on part of the conversation.
Laura: Oh, damn.
Liam: Hey, little guy.
Taliesin: Well, things have not been going well on our end; how about yours?
Matt: To Cassandra?
Taliesin: Well, to the room.
Matt: To the room? Okay, so as you head up to the platform, everyone pauses and looks over. Asum stands up-- you can see now, this being the real Asum-- acid-scarred across the face, just as Raishan's form arriving was, and sitting on the opposite end of Raishan, and you can see there's this very much kind of-- especially as a master of spies and information, understands the importance of, you know, strange bedfellows, given the circumstances in war, but is still not at ease and doesn't seem to keep-- always has one eye on the dragon at all times, but gives a nod. "It's good to see that you're all alive. And we have much to discuss. Please, come sit. You've met Brom before." And you look over and you can see Brom Goldhand, the same square-jawed, shorter, black unkempt hair, the cleric of Ioun that was and is part of the council. However, the skin is covered in burn scars. Like, the face, some of the features are kind of missing. All the exposed elements beyond the armor are just burned. But he stands and bows to everyone. "It is good to see you all alive." He sits down at the table, Cassandra takes a seat. Raishan has said nothing, is just watching you all as you sit down, gives a nod. Allura flanks behind you. Kima has been asked not to attend. (chuckles) Allura sits down on-- there's a few stools, whatever chairs were available were brought in here, so it's a ramshackle meeting room, given how many butts have to sit around this area.
Laura: I'll stand.
Matt: But you are all here. "So. I've been told that you were at Daxio and gathering other allies about. Please, let us know what the circumstance is from your end of things. Things are not as well from ours."
Travis: That sucks to hear.
Taliesin: Daxio was discovered and attacked prematurely.
Matt: "Wonderful."
Taliesin: A group has already-- a small strike group came and attacked the fort, did damage-- I wouldn't necessarily call it significant damage--
Laura: But wiped out a large percentage of the force there.
Taliesin: Decimated it.
Travis: 75 percent.
Liam: Grog?
Travis: I mean, whatever those words mean. (laughter)
Taliesin: Broken clock. That's a very good guess, Grog. I've completely lost my train of thought.
Travis: Approximately.
Marisha: The problem is that we've summoned many of our allies to Fort Daxio and they are currently in transit to that current location.
Matt: "But Daxio's been attacked."
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: "Then I would not recommend taking folks to Fort Daxio, especially if it's sustained damage. Well, we've been busy in Emon." The eyes glance over at Raishan. "And, well, needless to say, things have gone a bit strange. We've been working with Spireling Shenn and the Clasp, and we've been able to smuggle thousands of denizens of Emon beneath the city. Those that were not directly enslaved or gave fealty to the Cinder King out of fear and other interests we've been able to keep safe, and we've moved through the tunnels as often as possible. There are still many, many, many wyvern riders that patrol the city; the townfolk have run out of offerings and are now being sent out in slave groups to pull goods from nearby cities to bring at the feet of the dragon. We also have a rising volcanic mass rising up beneath the city that has consumed a number of the underground Clasp tunnels and has been slowly pinching off our mobility beneath the town, so our intent to hopefully find some sort of retort or vengeance and eventually take down the dragon... that clock is definitely ticking. Now. We've been keeping as best an eye on Thordak as we can. Brom, bless him and his sacrifices, has been our front man for this. And we know the creature has been shedding scales in places where jets of ever-burning flame now spark and burn the city itself. Wherever each one of these scales falls, it seems to be a beacon or source of its own white-hot fire. So the city is now a pitfall of its own right. The creature itself, the dragon, it has these jets that now burst from underneath its armor, fire that licks beyond it. It has a crest of red crystals now that begin to twist behind its horns and head, its eyes are like white-hot stars from the sky, it's... It's still dragon-like, but something more primal and elemental. (sighs) I'm not entirely certain what we're dealing with here. But Brom, you've made some headway." And Brom clears his throat. "(ahem) Myself and a few devout have been doing our best to prepare surviving warriors and guards, and mages who were ousted from the Lyceum; we have a few strike teams that have been effective in harrying the outside of his defenses, learning information we can, knocking down the guardians. Since the fire giants have arrived it's been a little more difficult, so we've been reduced to stealth missions, quick in and out. We don't have the muscle to assault head-on. Up until recently." His eyes pass over to you. "You say there are armies making their way to the city, and we have you, all the strength that you've gained and the stories I've heard from people here at Whitestone. If we're going to do something, we need to do it soon. Now, the Lyceum has fallen to those that have sworn fealty to the Cinder King, so we don't have use of those artifacts anymore. We've been trying to break through to the inner sanctum of the Cloudtop, what the dragon now calls its home, its lair. It's burrowed this deep, underground basin where it resides now. It only emerges when summoned or called to, or when it decides to make a proclamation, drawing what little bit of children or families that it sees as a fun bit of play to watch them bow and quiver in the street before asking for someone to prove their strength and their worship of himself and strike them where they stand. Some days he's angry, some days he's laughing; this dragon is completely insane, we can't really gauge. Red dragons are known for pride, and you could count on that, use it against them, but sometimes his jaws quiver as he cries and shakes and yells out laughing into the sky, a terrible laughter, one that can induce the worst of nightmares. I don't know what we're dealing with anymore. However. We did have one team, a very brave team, that provoked the dragon to leave its lair, and held it long enough for us to move past it and pierce the inside of its sanctum. Now, we passed the wards, and the pools of fire. The beast returned before we could get too far, and I lost most of my men, myself barely surviving with my life, and the scars to tell of it. But the beast is building something in that lair. Something it is guarding fiercely. And something that it will not leave. Something that I think it has come to hold more dear than the city it now presides over. If there is a key to piercing its pride, or if there is a reason to take it down, I begin to fear what it's holding below the city. Now, by the might of the Wounded Mistress of Knowledge, Ioun, in the channels in which we speak, that is all the information I have. I hope it's helped in some way." And he sits down in his chair and clutches his holy symbol.
Laura: Oh, my god.
Taliesin: This changes much.
Marisha: Yes, it does.
Liam: Dragon. You're awfully quiet. We need to act. What do you advise?
Matt: Raishan's head slowly turns towards you and the nostrils kind of, (snort). Not in an aggressive way, but in acknowledgement. The bright yellowish eyes, you can see the blackened veins that curl up past the scales, some of the scales actually splitting and pulling open what you can see would be some sort of a contagion-based wound that, while not infected, does not look positive. Raishan's lips curl up, and the voice billows forth, a low, curling growl. "Well. If the madness continues to spread, and our recent conversations confirm this, you've gathered your allies. Distraction. Attack. Confusion. Chaos, striking towards the center of the city is the best chance we have. If we have a way in, to break the Cloudtop, we can battle it there, draw it from its lair. Force it to possibly rescind within, and have our final battle there. Or, if luck is with us, finish it on the streets itself, and discover whatever it is it's keeping while it lies dead and burning in the street."
Liam: You say "we"?
Laura: You'll fight alongside us?
Matt: "What have I to gain by watching you do this yourself?"
Marisha: I imagine whatever he's building. What is he building, do you know?
Matt: "I have no idea. He lets nothing within his sanctum."
Marisha: Insight check!
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Come on, high insight.
Marisha: What was that? That's okay, 23.
Matt: 23?
Sam: (gasps) Whispers... The promo link is lootcrate.com/criticalrole, promo code criticalrole for ten percent off your first month and remember, you're doing this to support the show, and to support my kid's pre-school class. And the memory of Dennis.
Laura: And Coachella.
Liam: Coachella needs capoeira classes. (laughter)
Taliesin: We should also probably tell them about Xanthas, that we did have...
Sam: Tell who about Xanthas?
Taliesin: The room.
Sam: Oh. Well, there was a guy named Xanthas, we killed him, he was a dick, what's there to tell?
Taliesin: There is worth telling, is that he had already turned and was working for the Cinder King.
Sam: Keyleth.
Taliesin: And he is now no longer with us.
Laura: Brom? Do you know Osysa? The sphinx?
Matt: Thinks for a minute. "I do not know of this sphinx. I am sorry."
Laura: There's a temple to Ioun in Vasselheim.
Matt: There is a temple to Ioun? In Vasselheim?
Laura: There is.
Matt: "That is good. Many temples have fallen and hidden through the years since our mistress was wounded."
Laura: You would have no way of contacting it?
Matt: "I can beseech my mistress for information. But short of travelling to Vasselheim which I have not been to, I cannot help you. I apologise, since the Calamity, during the struggle with Tharizdun, my mistress was grievously wounded in the struggle, and since then has been diminished. And in this time many of those that seek to lessen her hold on the world and the spread of the information and knowledge that we wish to share have then hunted and persecuted those of us that follow in her wake. So the temples have been buried or kept in distributed information through anonymous channels. Only a few of us in positions of protection can speak out so strongly. This..." Surprisingly, he turns back towards the ziggurat. "This was one such temple."
Marisha: What?
Laura: Yeah, that's right, this was a temple to Ioun, we knew that.
Marisha: Right, right, okay. So wait, Tharizdun?
Matt: "Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion."
Marisha: Is that another god?
Matt: "Yes, a very evil one. Sealed, chained away. Nothing you need to worry about. Not in the midst of this."
Taliesin: We're going to have to go to Emon.
Laura: Well, yeah.
Sam: Sure. We'll rally all the troops outside and maybe go in through the tunnels? I guess when we rally the troops we can form a more specific plan.
Taliesin: There will be several armies, we will have allies. There will be troops to create distractions, there will be troops that go into the tunnels, there will probably be a group of troops that go in to try and pierce the lair. We will create chaos.
Sam: Ooh, did the airship ever show up?
Matt: Cassandra says "Yes, the airship has been told to make its way towards Fort Daxio."
Sam: Oh that's good! Oh wait. Well, you know.
Taliesin: It could actually pick up the people there.
Sam: Sure, yeah.
Travis: Do we want to do a last trip to Vasselheim to talk to Osysa or... since we got all the Vestiges?
Sam: To do what? It's not all the Vestiges in the world?
Laura: No, all the ones she told us about.
Travis: She was like, if you get these then I will help you.
Sam: Oh really? She said that?
Laura: Did she say that?
Travis: Did she say that?
Marisha: Did she say that?
Laura: Do we remember her saying anything like that?
Matt: Well you didn't learn about the Vestiges until it was--
Laura: It was from her hubby, her boyfriend.
Matt: Yeah, Kamaljiori, it was, yeah.
Travis: Yeah, that name.
Laura: The one that said a name is earned.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do we need to go to him?
Travis: It's a sphinx.
Laura: Was there anybody that said they would help us once we got all the Vestiges? I feel like they said that once we got all the Vestiges we'd be like extra awesome.
Sam: We are extra awesome.
Laura: Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: I mean, there's some-- I feel like there's not some sort of Voltron thing considering there are more vestiges in the world.
Travis: You lack imagination.
Sam: Quick, let's try to fit all of our Vestiges together right now.
Laura: Okay, let's do it.
Sam: I just stab at Pike.
Laura: Ow ow ow ow.
Ashley: I don't feel anything.
Travis: Does anything happen when they're all touching? (laughter)
Matt: You take all the Vestiges and and smush them into a pile on the central table and all the rest of the council kind of--
Laura: Oh, it's not magic down here
Matt: --look curiously and they all gather around as you begin to place them all into the central area, kind of overlapping in almost the shape of a person who is built of Vestiges. You put them each one down, their kind of magical essence clinging with the surface of the stone table.
Laura: There's no magic down here!
Liam: I just lie down across the entire table.
Matt: All right, the sound of them impacting. They all sit there on the table.
Liam: They don't stick to my armor somehow?
Matt: No.
Travis: You gotta say a word.
Matt: Everyone's kind of standing there watching quietly as nothing happens, and then Asum goes, "All right then, um."
Sam: Maybe you should put your armor back on, Pike.
Ashley: I mean, I have underclothes.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Yeah, we had that discussion. You need things beneath the armor or it'll cut you to shit.
Ashley: Just like bareback armor.
Matt: That'd be a bad idea. You'd get pinched in all the wrong places.
Taliesin: We do have-- Well, we do have our own tunnel into the city that we can show-- Is anybody using our tunnels into the city?
Sam: The Clasp? Oh you mean our specifically? Last time I scryed there, there was someone in the keep.
Laura: Can you scry there now?
Sam: No.
Marisha: Wait, weren't they--
Laura: Oh yeah, Keyleth! Can you scry? Not down here. We have to leave the ziggurat.
Marisha: I've got the Scrying Eye.
Taliesin: If the keep is clear, that does give us access. Possibly clear access.
Laura: We could bamf into the keep.
Sam: Yeah, that just gets us inside the wall. That doesn't-- that's it.
Liam: That's not nothing.
Sam: The sewers is where we need to be.
Liam: It connects. That'll get us under the wall. What about-- What about Cashew? What about Shaun? What about Zahra?
Marisha: Cashew's kinda mad at us.
Liam: Yeah, I'm sure he is, but this the end of times.
Matt: Cassandra kind of raises her hand and goes, "Kashaw and Zahra, they are ready to go whenever you are ready."
Laura: Sweet.
Liam: Shaun?
Matt: "Shaun we've -- we're trying to decide if it is best to keep someone here to maintain the barrier, or if we are going all in on this, if we just send everyone out there and leave the city defenseless."
Sam: I think it's best to leave him here, especially since that was his plan all along, because he is a dominator of all worlds and a god among men.
Matt: Allura raises her hand and goes, "Either I or Shaun can run the barrier; you can decide. I don't mind staying back or going to the forefront. It's your choice which one of us to take."
Travis: Can Gilmore transport people like you can?
Matt: "I believe he can, yes."
Travis: I like Gilmore.
Liam: For what? For keeping him alive or taking him?
Travis: No, bringing him with. Dude, he turned that guy into a little pretzel dough ball. Just because he fucked with him.
Marisha: But Allura can teleport us back and forth.
Travis: Yeah, so can he.
Marisha: Can he?
Travis: That's what he just said.
Taliesin: Allura signed up for this fight.
Liam: Yeah, Allura, what do you want to do?
Matt: "It's interesting. I have a lot of personal history with Thordak. I feel a deep sense of responsibility for all of this that still eats away at me. And because of that a part of me really longs to be there with all of you, putting this dark and fiery chapter to rest. On the other hand, having already faced him, and having an inkling of what he is now, every part of me wants to run away. Screaming."
Liam: But you have faced him.
Matt: "I have."
Liam: And that's invaluable.
Matt: "I lost many good people in doing so."
Taliesin: And we're going to lose many more.
Matt: "Most likely. So the choice is yours, Vox Machina."
Travis: Gilmore. (laughing)
Travis: No offense. You're lovely and very strong.
Matt: You watch her audibly (sighs).
Laura: Is that relief? That was relief.
Matt: It's both. It's a lot of things. It's an emotionally conflicted exhale, but it is a relief of tension regardless.
Liam: I disagree. You fought this fucking thing before. You know him. That is invaluable. You have more experience than we do. You're wiser than us.
Marisha: Scanlan? What do you think?
Sam: I think we should decide this the way we always do.
Liam: Coin toss?
Sam: Talk about it for a long, long time. (laughter)
Matt: That's D&D, man.
Sam: Let's put it to a vote.
Liam: Experience. Experience.
Sam: A voice vote. All in favor of Gilmore, say, "Hell yeah." All in favor of Allura, say, "Ah, sure, sure." Right?
Sam: Gilmore?
Sam: Hell yeah!
Ashley: Hell yeah!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Oh, just us. Allura?
Sam: Ah, sure. (laughter)
Taliesin: Ah, sure. (laughter)
Liam: Ah, sure. (laughter)
Marisha: Ah, sure. (laughter)
Travis: But that was three and three. What'd you vote?
Ashley: I voted Gilmore.
Travis: That's four.
Liam: I don't know what would happen. So  Gilmore, Gilmore...
Travis: Four and three.
Taliesin: Gilmore doesn't want to go either.
Ashley: Neither of them want to go, but she's so scared now.
Marisha: Allura. Hang on, wait, I'm talking to her. I'm not voting; I'm talking to her. (laughter)
Sam: "Allura! I vote for Gilmore." (laughter)
Taliesin: Unless Gilmore feels like volunteering.
Marisha: Allura, I have had destiny pushed upon me since birth. What do you feel is right? Because I'm not sure what to believe anymore.
Laura: Make this decision for us!
Marisha: Make this decision for us!
Sam: Hey, let's leave it to the dice!
Matt: Allura turns to you, kind of takes the side of your head in her hands and says, "And in becoming a leader, you've been put in a position to make very difficult choices. As you grow as a leader, you'll have to make many more. This is not my choice to make."
Marisha: But in many ways you've been our leader-- (laughter)
Sam: We already voted, people! And Gilmore won!
Taliesin: No, actually, Allura won.
Matt: "Who do you choose?"
Travis: Yeah, it's four to three.
Liam: Well, then, it's covered. Then it's done.
Matt: "Keyleth."
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: Unless you do what Laura and Marisha did and do the exact opposite after the vote. Right? Come on, Allura.
Marisha: Wait, are you trying to use this as an allegory?.
Liam: No. That's just a throwback to, what episode...?
Matt: At this point, Raishan picks up and goes--
Marisha: Oh. Clarota?
Matt: "Oh, god, at the rate this is going, I think perhaps neither of them are going to make it."
Laura: Yeah. Sorry about that.
Sam: Trial by combat. (laughter)
Matt: The survivor goes to Emon!
Laura: I mean, is Gilmore strong enough?
Marisha: Yeah, is he strong enough? Is he all right?
Travis: We'll rest him up; he'll be great. Pretzel dough ball. It's gonna be amazing.
Matt: "Last I checked, he's handling the barrier, but he's a capable man. May need a bit of rest, but so did you."
Sam: Quick stop to get his parents' permission, then we're on our way.
Marisha: Allura.
Sam: Wait, what? What happened?
Liam: She's talking to her.
Marisha: Fucking god dammit, you guys. I'm not making votes here! In many ways, I feel-- (laughing)
Marisha: What?
Travis: We're taking Gilmore.
Laura: No, she's talking to her!
Liam: She's not trying to take her. She's talking about something else.
Marisha: Jesus Christ.
Matt: There are a few chuckles at the table now, as everyone is just dumbfoundedly watching you all argue over who to take for five minutes.
Liam: Vox Machina.
Matt: Vox Machina.
Marisha: In many ways, I feel we are walking down the path you've already walked. In that case, I feel it's time for new blood, and we've been with Gilmore since the beginning. We need you as an ally back here, we'll keep you on the sidelines as an oracle, and we'll take Gilmore to be by our side.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what we said already.
Marisha: Look, he set me up to make the call, okay! I was trying to follow through, Jesus.
Ashley: You got it, Keyleth.
Liam: Smash cut to Gilmore saying, "No fucking way!"
Matt: "I'm not going, what are you talking about?! No! That's suicide! They make me baguettes every morning in Whitestone. I'm staying here." (laughter) Allura kind of nods and goes, "Very well. I'll send Kima as well. All the strength that we have in your direction. I'll stay here and play guardian of Whitestone, as I have for quite some time." She looks to Cassandra, looks to Raishan, everyone else, they all kind of nod and Cassandra stands up, holds her collar and-- it's interesting in moments like these that such a young girl still carries the weight of a room like this, of such giants by comparison to her and still can command attention so quickly with a subtle physicality. And then she adjusts her collar a bit and raises her chin. "And so it is. Vox Machina, we gather our forces. Put your minds together. Decide on your plan of action, your means of attack. Soon we begin the assault on Emon." And that's where we'll end our episode for tonight.
Sam: At dawn, we vote!
Marisha: I demand a recount! In Pennsylvania and Florida specifically.
Liam: You know, Gilmore won the popular vote. (laughter)
Matt: You guys, thank you very much. We're on the home stretch, it looks like.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Man. All right. You guys have a week to plan amongst yourselves what to do next time.
Marisha: Are we assuming that we're sleeping after this? Because god damn.
Ashley: We already just slept.
Marisha: That's right, because we bamfed to Whitestone. Never mind.
Matt: Correct, yes, you've only used your spell there. We will unfortunately not have a Travis Willingham next week, or Ashley Johnson.
Laura: Oh fuck. It's going to be an empty bench over here.
Matt: However, based on the gathering of allies just for this battle, we may have a guest or two. (gasps)
Sam: Gathering?
Matt: You guys are gathering all your allies.
Sam: As in, like, the Insane Clown Posse is coming?
Matt: Yeah man! The Dark Carnival's here! (laughter)
Sam: Next week on Critical Role.
Matt: Just start spraying Faygo all over you guys.
Laura: Wait, it's happening next week? We're going into battle? We don't have Travis and Ashley?
Taliesin: Shit's happening.
Liam: Dude, that city's probably like the nine circles of Hell, we're not just going to get there, fast track to Thordak.
Laura: Okay okay okay.
Travis: If you got Lin Manuel next week, I will kill you.
Laura: No, it's not, don't say-- no it's not.
Matt: I wish, I wish, that'd be great.
Travis: I'm just putting it out there, I don't want to have to kill you.
Matt: All right, cool.
Travis: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you Loot Crate, again, for being a great sponsor. Thank you guys so much for watching tonight, we'll see you Tuesday at Talks Machina, and Thursday for the continuation of this climactic downwards spiral into ancient red dragon territory.
Liam: This bullet-proof think-tank.
Matt: Yeah, what could possibly go wrong? (laughs) Anyway guys, have a wonderful week, a wonderful weekend, a wonderful evening, and is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [NO AUDIO]
Sam: -- about the company itself who so kindly sponsors us and about their founder, one Ebenezer Lootacrata. Born on a silk-worm farm in Budapest in 1919, Ebenezer Lootacrata was a unique child. His siblings-- Claudrica, Piterca, Dominocos, and Bob-- would always play checkers, but Ebenezer was fascinated by the box they came in. In fact, he was obsessed with boxes. Did he wear briefs? No, boxers. He traded in his backpack for a backbox. He wouldn't eat jelly from jars. He scooped it out of a large pine jelly box. Dick-in-a-box? He invented that in 1930. And in 1937 he packed up everything that was special to him-- one shirt, one sticker, one comic book, and one toy-- placed them in a crate and set off for college. One day later, he was expelled from college because he did not own pants. But he had a vision! A revolutionary idea! Before, people had boxes and people had cool stuff, but he dared to put the cool stuff inside the boxes! He named his company "Lootacrata". In America we bastardize it as Loot Crate, but history has never been the same.
Matt: Thank you, Sam. Very informative.
Sam: And you guys should know that you should go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Promo code this week, to celebrate the arrival of Taryon Darrington to Critical Role, please use code "Tary", that's T-A-R-Y, for 10% off your first month's order. We at Loot Crate welcome Taryon Darrington and look forward to his adventures. He totally isn't the worst. Definitely not the worst character to ever appear on Critical Role. Actually, we've changed our mind. Please use the code "criticalrole". (all laugh)
Travis: Do you know how many people are going to go to their website and enter in "Taryon". They're like "What the fuck!?" "Code not received."
Marisha: It's an ARG, I know it!
Matt: Exactly.
Taliesin: It's perfect. They'll enter 'Tary' and be disappointed.
Matt: Tary's the new Sombra. (all laugh)
Marisha: My subscription went up three dollars? Aw. (all laugh)
Matt: Hey, at least it's in character.
Marisha: Worse.
Matt: Thank you, Sam. Appreciate it. All righty, so, a number of us, if the weather is with us-- as a giant storm apparently just blew into the west coast-- are intending to fly out tomorrow to Anime Milwaukee. So it'll be me and Marisha--
Travis: Wisconsin!
Matt: Yes!
Marisha: It's gonna be cold.
Matt: It's gonna be cold. With Travis, Laura, myself, and Marisha will be out there along with a bunch of other awesome guests, so hopefully we'll see you guys there very soon. Also, as far as the merch goes, apparently we're out of dice! Right? We're out of dice. Dice are gone.
Laura: We even ordered a lot this time, but we're out.
Sam: But what will the people do? What will they roll?
Laura: Well, maybe they'll roll something extra special later. I don't know.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: You speak like you know what you're talking about.
Travis: What a tease. What a tease.
Sam: You have no idea.
Laura: We do still have bracelets. We do still have pins. We do still have a few socks left. We still have shirts!
Taliesin: The Gilmore shirt is back--
Laura: We have Gilmore shirts. We have a few-- We have Strongjaw shirts! Are you wearing yours?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: No.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: There's our Critical Role logo shirt! All these shirts are still available in the store!
Liam: He's wearing it on his face. That's Strongjaw.
Laura: This is Strong-- this is a strong jaw.
Liam: Wears it every day.
Taliesin: You should work in radio.
Travis: They don't want me.
Laura: That's all I got.
Matt: No worries. Thank you, Laura. Marisha, do you want to talk about Signal Boost? I guess Amy Dallen just had her run, right?
Marisha: Yeah! Amy Dallen had her episode. It's great. This week is Eric Campbell coming up in the run. And you should go-- (airhorn noises)-- and you should go watch 'em.
Laura: We gotta stop.
Marisha: Yeah, where does that end? Once you stop-- once you pop you just don't stop-- oh god, now it's a Pringles reference. Okay, go watch Signal Boost!
Matt: (laughs) Well done!
Sam: And eat Pringles. (all laugh)
Marisha: Not boosted on the Signal Boost. But could be!
Matt: Indeed. (In Scottish accent) And there's a new thing called Wednesday Club. You want to talk about that? What's that about, Taliesin? Tell us about that!
Taliesin: For anybody who reads comic books normally, you know that Wednesdays is when comic books get released at comic book stores all across the country. And if you're a big comic book nerd-- and you had a really fun comic book store-- you would go on a Wednesday night and hang out with all the other comic book nerds and have six-week-long conversations on who would win in a fight, Superman or Thor.
Sam: Thor.
Taliesin: Superman.
Travis: Superman.
Taliesin: Actually, funny enough. You don't go to a Wednesday Club, so you--
Sam: Thor's a god.
Taliesin: Well, now you have a show to watch. So now that I don't really have time to do that any more, we thought it would be fun to just do it here with all of our comic book nerds, so Amy Dallen and Matt Key and I are going to be talking comics every Wednesday from noon to two on the Twitch stream and we're going to--
Laura: Yay!
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: New shows!
Taliesin: New show! The Wednesday Club, and we're going to try and make it fun to watch, and easy if you've not picked up a book in ages and you've maybe thought about getting into comics, or you had some kids and now the comic books have just turned into giant shreds of paper.
Marisha: Yeah, it's not a news show.
Taliesin: We're not talking news. We're just talking fun, cool comic book facts, and our first episode is going to be "Origin Stories" were we talk about why we got into comic books, and then starting the week after we're going to be talking about cool characters, team-ups, classic runs of books, anything and everything. It's going to be great.
Travis: Crossovers?
Taliesin: No crossovers. Never mention crossovers.
Sam: Special guests?
Taliesin: Special guests! We will have special guests and not-so-special guests-- you can come, too. So yes! Wednesday Club, we'll be talking about comic books! It's going to be great!
Laura: Yaaay!
Liam: So exciting!
Matt: Thank you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Check us out on Wednesday.
Matt: Also, there's a game called For Honor that just came out that a couple of you assholes are in.
Liam: Oh, it's on the shelves, we've been playing it for weeks here!
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: You can play it as well if you go to your local shop or download it or get it at a store--I already said that but you can play samurais-- we have no samurais here. You can play knights-- Hey!-- or you can play Vikings-- you can use this guy!
Travis: Buuhh, Vikings!
Laura: What kind of Viking are you?
Travis: (loud belch) The male raider.
Laura: The raider.
Travis: It comes out Tuesday, February 14th on all gaming platforms.
Laura: That's yesterday.
Matt: That was two days ago.
Travis: It's Valentine's Day-- I didn't... miss... (all laugh)
Laura: Our Valentine's Day consisted of me making chili and then us going to Menchie's.
Travis: And farting a lot.
Laura: Yup!
Matt: There ya go!
Laura: It was a gooood Valentine's Day.
Taliesin: It's good chili, to be fair.
Matt: You got out of the house, though.
Travis: That's true.
Marisha: We watched Jurassic World and Suicide Squad.
Travis: You did both of those?
Marisha: We wanted to get caught up on our, like--
Matt: Bad movies.
Marisha: -- questionably bad movies.
Travis: That's a bunch of stank.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: No, we had to sit quietly for an hour afterward, just to take it all in.
Marisha: My favorite is Rick Flag just shouting exposition through Suicide Squad and that's his purpose.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Including Katana's needless arrival-- Anyway! This is not this night's game of D&D.
Taliesin: I went to Underworld and met some Critters, it was good.
Matt: That's awesome!
Marisha: Oh! That's a better Valentine's Day.
Liam: You know, honestly, you two having the time to sit down and watch two bad movies--
Travis: Here it comes.
Liam: When I don't have time to watch one good movie--
Laura: Here we go. Here we go.
Liam: -- is offensive. That is offensive to me.
Travis: You have the joy of children in your life!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: That's right.
Travis: The beacons of hope in life. Of future generations. (all laugh)
Marisha: You have spawn.
Laura: Gulp gulp gulp gulp!
Travis: He's so thirsty! He's just dehydrated.
Marisha: They'll be holding your hand, you know, in later years.
Liam: It will help me when I'm dying. That is true--
Taliesin: Pushing you slowly off the edge.
Matt: Yes. We're just gonna be somewhere in a forest, lost, screaming to each other, Help! So that's our future.
Liam: I guess it's time to climb this mountain and throw myself off.
Travis: That's a good way to go.
Matt: Cultural heritage of ours.
Marisha: This is my child. This's what I've accomplished.
Matt: Last but not least, quick little note, due to the current difficulties with green cards and people that are in the country who weren't born here, one of our fantastic crew members, Amandine, unfortunately is having to leave and go back to Switzerland. This is her last episode of Critical Role. She's been a tremendously amazing member of our team, and we've loved having her here, and we certainly know this is not the last we'll see of her, but this'll be her last show for awhile, so I just wanted to bring her out and say hi to the community real fast.
Travis: Aw, yeah! Come on out! (all applaud)
Matt: Come here. You've been amazing.
Amandine: Thank you.
Sam: If anyone would like to sponsor-slash-marry her, she could stay-- (all laugh)
Sam: -- and she could stay on the crew. Just a quick little marriage.
Matt: We all tried, everyone here did our best, but we're going to miss you terribly and you've been amazing.
Amandine: I will miss you too.
Marisha: I know, you've been great, man.
Laura: You're amazing.
Marisha: She's been working on Talks Machina, kicking ass.
Matt: Yeah, she's been kicking ass on set.
Sam: She's why it looks good now.
Marisha: Really, yeah.
Matt: Seriously, so, everyone send your love, give your hearts out, and yeah, we'll look forward to seeing your adventures as you progress and we'll bring you back as soon as we can. We'll find a way.
Amandine: Okay.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: We love you!
Matt: Thank you.
Amandine: Thank you, guys.
Travis: Woo-woo!
Sam: Let's bring the show to her!
Matt: Yeah, perfect! We're coming to Switzerland!
Taliesin: I'm okay with that.
Matt: Guys. Let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode... of Critical Role. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. As we left off on the adventures of Vox Machina, you had just finished destroying the long-standing reign and terrorizing assault of the Chroma Conclave across the face of Tal'Dorei. As you finished that chapter, defeating Raishan and collecting the remnants of the necromancer's sanctum of where the final battle took place, you returned with the unfortunately fallen corpse of your friend, Scanlan Shorthalt. You succeeded in the resurrection, however upon returning from Vasselheim, Scanlan coming to consciousness, it was discovered that Scanlan was in a place in his life where he needed to take some time with his estranged and recently discovered daughter. And arguments ensued, and agreement was had that he would step away from Vox Machina to follow his own path. The group took a period to mourn, and then began to decide what their next layer of plans were, what loose ends still were held out there, and you made your way to the city of Ank'Harel on the continent of Marquet to return the right hand of Ripley, the person responsible for assassinating a member of the Scarbearers within the Debt's Respite tavern in the city. As you made your way past the bazaar towards the inn, on the outside you saw what appeared to be a large humanoid structure built of iron and metal walking on its own behind a very flashily dressed blond gentleman with goatee and a, for lack of a better term, braggartly demeanor who managed to weasel his way into the company of Vox Machina and to continue his adventures alongside theirs as his robot friend Doty continued to archive it in his book of his adventures. And that is where we left off. As you guys step into the relatively empty interior of the Debt's Respite at this hour, with this individual Taryon Darrington in tow.
Travis: Is that really his name?
Laura: That's his name.
Sam: Still his name.
Laura: Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Still his name.
Laura: We agreed to bring him along because he's paying us.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: That is an important fact.
Matt: That is a very important fact.
Travis: Oi, T-- Tar--
Sam: Friends call me Tary, Jumbo.
Travis: Tary Jumbo.
Sam: No, you're Jumbo, I'm Tary.
Travis: Jumbo-- Tar-- I'm Tary. Can you spell out your name for me on a piece of parchment?
Sam: Sure. Do you write?
Travis: Frequently.
Sam: T-A-R-Y-O-N-D-A-R-R-I-N-G-T-O-N
Travis: No, no. I asked you to spell it out on a piece of parchment.
Sam: Oh, you want me to write it down.
Travis: Yeah, I'm, uh, I study handwriting.
Sam: I understand. A scholarly mind is not a thing to shirk. Doty, write out my name in the finest calligraphy and give him a page.
Matt: (writing noises) And the hand seems to pick up speed and start rapidly whipping across the page--
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: (tearing paper noise) Tears it out and presents it to you rather forcefully just over Taryon's head. And it is pretty fine calligraphy, actually. Not that you can appreciate it.
Travis: I know.
Matt: It just looks like a god damn scribble. (all laugh)
Laura: Scribbles!
Travis: Mm! Yes. Uh-huh. Thank you.
Sam: You're quite welcome, Jumbo.
Travis: Oh my god, behind you!
Sam: What, what is it?
Travis: It was nothing. I'm always looking out for this group, though. Thank you.
Sam: Are you the leader of this collection of individuals? You are the biggest.
Travis: No, I'm--
Laura: Our leader isn't with us right now.
Travis: Yeah, just the biggest.
Sam: Hm. All right. Have we already begun our mission that we're on right now?
Travis: Nope.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: We just got here and then you started talking.
Sam: You're right.
Taliesin: I'm getting drinks for everybody. I assume we've got the table at this point.
Matt: The entire establishment pretty much is full except for a couple of individuals that you remember from before who are kind of masquerading as patrons, but each, while they have their drink in front of them, they haven't touched it, and they have their hand on the side of their sword belts. At the bar, there is nobody currently manning it. And as this conversation's occurring you do see the familiar face of Treev Bonebreaker, the bronze Dragonborn who is the Scarbearer Head here within the facility, turn the corner into the room. It looks like he's wiping out what looks to be a large tankard, as he kind of like gives it a shine and looks over. "Well, look at that. It looks like they all returned. It's not often you see folks who are at least trying to stick to their word."
Laura: Well, that's us--
Travis: We've been here before?
Laura: -- promise keepers. Yes, dear.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: We're trying to stick to our word at the very least.
Marisha: Key word is 'try'. Mainly by avoiding death at this point.
Matt: One would recommend that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Vax? Who has--
Laura: Grog.
Taliesin: Grog!
Laura: I believe.
Marisha: The bag of holding.
Travis: Oh god, don't point to me, I forgot we were even here.
Laura: Or maybe, unless you meant to say me and you said Vax.
Taliesin: No!
Laura: Because why would Vax have anything, I'm the one with the bag of colding.
Liam: See, actually, this is one of those instances where it sounded halfway between Vax and Vex--
Taliesin: It was not, it was a "Vax."
Liam: It could work for either of us.
Taliesin: I will definitely, I will stand behind that.
Marisha: Sure, it was like a long 'a' like a Vaaax.
Laura: Vaaax.
Liam: It's the "ae" thing.
Taliesin: It was Vax, it was not a Vex.
Sam: What's your name? I am a bit confused at what's going on here so-- (all laugh)
Sam: What's your name?
Matt: Treev. What's your name?
Sam: Taryon Darrington. You may have heard of me. Friends call me Tary.
Matt: No.
Sam: Well, you will once my book comes out.
Taliesin: I don't think that-- no.
Matt: Who's this fucker?
Laura: We don't know.
Taliesin: We don't know.
Marisha: We don't know.
Travis: Tary Jumbo.
Taliesin: He just sort of found us outside. And he had, honestly--
Laura: Just ignore him, really. How about that?
Taliesin: We're not entirely sure what happened here.
Matt: Ah, there's some fancy garb you're wearing.
Sam: Oh, yes. Quite fancy.
Matt: Good to know.
Sam: Deadly as well.
Matt: Anyway.
Laura: Grog--
Matt: He leans forward. "So what? Are you here to talk--"
Taliesin: Grog?
Matt: "-- or drink?  You here to talk?"
Laura: Shall we bust it out here or do you want to talk in private?
Matt: He does a quick scan of the room. "It's my people and you. Might as well."
Laura: Should I dig into the bag of holding?
Travis: What? I don't even remember being here!
Laura: Okay, I'm just gonna reach in the bag of holding and pull out the hand.
Matt: Okay, and you do. You find the mechanical digits of Ripley, plus some of them partially bent from the combat--
Travis: Oh!
Laura: Oh yeah!
Travis: I still don't have it, I'm trying to--
Laura: It's good.
Taliesin: We have the human hand as well. We have the mechanical hand and the human hand.
Marisha: Yeah, we took both.
Taliesin: We took both. We figured we'd have options, if I recall.
Laura: Oh, that's right, I put the regular hand-- did we?
Taliesin: We took both! We took the robot hand and the-- To be fair, I was dead at the time so I don't--
Travis: Tary, we work on very strict rules. If you fuck us, we take your hands.
Sam: You have more than one hand with you right now?
Liam: We have a lot of stuff in that bag.
Laura: You wouldn't even.
Taliesin: Huge collection.
Travis: We really don't know what's in there.
Laura: You don't want to see in there.
Marisha: Lots of body parts.
Taliesin: It's pretty gruesome.
Sam: Okay...
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: You have to ask, then--
Sam: Just tell me when to start swinging the sword.
Travis: Thought you had to-- oh, yeah! And it extends, but--
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Do you pass over the hand?
Laura: Sure!
Matt: While this is happening you kind of slam it down on the table. The giant, bronze dragonborn claw reaches out and grabs it, and rakes it forward, picks it up, and the fingers fall limp in the grasp. And he turns it around in his vision. (sniffs) "It's a strange contraption. Certainly looks like a hand."
Laura: She was a strange woman.
Matt: So you're telling me, this is the one that took out the Mistress Asharru?
Taliesin: I put the Retort Pistol on the table. She used one of these devices.
Matt: "Right, right. Very well." He takes the hand and begins scraping the pistol back with him as well.
Taliesin: The pistol was just for show. It wasn't a gift.
Matt: "All right. Well, at least the Mistress can lay at rest. I thank you for your deed." And he spins his finger in the air and one of the men at the table gets up and walks out of the room and exits through the front door behind you.
Taliesin: I won't pretend that we didn't have our own reasons for it. But we are grateful that you recognize that we respect your authority.
Matt: Takes some balls to come back here and not have anything to show for it. So, glad you got balls, all of you. Except for that one.
Laura: Giant balls. Yeah, his I'm not sure of--
Taliesin: We haven't checked his, to be fair.
Sam: They're quite-- quite lovely. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, I have called off my associates. The hunt is null and void. You're free to wander without worry.
Laura: Thank you, Treev.
Taliesin: We'll probably only be another day or two in town before we head home. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
Laura: We're out.
Travis: Did we not get anything for that?
Laura: We got our lives.
Taliesin: We got someone to remove a debt upon our heads.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Could we see the debt or was it magic?
Taliesin: It was metaphorical.
Laura: Magic. Pure magic.
Taliesin: Magic. Sure.
Travis: Whoa. Glad we did that. (all laugh)
Matt: Stay for a drink?
Travis: Yes! Yes! Yes!
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Yeah. Let the big guy play.
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Sure.
Laura: But I wanna keep an eye out on the bar because I still don't trust our environment.
Matt: Certainly. It's been kinda low-key here for the day.
Travis: Tary, do you drink anything?
Sam: Wine, mostly, yes.
Travis: Does Dottie drink anything?
Sam: Doty.
Travis: Right.
Sam: He does not drink.
Travis: Then that's two for you. I'll have two of your strongest whatevers for blond-chin over there.
Matt: All right. Anyone else?
Taliesin: Yes, please.
Matt: "Round it is." And he goes and he gathers up a number of small mugs, tankards, it's ramshackle in here. This essentially acts as a base of operations first and a tavern a distant second, so it's barely functional really as a comparable establishment for fine drinks and atmosphere, but it works.
Taliesin: Heineken's coming, basically.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. The drinks are passed around, some small talk's made with Treev, discussing just how things have been pretty low-key since Asharru was killed and you guys last left, there hasn't been an upset. There was apparently a vision of some sort of a creature at the top of the Cerulean Palace a few days ago.
Laura: Really?
Matt: But people were wondering if that was a sighting of Devo'ssa, and some of the rather intense historians and younger believers in the myth of Devo'ssa have been up in a tizzy, and Treev just kinda shrugs it off and takes a drink and goes, "Just what we need is another bigger fucking dragon."
Taliesin: Not for a long time, one would hope.
Matt: Aye.
Taliesin: So. Tary?
Sam: Yes?
Taliesin: I have to admit, I'm curious, where did you get your friend there?
Sam: Why, I made him!
Taliesin: Did you?
Sam: Yes, I did?
Taliesin: Really? What's his power? How's he powered? What runs him? I'm just sort of curious.
Sam: I-- no offense, but I doubt you would understand the inner workings of something as complicated as this.
Taliesin: That's a very interesting thought you have there. But, still, I would be just delighted to hear your attempt to simplify it for me.
Sam: All right, I will. Are you familiar with levers? Things that move up and down?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Yes? Some of those. There's also a machine called a pulley where you can apply force and it will amplify it with a wheel and a string.
Taliesin: I think I've read about such things before, yes.
Sam: Some of those are in there. Also, an incline. It's another simple machine.
Taliesin: You didn't build it, did you?
Sam: I did build it.
Taliesin: Did you? Did you build it?
Sam: I did build it.
Taliesin: So, one would assume there's an access panel somewhere on him where one can make adjustments, or otherwise fix him if he breaks down?
Sam: Pretty fancy technological speak.
Taliesin: Thank you. Where would the access panel be?
Sam: Why do you care to know?
Taliesin: Well, just in case you're knocked unconscious by, let's say, someone sneaking up behind you and hitting you with a weapon?
Sam: Won't happen. Doty has my back. Right, Doty?
Matt: At which point Doty crams in right behind and is dwarfing Tary in size with the broad metallic shoulders and is (heavy footfalls)
Taliesin: Doty? Did he build you?
Matt: No response.
Sam: I'm a bit of a tinkerer. I can show you a few things if we have a quiet moment, not in public.
Taliesin: Can you?
Travis: Holy fuck.
Taliesin: That would be... excellent.
Sam: I look forward to the lesson.
Taliesin: I look forward to giving the lesson, yes.
Liam: I'm curious if we could uh, it was Ermergerd, right?
Sam: My name?
Liam: Ermergerd Swearengen, yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: Nope. You misheard me, Little Elf Boy, it's Taryon Darrington.
Liam: Fucking don't like this guy. I'm curious, where do you hail from? Are you from here?
Sam: Nope, not from here. Matt, we discussed this, where am I from? (all laugh)
Sam: You gave me three options.
Matt: I did.
Sam: And I was like, "hmm, I don't know what any of those--"
Travis: Hey Tary! Open up!
Liam: Ooh.
Travis: Missile snaring!
Laura: Missile snaring!
Taliesin: Gloves of Missile Snaring are currently equipped, motherfucker!
Matt: Oh, shit! (all laugh)
Marisha: That's great.
Matt: That's beautiful. Okay. Let me go look up the information that I emailed you.
Sam: I can also look it up.
Liam: Who is that guy and what is email?
Laura: Yeah?
Taliesin: Doty's got email.
Matt: You are from the city of Diastock, in the Truscan Empire of Wildmount.
Sam: What he just said.
Laura: Wildmount! You're from Wildmount.
Taliesin: Wildmount, fine.
Marisha: He's from Dias-where?
Matt: Diastock.
Marisha: Diastock.
Matt: In the Truscan Empire
Marisha: Dia--
Liam: Stark.
Marisha: --stock.
Laura: Wildmount, hm?
Marisha: Truscan?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Have you been?
Laura: I haven't been no.
Liam: No we've not been.
Sam: It's quite lovely.
Liam: Yeah?
Sam: My family has quite a reputation there and I live on a vast compound with beautiful orchards and--
Marisha: Wait! You're not related to the Briarwoods, are you?
Sam: I'm sorry, no, I don't know them.
Taliesin: He doesn't look like a Briarwood.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Have you ever heard the name Briarwood before?
Sam: I have not, I'm sorry. Is Antlers okay over here?
Laura: She's quite all right.
Sam: All right. She seems a bit drunk already or something.
Laura: She always does.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: That's true. Especially these days.
Liam: Bring back the history lesson, though. So pampered, young, everything you could ever want--
Sam: I wouldn't say pampered. All right?
Liam: Those were my words. Go on.
Travis: Huggies.
Sam: I had a normal upbringing. Private tutors, classes--
Laura: Right, as you do.
Liam: Same. Same.
Laura: Right.
Sam: I wandered through the halls of our extensive library many nights. Read many books about adventure--
Travis: Yes, keep going.
Sam: -- exploration, magic, alchemy--
Liam: Is that code for masturbating?
Sam: I mean... you know.
Taliesin: Yes, yes it is.
Marisha: Kind of sounds like your upbringing, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes, it was code for masturbating. (all laugh)
Sam: My family runs a very prosperous business, and yes, I have received some benefits from that.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Sam: But I am a self-starter in my own mind and--
Laura: Oh God!
Taliesin: (yells)
Marisha: God!
Sam: I've gone out on my own to seek my fortune--
Travis: Oh God. The universe is collapsing.
Taliesin: We've lost Liam.
Sam: -- and record my exploits.
Laura: Did you purchase that armor all on your own as well, or did Mommy and Daddy buy it for you?
Sam: I purchased it myself. With my money, that--
Liam: Bequeathed to you.
Sam: -- that I can withdraw once a month. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It is quite lovely.
Sam: But it is mine.
Laura: That's good.
Sam: It belongs to me. It's my birthright.
Travis: Tary Jumbo, do you have a most dangerous conquest in that book? That Dotty has.
Sam: Doty. I have a list of adventures that I am currently going through.
Laura: (quietly) He's such an ass.
Sam: Some of the adventures include  Rescue a maiden--
Travis: Just any maiden?
Marisha: Oh jeez.
Sam: Transport a treasure. Escort a muckety-muck. A revenge plot. A classic dungeon crawl. Oh, this one I'm looking forward to! Solving a mysterious riddle.
Laura: Ooh!
Sam: The old fashioned double-cross. Teleport, haven't done that yet.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Shopping mission, but really I can wait on that one. (all laugh)
Sam: Slay a dragon. And there's more, but the list is extensive and I'd like to conquer various beasts, rescue different people, find different treasures. It's going to be quite an adventure.
Travis: Shopping is not what it's cracked up to be. You should just wipe it off the list right now.
Sam: Shopping?
Travis: While we're watching.
Sam: It's low on the list. It's a low one.
Travis: You can just erase it. You'll be fine.
Sam: All right, I will.
Laura: It's funny, that whole list... it seems like we've done all of it.
Marisha: I know.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Have you?
Travis: Several times.
Taliesin: Oh yes. How many dragons now?
Liam: Lost count.
Travis: Hard to count.
Laura: Five? Six? Something like that.
Sam: You haven't really, have you?
Liam: Yeah, we have.
Sam: An actual dragon?
Taliesin: Several of them.
Liam: Multiple dragons.
Laura: Ancient dragons
Travis: Dragons.
Sam: What was it like?
Laura: Deadly.
Marisha: Tary, do you feel like we look healthy and sane to you?
Sam: I mean--
Taliesin: Don't hold back.
Marisha: It's fine, you can be honest.
Sam: Healthy AND sane?
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: You seem healthy. You certainly are decked out in adventuring gear, which is quite attractive. Sanity I can't be a good judge of yet, I just met you. You seem like lovely creatures.
Liam: How old are you, exactly?
Sam: I'm a young 28.
Liam: You and I are the same age.
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: It's weird, you look older, but you act younger.
Sam: Oh, that is strange. Youthful exuberance, I suppose.
Laura: I suppose.
Sam: (hearty laugh)
Marisha: So, what do you hope to accomplish at the end of completing all these tasks, you know, slaying a dragon? What do you want in the other end?
Sam: The other end will be my masterpiece, my book. Doty has been very, very good about taking down all of my adventures and exploits, and at the end of it all... I know we just met, but may I share with you some of my working titles?
Travis: Please.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, please.
Laura: I would love to hear.
Travis: Hold on. Wait, one more!
Taliesin: Another round, I've got it, I've got it.
Matt: Treev's already on it. Treev is like, "Oh, don't worry. I'm loving this." Then he's just pouring all of you glasses and shoving them forward to you guys and crossing his arms.
Travis: Maybe some meats too, if you have any. Or cheeses.
Matt: We ain't got meat.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: I want to keep an eye-- I'm keeping an eye out for any kind of questionable behavior.
Matt: All right, perception check. Go ahead.
Laura: (quietly) God damn it.
Taliesin: That's a huge die you just rolled.
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: It's a newbie, it's a newbie.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Continue.
Travis: Which is why it screwed you.
Sam: Maybe you fellows could help me pick a title. Here's what I have so far.
Laura: I thought we already did, the Daring Adventures of--
Taliesin: We talked about it briefly.
Sam: That was a good one, but I have some other ones.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Tarry On with Taryon Darrington. The Terrific and Terrifying Tales of Daring Taryon Darrington--
Taliesin: That's pretty good.
Liam: That is all right.
Sam: Fifty Shades of Tary. (all laugh)
Sam: Bravado! The T. Darrington Story.
Laura: That one seems appropriate.
Sam: Zen and the Art of Robot Manservant Repair.
Liam: No. No. Thumbs down.
Sam: Adventuring for Dummies.
Taliesin: I feel like that's been done.
Sam: The Things They Tarried.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: The Blond Hair of Courage. (all laugh)
Sam: The Adventures of Huckle-Tary Finn. (all laugh)
Sam: The Odyssey.
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Classic.
Travis: What? No!
Taliesin: Seen it.
Sam: Tary's Daring Do's and Daring Do-Nots. Dungeons and Darringtons.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Travis: Oh my god.
Sam: And this one just popped into my head Critical Patrol. (all laugh)
Liam: I grab my sister by the arm, and I drag her off the the side. What-- Why are we doing this exactly? Why are we bringing him with us, exactly?
Marisha: Keyleth just gets a nosebleed, and she's not sure why.
Laura: His money.
Liam: You think he can pay 50k an hour for realsies?
Laura: Hey, Tary.
Sam: Hm? Oi.
Laura: How much money do you have in your account right now?
Sam: In my account?
Laura: In your account.
Sam: I would not care to say. We're in a public place.
Laura: You can whisper it in my ear.
Sam: (whispers) I would not care to say.
Laura: Here's what I need to know. Are you full of shit and you don't actually have any money, or do you have enough to pay our fee?
Sam: Does this helmet look like it's something that didn't cost a shit ton of money?
Laura: It looks like it did, but for all I know you spent all your money on it.
Sam: All right, well, if you don't want the money, we can break the contract right now, and I'll go my way.
Laura: How about you just show me some money, and that way we can be sure.
Sam: All right, I will. Come with me over to the corner.
Laura: All right.
Travis: That's where the good stuff happens.
Taliesin: That was a nice little Jerry Maguire there, especially considering the date. Very appropriate.
Travis: Tavern corner.
Sam: Are we away from--?
Matt: You guys have stepped away from the rest of the crowd, as you guys watch--
Taliesin: I am watching this--
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Matt: Tary kind of puts his arm on her shoulder--
Laura: Don't touch me.
Matt: Leads her over to the corner.
Laura: Don't touch me.
Sam: I'll reach into my Bag of Holding
Travis: (gasps)
Sam: And pull up just a handful of coin.
Matt: A nice fistful of pristine platinum pieces in his grip.
Laura: Just a whole bag of that? I want to look at one.
Travis: Yeah, insight check that money.
Sam: Ding!
Laura: Don't. Flick. Money at me. Dear. If you want to keep your hands.
Sam: I'm sorry, Little--
Laura: Is this--?
Matt: You hear the scratching sound of quill on parchment as Doty has arrived behind you and is now currently cataloguing the entire conversation. (all laugh)
Laura: Does it look real?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Travis: Fucking roll high.
Laura: I'm gonna use my gold dice for this. It makes sense.
Liam: Oh, that was not good.
Laura: Ah, fuckin' A.
Taliesin: Yellow and black!
Travis: That's not the cup of a carpenter.
Laura: That's only 15.
Matt: Okay. You've seen quite a few gold, platinum pieces in your time. This seems fairly legit.
Laura: All right.
Matt: It seems like it's been minted recently, relative in the past maybe ten or so years. It has not seen a lot of antiquing across its surface, and most of the coin is branded in a way that emanates from the Truscan Empire. It does appear to have Wildmount origin.
Laura: Lovely. I believe you. Congratulations on being born into privilege.
Sam: Yes, well, I didn't choose to be, and I am trying to lead my life honest and true, humble and brave, every day of my life. And I thank you for allowing me to travel with you, and perhaps go on a mission? I mean, is this mission going to start at some point?
Laura: It was just completed, didn't you notice?
Sam: I'm sorry?
Laura: It happened right under your eyes. Mysterious, isn't it?  And I walk away.
Marisha: It's true, she's actually very correct.
Travis: Hey, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We're not near them, right?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Hey, hey. Remember when we were at Greyskull Keep, and we made all the guards, like, audition to be guards?
Taliesin: Yes, that was quite a while ago.
Travis: What if we have an audition for Tary Jumbo?
Taliesin: It's not the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
Travis: I love it when I do that, right?
Taliesin: I know, it's quite good. Let's finish up our business here.
Travis: We have business here?
Taliesin: Well, I think we should--
Marisha: Does anyone not understand, we had a mission here that we just completed?
Laura: We just did it! We completed it!
Marisha: We just did it!
Taliesin: We were also going to go to the Cerulean Tower and have a quick conversation.
Laura: Yeah, no. We need to do that.
Taliesin: We need to do that. But we did just finish a mission.
Marisha: Wait, J'mon?
Taliesin: Yes, we have to talk to--
Marisha: I am not taking him to J'mon.
Liam: That's probably wise.
Travis: You know, I can stand outside with him.
Marisha: We're like specially, you know, trained. And proven ourselves warriors. We got permission to see--
Travis: How about I audition him outside, while you go have your convo? Like, we make him beat somebody up or something.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Audition who? What are you talking about?
Travis: I'm saying we should, like, initiate Ole Tary J.
Taliesin: Like we did back at Greyskull.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: If that's what the letter that second word starts with.
Laura: (laughs) Yeah, right.
Marisha: You did good, Grog.
Laura: Impressive.
Travis: Yup.
Marisha: Good job.
Laura: I thought you only learned Gs.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Tary G.
Taliesin: Our business concluded, we actually have some business at the Cerulean Tower, so we should all, perhaps, head there at this point.
Sam: I... not to be a pest, but--
Taliesin: Too late, but yes?
Sam: I paid for adventure.
Taliesin: Oh, we're heading-- there will be adventure.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: You didn't actually pay for anything. You haven't paid.
Sam: I understand.
Liam: And we also didn't offer access to every contact and person that we know on this globe, all right?
Sam: Understood.
Liam: You're a tag-along.
Sam: And happy to be one.
Travis: Plus, these are several, subtle steps. We don't just chuck you in the furnace right away. We've got to temper you a bit.
Sam: Yeah. That makes total sense.
Travis: Cool.
Marisha: Besides, things just seem to happen around us.
Taliesin: Inevitably.
Marisha: So if you just hang out long enough, I'm sure someone's gonna want to beat our ass over something.
Laura: Like, most boring day ever now that Tary's here, we don't do anything fun at all.
Travis: Set up a craft fair.
Taliesin: Critical Craft Fair.
Laura: We all sit down and start knitting.
Travis: I will kill myself.
Marisha: Go to the post office. Check our P.O. box.
Laura: (laughs) Do some grocery shopping.
Taliesin: Laundry.
Liam: VM Accounting.
Taliesin: Magazines.
Matt: If only.
Taliesin: So, yes. We would love to head in that direction.
Travis: Yeah! Cinnamon Tower! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That sounds weird.
Marisha: I want to live in that world!
Taliesin: I would also like to, quietly on the headphone, I would really like to know where this machine comes from, because I'm finding it just a bit creepy, and I would love to get that information out of him before he disappears.
Travis: How tall is it again?
Matt: It's roughly eight and a half feet tall.
Travis: So just a bit taller than me?
Matt: A bit taller, yeah, I'd say a little larger than that.
Travis: A head and a half?
Matt: It's kind of hunched forward as it walks, it probably could stand taller if it wanted to.
Travis: Was he kind of like, Fassbender size-ish, or?
Matt: Not as broad.
Laura: Fassbender was bigger, right?
Travis: Okay.
Matt: It's tall, but it's kind of lanky in its construction, and it seems to be thicker at the feet and the arms and fists, but the actual structure itself is proportionally pretty thin.
Travis: Got it. It's Groot.
Liam: Hey, Percy...
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: I faintly remember you talking about, you were talking to someone, I don't know who it was, but you were talking about plans you had for sort of a walking, automated something. Am I imagining that?
Taliesin: I dabbled... No, I talked about it. It always just seemed so impractical. And now I'm looking at one, and I'm irritated.
Liam: Yeah, I can see that.
Marisha: Irritated? Or was inferior the word you were looking for?
Taliesin: Vexed.
Marisha: Vexed, that's a good word.
Laura: It is a good word.
Travis: That's her name.
Liam: To be honest, you seem like you got your goolies burned there just from a conversation, a little bit.
Marisha: I know.
Taliesin: He didn't build this thing, and I'm worried about who did. He didn't build this thing.
Marisha: Percy,
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: Percy.
Liam: Well, you're the expert.
Taliesin: No. Yes. What?
Marisha: Look, you can turn this to your advantage. Brain drain him for all the knowledge you can!
Taliesin: I think we've already done that.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I think that was an oyster we've already supped upon.
Marisha: I trust your judgement.
Taliesin: Ah yes, that got weird. I'm gonna flip on the cloak by the way, now that we are well out of that area.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is anyone following us from the Scarbearers?
Matt: The eye that you have been keeping out, you don't notice anyone giving chase or following you.
Liam: Walking with Kelyeth. You know I don't know anything about that shit, but in my experience talent and skill have nothing to do with whether you're a douchenozzle or not. He seems like a schmuck.
Marisha: Oh, he's definitely a douchenozzle.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: (gasps) I think that's the first time I said douchenozzle.
Taliesin: I think it actually is.
Liam: He called you 'antlers'.
Marisha: Yeah he called you 'little elf-girl and little elf-boy'. I don't like him.
Liam: Mm.
Marisha: What's wrong with my antlers?
Liam: Nothing at all
Marisha: I know my hair's shorter so it makes my antlers look bigger, which I was concerned about.
Liam: No, they're very attractive I'm sure you heard---
Marisha: Is it okay?
Liam: Okay? It's your best feature.
Marisha: Thanks?
Laura: I like your face more than your antlers, but both are nice, dear.
Liam: No, definitely the antlers.
Marisha: All right, you know what? Let's move off this conversation.
Laura: I just wanted to ask Tary.
Sam: Oh, yes?
Laura: So your... Doty? Yes?
Marisha: Dottie.
Laura: Dottie, sorry.
Sam: Doty.
Liam: Duty.
Laura: Duty. Got it. Does he fight or does he just write?
Sam: He does what I tell him to do.
Laura: Is he competent in a battle?
Sam: I would say so.
Laura: Has he ever been in battle?
Sam: Doty has been in a battle.
Laura: Does he look like he has any battle scars?
Matt: Glancing over and getting a quick look-- make a perception check actually.
Laura: All right, just doing some--
Travis: Roll your new dice to redeem it for that shit--
Laura: (yells)
Travis: Should have done it.
Laura: No no no, at least it's not a one. 20.
Matt: Okay, glancing over and giving a once over of the giant mechanical creature (footsteps) walking a few feet behind you, you can see there are a lot of signs of repair. You can see there are a lot of places where bits of metal have been re-hammered. Elements have been patched over, and additional layers of armor have been added to it. You do see what appear to be some scrapes and areas where it has sustained various weapon attacks. That whole circumstance. It looks like it's seen some scuffles in it's time.
Laura: Duty looks... worn.
Sam: Doty.
Laura: Doty, my apologies. He looks worn. Old, far older than your armor.
Sam: That may be because in battle I am deft, fearless.
Travis: You're deaf?
Sam: No deft, with a T. I can dodge blows uncannily. I can anticipate what my opponent is going to do ahead of time and dodge out of the way.
Laura: I can see that about you.
Sam: Yes.
Laura: You seem very dexterous too.
Sam: I think I am.
Laura: Yes. Did Doty raise you? Is he like your nanny?
Sam: No, he's a mechanical construct that I made, he did not--
Laura: That you made when you were two? Because he looks like he raised you.
Sam: Doty did not raise me. He is a mechanical construct that I built when I learned how.
Liam: Does he cook?
Sam: He does not cook.
Liam: Does he clean?
Sam: He could clean. I---
Liam: Keep you warm at night?
Sam: No, he's cold as ice.
Laura: How old were you when you built him?
Sam: Well I'm 28 now.
Laura: Yes?
Sam: So that would have been 27.
Laura: He's a year old?
Sam: He's a year old.
Laura: And he only talks to you?
Sam: Nope. He doesn't talk to me.
Laura: Oh, he only listens to you.
Sam: He's the best really. Fearless, strong, big, and excellent penmanship. He's everything I could hope for in a friend. Silent.
Marisha: Were pen pals a thing for you? Is that why you like penmanship?
Sam: I mean, no. I don't think I ever had a penpal.
Marisha: No? Did you have any friends? Ever?
Liam: Or siblings?
Sam: I had tutors. I had the best teachers. I had--
Laura: Aww...
Marisha: Aww...
Sam: --wonderful. No, no! Don't 'aww'. They were wonderfully smart and engaging, but my best friends were the books I read.
Liam: What were Mom and Dad like?
Sam: They're still alive. There's no were. They are wonderful people my father--
Liam: I mean when you were a tyke.
Sam: (sighs) My father is a very talented businessman. He can be hard at times. He has great expectations for everyone he meets. My mother is... a saint; she's perfect in every way. She's a wonderful person and... yes.
Marisha: Really? And they're still alive? Weren't killed in some crazy raid, or... eaten by dragons or...fell in a pit of lava?
Sam: No, they are eagerly awaiting me to arrive back at home and tell them tales of my journeys and adventures.
Liam: What is your father's business?
Sam: He is a businessman.
Liam: A businessman? Is that a taboo subject with you?
Sam: No! Not at all. It's just, I'm not sure how well versed you are in financial transactions.
Liam: Oh, fuck-all. I thought you could give me the layman's terms.
Sam: He is in real estate. He buys and sells properties, charges rent, taxes...
Liam: A land baron.
Travis: So bored right now.
Sam: He owns a lot of things, places and makes a lot of money off of these places.
Liam: Interesting... Interesting.
Travis: Cinnamon Tower.
Sam: I will be forthcoming with anything that you ask me. I have nothing to hide. I come from money; this is clear.
Liam: Can I insight check him on 'I have nothing'?
Matt: Yeah, make an insight check.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: It's terrible, that's all right.
Laura: No, it's not! Don't use luck!
Liam: You shush!
Laura: You can--
Liam: I will use luck if I want to use luck!
Matt: Hard to read. For many reasons!
Liam: I'll say!
Taliesin: I also want to take a good long look at robot and see if I can-- this automaton.
Matt: Okay. Investigation check.
Taliesin: Come on. (sighs) Okay, 13.
Matt: What are you trying to ascertain about it?
Taliesin: How old it is, how it was built, where it was built. Just to get a sense of it, like looking over a classic car.
Matt: Best that you can tell from its construction and your understanding, there is a lot of ingenuity in its design. But it is, it exists, and moves through a combination of decent engineering and enchantment.
Taliesin: Oh thank God! Okay, I feel better.
Matt: You can see very, very faint engravings of various runic glyphs that are similar some of the ones that you saw on--
Taliesin: Fassbender?
Matt: -- Fassbender.
Taliesin: All right. I feel better already, thank you. Ego restored.
Liam: (sings the Legend of Zelda 'item' tune)
Matt: You guys make your way to the Sand Herald District and there you can see the distant towers of the Cerulean Place. The large central one that leads up into the chamber of J'mon Sa Ord. As you approach the outside, you see the familiar faces and armor of the Hands of Ord there, guarding the exterior of the palace walls. As you approach, one of the guards steps up with their same kind of brass and sapphire emblazoned armor, and one of them approaches and steps forward. "I'm sorry. Do you have business at the palace?"
Laura: Yes. Question  the symbol? Scanlan?
Liam: Scanlan had it...
Laura: That's what I thought.
Travis: Oh, fucking shit.
Marisha: I thought we got it back, though.
Laura: Did he give back to us or did he not?
Marisha: Wait, no. Are we talking about the flute?
Liam: No, there was a symbol.
Laura: Remember the symbol that had--
Liam: J'mon's symbol to show to all friends.
Taliesin: I think he still has the symbol, doesn't he?
Marisha: I have his flute because I picked it up last.
Laura: Yeah, that doesn't have his symbol on it though.
Liam: That's not the same thing.
Taliesin: We do bring news though, so...
Marisha: Fuck!
Liam: We are friends to-- the man on top. J'mon, I misspoke.
Laura: J'mon Sa Ord.
Marisha: We need to speak with him.
Liam: Vox Machina is here, he knows us.
Marisha: And return this  I show the flute. Maybe they'll recognize it?
Matt: The guard takes the flute and--
Marisha: I take it and I dust the ash and drug use off of it. And then--
Matt: The guard takes it and looks at it, confused. "Please to be patient, for just a moment."
Laura: Of course, be pleased!
Matt: "Be pleased." Turns around and walks back up the stairs, the front of the palace, and enters through one of the side doorways. About two, three minutes pass. The guards just keep a view out, and then eventually you see an older woman in familiar ceremonial robes exit from the doorway that the guard went into. This is the Grand Maven, Gameshega, who you met and escorted you up into the palace originally. She walks up with her bracelets still jingling as she steps down the stairs, her long robes trailing behind her a good like two-three feet. Her headdress still has little brass quills that streak down, past her shoulders into her mid-back, and as she steps up: "It is good to see all of you once more. I do not believe we have met, I'm sorry, what is your name?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington. Nice to meet you. Be pleased.
Matt: Taryon Darrington, friend of Vox Machina, it is a pleasure to make your acquaintance. So J'mon would like to extend their greetings to all of you, and respect in the wake of the news of the destruction of the Conclave. You've aided in closing a far too lingering chapter in the history of Marquet and the ruin of the Cinder King. Thank you.
Sam: You're welcome.
Taliesin: We wanted to make sure that they were aware that all of the dragons had been dealt with, and that the Conclave had been completely vanquished.
Matt: This information did make it to the ears of J'mon.
Taliesin: Excellent. And we thank you for your time.
Matt: Of course. Anything else?
Laura: Um.
Marisha: I guess not?
Laura: Well, could I take you aside for a moment?
Matt: "Of course, my dear." And she walks alongside you as you pull her off a little bit.
Laura: We have in our service, in Emon, a wonderful man, who has been of great aid in battling the Conclave as well, and we learned recently that he was expelled from Marquet due to crimes in his youth and was wondering if we could maybe speak in his name and his regard, to you, to clear his name?
Matt: I can see what I can do. What is the name of this gentleman?
Laura: Jarett. His last name?
Liam: Serpersveshzhg?
Sam: Anderson?
Marisha: Howarth.
Laura: Jarett...
Marisha: Howarth. Howarth.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Jarett Howorth?
Marisha: Howarth.
Laura: Jarett Howarth.
Sam: You have his name?
Laura: Of course she does, because she takes killer notes.
Sam: Holy Bajoly!
Taliesin: She writes everything down.
Sam: I didn't know that he had a name!
Matt: Jarrett Howarth.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. I will go and take this into the archives, discover and see what can be done.
Laura: Thank you so much. If you find out anything, will you please send word?
Matt: Yes, should we be sending it to Emon as well?
Laura: If you could, send it to Whitestone?
Matt: To Whitestone?
Laura: That would be wonderful.
Matt: Okay. Very well. We have not sent anything to Whitestone before. We will find a way to do so.
Laura: It's an up and coming city. Very prominent on Tal'dorei.
Taliesin: It's on the move.
Laura: It's on the move.
Liam: Would you send J'mon, would you send them our thanks?
Matt: I will do this. I apologize, J'mon is not currently taking audiences.
Laura: Totally fine.
Matt: But I will continue to pass this word onto them.
Laura: Thank you so much.
Matt: Thank you very much. And good day! Be pleased.
Laura: Be pleased.
Travis: Beep-beep!
Matt: As the Grand Maven turns around and heads back up the stairs, the guards take their place and the palace is at rest.
Laura: Welp.
Travis: He must be sick.
Laura: Probably.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: The flu, perhaps.
Marisha: It's been going around.
Laura: Lots of travel happening. Happens when you travel, I hear.
Marisha: It's true, yeah. Anytime you fly.
Taliesin: So I think that concludes this little jaunt, it might be back home now.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Travis: Well, I think it's about time that we see what Tary Jumbo's worth.
Sam: I'm sorry?
Travis: One of your things on your list, right, it was to get in a kerfuffle?
Sam: There's no kerfuffle on the list--
Travis: Riff-ram, bah-zhu.
Sam: --but we are going to have an adventure, is that right?
Laura: So many.
Sam: At some point?
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Laura: All of them.
Liam: Buddy boy, you're buying in for shit you're not really ready for, yes.
Sam: All right.
Travis: We gotta know how--
Sam: So far, we've delivered a dead body part to someone, and had a brief conversation with a guard.
Taliesin: It's only been two hours.
Sam: Is this what you all are about?
Liam: We're gonna take a little time for a day. And then we're gonna take you to hell.
Sam: All right.
Liam: How does that sound?
Sam: Are you speaking metaphorically?
Travis: No, no, literally hell.
Taliesin: No, we're going to hell.
Travis: There's like seven or eleven of them.
Sam: All right.
Liam: Wow.
Travis: Are those together? Close?
Laura: Very big numbers, Grog.
Liam: Sure.
Taliesin: We're taking this one to hell then?
Marisha: Might be a good trial run.
Liam: I don't know. Do you want to put him through his paces?
Travis: Yeah, I think so.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I want to save traveling the Ozmit Sea and heading to the water Ashari for when Pike is back.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: So, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Let's take this fucker to hell.
Sam: I don't know what you're talking about.
Marisha: No, we're speaking insanely literally right now. That's what's impressive about it.
Sam: I...
Liam: We are going to Hell.
Sam: All right.
Liam: And you are coming along.
Marisha: And we're taking you with us.
Laura: Shouldn't we see him fight first?
Liam: Yeah, well, let's bring him home.
Laura: I'd hate for him to die immediately.
Liam: Yeah, we want Grog to run him out like a labrador.
Travis: Do I see any large, intimidating looking creatures just walking around where we are at the moment?
Laura: No, not in the city, Grog.
Travis: I'm not talking to you.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: He only has to listen to you at home.
Laura: I know.
Travis: 12.
Matt: Uh, best that you can tell here in the Sand Herald district, no. Most everyone who wanders around here are of noble dress or part of the Hand of Ord.
Travis: You see that fruit merchant over there?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Killed many, many people.
Sam: Oh, well maybe I should pay him to take me on an adventure because Jesus Christ. This is about as fucking boring as I can get.
Travis: I might just hit him. I might just attack him.
Laura: Hey! You know what you can cross off your list? Teleportation, because that's what we're about to do.
Sam: No, really?
Laura: Oh yeah.
Marisha: It's true.
Sam: It's on my list; it's literally on my list.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Wait what? All right, let's go.
Sam: All right, all right, all right! Finally getting my money's worth.
Marisha: So we're going back to Whitestone?
Taliesin: Yes, Whitestone.
Liam: Yes, get your big boy pants on, Ermergerd.
Sam: It's Taryon!
Marisha: Come on, Doodee.
Sam: Doty.
Matt: All right, as you find a familiar tree you can utilize to transport over to Whitestone, Tary you watch as the center of this tree's trunk suddenly seems to split open with divine energy.
Sam: Cool.
Matt: On the opposite side, you watch this tunnel progress about four or five feet within where it just looks like the striations of the interior of the tree trunk before it emerges on the other side into another town square currently in the middle of an evening.
Sam: Doty, take this down. As the tree split in front of me--
Taliesin: I shove him through.
Sam: Ahhh!
Marisha: You have six seconds!
Matt: As you all tumble through the Transport via Plants spell, you all emerge on the opposite side of the Sun Tree in the center of Whitestone's courtyard. What do you wish to do?
Sam: Oh my. Oh my gods. Where are we? What's going on?  What happened? Where am I? Is this a fantasy world? What happened?
Marisha: Are you feeling nauseous?
Liam: Whack!
Sam: Ahh!
Taliesin: How about now?
Sam: Wow! That was exhilarating! It's like my body fell apart and came back together again!
Laura: That's exactly what it was like.
Sam: It was amazing!
Liam: I've never had that.
Laura: Or it was like walking forward.
Liam: Yeah. I've never had that sensation ever before. Ever.
Sam: I felt a great force behind me, pushing me forward! And then all of a sudden I opened my eyes and was in a new place. Doty, take this down. Today is the greatest day of Taryon Darrington's life. The day that he experienced the wonder of the gods. That's enough for now.
Marisha: Oh my god, did you guys hear that? He thinks I'm a god. Doucher!
Travis: Douchenozzle.
Marisha: Douchenozzle, that's right! That's what it was. Sorry, I'm just learning it.
Laura: What time is it here?
Matt: Technically now that I think about it, it would still be day, because you guys left in the morning to Ank'Harel, and you've been there for a few hours, so it's early afternoon at this point.
Laura: Okay. Oh, fabulous. All right.
Travis: So we're back on home turf, right?
Liam: Yeah, we're going to take this guy to a field and kick his ass, or what are we going to do?
Travis: Yeah, I kind of want to.
Laura: Oh, can I go find Jarett really fast?
Matt: Yeah, it's easy enough to find. You head down to where the makeshift garrison, which has now seen reconstruction, actually being turned into a decent functional garrison within the town itself. A lot of the guards are out there running through their drills for the afternoon, and you can see Jarrett is in the process of running them through what looks like ranged combat training. As you approach, Jarett looks over and watches you walking up from a distance and kind of gives a wave, "Hello!"
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "So, everything seems to be in order here. I have to say, I am very glad to know that we have no more dragons for quite some time." And you see he's recovering; he's healing, but there is noticeable scarring on the side of his neck. And it looks like he's going through the process of recovering from the Thordak battle, but he's doing much better than the last time you saw him.
Laura: How are you mentally?
Matt: To be perfectly honest, very happy to not be anywhere near that terrible city. I never thought I had the sense for the slower parts of the countryside, but I don't know; I've come to like it here in Whitestone.
Laura: It is quite nice. Well, you're welcome to stay.
Matt: Well, I was intending to.
Laura: We are planning to rebuild our home in Emon as well.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Laura: So it's up to you where you'd like to be.
Matt: Really, you employ me so it is more up to you, but I kind of like the change in temperature.
Laura: I do too.
Matt: Bit chillier up here, north.
Laura: Well, in case you're wondering, we just came from Marquet.
Matt: Oh?
Laura: Where we spoke with the Grand Maven?
Matt: Right?
Laura: Of J'mon Sa Ord. Spoke very highly of you and she's working on getting your name cleared.
Matt: Really?
Laura: Well, she said she would. I don't know what you did, dear, but hopefully it wasn't anything too terrible.
Liam: Serial killer.
Matt: He doesn't look nervous at all, he looks elated and is like, "Well, thank you. I hope that comes to a fruitful end. I've been living here long enough where it's not a huge deal to me, but it would be nice to occasionally return--"
Laura: See home?
Matt: Yeah. You know.
Laura: That's nice.
Matt: Thank you, I appreciate that.
Laura: Of course. And you may not have heard, but our resident bard has left us. Possibly for the time being, possibly for more. So you won't be seeing his face around here.
Matt: I am sorry to hear that.
Laura: I only tell you because I saw you speaking with him several times and thought you might want to know.
Matt: This is good to know. Well, I look forward to his return. That being the case, can I ask a favor of you?
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Could you hold this?" And he reaches back and pulls out a small pouch and puts it in your hand. "I don't feel comfortable holding on to this."
Laura: What is it?
Matt: It was requested by your small bard friend and I probably should not have it on my person.
Laura: Requested?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: What is it? Components of a potion? I don't...
Matt: One that you should not probably drink.
Laura: What is it, Jarrett?
Matt: It's suude. It's illegal. You should not-- It is dangerous.
Laura: It's drugs?
Matt: Yes! Yes it is! Let's talk about it in front of everyone I'm training! Yes, thank you!
Laura: I put it in my pocket.
Matt: Don't do drugs!
Laura: Don't do drugs! Scanlan was doing drugs? Jarett, you sold Scanlan drugs?
Matt: No, I procured them for him at his request.
Laura: Is this why you were expelled from Marquet?
Matt: (unconvincingly) No. (all laugh)
Matt: There are a number of reasons.
Laura: How long have you been providing this to him?
Matt: This was only the second. I did not want to do this! He is a very convincing person and looked like he was going through a hard time.
Laura: Yes, he is.
Matt: And look, I understand that, and I warned him. He knew full well the dangers involved; he's a much stronger man than I am. Who was I to tell him this? And he's very persuasive.
Laura: He is. When was the first time you gave it to him?
Matt: Not more than maybe a week or two ago?
Laura: Thank you. Thank you for giving them to me.
Matt: Yes, it was burning a hole in my pocket. And I don't want to hold onto it.
Laura: I understand.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: I appreciate your service, Jarrett.
Matt: I appreciate your understanding.
Laura: Get better. Keep training.
Matt: Yes, I should do that.
Laura: All right.
Matt: He turns around, "You lot heard nothing! Nock your crossbows, nock--" (whack) and slaps one guy on the back of the head. "All right. Focus up, on the targets," and you hear him begin taking a few volleys off in the distance as you walk your way back to the castle. The rest of you, as you walk through Whitestone, Taryon, you watch this beautiful, wonderfully slightly backwards city--
Taliesin: Hey! Okay...
Sam: It's amazing.
Matt: It's charming.
Sam: Yes, quaint really.
Matt: Yeah! And there's a castle. They have a castle!
Sam: Tourists must love it here.
Taliesin: We do quite well... in the on season.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. In years ago.
Travis: Do you mind if you come to the outskirts of the city with us?
Sam: I literally know nothing about this city.
Travis: Great, yeah, come with us. Just Vax knows the way, Vax will you... You know? The spot?
Liam: The beautiful parts of the city, actually, are the countryside, the woods around. It's drab in the middle.
Sam: I paid for adventure.
Travis: Yeah, it's out there.
Liam: And adventure you shall have, my friend.
Sam: All right.
Travis: So can we find our way to like a fairly open and not populated part of Whitestone?
Matt: Yeah. Your best bet, at this point, would be to make your way to the unclaimed gardens in the back of the castle.
Taliesin: I was going to say.
Marisha: Castle courtyards.
Matt: For awhile there was no greenery back there. The processing and disposing of the excess acids lead to the green fume that was billowing behind the castle when you first arrived here and destroyed most of the plant life. Through your aid and the people who kept the castle, those have been filled in and it looks like the castle grounds are starting to recover. There is now a fresh growing season of green back there, and that is closed off. It is protected. There are guards around and it is away from the general populace of Whitestone.
Travis: Nice. This looks like a great place. Now, if you want your first taste of adventure, you need to bring Dottie and come over here.
Sam: Doty.
Travis: I have to whisper it because it's very secret.
Sam: Four-eyes, shall I trust Jumbo here because he seems a bit shady.
Taliesin: Yes, no, you should trust him with your life. He's very trustworthy.
Sam: I will roll an insight check.
Liam: Grog and I are just waiting.
Sam: What do I add to it?
Matt: Your insight skill.
Sam: Oh yeah, that. I have forgotten how to play Dungeons and Dragons. 18.
Matt: Travis, I would like you to roll a deception.
Taliesin: Wait, is it Travis or is it me?
Laura: Is it deception?
Matt: Oh wait, no, it's from you, sorry. Yeah, this is Percival, technically.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: It's kind of both of you.
Travis: Bitch! I rolled a 17.
Liam: So Percy at advantage then, right?
Marisha: You can trust Grog for some things.
Laura: You can!
Sam: Go on!
Travis: Plus I do want to take him on an adventure.
Laura: I feel like Grog is getting far more trustworthy.
Marisha: I agree!
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: You get the sense that maybe not all the information is there.
Taliesin: It's not a lie.
Matt: It's not a lie, but it's definitely-- it speaks of a half truth.
Sam: What's going on out here?
Travis: Secret stuff. Are you ready?
Sam: For what?
Travis: Where's Dottie?
Sam: Doty. He's right behind me, as he always is.
Travis: Nice. So put out your hand like this.
Sam: What's going to happen?
Travis: And take your other hand, and you either make a boulder, a piece of paper, or a pair of shears. Right? And we do it on three.
Taliesin: To be perfectly honest, I'm not entirely sure what's happening either.
Marisha: You've never played Boulder, Paper, Shears?! (all laugh)
Sam: That's the best thing you've ever said, Marisha.
Taliesin: That just went right up my nose. It burns. That is not pleasant.
Sam: Of course I've played Boulder, Paper, Shears.
Travis: Great, great. It's just to see who goes first. Ready?
Sam: One, two, three--
Travis: And on the third one, I cast enlarge with the Titanstone Knuckles,
Liam: And I sneak attack Ermergerd.
Travis: And I smack Doty. (all laugh)
Sam: Fuck, I'm dead.
Liam: Pommel side, pommel side! I'm gonna Kynan him.
Matt: Okay, and you're going after Doty.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: With just your hands?
Travis: Yeah, just a backhand.
Matt: Okay, both you guys roll attack.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Taliesin: Boulder, Paper, Shears-- Boulder, Parchment, Shears.
Marisha: Boulder, Parchment, Shears.
Travis: 24.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: Why do you want a natural 20?! You're going to kill him!
Taliesin: No, no.
Liam: Not with the pommel side, man!
Matt: Okay, go ahead and do your sneak attack damage.
Marisha: Non-lethal.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: And double it cause you rolled a natural 20. You, go ahead and roll for the backhand, it's one--
Sam: I will be dead.
Travis: It's four, right?
Matt: It's just a backhand. I would say it's one damage plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: "Vax, where'd you get that amazing armor?"
Travis: Eight, so nine?
Matt: Okay, so nine damage.
Travis: My strength modifier is eight.
Matt: Yeah, so it'd be nine.
Sam: Doty is going to use his reaction to attack Vax.
Matt: Okay, yes.
Sam: Right? Because when attacked within five feet of me, he gets to react?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What?!
Sam: To defend me? Or to attack?
Matt: To attack the person who attacked you.
Travis: See, this is a real good way to figure shit out.
Taliesin: I'm already excited by this.
Laura: This is true! This is smart.
Travis: Thanks.
Laura: You're so smart!
Matt: After this round, actually, for the tension basis of this and for the arrangement for the circumstance, I'm going to take a break, and then come back to this, so we can give this the real feel you want to. So after this round. All right, so after-- Okay, so you do seven damage, you backhand Doty (impact sound)--
Travis: Nine! Nine damage, yeah.
Matt: -- and the head turns to the side. The tome falls to the ground, open on the ground so the pages fold a little bit, and the metallic creature (shifting metal) back to you, stands up, and now goes a full six inches taller than you, and then rears back with its fist, and right as it's about to swing, it sees from behind Vax creep up and hit-- how much damage?
Liam: 86.
Matt: 86 points of damage.
Sam: 86 to me?
Taliesin: What?!
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Great. Great.
Travis: Plus I'm enlarged, so I am probably taller than Doty now.
Matt: Actually, that's right, yeah, so even at your enlarged height, you're still probably a good foot and a half, two feet larger than Doty.
Travis: Let's say I hit him, he looks back, and he's looking at my nipples.
Laura: Oh, that's cool.
Matt: Yeah, there you go. As you're growing (robotic motion noises)--
Travis: What happened?
Matt: Goes to punch towards you, however out of the corner of Doty's eye, sees this half-elf show up and whack him right square in the center of the neck and spinal column and then the fist just goes wide and slams toward you. That is going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: Hits.
Matt: You suffer... Ooh! 16 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Ooh!
Matt: As the giant iron fist of Doty just (whack) clangs into the back of your head and part of your ear and you feel the ringing in your skull from the impact.
Liam: Mm-hm.
Matt: You, Taryon, fall to your knees--
Sam: (pained grunt)
Matt: -- and find a large portion of your vitality and breath and just general awareness knocked out of you from from one singular blow from nowhere. Your eyes go white for a second--
Sam: This is the sound that I make. (high pitched goat-like yelps) (all laugh)
Travis: That's a wuss panic.
Sam: Do I get a shot?
Matt: That was the surprise round, because you were not aware of this circumstance. We're going to continue combat after this break. (cheers and laughter)
Marisha: I'm getting in on this!
Liam: It was his idea!
Matt: Oh yeah. Just so you're aware, everyone who's watching, you just watched your boyfriend cold-cock an innocent person.
Marisha: I watched him walk up behind him and do it. I knew what he was doing.
Matt: All right, just so you're aware. All right guys--
Marisha: This is a part of our Vox Machina hazing. This is what we do!
Matt: This is pretty fucked up, you guys. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So fucked up!
Matt: All right, we'll come back in a few minutes after we take a quick break to continue this combat. We'll see you here shortly. [BREAK]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome back to Critical Role. So, last we left off, in the middle of the Whitestone courtyard, two members of Vox Machina decided, as part of the hazing process, to assault our new temporary party member.
Taliesin: (laughs) When you put it like that.
Travis: How about test?
Liam: This is literally the third time we have done this.
Matt: I know! I'm not surprised by any of you. It's just-- Oh no, I am surprised, I wasn't expecting it, but it makes sense.
Marisha: Wow, it sounds like us last week.
Matt: Yeah, exactly.
Laura: Hey!
Travis: Or every week.
Matt: That being the case, anyone who cares to get involved in this, I need you to roll initiative.
Taliesin: In.
Marisha: In.
Laura: Am I there?
Sam: Wait, you guys are all doing this to me?
Taliesin: No, I want to be in initiative just to make sure that I can actually make sure that--
Marisha: I want to make decisions.
Matt: Would you have gone with him, or would you have stayed back?
Laura: Well, I was coming from talking to Jarrett so, it's up to you if I'm there yet.
Matt: So yeah, you wouldn't be there actually, yeah.
Laura: Am I walking up as it's happening?
Matt: You will be walking up towards the castle.
Liam: This was a--
Travis: Yeah, this was a Tweedledee and Tweedledum.
Liam: -- Grog whispering to Vax thing, on a walk.
Matt: So. There is no Percival, no Keyleth in, but you guys were--
Taliesin: Oh, I'm in!
Marisha: No, I'm in.
Matt: Okay. Percival's in, yeah, they're there.
Liam: Yeah, we're not trying try to ditch them. I'm just saying. It wasn't an announced thing.
Matt: Yeah, so Vex is the only one who's not there. Okay, so, for those who are present and wish to be part of this: roll initiative. What have we got? So we have...
Sam: Eight.
Travis: (laughs)
Sam: (choking noise)
Taliesin: 25.
Sam: You shouldn't bother. It's over!
Marisha: 16.
Liam: (choking noise) Big 11.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Okay, Percival, you're up first. As you watch Grog backhand this mechanical entity in the face, while Vax appears from the shadows and just beans the back of Taryon across the center of the neck and spinal column--
Sam: (muffled scream)
Matt: -- and he falls to his knee making this horrible, horrible sound.
Liam: (laughs) That's my friend.
Taliesin: Come on man, pick it up, pick it up! I just draw my sword and stand on the sidelines, preparing for whatever is about to happen.
Sam: (gasping for breath)
Matt: Okay. Grog.
Travis: Did Doty go down or-- no, he just stood there looking at me afterwards, right?
Matt: Yeah. Doty just (twang), and looked back at you slowly.
Travis: Right. Where is--
Matt: Unblinking mechanical face.
Travis: Where is Tary Jumbo?
Matt: Right here, about five feet from you.
Travis: I look at him.
Sam: (whimpers)
Travis: I hold up my hand and say  Show me what you have learned (all laugh)
Matt: That's all you do?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: Okay, that's Grog's turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, first and foremost I'm going to create a windwall, around us, like an arena.
Matt: Like an arena.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (wind swirling) And then I'm gonna--
Matt: Suddenly, the wind kicks up around (heavy wind). The leaves and various fallen parts of the greenery around here kick up into this torrent around you, as the wind is now creating a barrier around the battlefield.
Marisha: Yeah, I turn to Percy and I say  man, you know, I almost feel bad for the guy.
Sam: (gasps loudly)
Taliesin: Give him a boost.
Marisha: Should I give him a boost?
Taliesin: Give him a boost.
Marisha: Should we give him an incentive?
Taliesin: Nah.
Marisha: All right, we'll start with a boost. And I give him a healing word.
Matt: Okay, what level?
Marisha: We'll give him a level two.
Matt: Level two, all right. 2d4 plus six.
Marisha: I guess you're worth it. Oh, you got real lucky Tary. I got a four and a three, which adds to be seven. Plus...
Matt: Plus six for your Wisdom, so it's 13.
Marisha: 13 points. And then I say  come on, Tary!
Sam: (high-pitched) What? Who said that? Why is the wind blowing?
Matt: Vax, what are you doing? (all laugh)
Liam: I bring my hand around the back of his head, and I'm gonna use my action to cast Lay on Hands and dump all 15 hit points into the back of his head. Then I'm going to use Disengage and hop back away from him and say-- Oh, no! Before I hop back and say: we are a bunch of fucking assholes and this is all you are going to get with us. Are you sure? And then use Disengage to roll back.
Matt: All right. And you move back away from him?
Liam: Yeah, but I have my movement plus-- Yes, back.
Matt: How far?
Liam: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet.
Matt: All righty. Yep, okay. That ends your turn. Taryon. What do you wish to do?
Travis: First time.
Sam: Hands shaking, body quivering, blood everywhere. (all laugh)
Liam: No, no, no--
Matt: No, out of the nose.
Liam: You have a massive headache.
Matt: You did 88 damage to him from behind with the back of your dagger. There is blood out of his nose, out of his ears.
Liam: I just wanted to get him to unconscious. If I'm not a master assassin--
Laura: Nope.
Liam: How can I not go (thu-kunk) and not--
Marisha: You at least split his head.
Travis: He has weak capillaries.
Matt: Understand, you critically hit him from behind to do 88 points of damage.
Liam: Right.
Matt: That would have killed a regular human being.
Liam: Right, right.
Matt: Or at least have put them in a-- He's not like, bleeding out.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: But he looks rough. (all laugh)
Liam: Did I make it clear that I was trying to do this to Sam and not Tary? (all laugh)
Matt: No. Sam, what are you doing?
Sam: I-- I, shit, well Grog gets an attack, but I'm going to--
Matt: Actually, Grog is not directly in a melee with you, so Grog does not.
Sam: Oh, I'm going to counter clockwise around Doty, all the way round.
Matt: All the way around to here?
Sam: Yeah, yeah. All the way round, yeah. So I'm facing Grog and the others, in a sort of a cone pattern. And I fumble, I'm fumbling on the helmet, trying to find the right gem to pull out. And I pull out a diamond. And I pluck it out of the helmet and I go (screams). And I will cast Prismatic Spray.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Oh shit!
Matt: So just past Doty, (whoosh), as a familiar, and previously prevented, blast of rainbow arcane energy comes shooting forth from Taryon's hand. Hitting Grog, Keyleth and Percival.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: I need you all to make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Awesome.
Taliesin: I get advantage on that.
Matt: You do, because of your cloak.
Taliesin: It's a-- What saving throw? I'm so sorry.
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: Oh! On me?
Matt: Yes, on the helmet.
Sam: The helm is 18.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: 23.
Sam: Wow.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wow, guys.
Matt: Okay, so. Both of you guys halve the damage. Grog does not.
Travis: Gimme what you got.
Liam: Show me what you got!
Marisha: Show me what you got!
Taliesin: I'm going to use my reaction to swallow part of the spell, so I'm going to take half damage of his half damage.
Matt: Okay, got you. I'm going to go ahead and do this.
Marisha: Can you do the chargey thing?
Taliesin: Mm-hm. But I'm fully charged.
Marisha: Oh, that's cool. That's cool.
Taliesin: I can use this as long as I have a reaction.
Marisha: Right.
Sam: Do I roll? Do you roll?
Matt: Actually, you get to roll. If you want to. So it's 10d6 damage.
Sam: Maybe you should roll.
Matt: Okay, I did roll for that one.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: Just in case, so--
Sam: 10d6 what damage?
Matt: I'm gonna figure that out here in just a minute.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Matt: 41 damage, however, against you, Percy.
Marisha: If you've vaporized me, I'm going to be real pissed.
Matt: That is 41 points of poison damage to you.
Taliesin: Halved.
Matt: Reduced to 20, reduced to ten.
Taliesin: To ten.
Matt: And your charges are still full, regardless.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You take 41 points of fire damage, halved to 20. So, 20 points of fire damage as the red beam hits you and the flames just burn across. The front of your hair blown back from the blast of the heat. Percival, you feel the sickly ray of the poison splatter past and cover your skin with this semi-translucent poisonous liquid. Grog, you take 41 points of cold damage.
Travis: I have resistance, with my new exalted knuckles.
Matt: You do. So, you take 20 points of cold damage from that.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: So, the beam subsides and you see them all blasted with it, but they're still standing.
Sam: (gasps)
Matt: Perturbed by it.
Sam: How are they still alive? (all laugh)
Matt: And Doty's at the ready, (metal hitting metal) What do you want Doty to do?
Marisha: New kid's got game.
Sam: Well, first of all, as my bonus action, I will cast Sanctuary on myself.
Marisha: What the fuck is that?
Travis: What is that?
Sam: It protects me from things. (all laugh)
Sam: Like a lot.
Travis: We'll see.
Matt: (laughing) Yeah, I love it.
Travis: That's a new one right? We haven't come up against that before.
Sam: They're all new, friend.
Matt: All right, so Sanctuary on you, and what do you want to tell Doty to do?
Sam: Doty, I will say, (gasping for breath) Doty, save me... Save me! Hit the big guy!
Matt: (metal grinding and a heavy force swinging) And is going to go in for ... The giant fist hit towards you. That is going to be a 17 to hit. What's your AC?
Travis: That is my AC.
Matt: All right, that hits. And then, after the fist comes back and smacks you in the face, across the jaw, for nine plus five-- 14 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Beautiful.
Matt: The hand grabs the front your clavicle, pulls back, and attempts to headbutt you. That's a natural 20.
Liam: Ooh.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Nice. I love it.
Marisha: Yeah? Yeah.
Matt: That is 14-- That is 19 points of bludgeoning damage. So, halved to nine.
Liam: That's terrible.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Matt: That's right! So--
Travis: 19 points of bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Yeah, so 19 points of bludgeoning damage. As Doty just (clang) slams you right in the middle of the face. You feel the nose kinda (cracking noise) from the break, and the blood getting gushed from your nostrils. From the headbutt.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: All right, that ends Doty's turn. Sanctuary's on you. Next up, top of the round, Percival.
Taliesin: Mm.
Marisha: Yeah, that Prismatic Spray was impressive.
Taliesin: That was very impressive, yes.
Marisha: What are you gonna do?
Taliesin: I don't know. I think I'm just gonna enjoy watching this for a minute.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm gonna hold my attack. Until he pulls out another object. Of any kind.
Matt: Okay, so you're holding until he fiddles with an object.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay. That brings it to Grog.
Travis: Right. That was a pretty good hit, and now I'm angry. And I rage.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm dead.
Matt: Bonus action, rage.
Travis: And I walk up so I am within melee-- Actually, I'll go opposite... yeah, on the other side of Tary from Doty.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't attack of opportunity, do I?
Travis: No, no, I wanna be on Tary, opposite of--
Matt: You weren't in combat with him.
Sam: Got it.
Travis: Yeah, no, I wanna be-- I wanna put Tary between me and the big robot.
Matt: Oh I see. So you go this way.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Great. I will say Doty does get an attack of opportunity on you.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: As you pull out of the way. That is a nine. That does not hit you.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: (whoosh) Just too slow, and too wide as the rage kinda instills you with adrenaline, and you dodge past.
Sam: Dammit, Doty, do better!
Matt: All right.
Travis: And as I look down, dribbling out of my mouth, I say, Is that it? And that's my turn.
Laura: Oh, God.
Sam: What? You're not gonna kill me?
Matt: That's your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: (sighs) Should I make this more interesting? What haven't we tested yet? We haven't really seen him dodge yet, right?
Taliesin: I think we should see him dodge.
Marisha: See how well he can dodge. And I throw a Fireball. (explosion)
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: Right next to Tary.
Matt: Next to Tary? Okay.
Marisha: I don't wanna mess up Grog. Just Tary and Doty.
Matt: Okay, make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Whoa.
Marisha: Make a wisdom saving throw?
Travis: (gasps)
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Why? Because...
Travis: Because he asked you to.
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: You find out afterwards.
Marisha: The fuck did you do?
Sam: I got tricks.
Travis: Sanctuary.
Marisha: I got-- oh, Sanctuary. Against spells? Even though this is an AOE?
Travis: What's an AOE?
Matt: Any attack or spell that targets the warded creature with an attack, so yes.
Marisha: Any attack or spell. All right. So, let's roll this one. Not great. That's not great, but luckily I got really high wisdom. So, 18.
Matt: What's your spell DC, Tary?
Sam: My spell DC? Is 17.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Go ahead and roll your Fireball damage. Tary, I'm gonna need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh my God.
Marisha: Ow, jeez, oh my God. There's like-- There was like a little twinge.
Taliesin: You should have Vax work that out, later.
Marisha: I think I was-- No, it's this guy.
Sam: What do I do?
Matt: Dexterity saving throw, please.
Sam: Oh, that's not gonna go well.
Taliesin: No, you should get someone to work on that.
Marisha: I think it's Tary.
Sam: Yeah, that's an 11.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll damage if you don't mind, Keyleth.
Liam: Oh my God, he is hanging on by a thread.
Travis: This is amazing.
Marisha: Wait, where's my-- Who stole my book?
Sam: I have your book.
Marisha: Fireball!
Sam: But I need it more than you, you get nothing!
Marisha: I need to know what Fireball does.
Matt: (laughs) 8d6 points of damage.
Marisha: What is it?
Matt: 8d6 points of fire damage.
Sam: Oh my God.
Marisha: 8d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I got it. One-- one, two...
Laura: Where am I on my walk up? Can I hear this going on?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: You hear the distant-- As you're walking up towards the front of the castle, you see, suddenly, this blast of multicolored arcane energy just, (shhhh) out from over the castle wall.
Laura: Take off running.
Matt: You start running. Through the castle?
Laura: As fast as I can get there-- The way I know to get there the--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Would it be faster to go up-- Broom up and over? Into the courtyard.
Matt: Probably, otherwise you'd--
Laura: Let's do that.
Matt: Okay so you immediately take the broom, slam it under, and begin flying at dash speed. It'll still take you a couple rounds to get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And as you begin to crest up you see a fiery explosion in the middle of the courtyard, now.
Laura: I make sure I take off my hat.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 34 damage. So he did not dodge, though, right?
Matt: No, so it's 34 points of fire damage.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You're still ...
Matt: Vax!
Sam: Alive?
Taliesin: You're still alive.
Matt: It is your turn.
Liam: I take both daggers and I shove them in my belt, and I start circling down-- I'm looking at the map-- yeah, that way, and just start talking. Tary. Tary.
Sam: Who's talking?!
Liam: It's the elf boy. This is what we do, this is what we're gonna be facing, all right? Guys, we're fine, we're fine, that's enough.
Marisha: You sure?
Liam: Are you sure you want to play with us? Because we're going somewhere very dangerous very soon, and they did not play nicely with me. We're about to go to hell with someone who did not deal fairly with me.
Taliesin: Several of us have already died.
Marisha: I drop the wind wall.
Matt: And as you come up over the outside perimeter wall of castle Whitestone, you watch as the wind that is whipping around slowly subsides, and there in the center of the courtyard, you see the rest of your friends encircling Taryon Darrington, who is currently on one knee almost, and looks a little worse for wear.
Liam: You can come along, and buddy, let me tell you something, if we get in the middle of the shit, I will protect you, but it is going to be rough. And they're not going to call off their attack like we are. Are you sure you want to write this book and come with us?
Laura: Can I cannonball Trinket into the middle of it?
Matt: Sure. In the middle of this conversation, you watch, out of the corner of your eye, Taryon--
Laura: Not at Taryon, at my party.
Matt: I know, but he looks over, because they're all facing him, and he looks up and sees you arcing over the top of the wall, and suddenly there's a flash of dark energy and a large bear, an armored bear, rolls out and just breaks into the center of everyone here as Taryon's pulling back, and now roars.
Sam: (yells)
Laura: What the fuck is happening? I step away for five seconds and everybody's at war.
Marisha: No, no, this isn't war.
Travis: Yeah, we're playing.
Marisha: This is great, we were just giving him a little trial run. Isn't that right, Tary? Isn't this great?
Sam: No, this is not good.
Marisha: He's fine.
Liam: Are you changing your mind?
Sam: I can't do this. I can't do any of this. I'm sorry.
Liam: Oh, wow.
Sam: I'm not a real adventurer. That was a story I told you. I know it was very convincing, but I haven't been on any real adventures, ever, and--
Marisha: We knew that as soon as you said you wanted to rescue a damsel.
Sam: I know that you thought that I was an adventurer.
Marisha: We never-- no.
Sam: I know that you all look at me and you just see the armor and the handsomeness--
Taliesin: The armor, yes.
Sam: --and the bravado.
Taliesin: The armor.
Sam: And you think, he has it all.
Taliesin: It's very nice armor.
Sam: He has everything that we want. But it's a lie. It's a ruse.
Laura: Can I land? (all laugh)
Matt: And Trinket is still holding this aggressive stance to the rest of you, just in the vicinity, and looks a little more confused and just sits down.
Laura: Yeah, I think we're fine here, Trinket.
Marisha: You notice we tend to make a lot of people cry?
Laura: You made him cry?
Taliesin: We do.
Marisha: We make a lot of people cry.
Laura: What the fuck happened?
Taliesin: We thought we would just give him a little taste of where he's going to make sure that he was up to it.
Marisha: We told him we were gonna go see Hotis and defeat him in the Nine Hells, and we wanted to make sure he lived.
Taliesin: We couldn't have this happen in the Nine Hells.
Marisha: Yeah, look at him.
Taliesin: There's no crying in the Nine Hells.
Liam: The worst place in all the multiverse, and we're gonna let him smack into that for his first time?
Laura: Tary, you could die.
Sam: I... can I be real with you guys?
Laura: Oh, we're ready.
Taliesin: All right, all right.
Sam: (tearfully) My sister's gonna get everything. All the money. The whole business. The compound, the villas, everything. He's giving it to my sister unless I prove myself. All right? I just came out here to prove myself to my old man. And I know that if I do, he will respect me finally, and he will give me my money, and my trust fund, and he will give me my villa, and I will be the guy who takes over the business. And I just-- I thought that I could. But I can't. And I neeeed to. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Oh son, oh son.
Laura: Oh, Tary.
Liam: I walk over.
Taliesin: Daddy issues, that's all we had to hear.
Sam: I need to, I need to.
Liam: I kneel in front of him and I start massaging where I fucking beaned him.
Laura: Oh, careful there, it'll leave a bruise.
Matt: It stings a lot.
Liam: No, no, I have very deft fingers.
Marisha: Honestly, if you would've led with daddy issues, we probably would've trusted you.
Taliesin: We would've just taken you right on.
Liam: Because fathers can be assholes.
Taliesin: They're so awful.
Sam: He doesn't like me, and he doesn't like the books I read, and he doesn't like that I like fantasy novels, and he doesn't like anything about me.
Taliesin: It's like looking into a dark mirror. I don't know how I feel about this very dark mirror right now.
Liam: I take him into a gentle headlock and I turn to my sister and say, Ahh, this guy.
Laura: Ahh, this guy.
Liam: Now I like this guy.
Travis: I raise my hands above my head.
Liam: Wait, what are you doing, what are you doing?
Travis: Are we not finishing this?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Liam: No.
Laura: Not so much.
Marisha: We just learned that Tary's an ugly crier. We can't beat him over the head after that.
Matt: Trinket's head pokes just into frame to you, Taryon, and he goes (licks)
Sam: (yelps)
Laura: No no no. He's my pet.
Liam: That was terrible tough love, and I'm very sorry. I think you should come with us.
Laura: What?
Liam: I think you should.
Sam: I can be like an apprentice. Or an intern. You guys are so powerful and I'm not.
Liam: Do you know something? That fucking gaudy hat you're wearing? I would have no idea how to harness the power of that hat.
Sam: Really?
Liam: I don't know shit about shit. All I know how to do is hit people in the back of the head, that's the one skill that I have. You know a lot more than I do. All you lack is experience.
Laura: Yeah, but I really am a little worried he's gonna die in the Nine Hells.
Liam: Well, I'm worried that we're all going to die in the Nine Hells.
Laura: Isn't there somewhere a little less scary we can take him?
Travis: Yeah, there's other stuff we need to do.
Liam: Is there?
Marisha: I guess we could go ahead and head to the Water Ashari. It should be fairly calm.
Travis: Tary, have you ever passed out from drinking too much?
Sam: No.
Travis: Have you ever been unconscious?
Sam: Only when I go to sleep at night. (all laugh)
Liam: Oh my gosh.
Laura: Oh no, I like him! Damn it.
Liam: We had to beat him to a bloody pulp before we liked him.
Marisha: Look, we're all fuck-ups. We like people who show their vulnerabilities.
Sam: No, I'm brave and strong.
Taliesin: No, no.
Laura: Nobody likes a dick. Well.
Marisha: Or a douchenozzle.
Laura: There it is.
Travis: Now you're using it too many times.
Marisha: Too much? Okay.
Taliesin: Your cowering honesty has won us over. Let's get you a beer. Would you like a beer?
Sam: No, I don't drink beer.
Taliesin: Would you like a glass of wine?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We have wine. We have a lot of wine. Some of it is quite good.
Sam: Really?
Taliesin: Really.
Sam: Because the stuff we had in Ank'harel was really gross. I didn't wanna say anything, but--
Taliesin: No, we know it was gross.
Sam: It was really gross.
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: It had no terroir.
Taliesin: Sometimes we must sacrifice for the adventure.
Laura: Do you have any wine in your bag of holding?
Sam: No!
Taliesin: We have wine.
Laura: I know, I just want to taste his wine.
Taliesin: Well, that's fair.
Sam: I don't have any wine.
Travis: Has Dotty been in any fights, or--
Sam: Doty.
Matt: Which, for the record, you now look over and Doty has been writing all this down. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You are the worst person, I love you.
Sam: Doty, no! Why? Just pause for now.
Laura: No, but seriously, was he your nanny? It's okay if he was. I just want to know.
Liam: I mean, honestly, we'd like--
Laura: We'd like you more.
Liam: We like fuck-ups. We're a family of fuck-ups, so, you want in or not?
Laura: If you're honest.
Sam: Doty is my best friend. My only friend. Because he listens to me, and understands me, and at night, when I play my characters, he plays with me. I play combat, and I pretend to be some of the characters I've read about, and he pretends to be the others.
Travis: I'm gonna kill him. (all laugh)
Laura: No, that's really wonderful. So you want to be an actor.
Sam: No, I want to be a hero. And I just haven't had the chance yet because my father says that I should just be focused on taking over the family business, learning financial things. And learning how to shake down a customer, and I'm so much more than that.
Marisha: There are other ways of being a hero than being an adventurer. There are a lot of ways you could be a hero.
Sam: Tell me one.
Laura: You could be a philanthropist.
Marisha: Yeah. People who spend a lot of their earnings and people who are more privileged, like you, who help people in less privileged places.
Liam: There are many ways to help people in need.
Sam: Do they write books about philanthropists?
Laura: A lot of times they do.
Marisha: Yeah. People generally like them.
Sam: But the stories I've read of adventure and derring-do and bravery--
Travis: Much cooler.
Sam: Much cooler!
Travis: Less boring.
Sam: Jumbo gets it.
Travis: I promise you, none of their dads leave the adventurers' money to their daughters, it's always to the sons.
Liam: But first I'd like to suggest a mantra. I don't know if you've ever tried it. It helps for me, it has in the past. Fuck your dad. That's one--
Laura: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Liam: You know what I mean, you fucking third-grade assholes, jeepers creepers.
Sam: He could have me or any of you killed.
Liam: We'll see. The other thing is, you've done the impossible.
Sam: Which is?
Liam: Well, I've taken a shine to you for some reason. Do you wanna shake off the child's play and do the real thing?
Sam: Very much.
Liam: The truth is, you never stop being afraid. Being brave doesn't mean you stop being afraid, it means you learn to compartmentalize it. You just live with it. So that feeling you're feeling? You're not gonna lose that.
Sam: Okay. But how will I survive in battle?
Liam: Well...
Travis: Healing potions, people who look out for each other.
Taliesin: Friends. Friends.
Laura: Hide behind your giant robot.
Liam: This guys absorbs damage, so stick by him.
Laura: Stay clear if what you do is cast spells. Don't get up in the fray.
Marisha: I can cast spells, and so can Vex, here. It's through my antlers, so respect the antlers.
Sam: Oh, I do. I do. They look very powerful.
Marisha: Respect.
Sam: Something about your eyes make me feel ashamed.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Wow.
Sam: I'm sorry.
Travis: Oh, shit. That is a new one.
Laura: Let's go get a drink.
Liam: Can we get this guy drunk, please.
Taliesin: We're getting into shame and we're sober, I think something must be done about this.
Travis: We got him so close to the brink, right? Shouldn't we just introduce him to the deep end so he can say he's been there, and then we bring him up?
Laura: What, like knock him unconscious?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Please don't.
Travis: No, no, really, there's something to be said for it.
Taliesin: Why don't we do it with wine?
Liam: Yeah, yes, Percy's right.
Marisha: We could do a little roleplay exercise, like in your stories.
Taliesin: We have a magnificent library.
Sam: You do?
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Travis: Oh, god.
Marisha: Full disclosure.
Taliesin: It's time we had another nerd.
Marisha: Full disclosure, Tary, there aren't many damsels you have to rescue in the wild. I've learned mainly because women in the world have to be tougher. So that doesn't happen very often. But, if you want, we can make pretend and do a little thought exercise, and I'll pretend to be in distress and you can rescue me if that'll make you feel better.
Travis: Yeah yeah yeah, he just has to vanquish me.
Marisha: Yeah, but you have to vanquish Grog.
Sam: All right, let's go get drunk, then.
Taliesin: Okay! (all laugh)
Marisha: Okay! (all laugh)
Liam: We really haven't had a barn-burner since we got back from the big do, you know. We should get your sister, we should get Shaun, we should get Allura and Kima and anyone who's in town.
Taliesin: Let's have a good drink, and in the morning we'll set off on the next leg of idiocy.
Liam: Yeah, you know, Tary, there's something you don't really know about-- we've just-- I mean, it's really complicated, it's hard to explain to you, you're an outsider. But we have just lost someone very dear to us. It's very complicated. And maybe we're dealing with shit that is hard, so I'm sorry if we pushed you too hard. I think there was benefit to be had from what just happened, but we're in a shitty headstate. A dear friend is gone, so, apologies.
Sam: I understand. I haven't really experienced loss of that type before. I mean. But I want to understand, and I thank you for your honesty with me and for not holding back. Did I at least cause you some harm in the battle?
Marisha: Yes!
Liam: I thought you would go down in one shot, and you were still standing!
Travis: It was pretty weak, actually.
Taliesin: I still feel a little ill.
Marisha: Yeah! And look, you singed a little of my hair!
Sam: That's good, right?
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: To be fair, we've killed dragons, so the fact that you actually managed to hold it together is actually quite impressive!
Liam: I mean, clearly we've been fucking with you a little bit, but you have ability and skill, and that's not bullshit. Seriously.
Travis: Yeah, the rest's just fake it 'til you make it, yeah?
Liam: Yeah. That will get you--
Laura: I didn't see any of it, so I'm not sure.
Sam: It was really great. It was really great?
Taliesin: Yes!
Liam: Yeah! Yes!
Sam: Thank you, thank you all. I'm sorry for deceiving you before, and I promise to do better and to aid you in whatever way I can. Please teach me your ways, and I will learn what I can.
Travis: Did you build Dotty?
Sam: For heaven's sake, yes! I did.
Liam: I believe him, I believe him.
Travis: Let's open him up and figure out if he's lying.
Sam: Please no, no, I, no--
Taliesin: No no no no no.
Laura: (laughs) Grog!
Travis: What.
Laura: Stop. (laughs)
Liam: (whispers) He's just-- he's fucking with you, it's fine. (normal volume) It's all right. It's all right. Let's go get drunk.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: That's all we do.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Get drunk and make people cry.
Liam: It's been too long, are you kidding?
Sam: All right, I hang back just a little bit to collect myself. Just try to dry my eyes, and I say to Doty: Doty, just delete most of that last chapter--
Matt: (sounds of Doty ripping and crumpling paper)
Sam: -- and take this down. "The battle a draw, Taryon decided it was better to lie than tell the truth, and embarked on a new adventure pretending to be their humble intern, when in actuality, they were working for him." End of chapter!
Matt: (sounds of book slamming shut and Doty walking)
Liam: Oh my gosh, that can go in any direction.
Taliesin: I love it.
Laura: So dark. SO DARK!
Travis: We're getting to the deep end!
Matt: (chuckles) As Doty follows you, you guys make your way into the castle. Wine bottles are brought about, and a raucous evening of drinking is easily found. The barn-burner you're looking for: Shaun is able to be mustered, Jarrett, Kima's still back in Emon, and actually Allura is in town briefly to retrieve Pike. And as Pike comes in, she reaches you guys. "Hi. Apparently there's still a lot of recovery that's needed in Emon and they need kind of an all-hands-on-deck circumstance with anyone who's trained in healing, so I may have to go help with that for a little bit, if that's okay?"
Liam: Oh, man.
Travis: Yeah, of course!
Laura: Whatever you need, dear.
Matt: I mean, don't-- don't go-- (sigh) don't go to any crazy hell places without me, let me know before that happens, please.
Laura: Oh. Right.
Travis: (scoffs) No, we would never!
Sam: That's exactly what they're planning on doing!
Travis: No, Tary, what did we say about lying?
Sam: They just said that they're taking me to hell, or something like that!
Laura: Well, we won't, obviously, if you don't want us to, Pike.
Taliesin: We've decided to go a little softer with him.
Liam: We're figuring it out.
Matt: I mean, try and at least let me know?
Laura: 'Course.
Marisha: Pike, I have to eventually go visit the Water Ashari, but I didn't want to do that without you.
Matt: It's fine, go! I mean, I don't know how much help I'll be other than just getting you there, but there's plenty of people that can, you know, helm a ship and get you across the sea.
Marisha: Is there any advice you can give?
Matt: Hire a good crew. Really. I was but one of many and everything I learned, I learned from watching other people. You might learn more than I did!
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Okay?
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Pike. I step away with her. (all laugh)
Laura: How are you? I mean, you're heading off to Emon right after Scanlan left, does this have anything to do with him?
Matt: I could use the distraction, to be honest. You'll be fine, I mean, it's all tying up loose ends, and I'm more needed helping people that really need what I can do right now.
Laura: I understand.
Matt: It won't be long, they're gathering a lot of great healers. I know Keeper Yennen's coming along--
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: -- and we're gonna be doing some people some real good.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Might even bring the love of my Lady to a few people. Her light can definitely heal a lot of wounds and spirits, so.
Laura: All right. I give her a big hug, and I whisper in her ear. You don't always have to put on a brave face, dear.
Matt: She pulls back from you and kind of pats you on the side of your face.
Matt: "Yeah, I do." And she smiles and turns around and puts her hand out, and Allura takes her hand. "Are we ready?"
Travis: Wait, bye, Pike!
Matt: She lets go of Allura's hand, runs up real fast, and just slugs you in the face--
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: -- and jumps into your arms.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Ohh.
Travis: You go be a monster, and you heal all the people.
Matt: I will!
Travis: All right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Okay, bye.
Matt: "Bye." She turns around and runs back to Allura.
Liam: It's pretty good.
Travis: That got harder, man, damn.
Liam: It's pretty good.
Matt: After Yennen is summoned forth, the three of them vanish into a swirl of arcane energy, towards the direction of Emon.
Laura: (exhales) First one goes, then the other.
Taliesin: She'll be back.
Laura: (sighs)
Liam: We're gnomeless.
Laura: Gnomeless.
Sam: Was that your girlfriend, Jumbo?
Travis: What'd you say?
Sam: Was that your girlfriend?
Liam: (sharp inhale) We just got good.
Sam: Oh. Sorry. I don't-- I'm just trying to catch up. I'll--
Taliesin: That's fair, that's fair.
Travis: Let me see your hand.
Laura: It's a fair question.
Sam: My hand?
Travis: Yeah, hold your hand out.
Sam: My hand?
Travis: Yeah, put it in mine.
Sam: Please don't kill me.
Marisha: Aw.
Taliesin: Aw.
Marisha: That was a good exercise in restraint, Grog. Proud of you.
Travis: (grumbling)
Liam: Come here. Tell me more about your father.
Sam: He's really a rotten guy. (sighs) He does these unfair deals-- nobody knows about them but me, and I tried to tell him to play on the up and up but he's just a liar and a cheat.
Liam: That's terrible. Drink up, by the way.
Sam: Oh, thank you.
Marisha: So how long have you been set forth on your little mission to prove yourself worthy?
Sam: Month, month and a half.
Liam: Really?
Marisha: Welcome aboard the proving-yourself train.
Sam: I hired a band of mercenaries to assist me for the first month.
Laura: Did you really get them killed?
Sam: No, they left me. (all laugh)
Taliesin: (sighs)
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Natural 20.
Marisha: (gasps)
Sam: Truth.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Is that your real name?
Sam: Yes, it is.
Travis: Thought you would've made a shitty name like that one up.
Sam: Taryon Gary Darrington. (all laugh)
Marisha: Wow, your dad really is an asshole.
Sam: Yes, he is.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: How's your sister, at least? Is your sister reasonable?
Sam: She's the fucking worst.
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Marisha: What?
Sam: Yes, she's so-- She's such a jock. She just does push-ups and sit-ups and pull-ups all day and all night and beats on me. She's younger than me, but she's so much stronger.
Travis: What's her name?
Sam: Her name is-- I wrote this down.
Laura: What's my sister's name? You don't know!
Sam: (ugly cries) (all laugh)
Sam: Mary-Anne.
Laura: Mary-Anne Darrington.
Travis: Mary-Anne.
Sam: Mary-Anne Darrington.
Taliesin: Mary-Anne. Marian Darrington.
Laura: Marion Darrington.
Travis: Is she older, or younger?
Taliesin: Marion Darrington.
Marisha: Marion Darrington. (laughs)
Sam: My father, Howard--
Taliesin: He is the worst person.
Sam: -- and my mom, Maria.
Marisha: Maria.
Travis: Is Mary-Anne older or younger than you?
Taliesin: Younger.
Sam: Younger!
Travis: Is she married?
Sam: No. She's not a married Marion. (all laugh)
Taliesin: She's a maid Marion?
Laura: Oh...
Marisha: She's a maid Marion.
Taliesin: No. Maid Marion Darrington.
Sam: She's all focused on the business, and taking it over when Dad's ready to retire.
Taliesin: Then she'll be a made maid Marion. (all laugh)
Travis: Wow...
Taliesin: I may be drunk. (all laugh)
Marisha: That's fun.
Liam: Was there anything good about your upbringing? Any positive points?
Sam: Yes. Yes, I learned so much. I was left to my own devices for hours on end. I traveled the world... in literature. And I experienced such great adventures, tales of history and fiction and-- For most of my life, I was just a happy-go-lucky kid in my room. Reading my books, and making up characters that I would fight against, and only recently have things gotten pretty bad with Dad, since I am now of age to take over the business, and uh--
Liam: At the early age of 28?
Sam: Well, he's getting up in years. Wants to retire to the southern villa.
Taliesin: This is such a dark mirror. This is a very dark mirror.
Marisha: I'm concerned-- I'm sorry, I'm confused. Tary. That was a Freudian slip. Why does your father think it's important to have brute strength and combat experience to run a business?
Sam: It's less about strength and more about a cutthroat attitude. Take no prisoners. Hold back nothing. Pull no punches.
Marisha: Are you sure your father's a real estate agent?
Sam: To be honest, he doesn't take me along with him to many business deals, but he has great influence over many places and cities, and important people, and I don't exactly know the ins and outs of the business--
Sam: But (inhales) I do know that he is ruthless and a bastard, if you ask me truthfully.
Liam: Literally?
Sam: No, I mean, we had a grandfather, so I-- I mean, I think he's not really a bastard. I think. I don't know. What do you mean? (all laugh)
Liam: I mean. What do I mean? I mean, was he the offspring of--
Sam: He has a father.
Liam: I'm sure he does. Was he married to your mother?
Sam: I think so. They were around a lot.
Liam: So you mean, shithead?
Sam: He's an asshole.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: That's a long walk to get to shithead.
Taliesin: That was a long walk to--
Liam: There's a lot of backstory here that you're not privy to.
Marisha: What's your father's name?
Sam: Howard.
Taliesin: Howard.
Liam: Howard.
Laura: Howard Darrington.
Travis: C'mon, note-taker.
Taliesin: Show him your tattoo, I'm just sort of curious. I just had a thought.
Liam: My tattoo? What? The Slayer's Take?
Taliesin: --the Clasp.
Liam: That's a fucking Keyleth palm at this point.
Marisha: I removed it.
Taliesin: You did?
Laura: Oh...
Marisha: I burnt it off of him.
Taliesin: You're gonna make me draw it? That's fine. I'm doing the Clasp logo, if I-- Does this look at all familiar? I have the Clasp logo.
Matt: Yeah, it does not.
Marisha: Hashtag Clasp.
Taliesin: Hashtag Clasp.
Marisha: Interesting.
Sam: No. You're all literate? You can read and write?
Taliesin: Most of us, yes.
Sam: Wow. I haven't met many of you in my travels that have--
Taliesin: We even have a library.
Sam: That's amazing.
Laura: Big one.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, he's particularly brainy. You guys have a lot in common.
Taliesin: We have quite a nice library.
Liam: I mean, there's a lot of differences between the two of you, but you have a lot in common.
Sam: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Horrifyingly, yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, I was a bit of a reader growing up.
Sam: Oh?
Taliesin: Yes. Fiction and non-fiction. A bit of everything. I was a--
Sam: Perhaps we can compare books later?
Taliesin: I will happily show you my library.
Liam: Huh.
Sam: This guy-- This excites me.
Taliesin: Stop. Stop smiling at that.
Liam: You can teach him the art of nerd chic, Percy.
Taliesin: He seems to be well-built for it.
Marisha: You know, Percy is a bit of a tinkerer himself as well.
Taliesin: I do... Yeah.
Sam: Really?
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, I've built a few things.
Sam: That piece of equipment you showed to that weirdo earlier today-- the thing with the handle?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Did you make that?
Taliesin: I didn't make that, but I did make this one. And I pull down the folded ridiculous--
Matt: Bad News contraption?
Taliesin: Bad News.
Taliesin: Um, yeah.
Laura: I keep filling up Grog's mug, to make sure he gets his fill.
Sam: What does that-- What does that do?
Taliesin: It takes these-- and I pull out a musket ball-- and it fires them at great speed. In whatever direction I like.
Sam: That is--
Taliesin: Very dangerous--
Sam: Sexy.
Taliesin: Thank you. It's very dangerous.
Sam: It's very sexy.
Taliesin: Thank you. I think so.
Sam: Wow. And did you make this by yourself?
Taliesin: I did. This took about six months? Seven months? I mean, I'd been thinking about it for quite a while. I'm working on a few others, too--
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Oh, I didn't know that.
Taliesin: This is kind of the definitive-- Yes, this is when we were all--
Marisha: Built it on our little summer vacation.
Taliesin: -- on the last time we took a break.
Sam: Is the propellant part of this piece right here? Or is it in that big piece right there?
Taliesin: Ah, neither. It's in this--
Sam: Or is it magical?
Taliesin: No, it's not magical at all. Everything in this is purely physical. No magic involved whatsoever.
Sam: Oh...
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: What do you make of all this?
Sam: That's impressive.
Laura: Huh?
Taliesin: Showing the mechanism off.
Liam: I don't know-- nerd talk?
Laura: I think it's great.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Uh-huh.
Liam: What do you think of the new guy?
Laura: Oh, yeah. He's weird? I don't know.
Liam: I mean, he's not Scanlan.
Laura: No.
Liam: No.
Laura: Nobody is.
Sam: Oh, you know what? I'm sorry. One second. I forgot, I owe you some money, don't I?
Laura: Yes you do.
Sam: The adventure was 50 thousand, correct?
Laura: Yes, it was.
Sam: I think I had a good adventure today. But I didn't die. So, minus the Prismatic Spray, that's 6000 gold taken off. Minus the wear and tear on my armor and equipment, that's another 5000 taken off.
Laura: Darling, this wasn't part of the deal.
Sam: Minus the fact that I wasn't the star of the adventure, I'll halve the rest of it. Do you have a tax ID or some sort of tax-exempt status?
Liam: Wait, you need to be the lead character in your death-taunting? Is that what you're telling us?
Sam: I'm just trying to find out how much I actually owe you.
Laura: No contract stipulations when we made the deal, therefore, you pay full price, darling.
Sam: I am a man of business and I always follow the law. So by my calculations, 20% federal taxes, 9.5% local and city taxes, I put that at about 11,000 gold total left still. Doty?
Taliesin: Technically, she is tax-exempt.
Sam: Write a check.
Laura: A check?
Sam: Of course.
Taliesin: She is tax-exempt.
Sam: How is she tax-exempt?
Taliesin: She's a baroness.
Sam: Make it 16.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: My father will pay that. In full.
Laura: Oh, dear lord.
Taliesin: We can put it in the treasury, technically.
Marisha: Did he just give us an IOU?
Travis: What about all the jingly-jangly in your bag of holding?
Sam: Go on and reach in there.
Laura: I know how bags of holding work.
Travis: I'll just stick my hand in the bag of holding.
Matt: It is empty. What are you thinking of while you reach in there?
Travis: Candy. (all laugh)
Matt: Does he find candy?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Nope. It's just a void, an empty sack.
Travis: This is bullshit! You can't come with us.
Sam: Is he holding any equipment or weapons?
Matt: The weapon is near him, but not currently on him.
Sam: Okay. Fire. And I set his weapon on fire.
Matt: You watch as your hammer just ignites with flame.
Travis: You better put that out.
Sam: It's cool, though, right?
Travis: You burning my hammer?
Sam: No, no, it's magical, it's good. It helps!
Travis: I touch it.
Matt: It burns your hand. (all laugh)
Sam: Why would you touch a flame?
Travis: Because you said it was magical!
Sam: (whispers) Is he an idiot?
Taliesin: Well... I don't feel like I can answer that question appropriately at the moment.
Marisha: Legally? Maybe?
Travis: You know when people poke you in the sternum with their finger? I do that with the Titanstone Knuckle really hard.
Matt: Yeah, it hurts.
Taliesin: I pour more wine for him. More wine. More wine.
Sam: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm just getting used to this.
Taliesin: No, you're fitting in very well.
Travis: You have your strengths, and while you may be able to "read" with your friends over there, I think it's also important to work on your weaknesses.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Yeah, so we gotta work on your bravery, maybe your fighting voice.
Sam: Absolutely.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Was it really bad? Did I sound okay?
Laura: No, I mean, I wasn't there to witness it, I just know your normal voice.
Travis: When you were flying over the city, did it sound like a llama being mauled by a pack of wolves?
Laura: I heard this braying. I thought it was a goat, actually.
Travis: That was him.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: What a picture you just painted. That was lovely.
Travis: Yeah. Big tall neck, all furry.
Taliesin: No, I heard the llama.
Liam: I'm gonna squish in next to him and put my arm around with an ale and say, I don't know why I am suddenly taking a shine to you when I felt like I hated you a couple hours ago. Just stick with us. You don't have to know-- I hear everything you're saying. You're an asshole, and I love you, but you really are an asshole. I'm just talking to the guy. I have taken a shine to you, and I'm gonna look out for you, all right? The first time I got attacked I was a fucking mess. I'm still a fucking mess. That's the thing, people are writing stories about us, we're a bunch of fucking shitheads, and nobody talks about that-- maybe a few people do.
Taliesin: A few people do talk about that.
Liam: A few people do talk about that.
Marisha: I think more than a few.
Laura: A lot of people talk about that.
Liam: There's no way to prepare, you just have to hit your face against the wall a couple of times, then it starts to feel normal-ish.
Travis: I can help you with that.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: You're good, you've done it, you've been hazed, you're good, kid.
Sam: I am so appreciative of all of you, and I will repay this debt, I promise you. I will make you guest-stars in one chapter of my book, and it will be top three most epic chapters.
Liam: That's pretty cool.
Laura: Fabulous.
Taliesin: Is the money that you're paying us with your father's money as well? Please be honest.
Sam: Yes, absolutely.
Taliesin: That's fabulous.
Laura: Oh, I like that.
Taliesin: That makes everything even better. We'll get you a room right next to the library so you can have easy access.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: We can set that up right away.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: The doors don't lock, though, so you have to be on guard all night long. Training is a 24-hour regimen around here.
Sam: All right. I accept your conditions.
Taliesin: I'll give you access to the workshop if you feel like building yourself a lock. Feel free.
Sam: You have a workshop?
Taliesin: Oh, my.
Sam: For tinkering?
Taliesin: Oh, my.
Sam: Ooh, I like you.
Taliesin: Yes, it's my pleasure. It's so nice. Of course, you'll have a tour. In the morning, we'll do a brief tour.
Sam: Absolutely. And I could show you the inner workings of Doty.
Taliesin: I would be so delighted.
Sam: It's pretty outstanding if I do say so myself.
Taliesin: It's very good work, I'm very impressed.
Sam: Little bit of luck, little bit of magic.
Marisha: Do you want us to excuse the two of you?
Matt: The two of them, as you guys are having this conversation, without realizing it, slowly exit together.
Taliesin: I'm not leaving.
Matt: Right, then you stop yourself as you reach the door.
Taliesin: I'm gonna send him to the library at the very least.
Matt: Okay, the waitstaff come in and retrieve your belongings and lead you up to the chamber that'll be prepared for your evening.
Sam: Good evening. Bye.
Laura: Bidet.
Liam: Good night, Tary, good night. Oh, boy. What a babe in the woods.
Taliesin: I kind of like him.
Laura: Grog, how ragey are you right now?
Travis: Pretty ragey, yeah.
Laura: Super ragey?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All the people who tend not to like people are liking him.
Taliesin: It's a terrible sign, isn't it? Just really, really disturbing.
Marisha: I feel like the two of you never like the same person.
Taliesin: No, that's weird.
Liam: You know, we don't have the weight of the world crushing us at the moment, so I feel like that might have something to do with it, yeah.
Laura: It feels very strange for you two to be agreeing.
Taliesin: It does. It makes me want to take risks. It's nice.
Marisha: I thought we were taking a break from risk-taking for a second.
Taliesin: No, I feel like we've been playing it very safe, it's just been that the world has been taking risks.
Marisha: I love the way you frame things, Percy.
Liam: Once again you're a couple steps ahead of us.
Marisha: I love the way you lawyer your way out of every situation.
Taliesin: That's so nice.
Liam: I wonder where Scanlan is.
Marisha: I could check in on him. Haven't used the scrying eye today.
Taliesin: I wanna say let's give him some privacy, but at the same time I do kind of want to see him.
Laura: I just want to know if he's all right.
Travis: I don't.
Marisha: I'm gonna look. I take out the scrying eye.
Travis: Don't.
Marisha: What? Why?
Liam: I walk over to Grog and start playing-- what was it? Rock, paper, what was it?
Marisha: Boulder, parchment, shears.
Taliesin: Paper, shears or parchment, shears?
Sam: It should be parchment, shears.
Laura: It should be parchment, shears.
Liam: Trying to teach Grog that game.
Travis: No. Stop.
Liam: No?
Travis: I don't want you to look in on him.
Taliesin: I think I'm done for the evening.
Marisha: Why? We just want to make sure he's okay.
Travis: Because he asked us for his own time. Can we respect that or not? Or did you want him to yell at you more when we see him again?
Marisha: He can't know if I'm scrying on him.
Taliesin: He might know if you're scrying on him.
Laura: He might know.
Marisha: Not if I use my scrying eye.
Taliesin: Let's give him a little bit of time.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Thank you, Grog. That's a very fair point.
Travis: Okay, now I'll play.
Taliesin: Little elf girl?
Laura: Danger-zone. I swear.
Taliesin: Is it a danger zone?
Laura: Mm.
Taliesin: Because, you know, it occurs to me, I've never given you a full tour of the treasury room, have I?
Laura: Um. Why, no, Percival.
Taliesin: I'm grabbing the wine and I'm leaving right now.
Sam: You guys are gonna fuck in the treasury? Oh my god! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Who has never wanted to have the full Scrooge McDuck? For fuck's sake. (all laugh)
Laura: As we leave, I turn to Grog. And I think about talking to him for just a second, and then I leave the room.
Taliesin: I owe you for that shit. Thank you.
Matt: All right. As the rest of you wind down the evening, drinking, perusing the treasury, reading the various books that are at your disposal--
Taliesin: We do deposit the check at the treasury, by the way, while we're there.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Deposit the checks.
Matt: You find your evening to a close.
Marisha: We haven't had the night off in a while.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You enjoy the time to relax a bit and take another breath of air after this constant pressure that's been pushing you. Next morning comes in as the sun rises, you all come to consciousness, rouse yourselves for breakfast, and whatever the next day ensues. You all begin to gather in the common room of the castle once more.
Travis: We all healed up?
Taliesin: All healed up.
Matt: Yep, all healed up.
Taliesin: Airship or sea ship? This is your call.
Travis: We've never done a sea ship.
Liam: Yeah, I think we've got some-- We could go after the dude in hell, but I think we have some more time.
Laura: Pike asked us not to.
Taliesin: We should bring a Pike to hell.
Marisha: Pike wants to go.
Liam: I agree, I agree. So..
Marisha: All right.
Travis: Time to go finish your Atari. (all laugh)
Taliesin: We have twenty six hundred men in the back.
Marisha: All right. Do I know roughly where the water ashari are?
Matt: You vaguely know that it exists somewhere in the Ozmit Sea. Kind of south-ish from Tal'Dorei. But you don't really know. Maybe a little bit of information-gathering, or asking people who may traverse that area would help you, but you don't really know.
Laura: Yeah, we can go down to the docks. Are there docks here?
Marisha: Not in Whitestone. I think we're pretty landlocked.
Matt: Pretty landlocked in Whitest--
Taliesin: No. There is actually, technically there's the sea to the north, but that would be useless.
Sam: She meant the doctor's office.
Matt: Yeah, you have the Lucidian Ocean to the east of you.
Taliesin: Mm-hm.
Matt: But it is a very treacherous water, and the Shearing Channel, that is the series of broken land mass between here and Wildmount, the one that the Briarwoods were brokering the bridge for, is-- yeah.
Taliesin: There's a reason we're not a poor city.
Marisha: Is there like a port at the very south end of the continent, to where we could hop a ship and also do some research?
Matt: Uh, there's Stillben, very very far south.
Liam: Ooh.
Marisha: Stillben?
Matt: But that is still out to the Lucidian Ocean, east. The Ozmit Sea is on the western side of the continent. Emon is the closest port city to head to the Ozmit Sea.
Marisha: Oh, western. Oh you mean western. Okay well then, hang on. If it's w-- Nope.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, who has the map? You have the map. Okay.
Laura: Yeah, it would be Emon.
Marisha: 'Cause the Earth Ashari are on the eastern side of the continent. Right?
Taliesin: Do you have a map?
Matt: The Earth Ashari are kind of northern, like mid-northern of the continent. They're in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Taliesin: This is a conversation that is happening right now. I'm so amused.
Matt: Yes it is.
Taliesin: We're trying to remember the fake geography--
Marisha: Of our fake world--
Taliesin: Of our fantasy world.
Matt: Ask me, it's been my life for the past year. Writing all this down for a book for all you guys.
Sam: I got it.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So Emon is like--
Sam: We're up here.
Laura: Yeah, Emon is the place to go to.
Liam: Thanks, Matt.
Laura: Thanks, Matt.
Taliesin: Yeah, yeah. We're up here. Whitestone's here.
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: And we need to be the south-west, so--
Liam: We will live in the stars.
Taliesin: Emon's here. Emon is the biggest port city on the Ozmit Sea, isn't it?
Matt: Uh, on this continent? Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's--
Marisha: So we might as well leave out of Emon.
Taliesin: We might as well leave out of Emon.
Marisha: And then I could also do some research, because-- Is the libraries and the lyceums and stuff open again? Or are they just fucking demolished?
Matt: You don't know. I mean, a lot of that part of the town is just now being rebuilt and recovered so--
Taliesin: Where's the airship by the way, as well?
Matt: You have not checked in on the airship. You guys--
Taliesin: When was the last time we saw them?
Matt: The last time you saw them was in the throes of the battle with Thordak, when they came in and gave it a helping hand briefly.
Laura: Did they come back here?
Sam: Just to keep up the audience  We're in Maine, and we're trying to get to Los Angeles.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Well-put.
Sam: As Taryon, can't we teleport to wherever we're trying to go?
Taliesin: It's easier to teleport if you're already been there.
Sam: Ooh.
Marisha: Yeah, unfortunately, I can't-- I've never been there. And the Ashari are a very reclusive type people.
Sam: I've read about most people and places.
Marisha: Have you read about the Water Ashari and the Ashari people?
Matt: Make a history check.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: I'm gonna join in on this history check as well.
Sam: Yeah, that's a one.
Taliesin: Wow.
Sam: Her eyes just intimidate me.
Marisha: (whispering) Sam.
Laura: Shame you.
Liam: Shame! Shame!
Taliesin: (singing) No one knows what it's like, to be a bad man. Okay.
Marisha: Do you wanna touch my antlers?
Taliesin: Hey now.
Marisha: Ignore that, that got weird.
Taliesin: That got real weird. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm gonna join in on a terrible history check. That is a 19. It's not terrible, I just had a very high history.
Matt: It's not terrible, but your research hasn't delved too deeply into the Ashari. And the Ashari that you do know of are the Terra and uh, and the Air Ashari.
Taliesin: Yeah, I've only got what I read at home.
Matt: There's the Terra and the Zephra. Those are the only two you know about. Those are the only two on the continent. The Vesrah you're not too familiar with.
Taliesin: Well, who else can we talk to?
Marisha: I mean, I guess I could always go back to the Earth Ashari, or the Air Ashari, and talk to some of those people.
Laura: Maybe somebody at the docks in Emon would know?
Taliesin: She really wants to go to the docks in Emon.
Laura: I wanna just pay off that docks comment, really. (all laugh)
Sam: Worth it.
Taliesin: Magic.
Marisha: I don't know. I guess we could go back and talk to the Earth Ashari. You guys haven't been there yet.
Laura: Let's go!
Taliesin: Let's go to the Earth Ashari.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: Let's collect our things. What's the temperature like there?
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Right now, with it being the Season of-
Taliesin: The witch.
Matt: It's in essentially a heavy valley of stone in the center of the Cliffkeep Mountain range. It is far from civilization, it's maybe a few days of heavy mountain-- constant hiking north of where Kraghammer is.
Marisha: Oh. We'd have to hike to get there? No, there's gotta be trees that I can Tree Stride there to.
Matt: There are a couple that aren't too far outside of Terra that you can Tree Stride to.
Marisha: We're druids, there's gotta be trees within that camp, right? And stuff?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Like, nearby?
Matt: Yes, I'm saying that there are some that are like, just in the outskirts of Terra, none directly in it.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Oh shit! Okay, no. Nothing. I had resistance to something and I forgot to use it. (all laugh)
Travis: Resistance to a beating?
Sam: Yeah. Would not have helped me very much.
Taliesin: Let's also say, as we're getting ready, I'm gonna take Tary down and let him pick through the tinkering room, see if he needs any tools and upgrade anything that he might need, give him a quick tour.
Laura: And I wanna talk to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: (whispered) I'll take everything.
Matt: So as you guys are taking through the--
Taliesin: Showing him the equipment.
Matt: You find Grog off to the side.
Taliesin: Don't touch that.
Laura: How are you?
Travis: Me?
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'm good. I slept really well.
Laura: Yeah. Feeling less rage-y?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: That's good, that's good. Okay. Hey, so... This is difficult for me to do. Did you know that Scanlan had acquired drugs?
Travis: No?
Laura: Did you?
Travis: No.
Laura: I just found this out, that he was using drugs behind our back.
Travis: Like bad drugs?
Laura: I think so, I mean, I've never tried them, but--
Travis: Me neither.
Laura: So, I don't know, finding out secrets about people doesn't feel good. Feeling like they've broken your trust in some way, right? And being trustworthy is very important.
Travis: Right, yeah, I think that's very important.
Laura: Right. So. Just hold on.
Travis: I'm not even fighting anyone right now.
Laura: Ah. I pull out the deck. So, this is-- Do you know what this is? Do you remember this?
Travis: Where did you find one?
Laura: Okay. So, Grog, I have to be honest with you. When you asked me for this before, I lied. To you.
Travis: You lied?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: What do you mean?
Laura: Well, I sort of tricked you and thought it'd be funny if I gave you maybe the wrong thing. To see if you'd notice! But-- I'm still lying. I didn't-- I was afraid-- I gave you a false deck.
Travis: No, no, you gave it to me, it's in my bag.
Laura: You wanna pull it out?
Travis: But you said I wasn't supposed to look at it.
Laura: Well, you're still not supposed to, technically. Do you want me to pull it out?
Travis: Phrasing. (all laugh)
Laura: Should I-- Should you-- Do you just--
Travis: You want me to get the deck out?
Laura: Yeah, maybe close your eyes and get the deck out. (all laugh)
Travis: All right, I got it.
Laura: All right, I am taking it from your hand.
Travis: But these are mine!
Laura: These ones are--
Travis: Don't take them from me again!
Laura: Grog! Open your eyes. It's not really a deck, you see? It's a bag. With rocks in it.
Travis: Did you take my salt lick rock?
Laura: No. You gave that to Scanlan. Here's your deck. Still don't use it, still don't look at it, it's still very dangerous! But I want you to know that I trust you with it.
Travis: I know. You said, "Don't look at it," and I haven't looked at it.
Laura: Oh, good, then still don't, how about that?
Travis: I'm very confused. (all laugh)
Laura: I know, basically, I just--
Travis: Do you want a card?
Laura: No! I don't know.
Travis: I open the flap--
Laura: No no no! Don't-- Grog!
Travis: Do you want a card? What're you worried about, it's a deck of cards.
Laura: You're making me regret giving this back to you right now. I just want to say. I close it. Please don't make me regret this.
Travis: Why?
Laura: I'm sorry that I lied to you. Even though you didn't notice. I want you to know you can still trust me, and I can still trust you to not fuck with this.
Travis: I would like to insight check Vex.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: (laughing) I love you guys.
Travis: Six. (all laugh)
Matt: It's a lot of words. It's a lot of words. But you got your deck back.
Travis: But I always had it.
Matt: You-- It's really confusing. She's talking at you, but nothing changed.
Travis: Is this a lesson?
Laura: Sure.
Travis: Can we just skip to the part where you get so frustrated that I haven't got it and you just tell me the answer anyway?
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: You're a good person. Still don't look at the deck. I'm glad you have our back. Don't do drugs.
Travis: What do you think Scanlan did with the rest of those drugs?
Laura: What do you mean 'the rest of the drugs'?
Travis: Well, you said he was doing drugs, right?
Laura: Right.
Travis: Well, did he just take them with him?
Laura: Should we search his room?
Travis: Ooh, maybe!
Laura: Let's do it.
Travis: All right, I put the deck away.
Matt: Okay. You guys head up to Scanlan's room.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Both you guys make investigation checks.
Liam: You've done a lot of brilliant things. That was the most brilliant thing you have ever done.
Taliesin: I am so consistently proud of you.
Liam: Oh my god.
Travis: 16. 18 minus two.
Laura: Oh! 16 for me as well.
Travis: Hey!
Laura: Hey!
Matt: Together you both see-- You both spend the better part of an hour thumbing through the various drawers and odd boxes and sundries that were left behind in the wake of Scanlan's departure. And at the same time you both come to find that, no, there are-- no illegal substances remain.
Laura: He took them with him!
Travis: What about nudey pictures?
Laura: Oh, nudey pictures.
Taliesin: Other things, what else is in the room?
Matt: Honestly? There are no nudey pictures, per se.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: You do find a series of books on art and the human physique.
Travis: Ugh.
Matt: And all the corresponding images have been torn out.
Laura: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: Damn it.
Sam: I have magic that can make things that are way more real than a drawing.
Taliesin: He has three original print issues of Cherry Comics number one through four.
Travis: Well, there's no drugs.
Laura: Well, I guess he took them with him.
Travis: All right. When do I get to look at the cards?
Laura: Like, never, Grog.
Travis: Like, never never? Never, never?
Laura: Well, I heard from Percival that they're super, super dangerous. But I don't know what they do.
Travis: Yeah, you don't.
Laura: No, I don't.
Travis: Only one way to find out! Not today.
Laura: Not today, how about that?
Travis: Fair enough.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. You've joined the rest of the party, the rest of-- After you guys finish your perusal of the workshop, which is quite a workshop, mundane in a lot of ways, but functional for the basic purposes of tinkering.
Taliesin: Rustic!
Matt: Rustic.
Taliesin: Rustic.
Sam: I think it's magnificent, what you've put together here.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: And I'm impressed, and from me that's quite a compliment.
Taliesin: No, I'm feeling it. And, my workshop, obviously, is your workshop for as long as you stay here. Anything you need to work on, of course, it's fully available.
Sam: You know what? I don't normally do this, but... What's your name? (all laugh)
Marisha: Oh my god. He doesn't know any of our names!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: We're like a bad speed dating session. Holy shit.
Taliesin: This is so amazing. Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third. At your service.
Marisha: Oooh! He's still got it!
Sam: Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third. All right.
Taliesin: Percy to my friends.
Sam: I'm Tary to mine.
Taliesin: Tary, it's a pleasure. This is the castle I live in, this is my sister's castle, except of course, she's lovely. Cassandra de Rolo.
Sam: Hm.
Taliesin: You are in Whitestone, as our guest.
Sam: It is my honor and privilege to be your guest, sir.
Taliesin: A pleasure. I recommend eventually, not necessarily today 'cause I am actually enjoying it, learning everyone else's name as well.
Sam: All right, well. Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: Let's Tary-on! No? Maybe?
Taliesin: No it's-- I'm okay with it, I'm rolling with it.
Marisha: No! No.
Sam: Doty! Doty, put it as a maybe.
Marisha: Not becoming a catchphrase.
Taliesin: It's not a catchphrase.
Sam: Doty, put it as a maybe for catchphrases.
Matt: You guys gather up--
Taliesin: Another daring rescue.
Matt: Together, prepare yourselves for what the next step of your journey is. What are you doing?
Marisha: Are we going? Are we going?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Going, going, gone, gotta go?
Taliesin: Got your stuff together? Everything you need?
Laura: Are we going to Emon? No. We're going to the earth-- the earth people.
Marisha: Got everything. Earth people first.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So we can be like, where do I find the other fourth of my tribe.
Taliesin: You've written your camp number. In pen, on your arm.
Marisha: Yes, I've got my safety tags.
Taliesin: You've got your safety tags.
Marisha: I'm good. I'm good.
Taliesin: You've got your rights written on the back, so that, y'know. If anyone tries to--
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: Let's do it, let's--
Marisha: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Respect. Respect the antlers.
Liam: Always have.
Taliesin: We decorated them at the last winter festival.
Marisha: I like decorating my antlers.
Taliesin: And it looked quite nice.
Marisha: It's a traditional Ashari tradition.
Liam: All right. Eyes on the prize.
Laura: Let's go!
Matt: (laughs) You guys find your way to the Sun Tree. Utilizing Transport via Plants you find yourself (teleportation sound) thrust through the trunk of the Sun Tree, and emerging on the opposite side, on the cusp of a deep bowl-like valley that goes probably for a good mile and a half, or two miles across, before you reach the other side of this crest.
Liam: Tary! That's two times! You've teleported two times.
Sam: (gasps) Oh my god, every time it's amazing. Wow, thank you. Thank you all. Where are we?
Taliesin: Uh.
Marisha: Well.
Matt: Central Cliffkeep.
Marisha: We are in the central Cliffkeep
Sam: Of?
Marisha: Of Tal'Dorei. And of the central-- Of the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: So cool.
Marisha: Yeah! (all laugh)
Matt: You glance around, and there are the edges of a forest here. A lot of them are stockier trees, and things that live in harsh environments, and a lot of them are rooted in cracks in the ground, and portions of the rock that have split open. Down within this valley, you can already see what appear to be dozens and dozens of trenches, that seem to have been dug. And there are areas of this valley that appear to have eroded or collapsed. Like small, long rockslides that are just kind of dotting the edges of the mountain walls. Down towards the center you can see, also, a cluster of dozens and dozens of small abodes, it looks like. Homes, huts, structures made of rock. This is Terra, this is the Earth Ashari village here. Currently guarding over the localized rift to the Earth Elemental plane. You guys are traversing down into it?
Marisha: Yep
Matt: It takes you a short time, you find one of the paths that kinda zigzags down the side of this mountain drop, and make your way in towards the center. The sun is now-- I'd say at this time, just over the very top, kind of noon-ish portion of the day. You begin to walk your way in and it's very warm here, partially because the-- It's northern enough where usually it's a colder temperature on the island-- Don't you even, you motherfucker.
Liam: Wow. You lasered in on that like nobody's business!
Travis: (gunshots)
Matt: I'm a little sensitive (all laugh)
Matt: But the further down you get it is just-- The tree line has stopped and it is just rock, stone, that is reflecting the light and it is warm. You're starting to find yourself sweat in your full armor as you traverse deeper and deeper into the center of this mountain valley.
Marisha: It's always like 20 degrees warmer in the valley.
Laura: (laughs) Terrible.
Matt: Disadvantage on the next roll. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Thank you for turning us into an episode of California, yes.
Liam: That's a little bit of Los Angeles actor humor for you guys over in Sweden today.
Travis: (surfer accent) Californians.
Taliesin: To get to Critical Role, take the 101 with the 5 to get up to Burbank to get to Critical Role.
Liam: For all you fans in Germany, that's a little San Fernando valley humor!
Taliesin: From beautiful downtown Burbank.
Sam: I loved it, you can do no wrong.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: I like Tary.
Matt: Yeah. So as you continue downward, you get maybe a quarter-mile into this walk, still relatively far from the village, before-- And you recognize this. You watch as one of the nearby trenches, (earth moving) shifts up about two feet in stone, and you watch as three figures step out from within the trench and begin walking towards you.
Travis: Are we killing these?
Marisha: Stop-- No, no? These are-- Grog!
Travis: Sorry, but--
Taliesin: They're sending us to the things we're going to kill.
Travis: Oh! Okay.
Marisha: Everyone, wait for a second. I step forward a second.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three humanoids approach.
Travis: Lambchop-looking motherfucker.
Sam: Just a stick. Just a stick. It doesn't do anything.
Taliesin: It's from the walking company.
Matt: They are clad in darkened leathers, furs, and it looks like a lot of the armor and garb here is taken from hunted creatures and animals that have been prepared and tanned, here within the sun-wracked center of this mountain valley. The two to the-- Flanking the central figure appear to be human, male and female, both very short, kind of tossed hair. Then at the center you see what appears to be a surprisingly short, but very stocky and thick, half orc female. As she approaches she has-- the hair is woven back into these thick braids that are pulled into a singular, what looks like a topknot, on the upper back of her skull. Her jaw protrudes a bit, you can see the two lower fangs kinda pushing past the lips.
Marisha: Is this Patisse?
Matt: No, this is--
Travis: Lower fangs?
Laura: She's a half orc.
Liam: Yeah, she's got the big teeth.
Matt: This is Rockcaller Dryden.
Laura: Rockcaller--?
Matt: Dryden.
Laura: Not that I would know that.
Liam: (sing-song) Rock Caller Dryden
Sam: Good old RCD.
Marisha: Do I know Dryden from before?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: This is not the headmaster of the tribe,
Marisha: Right.
Matt: But one of the central sentinels that's around this portion here.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: Approaches you, and for a moment puts a hand out almost to hail you, and then recognizes your face and steps forward. "Keyleth? What brings you to Terra?"
Marisha: Kaitiaki, Dryden.
Matt: Kaitiaki.
Marisha: How are you?
Matt: We are well.
Marisha: Have you fared well here recently, in the past several months?
Matt: We have hunkered down. Our business was to make sure that no more of the Rifts befall the same fate of the Pyrah.
Marisha: Have you talked to Cerkonos or Korren at all?
Matt: Not recently, no.
Marisha: We have slayed the Chroma Conclave. All the dragons are dead.
Matt: Then this is a time for celebration.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: I will pass this along.
Marisha: I was wondering if I could speak to Headmaster Patisse.
Matt: Perhaps, but what do you wish to speak on?
Marisha: I am intent on continuing my journey on to the Water Ashari tribe. And I need information from him.
Matt: To the Vesrah. Very well. I could help you with this information if need be.
Marisha: Is Patisse indisposed?
Matt: No. No, right this way.
Marisha: I mean it would just be nice to, like, say hi. While I'm here at least.
Matt: "Very well." They turn around and begin to lead you back towards the outskirts of the city, not directly into Terra itself, but as you approach, and walk past, you can see the ground here-- every ten minutes or so you feel a sudden shift, and a slight quake beneath your feet. The landscape here, the closer you walk to the center of the village, seems to be in this perpetual state of shifting rock. And you watch as different areas kind of collide. Areas of stone kind of (cracking noise), and rocks tumble down. Parts of it break and crack and reform. At one point, as you guys are not maybe 200 feet out from the first major structures, the ground has one major spike. (loud rock slide) And you hear this heavy rolling rumble, and you watch as, maybe 300 feet off from the side, a new pinnacle is formed. Two big plates kind of (crack), jut upward, one kind of coasting over the other and coming to a halt. There is very heavy localized seismic activity as part of the proximity to the rift of the earth elemental plane here. And you watch as three druids come rushing out of the side of the Terra tribe, and as they focus, the rocks (crumbling noises) crumble back down and subside. The central mountain landscape, here, brought back to a momentary beat of peace and quiet.
Marisha: I'm like a New Yorker on a subway.
Matt: Yeah. Just going straight in.
Marisha: I'm just like, whatever. Used to this.
Laura: Must wreak havoc on the local architexture.
Travis: Architexture?
Laura: Architexture.
Marisha: Oh, it's built-- We've got infrastructure built for that sort of thing. It's fine, they're used to it here.
Matt: Right. As you progress inward, and some of the other Terra Ashari--
Laura: Shut your mouth, you wouldn't even know what architecture is!
Matt: Different visual representations. Some appear to be more ornamental. Jewelry seems to be here, like jewels and metallics used, it seems to connote a level of prestige within the tribe, and every individual that walks, usually with a cluster or protectors around them, or at least, seems to be in a place of notable importance within groups, seems to be more adorned in this natural-based jewelry. You know exactly where to go to head straight to the hut in which the headmaster resides and as--
Liam: And I'm watching her stride through here with confidence, just impressed.
Marisha: Rockcaller. Rockcaller. Oh Jerry! How you been? How's the kids?
Liam: Jerry! Jerry!
Marisha: Jerry! JERRY!
Matt: What looks to be a heavy wooden doorway, built out of a series of tree trunks that are strapped to this one area. Just (tree trunks shifting) shifts open and now you see, walks a very tall, thin, and older, like mid-60s human male, who is adorned in a similar tattoo pattern as the Rockcaller you saw earlier. But it seems to reside from the center of the cheeks and through the jowls and then crosses across the neck and then across the arms all the way down to the fingertips.
Laura: (quietly) Tight.
Matt: And there are certain portions which are broken up by hard lines, it's like this parallel intersection multiple times as the tattoo progresses down. Very, very loose, almost a flowing central shoulder-based robe that tosses down the front of the body and meets with a long skirt that drags behind him as he steps out. And as he looks over in the direction of you, you can see the eyes are very hardened, dark, deep brown in color, and the sockets are very weathered, his skin texture in general is pretty weathered. He looks over towards you, clean-shaven, short white hair, puts a hand up. "Keyleth, you grace the Terra with your presence. What can we be of service to you for?"
Marisha: I stand more in attention, more formal. Good to see you, Patisse, it's been quite some time.
Matt: You as well.
Marisha: I just came to check in after the recent events in the world, make sure everyone was okay.
Matt: Everything seems to be fine. We've been intent of care to the rift, and from the word that seems to have passed quickly since your arrival over the past few days, it's come to our attention that Thordak no longer sits in the center of the city of Emon.
Marisha: That's correct. We've also slain his right-hand man, Raishan, who seemed to be the mastermind of the entire orchestration.
Matt: Good. Good and well done.
Marisha: Thank you. I couldn't have done it without your help and training, so I appreciate that.
Matt: You are but a seed, you allowed it to germinate. So what do you need?
Marisha: Well, I'm intent on continuing on with my Aramente now that there's relative peace in the world. The Vesrah people are quite insular, of course. I was wondering if you could give me some advice on how to get there and any advice in general on dealing with them?
Matt: It has been a long time since I've attended any sort of gathering with the Vesrah. It is for people of our skill set not the easiest of journeys, as many of us are capable of traversing through the sentinels of nature. Unfortunately, most of the tree life that exists around Vesrah is beneath the water.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: So your most likely form of transport will be that of a vessel across the waves.
Marisha: Who's their headmaster there now? Do you know?
Matt: The headmaster there-- Uvenda, the heart of the tides.
Marisha: Uvenda.
Matt: Uvenda.
Marisha: Uvenda, the heart of the tides. What can I expect of this Uvenda? Uvenda.
Matt: Not what you'd expect. I'll leave it at that.
Marisha: That's very vague of you, Patisse.
Matt: Well, what would be the fun if I were to unveil the next fold of your Aramente?
Marisha: No, you've got a point. Do you recommend by ship or would flight be more appropriate?
Matt: If you have the means, that is up to you.
Marisha: All right. Any other words of encouragement?
Matt: Listen closely. Keep your friends about you. That should be sufficient.
Marisha: Oh, sorry, I probably should've introduced-- by the way, this is my band I've been traveling with, Vox Machina. And Tary. Tary Darrington.
Sam: Lovely to meet you. I have no idea where we are right now.
Matt: Good, keep it that way.
Marisha: He's new.
Laura: Can I ask a question? Is that all right?
Marisha: Of course.
Laura: Is it polite?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: (quietly) Hi, sorry. You mentioned that the water Ashari live under the water.
Matt: They don't live beneath the water, not entirely.
Laura: Okay, I thought maybe they were like mer-people or something, I wasn't sure.
Marisha: That would be awesome.
Laura: Yeah, right? That'd be really cool.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Cool. So we'll see them above land then if we're flying.
Matt: Some of them, yes.
Laura: Some of them. All right, that was my question. Thank you for your answer. Thank you.
Marisha: Are there any other landmarks or ways of navigation to find them? They're an island in the middle of the Ozmit sea.
Matt: It's not the island of usual appearance. The beaches and sands of Vesrah are built upon a great circular reef. And part of the city lies above, part of it lies below.
Travis: (quietly) Sick.
Marisha: (quietly) Awesome.
Matt: Look for the white sands beneath the surface. Some structures will be visible from above. It would lie quite a ways to the southwest, not too far from the Hespit. I would recommend perhaps procuring the service of someone who knows the sea well.
Marisha: Yes. We were going to look into trying to do that. Well, is there anything you need from me, Patisse, before we head on?
Matt: No. Just do your best to have your friends keep the location of our village to themselves.
Marisha: Don't worry, we have many places we'd prefer to keep this way.
Matt: Good. I trust you all. Safe journeys. Keep her safe.
Taliesin: Of course.
Laura: Always.
Matt: The tempest needs a new voice.
Marisha: Thank you for your belief in me. Kaitiaki, Patisse.
Matt: Kaitiaki, young Keyleth.
Sam: You're welcome.
Laura: Kai... tiaki.
Marisha: (quietly) Good job.
Taliesin: Kaitiaki. (all laugh)
Sam: Kaiahoga.
Marisha: What did you say?
Laura: Kamehameha.
Liam: Ticonderoga... pencils.
Sam: I pull Vax aside and say--
Liam: What's up, buddy?
Sam: Poise, grace, confidence, she is amazing.
Liam: Yeah? That's true.
Sam: Is she your leader?
Liam: Sometimes, yeah. Sometimes.
Sam: (quietly) Incredible.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I'm learning so much already, thank you again.
Liam: That's-- you're welcome, that's good. That's good. One step at a time.
Sam: Absolutely.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Vax, you made sure Tary partook of some of the soil here, right? It's an Ashari tradition, right?
Liam: What? Are you asking me if he shit here? What are you talking about?
Travis: No, no. He has to eat-- did you? Tary, did you manage to get some of the soil in your mouth?
Sam: The what in my mouth?
Travis: It's a custom here you have to eat the dirt of the earth Ashari.
Liam: I walk off. I'm not getting part of this.
Sam: Absolutely. I will do it.
Travis: You don't want to be offensive.
Sam: You're absolutely right.
Travis: Yeah. Custom is important.
Sam: Mm-hm. Following the local customs, I took a handful of dirt and shoved it down my fucking throat. (all laugh)
Matt: (coughs) You go into an immediate coughing fit as the--
Sam: (coughs)
Matt: -- the surface dirt here is built from constant colliding of stone and rock, and a lot of it has been ground to almost a fine powder in places--
Liam: Have some volcanic ash.
Matt: -- yeah, yeah. It's akin to the cinnamon challenge in a way. (all laugh)
Sam: (coughs)
Travis: Just stay with it, the first time's the worst. Don't dilute it with any water or anything.
Taliesin: Just thinking, it's like diatomaceous earth. Just hateful.
Travis: You're toughening up already.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Ooh, your voice sounds deeper.
Sam: Yeah, that is my vocal cords being covered in dirt.
Travis: I like this.
Laura: Why are your vocal cords covered in dirt?
Sam: I just ate dirt.
Laura: Why on earth would you eat dirt?
Sam: I'll go into my satchel and pull out some healing draught, and just-- ah, just take a big gulp.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: It feels much better.
Sam: Much better. Shall we?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Liam: Kiki, what do you think? Are we staying here for the night, or-- I mean, we just got here, it's the middle of the day, isn't it?
Laura: Can we Treestride again today?
Marisha: Yeah, we can.
Liam: We need to make camp? You need to rest? Or can we go now?
Marisha: I'm good. After this we'll probably have-- No, I'm good. I mean--
Taliesin: We Treestride, we get a ship, and then--
Marisha: And then I'll be resting.
Taliesin: -- we spend a night on the ship.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Travis: I like it.
Taliesin: Isn't that gonna be fun?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I haven't been on a ship si-- Oh my, yeah.
Marisha: Are we gonna do the airship, or-- no, I guess we left the airship in Whitestone.
Taliesin: Well, we-- technically, we--
Marisha: Or did we leave it in Emon?
Taliesin: We left it in Emon.
Matt: Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Hopefully, it's-- you know, let's see if it's still intact.
Travis: What's wrong with a boat? We haven't been on a boat.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm kind of feeling the boat.
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: You guys wanna go on a boat?
Liam: You are feeling the boat over the airship?
Taliesin: I haven't been on a boat in a long time, and I'm feeling a little weird about an airship.
Travis: Thank you.
Liam: I know, but you practically sang ballads for airships for weeks.
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: Yeah, and we got one.
Taliesin: We did-- we could--
Travis: He tap-dances on boats.
Taliesin: I mean, I wouldn't object to it, I just--
Liam: So one and done, all right.
Marisha: Wait, does this mean--
Laura: We can be regular pirates now.
Marisha: Does this mean we can get yacht gear if we go on a boat-- or pirate gear?
Liam: I'm on a boat!
Taliesin: I'm not getting the proper shoes.
Laura: (gasps) Pirate gear!
Marisha: Pirate gear!
Sam: Boat shoes? I own boat shoes.
Taliesin: I knew you would.
Liam: What does that mean?
Travis: You do?
Sam: They're great, they're flat-soled, they are white, and--
Liam: White.
Taliesin: They are.
Sam: Yes, they are--
Marisha: You mean like Keds? You're talking about Keds?
Taliesin: No, no, they're boating shoes.
Sam: Boat shoes.
Marisha: Boat shoes. (laughs)
Taliesin: They're actually boating shoes. I am embarrassed that I know exactly what you're talking about.
Sam: Of course.
Liam: Your boating shoes, I'm sure, are very white.
Sam: Yes, they are.
Travis: What are they made of, leather?
Sam: With little leather stripes--
Travis: Yeah, they're made of leather.
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: And a little sailor's cap.
Laura: No.
Liam: Ooh, no.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Sam: I have a navigator's kit.
Matt: He does, it's-- (all laugh)
Matt: He does.
Sam: Let's set sail!
Matt: Yeah!
Sam: A sextant and everything.
Taliesin: That is-- that is my favorite phrase in the English language, is "I have a kit for that."
Marisha: I have a kit for that. (laughs)
Taliesin: You have just come upon it.
Matt: I'm so excited that worked out.
Liam: What is going on?
Matt: All right. So--
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: You find your way back to the edge of the valley, to the same tree that you made your Transport via Plants through--
Marisha: I do the touristy thing to 'em again on the way out, like I do.
Matt: Pointing out. What is your destination tree?
Marisha: (stammers)
Taliesin: Pine.
Marisha: Our keep. Greyskull Keep. Garden. Tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry. That just took a while to find in my brain.
Laura: I imagine you saying all that as you touch the tree.
Marisha: (stammers) It's been a long few weeks.
Travis: The channel just--
Marisha: Only the best, only the best.
Matt: You transport from the outskirts of Terra, find your way back to Greyskull Keep, and walking towards Emon proper. You can see now, even from the distance as you approach, the walls, some of the larger buildings, the higher towers and structures that just barely peek over the wall, you can see are already in the process of repair. You can see--
Laura: Wow, that was fast.
Matt: -- teams of people that are in-- currently trying to rebuild and restructure as you enter from the southern gates of the city and enter the streets, it's more lively than you've ever seen it. People are returning. People are coming back and reclaiming what remains of their homesteads, many of them still intact without a problem. The damage was extensive, but not universal in the city, and so I'd say there's still a good 60% to 70% of the city that is mostly without damage, and there are areas that are just destroyed, but even those, people are picking up, reclaiming-- There appears to be a process of memorial being constructed on the outskirts of the Cloudtop to remember those who fell in the battle for Emon. There is also the skyport, which was on the outskirts of the Cloudtop, and up there you can see the skyship Deera, however it looks to have sustained a severe amount of damage--
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: -- in the battle, and is in the process of also receiving its own repairs.
Liam: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Oh, I hope Captain Damon's all right.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, jesus.
Laura: He's so dreamy.
Travis: Heartthrob Damon.
Taliesin: He's just gotten a little scar.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: The perfect scar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Now he's dangerous Damon.
Marisha: Cap Damon.
Laura: He's got the-- no, he's got the Harrison Ford.
Taliesin: Is this the Harrison Ford, or is it the scar right below the cheek so that when he cries it hits the scar and goes down.
Marisha: Oh yeah, and it trickles down.
Liam: I mean either way, he can make it work, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: It's like a little pachinko machine of pain.
Travis: Run the canal, run the canal.
Liam: Don't leave me hanging up top. Woo!
Laura: That was a good one.
Marisha: Pike's here, right? She's in the city.
Matt: Pike is in the city somewhere, you haven't found her, you don't know where she is.
Marisha: 'Cause I imagine she would have good recommendations on good crews--
Liam: Boats.
Marisha: -- and boats.
Taliesin: Ooh.
Marisha: So, let's try and find Pike.
Travis: Didn't she just say a good crew? She just said to find a good crew.
Laura: Find a good crew.
Taliesin: She wouldn't maybe not know, necessarily.
Marisha: Would Pike know if there's a good crew? Let's save ten minutes on finding Pike. Would Pike know if there's a good crew?
Matt: Pike had one crew that she travelled with on the ocean--
Liam: Seems dodgy.
Sam: They're all dead.
Taliesin: They're not dead, they just left her.
Matt: But that crew, I will say for the sake of time, is not currently docked at Emon.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: She was busy doing push-ups on that cruise.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: One-handed.
Laura: Let's go to the docks, you guys. Today.
Marisha: To the docks!
Matt: You find yourself at the western docks of Emon.
Liam: Ter the dercks!
Marisha: Ter the dercks!
Taliesin: Ter the dercks.
Matt: You hear the familiar sound of seagulls and other water-based fowl, mixed with the creaking of wood from large ships that are all making their way in and out of this rather large port here on the side of the Ozmit Sea. You can see there's a lot of goods coming into the city now, as a lot of heavy orders have come from nearby villages to transport goods as part of the recovery, both from the south from the Mornset as well as things that were too large to carry by cart from Syngorn, and have been coming up along the coast, avoiding Dagger Bay, and making their way up to Emon. There are a number of individuals around, and who would want to spearhead the investigation--
Marisha: I'm not good at investigating. Who's good at investigating?
Laura: I'll go.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Liam: I'll back you up. Me too, me too.
Taliesin: Looks good.
Laura: 19?
Liam: 18. Oh, you've done me in by one.
Laura: Oh, by one!
Liam: One.
Matt: Asking about for a while, you eventually-- people point you in the direction of what appears to be an individual named Dockmaster Abban.
Marisha: Dockmaster Oban?
Liam: Abban.
Matt: Abban. A-B-B-A-N.
Marisha: Abban.
Taliesin: Abban.
Marisha: A-B-B-A-N.
Matt: You're eventually led to this individual who, pointed out, is dressed simply at first glance. The clothing he wears, just a plain white, billowing shirt, nice tailored pants, and some boots that go just up to the mid-calf. Dark brown-red skin, completely shaved, smooth, bald, shining in the sun, no facial hair, with piercing blue-grey eyes. As soon as you begin to approach, he's finishing a conversation with someone and turns to you and flashes the brightest of white smiles and goes, "Hello! Ah, you look like you are looking for some help, or in aid of something, yes? No?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You're staring at me. What do you want?
Laura: We are-- I don't know if you've noticed, but the city has just been saved.
Matt: I have noticed it, strangely enough. I've watched it be saved, and--
Laura: Yes, then you maybe saw us in the fray, and now, after saving this beautiful city, we are on our way to the middle of the fucking sea. Would somebody be able to take us?
Matt: Well, are you looking for a-- to purchase a vessel?
Laura: No. To rent a crew of well-seasoned sailors who know their way around the ocean.
Matt: I guess it really depends on the size of the vessel you're taking-- what ship do you have?
Taliesin: We're looking to-- I'm cutting in for a second--
Laura: Sure, darling.
Liam: Sure.
Taliesin: -- charter, dear, charter. You're looking to charter.
Laura: We're looking to charter a ship.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I just learn so much from you, you know?
Taliesin: I-- well, this was just--
Travis: Barf.
Laura: Take over.
Matt: And where are you travelling?
Taliesin: No, please.
Liam: Ah, that's complicated.
Laura: Well, just very close to Hespit, actually, not far so-- very far southwest--
Matt: How close to the Hespits?
Liam: We're hoping for a bit of a discount for the group that is responsible for this city still existing.
Taliesin: She's much better at this than you.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Liam: Give it a second, please.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: Doubting Thomas.
Matt: I have-- I apologise, I do not follow this train of thought. Discount?
Liam: (sighs) Do your fucking thing, whatever. (all laugh)
Liam: I didn't roll any kind of a check, I just got shat upon, but whatever, do your thing. And I walk off.
Travis: I just got shat upon.
Taliesin: I just-- I don't feel the dice were necessary at that point.
Travis: (laughs) Shat upon.
Liam: I do! I do! They're necessary all the time. All the time! Except when it comes--
Travis: Do I?
Liam: --to me. Go, go, do your thing. Do your thing. I'm gone.
Matt: No, you-- Okay. Vax walks away before he finishes his point, and doesn't get to make his roll.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, whatever, Matthew, whatever.
Matt: What?
Liam: What roll?
Matt: All right.
Sam: We'll never know.
Laura: Forgive my brother, he gets very embarrassed when he talks about how much we've saved. Humble creature.
Matt: I'm still very confused here. You're asking for a discount, why? Because the city was saved?
Laura: Oh, well I wasn't, of course not.
Matt: Look, I don't know who you are, I don't know what you're trying to do here--
Travis: We killed all the dragons.
Matt: --but we're in the process of trying to recover the economy of what was once a very strong economy, of a town that has been under attack. Now, we cannot offer discounts to anybody because right now, we're all in financial dire straits.
Laura: Understandable.
Matt: So, if you're going to ship, if you're going to move, if you're going to charter, if you're going to purchase, it's going to have to be the ask--
Laura: We're looking to charter a ship, full of sailors, who can get us to a circular reef to the southwest, near the Hespit.
Matt: Captain Adella. That would be your best bet.
Laura: Captain Adella.
Matt: "Now." And he points off to the end of one of the nearest docks, there's two that are close by, and there's a long row of various ships that are in the process of being loaded and unloaded, but there appears to be one sailing ship. They have some galleys and long-ships along the side, but there's a sailing ship with the sails currently tied up and bound to the mast, and a crew that is lounging on the deck. There is a woman, towards the edge, that's just walking past. You cannot make out a lot of details from this point, but he points over. "That is Captain Adella. She will be able to help you."
Laura: Thank you so much, Dockmaster.
Matt: Of course. Now, if you wish to charter, speak with her. Let her know that the Dockmaster is the one that brought you that point, and all shall be well.
Laura: Wonderful.
Matt: "All right. Good luck, travel safe." And he turns around and walks aw--
Laura: Percy, do we tip him? I don't know how this works.
Taliesin: No, I think we just--
Sam: No, we do not tip him.
Laura: Oh, all right.
Travis: Can I just ask before we leave, how much are the ships that are for sale?
Matt: Oh! Well, it depends on the ship that you are looking for. For a long-ship, no crew of course, which is a fairly decent speed, requires maybe 30 to 40 rowers, and a handful of deck hands, that would run you about 10,000 gold pieces?
Laura: Oh, that's it?
Taliesin: That's a long-ship--
Travis: Just let me ask the important questions, you all retire.
Laura: We don't even need that.
Taliesin: We need a big-- we need a bigger ship.
Travis: If I wanted a ship that had, let's say, this many sails, and came with a crew, how much would that be, about?
Matt: Are you talking about a fully outfitted galleon?
Travis: That.
Taliesin: Yes, yes you are.
Matt: I would put that... well, I mean the crew you'd have to pay whatever they're asking, but for the actual ship, the general asking price can range somewhere in around 30,000 to 40,000 gold pieces.
Travis: 30,000 to 40,000 pieces, that's what I thought. Yep. Thank you.
Matt: Right. Obviously a man of the world.
Taliesin: Do you want a galleon, Grog?
Travis: These dock pretzels are amazing.
Sam: He's literally picking up dried pieces of seagull poop. (all laugh)
Taliesin: There is this thing for seasickness, with seaweed--
Laura: Dock pretzels.
Travis: It's not pretty.
Marisha: Grog, that's-- that's not like free peanuts at the tavern.
Taliesin: That's not-- that's...
Laura: That was so gross.
Travis: Really crunchy.
Marisha: The profile of that.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: There's protein in everything. Everything.
Travis: Well, let's go get a ship.
Laura: Oh my god. Wow. We could seriously buy a ship.
Taliesin: We could, or we could just--
Laura: I mean we have no need for a ship.
Taliesin: What are we going to do when we're done with it?
Laura: I know, right?
Taliesin: I know, really.
Laura: We've gotta be frugal, even though we don't have to be, we should be.
Taliesin: It's not even frugal, this is just what you do once you have money--
Laura: Exactly.
Taliesin: -- you only buy things you need, and just lease everything else. It's very, very common. It's all good.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: This is very true.
Matt: All righty. As you guys walk to the edge of the--
Taliesin: Leasing.
Liam: It's true.
Matt: --aforementioned dock that was pointed out, you come to the outskirts of this larger sailing ship, and as you begin to walk up, and your footfalls 'clack-clack, clack-clack, clack' against the dock, a couple of the deckhands that are kind of leaning off to the side, kind of just looking up, one of them appears to be taking a hit off of a flask of some kind, both hear the footfalls and get up and turn around, spin and look. "Cap'n? Cap'n!" And they kind of point over and the coat-wearing figure that you saw walking across the deck of the ship spins around, and begins to abruptly quicken her pace in the direction of the gangplank that leads off onto the side of the dock. As she comes up to the edge, reaching and grabbing the sides of it, you see before you a woman with long, sea-air tattered mass of hair. It is just this halo of crimped, curled, and wild dark hair that's also been sun-bleached to the point where the tips kinda go light. It is crazed in appearance immediately as she arrives. She looks spry and somewhat young, maybe late 20s early 30s, but her skin has been very heavily weathered from all these days at sea, and you can see already she's getting these crows nests at the corners of her face, but has a very bright smile, and her light brown coat hangs just past her calf-high boots. She looks like the kind of woman who captains a ship. As she glances over, "Hi. You looking for a crew?"
Marisha: You look like a pirate!
Matt: I do not look like a pirate. Why would you say that?
Taliesin: She meant it as a compliment.
Marisha: Where do you buy your clothes?
Matt: Are you looking for a crew or not?
Laura: Why, yes we are! I assume you're Captain Adella.
Matt: Yes. (laughs) I see my reputation precedes me.
Taliesin: By about ten feet.
Laura: Yes, it does. Dockmaster Abban speaks very highly of you. Do you know your way around the Ozmit?
Matt: Quite a bit actually, I do. Where you looking to go?
Laura: Near the Hespit Sea? Near the Hespit? I don't know what the fuck I'm talking about.
Marisha: Yep, that's right. Southwest.
Liam: Hespit-bound.
Laura: Ish.
Matt: No. We don't travel to the Hespit. That's--
Laura: It's near the Hespit, not quite--
Marisha: Have you stumbled upon Vesrah?
Matt: Vesrah, I know of.
Laura: Oh! Perfect.
Matt: I know of it.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Goodness gracious.
Taliesin: We would be excited to make it worth your while.
Matt: How worth your while?
Laura: How worth our while are you thinking?
Taliesin: What is your while worth, I imagine?
Matt: Well, we have a crew here, 12 deckhands, my captaining and navigating skills, a first mate, and the use of the ship... that would run you-- let's put it at 150 gold per day for chartering the ship.
Taliesin: There's six of us and a bear.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: The bear sleeps in jewelry.
Sam: And a robot.
Taliesin: Oh, and a robot. An automaton. Can I say automaton?
Sam: He doesn't eat, it'll be fine.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Well this has certainly got real interesting, didn't it? All right! So, have we a deal?
Taliesin: 150 gold a day?
Liam: That's nothing for us.
Laura: How many crew-- 12-man crew?
Liam: Vex'ahlia. We have so--
Laura: No, I think that's a fair price.
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: She is such not a good negotiator. What is going on?
Liam: Hey, buddy?
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Liam: There's a lot of--
Sam: I will be quiet.
Liam: -- inner working dynamics in this group that you don't know anything about--
Sam: I'll be-- you're right.
Liam: If you'd just wait a bit, all right?
Sam: You're right, I will be quiet.
Liam: That sounds good.
Taliesin: I'm so pleased.
Matt: "Fine. You've found yourself a leader, a captain, and a partner." Shakes your hand. "So."
Travis: Are you all right?
Laura: Honestly, I feel...
Matt: Vesrah, you say? Crazy water folk. Who am I to judge? But yes, six to seven days travel at sea, depending on the weather, of course. Storms are common this time of year, do keep in mind we will be passing north of the Hespit, so be wary of any wandering bandit ships.
Laura: Bandit ships?
Marisha: Not pirates.
Matt: Or pirates, you can call them pirates as well, but we already had that conversation.
Marisha: And you are definitely not--
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: --a pirate.
Matt: Not anymore.
Marisha: Nope. You just look really cool.
Travis: What kinda weapons you got on this ship?
Matt: Oh! We've got some ballistae. We travel with speed.
Travis: Oh. It's a fast ship?
Liam: What d'you mean?
Matt: Fast ship.
Liam: You got-- you got nothing?
Marisha: Oh, we don't need weapons. We're weapons!
Laura: We're weapons.
Taliesin: We're quite fierce.
Marisha: We're the most deadly thing in this land.
Laura: How often do sea monsters sprout up on you? Ever? I've never been on the sea.
Matt: Often enough.
Marisha: Often enough?
Laura: Really?
Liam: We have, we were just way high above it.
Laura: Well yeah, not like in it.
Travis: Oh that's true, we have never been in a boat, yeah.
Taliesin: Actually, that's a good question. How many of us have actually been on a ship before?
Liam: I'm afraid of getting nauseous, actually.
Taliesin: Am I really-- come on.
Sam: I had a boat--
Laura: You own boat shoes.
Sam: I had a boat in one of my larger baths that I would take at night, and it would go on epic adventures through the bubbles! But never quite at sea.
Travis: What was the boat's name?
Sam: The boat was the SS... ... that's it. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Even better than I could have possibly imagined.
Matt: That's adorable. Well, welcome to my ship. She is called the Drensala Vis--
Sam: That's such a cool name.
Liam: Drensala Vis.
Marisha: Drensala Vis.
Liam: Drensala Vis!
Taliesin: The Drensala Vis.
Matt: It is Marquesian for Luck of the Mother.
Taliesin: Mother Lucker.
Liam: Mother Lucker.
Matt: Treat her well and she'll treat you well in kind. Respect my crew, respect my authority, respect our direction, and we'll do just fine. So! To the crazy water people. Welcome on board the Drensala Vis.
Taliesin: Aye, Captain.
Laura: Do we need anything? Do we need anything before we do--
Marisha: Did she just say crazy water people?
Liam: Too many mother luckers!
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: I don't think we need anything. Do we need anything?
Taliesin: I think as long as the ship is prepared and has--
Travis: Anything you can buy on dry land?
Taliesin: --everything stocked, everything it needs, I think we're just reasonable.
Travis: I've got a couple canisters of underwater breathing that nobody else has.
Taliesin: And I have the remnants of several bottles of liquor. I'm quite pleased.
Marisha: I will come stacked with some water-breathing stuff. I think we can do it to eight people for like an hour or something like that?
Travis: There you go.
Liam: That'll help in the middle of the ocean.
Marisha: That'll definitely help.
Laura: Do you think that Raven's Slumber is waterproof?
Matt: You imagine the enchantment probably is waterproof.
Laura: All right. I would hate to-- little baby, mini Trinket in there gets like drowned or something if I'm underwater.
Liam: Yeah. You don't wanna drop the iPhone in the toilet.
Laura: Exactly. Or the bathtub.
Travis: About what time of day is it right now?
Liam: What do you mean?
Matt: Right now, it's a little bit past three o'clock in the afternoon.
Travis: Shouldn't we go out early in the morning?
Taliesin: Why?
Travis: Isn't that what you do? You, like, set sail--
Sam: You can sail all night while we sleep on the ship.
Laura: I wanna sleep on the ship!
Marisha: It's gonna be like a seven-hour trip-- or a seven-day trip.
Taliesin: You're gonna get to sleep on a hammock, Grog.
Liam: You can spend days on a ship.
Taliesin: There'll be a hammock.
Travis: What if it's only a three-hour tour?
Liam: Tary, there wo-- what is that in reference to?
Taliesin: No. I'm not even dignifying that with a groan--
Travis: Come on, Tal, you're with me.
Taliesin: That would not even-- I expect better of you.
Liam: It would make for a good beginning of a chapter to set out at dawn.
Sam: That is true. Poetically it would be nice, but--
Taliesin: He could just write that we set out at dawn.
Sam: I am eager to get my adventuring on, L.E.B., so I am eager to go.
Travis: All right, yeah.
Taliesin: Little elf girl. L.E.B. Little elf boy.
Travis: I'm fine with that.
Marisha: Adella.
Matt: Yes?
Liam: Little elf boy?
Marisha: Oh, been on the sea a little long. Is your crew ready to go? Or would it be better to set sail in the morning?
Matt: Well. We leave at your leisure, but we're not against the idea of a raucous final evening at the local tavern.
Laura: How many beds do you have on that ship?
Sam: You're asking us to get her drunk?
Liam: Well...
Sam: Is that true?
Liam: I mean--
Sam: Is that what's happening?
Liam: We've really been through the shit, so I'm not opposed. Just saying.
Matt: Not including for my crew? we have bunks for at least 15 other passengers.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Bunks? Or rooms? I mean, obviously you don't have rooms for--
Matt: Between the bunks, six rooms.
Liam: How many bunks per room?
Matt: Two or three, depending.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: That's weird.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: No, no. It's quite common.
Laura: No, it's totally doable.
Liam: No, it's weird.
Taliesin: No, it's quite common.
Liam: I disagree.
Taliesin: I think it's perfectly fine.
Liam: Well, you're fucked.
Laura: Let's just go.
Matt: If you don't find--
Liam: Yeah. Fuck it.
Matt: "Good! Grab your things! On this ship! Let's set sail!" Starts giving out orders to her crew, seems to now kind of come to life, and they're starting to go ahead and start pulling up anchor, they're starting to get the sails ready. You already can feel the spray of the water as the tide's coming in now, the water's starting to get a little choppier as it's hitting up against the side of the docks and the shore end.
Sam: A sea voyage. This is unprecedented.
Liam: Oh, jeez.
Sam: Doty, take down every word of anyone saying anything ever on this whole trip. This is amazing. I'm so excited.
Matt: Doty stops for a second, leans back, and then starts scribbling furiously at anything that he can pick up within earshot.
Liam: Tary, staring off into the distance, shat his pants. Crying, into his poo--
Sam: Well, okay, all right, so zing, you got me.
Travis: He pulls out of his waistband-- (all laugh)
Travis: -- and notices the tiny member between his legs.
Sam: You're smarter than I thought, you.
Liam: No, I'm as smart as you thought I was.
Matt: Eventually, the ship disembarks, and begins making its way further out into the water, just as the sun begins to set into the slightly orange, purple, and dark blues of the end of daylight. You can see the various lights in Emon come on, especially towards the dock, as the night comes to life. And out the opposite side, the sparse clouds that are scattered in the distance, the ship picks up the winds and pushes with guiding speed out to the southwest, into the depths of the Ozmit Sea. And that's where we'll pick up next session!
Taliesin: And so--
Marisha: Moana!
Taliesin: As our ship sinks slowly in the west, we bid farewell!
Marisha: It just slowly sinks.
Matt: I finally get to use the ocean voyage audio! (all cheer)
Matt: Had that on my playlist for a long-ass time.
Marisha: Ocean voyage!
Matt: Awesome.
Marisha: We're going on a cruise, you guys!
Matt: That took some interesting turns tonight!
Marisha: Now we learn how shitty cruises are.
Taliesin: I love ships. Ships are great.
Liam: Everybody's vomiting.
Matt: Pretty much.
Taliesin: I think I'm the only character who's spent some time on a boat, at this point.
Marisha: Well, and Pike.
Taliesin: Who's been on a ship. And Pike--
Marisha: Well, Pike's not here--
Liam: I'm on a boat!
Matt: Yeah, Pike's still back at home. Ashley, come back to us!
Laura: I know!
Matt: Blindspot, stop filming! You finished your season, right?
Liam: Almost, almost.
Laura: Almost. So close!
Liam: Getting there.
Matt: We'll get her back. Guys, thank you so much.
Liam: What an episode.
Matt: Ridiculous fucking people.
Marisha: That was so good.
Matt: We're gonna pick up next week, as you head deeper into the Ozmit Sea towards Vesrah. Thank you again Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsors this evening--
All: Lootcrate!
Matt: -- you've been fantastic. The rest of you guys, rest well, sleep well, and is it Thursday yet?
Laura: I'll most likely kill you in the morning.
Matt: Have a good night. [ART]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: (no audio)
Sam: -- is today's sponsor. A leading publisher of science fiction and fantasy for over 30 years. That's almost as old as I am. Do you like magic? Pirates? Knives? Royals and adventure? Then check out Shades of Magic, the series from Tor Books. The conclusion of which, A Conjuring of Light, was just released, so check out the full three-book series. Go to, there's a promo link somewhere on this page-- I'm gonna say right there. Let's say right there.
Travis: Yeah, sure!
Sam: So check that out. And the thing about sponsors, guys, is we really need to show them our love. And really show them that we appreciate what they do for us every week. They're a big part of the show, without them we would-- For instance, without sponsors, Taliesin would only be able to dye his hair platinum blond or brown.
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Marisha: It's true.
Taliesin: It's called Malibu Sunset.
Sam: Yeah. Laura's dice budget would go way down. Instead of throwing away 250 dice a week, it would maybe be more like 240, 230.
Laura: Oh God. Terrible.
Sam: I mean, Liam might have to go back to shaving his beard and selling the beard shavings to those in need.
Matt: To be fair, it was worth it. Look at them on my shelf.
Sam: I have just a few ideas for ways that you guys could show your love for our sponsors. Take them out for a candlelit dinner. I'm not talking Bennigan's, I'm talking something high-end. Shake Shack, Outback, maybe even P.F. Chang's. How about sending some romantic texts to spice things up? Keep it classy, like: Hey, Critical Role Sponsor, I wish you could be with me right now. Or, I had a dream last night, and Critical Role Sponsor? You were in it. And hey, compliments always help. Critical Role Sponsor, do you have a map? 'Cause I'm getting lost in your eyes. Or: Hey, Critical Role Sponsor, of all the beautiful curves on your body, I'm most in love with your smile. Or even: Critical Role Sponsor, on a scale of one to ten, you're a nine, and I'm the one you need.
Marisha: Don't use that one, either, in real life.
Taliesin: That would work on me.
Sam: Or you could just go to their website and buy their products. (all cheer)
Sam: So, Tor Books, thanks so much.
Matt: Thank you, Tor Books, and thank you to all those mentioned restaurants that will never be a sponsor for us now, and it's probably for the best.
Travis: The Bennigan's and the Monte Cristo.
Laura: Oh man, I hit up Bennigan's a lot.
Matt: I know, I was holding out for the P.F. Chang's but, y'know. Thank you so much, Sam, and thank you, Tor Books, for being our awesome sponsor tonight. Make sure to check out A Conjuring of Light, now available to you. All right, next up, the new episode of GM Tips is out. It came out today and this one is about suggestions on homebrewing content for your systems in game. I have, I think, three more episodes that are going on in the coming weeks, so look forward to those.
Marisha: And then we hand it off to someone awesome.
Matt: Exactly. We have a new person stepping in, after those episodes, showing their own flavor to the series. I'm excited about that.
Marisha: Because you can only learn so much from one teacher.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: The best teachers will teach you that.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles only had Master Splinter.
Marisha: Shut. Up.
Travis: Daniel-san only had Mr. Miyagi.
Marisha: This is the real world, okay? This isn't fantasy.
Sam: They were homeschooled, okay?
Matt: And how many times did they have to reboot that to make it work?
Travis: That's a good point.
Matt: Eventually ending with the Michael Bay films. So check out that episode of GM Tips. As a reminder to all you guys looking to homebrew: It's hard. It's time consuming. It's not for everybody.
Laura: But it's so rewarding, Matthew.
Matt: It can be rewarding.
Liam: Could you do it different though?
Matt: Ugh. So check out the episode knowing that, and we'll have next week's episode next Wednesday.
Taliesin: Your other friends tell me that they miss you too. So yeah.
Marisha: Mm-hm. That's true.
Matt: Yeah, I know. I'll see people again soon. Also, I wanted to give a shout-out. We're in the final 24-hour stretch for the Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire crowdsourced campaign. So if you haven't yet, or you have interest in seeing the sequel to that, go and check it out. They're doing a final 24-hour stream over on Obsidian's stream channel, of course after our episode tonight. Go give them some love. And last, I have my list here, I was just able to announce that I voice Deadshot in the upcoming Justice 2. (all cheer)
Matt: Coming out in mid-May.
Laura: I play Supergirl!
Matt: Yeah! Fantástico! So look forward to that. There may be some more surprises as the cast is announced progressively down the road. Super happy to be a part of it.
Laura: Super happy.
Taliesin: (groan)
Marisha: (groan)
Matt: I need more alcohol. (all laugh)
Travis: Immediately.
Matt: Immediately. Taliesin, you wanted to mention something about your new show?
Taliesin: Yeah, we had the very first episode of The Wednesday Club this week.
Travis: Yeah!
Taliesin: I have now had eight hours of sleep, which is pretty magical.
Marisha: It was so good.
Taliesin: It was fun. And we're gonna be back this week with our next episode. We're actually gonna be talking about a lot of things, including characters with mental health issues in comic books, both superhero and otherwise. Including Legion, from the X-Men, who has currently got a show on FX which is magical.
Travis: Yeah he does. It's really good.
Matt: It's really, really good. Holy shit.
Taliesin: It's so good. So tune in, it's noon 'til two on Wednesdays, on the twitch stream where you probably are right now.
Matt: Noon 'til two Pacific.
Taliesin: And I think we bumped it to Alpha, but I don't remember, maybe not. And then it'll be on the rebroadcast if you wanna see it, but it's gonna be a lot of fun. Matt Key and Amy Dallen will be there, it's gonna be great.
Matt: Cool. Thank you, Taliesin. If nobody else has anything else to say...
Travis: Cheese is for everybody. Not just me.
Sam: Did you just say Jesus for everybody?
Travis: Cheese.
Marisha: Cheez Its?
Liam: Jesus for everybody.
Matt: Cheezits Christ for everybody.
Travis: Cheez Its Crust. (all laugh)
Matt: Without further ado, let's bring us into tonight's episode of Critical Role. (opening credits)
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. So, picking up where we last left off. Vox Machina, having defeated the Chroma Conclave, and restoring order and, for the time being, peace to the landscape of Tal'Dorei, resurrected your friend, Scanlan Shorthalt. However, he realised he needed some time to himself, to both connect with his interest in direction and life, and with his estranged illegitimate daughter, Kaylie. Upon leaving, the party proceeded to find their way to close all the loose ends that they hadn't quite had time to get to with the Conclave's assault. That involved returning the ashes of Senokir's wife to Vasselheim, and then making your way to Ank'Harel to deliver the hands of Ripley to the Scarbearers guild. On your way there you encountered a new adventurer, Taryon Darrington, who was looking to join an adventuring group for experience--
Liam: He's my favorite.
Matt: Yes, he's the best. He paid his way into your service and upon being returned to Whitestone you gave him a hazing, which broke him enough to be a little more honest with his reasoning for going on this adventure.
Laura: Let's not call it a hazing. It was an audition.
Matt: It was an audition, it was a brutal audition.
Marisha: (singing) Don't call it a comeback!
Matt: There you go. In which, knowing more about your new companion, you accepted him for the time being, understanding the dangers that are involved in following your path and he accepted. You made your way to Emon, looking as a way to find passage towards Vesrah, the home of the Water Ashari and the hopeful completion of Keyleth's AraMente. Upon finding and hiring a crew under the Captain Adella, you made your way onto your new ship and began to traverse westward onto the Ozmit Sea.
Travis: Shit, we're on a boat. We're on a boat motherfuckers!
Marisha: (singing) Don't you ever forget! (all laugh)
Matt: There is that.
Liam: We are noble creatures.
Matt: So.
Travis: (gasps) I hear the ocean.
Sam: That's someone snoring. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It's a rainstick.
Matt: So you guys have been at sea for a handful of days. It's been relatively uneventful. The boat slowly rocks, as the waters of the Ozmit are much calmer by comparison to that of the Lucidian Ocean. Making them a much more popular trade route pass between the various continents on this side of Exandria. Now the slow rocking of the boat, across the somewhat choppy waters, leads some of you into a relaxing lull over these days. Others, into perpetual bouts of nausea. But you notice that Captain Adella runs a relatively tight ship. Her crew works like clockwork, at her order, and the skies are thankfully clear these first few days, and the journey so far is mild. What would you guys like to-- Is there anything you wish to accomplish as you are travelling across the sea?
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of sketching, and working on something simple, that I might even try and build while I'm here.
Marisha: I'll catch up on some reading, I guess. Some of my alchemy reading.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Stephen King novel.
Marisha: From I've been doing, trying to make that better.
Matt: Fair enough. Anyone else?
Liam: I have been sort of shadowing Grog for a couple of days, 'cause he doesn't have any gnomes to hang out with.
Travis: Oh that's right. Oh, fuck, it's real when you said it!
Liam: I have been playing Boulder, Parchment, Shears, and telling him stories.
Travis: The non-violent kind.
Liam: Yes, yes. Just hanging out, off and on.
Matt: Okay. Vex?
Laura: I guess I've been trying to get to know Tary a little bit better. And also flying like Vex-Kite behind the ship.
Matt: Okay. And Taryon?
Sam: Lots of push-ups, trying to beef up my pecs. I also, at the start of every day, I'm going to take two of those-- I have a bunch of silver coins that I carry around with me, and I'm gonna cast a couple of spells into them, just to have them at the ready. I cast Fly into one and Blur into the other.
Matt: Okay, good to know.
Sam: And then I would probably wander down to good old Percy, and just ask him if he needs help with any tinkering.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, no, I wanna see what he has, too. Like, there's gonna be some trading. I'll show stuff.
Matt: I'll show you mine, if you show me yours?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Matt: Perfect. So, as the two tinkering nerds begin to reveal their secret inner interests, Vex, you, about three days into this venture, you catch what looks to be a dark spot right on the horizon. Midday, maybe like two o'clock in the afternoon, it's a warm sun, this far, as you start moving westward and southward, you head closer to what would be the equator of the planet. It's getting warmer, and the sea spray is coming up, the smell of seawater and brine occasionally meets your nose, as the ship hits the various waves as they come across, but you're still keeping a keen eye out. And it's just endless sea in all directions, you see no landmass, but you see a little bit of something appearing at the horizon.
Laura: Like land, potentially?
Matt: It could very well be land.
Laura: I guess I'll fly down and-- I'm gonna try and stay off the deck as much as possible, since it makes me so nauseous.
Matt: So you just glide around the--
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Your imaginary character is also nauseous.
Laura: Potentially, yes.
Travis: That's a bummer.
Laura: I know, right. Vex hasn't had a lot of experience with ships, you know.
Liam: Does your real self also get sea sick?
Laura: I may have fed a couple sharks in my lifetime.
Travis: She painted the ocean. It was amazing.
Marisha: Ooh.
Laura: I'm gonna fly down and tell Captain Adella.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out, and as you move, you catch a little more of the shape in the distance. It looks a little small to be a landmass. If it is landmass, it's a very small one.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: But it's stationary.
Laura: Oh, it could be another ship, possibly.
Matt: It could be a ship, it could be anything that would be stationary. Literally, it's only because of your keen vantage point, and your honed eyesight, that you're able to even make that slight, little bump in the horizon from here.
Laura: All right. Captain?
Matt: As you fly down, you see her, she's at the front of the ship. She has her one hand currently on the wheel, and she's looking out, chatting to the side with one of her crewmates, and turns around as you fly down next to her. She's surprised at your immediate appearance and she's like, "Oh, (gasps) sorry, I--"
Laura: You'll get used to that someday.
Matt: One of these days, I'm sure.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: I see something on the horizon; do you know of any masses in the area? Maybe a ship, or island, or--
Matt: "Take the helm." She hands off the wheel to one of her compatriots, and she rummages over in one of the small chests to the side, and pulls out a large scroll and slams it onto a table she keeps maybe ten feet off to the right of her. And she goes through and pulls out a few instruments. Marks the sun and takes a good five minutes or so getting a really strong idea of where the positioning is. She looks down. "No, not much in the way of landmasses out here, my dear."
Laura: Do you have a telescope?
Matt: She goes and pulls out her particular eye glass. It's small, but functional. Glances over, and you look over in the direction and point it out. There's nothing on the horizon.
Laura: May I take that and fly up? I swear I'll give it back.
Matt: There's a long pause--
Laura: I've got nowhere to hide.
Liam: Careful, butterfingers.
Matt: Passes it over.
Laura: Up.
Matt: You take off, look up, extend it, keeping a close view. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: First one of the day.
Laura: (screams) First one, first one, first one. Which of you?
Travis: Set the tone. Roll like a champion.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Liam: Natural one, the spyglass has fallen in the ocean.
Laura: Shut up, don't say it out loud!
Travis: Why did you go with the weenie one?
Laura: Shut up. 21?
Matt: 21? Okay. You take a moment and glance out in the same direction you were, and you scan past the horizon. Nothing.
Laura: Motherfuck. Well, I come back down. It went under water, whatever it was. Does that mean it was big enough to be some sort of sea monster? Was it a sea monster?
Matt: "I sincerely hope not, for all of our sakes. But, nevertheless, I'm gonna go ahead and have the men man our ballistas. Just to be safe."
Laura: How quickly do those things move?
Matt: "What things?"
Laura: Sea monsters.
Matt: "Depends on the sea monster."
Laura: This one was very large.
Matt: "Hopefully slowly." And she shouts off, "Full sail!" A bunch of the deckhands start pulling the ropes down, letting the sail come to a full-- flutter of wind itself isn't too terribly strong, but it's enough to at least inflate the sails even further, and give a little more of a speedy direction.
Laura: I wanna go back up and keep an eye, with the spyglass, on any kind of movement, that looks like it's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay, cool. Some of her men go over and start loading the large ballistas to the back of the ship. Anybody else hanging out on the deck?
Travis: Can I run to the bow of the ship? Heading for a new land.
Laura: Oh wow.
Travis: In New York you can-- No, sorry. (all laugh)
Travis: On the bow of the ship.
Matt: There you stand, at the bow of the ship. You see at the very front there's the point, the-- oh man.
Taliesin: Are you really?
Travis: What?
Marisha: Are-- you're not...
Travis: No, I'm just looking to see what I can see. Like one leg up, Captain Morgan style.
Matt: There you go. As you glance out, with your hand above on your brow, guarding the bright, cloudless sunlight down upon you, it is just endless ocean.
Travis: Is there one of those amazing naked ladies on the front of the ship? Holding out the pole, that comes out from the front?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Come on, Gil. Three. (all laugh)
Matt: It's still hard to see from this vantage point. You'll probably have to climb out there, and climb down in front of the ship to see.
Sam: He's in the back of the ship. (all laugh)
Travis: Do we mean to be going backwards?
Marisha: I go up to the deckhands who are manning the sails. Hi, heard it was full sail, full-- Do you need help with anything? To do-- you need--
Laura: Wow.
Marisha: I can make, like, wind.
Travis: Oh, you can!
Marisha: And we can maybe get there faster.
Matt: The gentleman who is there, currently wrapping a rope around his forearm, as he's pulling it down with his full weight, you can see he's maybe in his late twenties, though still going a little grey in the beard, for such a young age, but his skin is weathered, he's kind of missing a few teeth. He's got a large piece of-- like a bandana of cloth wrapped around the front of his head, and just a leather tunic. He kind of looks back to you. "Um, I've got it, but thank you."
Marisha: Oh, okay. 'Cause I can-- You're doing great. Good work.
Matt: Right, okay.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab Bad News and run up to the crow's nest and see if I can see anything.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Guess word has gotten around the ship then.
Matt: Yeah. Well, she did shout 'full sail,' I guess maybe you went up to see what was going on. You get up to the crow's nest. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: Make some room in here. What is my perception? That's 20.
Matt: 20, okay. You get up there, lean out, getting a view, you can see maybe 45 feet up, Vex is also keeping her eye out via broom. Taking her lead, and the direction she's facing, you glance out in that direction, but it's just open sea.
Taliesin: I'm gonna keep an eye out for a moment, for a little bit.
Liam: Is Tary down below?
Sam: I was, but I came up too. Hi, hello, hi. I have one of those little sticker things you put on the back for motion sickness. (all laugh)
Sam: One of these.
Laura: One of those things you put on your wrist? Yeah.
Sam: Hi, good day, good day, all.
Travis: Bidet.
Sam: Good day, hi, hi. That's it. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I shout out to Percy, what are you guys looking for? Everyone's so excited! This is so exciting.
Travis: Why are you shouting? We have earrings.
Marisha: I was-- because we're on the high seas, and that's what sailors do.
Travis: Is it?
Marisha: Yeah! See, we're sailors, now!
Travis: We're sailors now.
Taliesin: She doesn't have to know what sailors actually do.
Matt: The shiphand who's manning the sail who's a foot from you right now just reaches up and covers his ear and goes, "Uh. We don't really yell that loud all the time into each other's ear, but thank you."
Travis: Yo-ho-ho! And a... help.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Keyleth, ask the captain if she wants to have extra speed from your wind.
Marisha: Captain.
Taliesin: The captain, yes.
Marisha: I was-- I'm not talking to you, anymore, Percy. Captain.
Matt: As you approach from behind, she's currently holding the wheel, and she doesn't even turn her head to you, goes, "Yes?"
Marisha: Would you like more speed behind those sails?
Matt: "I mean, always, but--"
Marisha: Okay! And then I go back and I start doing Gusts into the sails.
Matt: Okay, Gust is a what-level spell?
Marisha: Well, it's a cantrip, or I could do a level three Gust of Wind.
Matt: Gust would be like a (pfft). It's more of a heavy fart.
Marisha: Sorry, level two Gust of Wind.
Laura: Basically you're blowing really hard.
Matt: A level three Gust of Wind, you said?
Marisha: Level two, level two. Gust of Wind.
Matt: Concentration for up to a minute, so okay. So as you focus-- actually, this is not a spell--
Laura: We're gonna be so fast for a minute.
Matt: Second-level spell, and it cannot be done at a higher level.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: However, it gives you a full minute of a very focused gust of wind of, as it-- the sails billow even further. You can see the ropes tighten, the guy with the rope around his arm goes, "Ow ow ow ow!" Has to unwind it real fast, go in and ratchet it to the side. But the sails pick up, and the ship itself picks up speed. For the next minute you've got a nice burst or so. You watch as the captain looks over the shoulder to you and gives you a nod, an approving nod, wordless, but--
Marisha: Captain.
Sam: I turn to Doty, and I say, take this down. With an efficiency and an effective leadership role model for everyone, the redhead continues to propel us forward, faster and faster, to everyone's surprise and respect, including the captain. As the salt licks my nose, and the sweet smell of adventure is in the air, I know that with her on our side, we will be strong and we will be protected. End of chapter.
Matt: The tension on the ship--
Marisha: Hey, look! I've got rubber booties! (laughs)
Sam: You're amazing.
Marisha: Aren't I cool, Tary?
Sam: Yes you are, ahoy!
Marisha: Ahoy!
Sam: (hearty laugh) Delightful!
Matt: The tension on the ship slowly recedes over the next hour as there is no sign of anything else.
Laura: Nothing?
Liam: Hey, man!
Travis: What?
Liam: You can't walk off in the middle of a game of hide-and-seek again. I've been in a barrel for an hour! I fell asleep in there!
Travis: I'm sorry, I get so distracted. Did someone find you?
Liam: No, I just woke up in a barrel, I don't even know what time it is--
Travis: Found you.
Liam: Touché, Grog.
Travis: Hey, do you want to help me? I think there's one of those wooden naked ladies on the front of the ship but I can't really see.
Liam: Uh.
Travis: Wanna reach a hand around and see if you get a handful of wooden boob?
Liam: Do you want me to do a reach-around, is that what you're asking me to do?
Travis: I might not ever ask you again, but right now, yes.
Liam: Okay, yeah, this is not like the wood nymph-- Never mind.
Travis: No, no, no.
Liam: I go ahead and do a reach-around, I suppose.
Matt: Okay. You shimmy out onto the front of the ship. You do actually see just the cusp of what looks like a pair of hands that are clasped, carved into the top of where the wooden point at the front of the ship is. So there is definitely a figure there.
Liam: Yeah, I'll hang down.
Matt: Okay. You hang down, and reach, as one would. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This got weird quick.
Matt: As you kinda grasp over and hold and feel around there--
Laura: This is so ridiculous.
Matt: -- not finding much in the breasts, but you find a bulge. It does indeed have a figure at the front of the ship, this one is not female.
Liam: Is it a wang?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Nice.
Matt: I mean it's a bulge where one would be, yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: This is an equal opportunity ship.
Laura: That's right.
Liam: Pat, pat, pat.
Travis: What you got down there?
Liam: Oh, she's a beaut, Grog, I wish you could see her. (all laugh)
Travis: Really? Describe her to me in vivid detail.
Liam: Oh, uh. Athletic, hearty. You know, curves in all the right places.
Travis: I'm loving this.
Liam: Yup, yup. Your type, I think.
Travis: Man, battle scars?
Liam: Uh.
Travis: How many breasts? Please say three.
Liam: It's one good, one good chest, here. You know what, I will draw you a picture. All right?
Travis: Yeah, that's great!
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna try to climb up without falling into the drink, all right?
Travis: Oh, yeah, that'd be good.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an athletics check real fast
Travis: (giggles)
Liam: Is this my character sheet? (all laugh)
Liam: That's a five.
Matt: That's a five? (laughs) You hear this brief bit of tension (sound of exertion). And then a (splash).
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Vax? Vax? Yeah, okay, right, you fell off the ship. Right? Vax? Um?! (all laugh)
Sam: First player death.
Travis: I think Vax may have fallen overboard.
Marisha: Grog, what did you do?
Travis: I know it could be a very elaborate joke, but you know that sound when you deuce, and it goes  (ker-ploop)? (all laugh)
Travis: I just heard that and I think it was Vax.
Marisha: Ugh.
Laura: Can I look down in the water?
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, you look down, you don't see anybody in the water, but a moment passes and you glance over and there, up the side of the ship, with two daggers, climbing, and soaking, sopping wet with seawater, which has caused all of the heavy, thick black fabric to just become an additional 40 pounds on him, you watch Vax make his way up to the top of the ship once more.
Liam: This is the best this armor has smelled in weeks! (all laugh)
Liam: Ugh. I love the ocean!
Laura: I'm gonna land in the crow's nest with Percy.
Travis: That was amazing! You are so drenched right now.
Liam: I'm twice as heavy as normal.
Travis: Man. Yeah, no seriously, she's that stunning, huh, in the front?
Liam: I start--
Travis: I can't wait for the picture.
Liam: Oh yeah, yes, big.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Big.
Travis: Big booby. (all laugh)
Liam: That's you.
Travis: Big booby.
Marisha: I kinda do a quick, like, Druidcraft gust and dry him off a little bit.
Matt: Okay. It's like holding a hairdryer to him, just (loud whooshing). (all laugh)
Matt: His lips are like (pbbbft) off to the side briefly.
Liam: I shake like a husky a little bit.
Matt: Exactly.
Matt: All right, you said you head to the crow's nest with Percy?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Anything in particular, just keeping watch?
Laura: Just keeping watch.
Taliesin: Sitting and sketching.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Looking out every now and then.
Laura: I don't feel as nauseous up here, it's nice.
Taliesin: Quite nice.
Matt: All right. About two hours later, I'll have you both roll perception checks, if you could.
Liam: This is the laziest day we've ever had.
Laura: I know, it's nice.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: Wow, no.
Matt: Days at sea, it's nice.
Sam: Meanwhile, Whitestone burns. (all laugh)
Matt: Shh.
Travis: Getting flashes.
Laura: No!
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: To be fair, I'm not really looking very much.
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: Okay. 11. Yeah, you're distracted.
Travis: Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: I'm distracted.
Matt: With your companion.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay.
Taliesin: You're less distracted.
Laura: Uh, pretty distracted for Vex.
Travis: Is it clear skies or are we sailing through fog?
Matt: Uh, no, it is clear skies.
Travis: Right, so we could just look up, and see horror.
Taliesin: Wait, what?
Travis: What?
Laura: We're not having sex, we're just talking.
Travis: Oh!
Taliesin: Just having a chill. It's just to chill up there. It's nice.
Travis: Oh, right.
Liam: Just like a prom make-out, that's all.
Laura: No! Just chatting.
Taliesin: You're just sitting and drawing in a basket!
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: In a crow's nest? Like a big laundry basket? It's just like--
Taliesin: Yes, it's basically a hamper.
Laura: Yeah. TRAVIS Oh, okay.
Liam: It's the most privacy you've had--
Sam: Any hand action going on?
Taliesin: Oh my God!
Matt: (laughs) Jesus Christ!
Laura: No hand action, no hand action.
Taliesin: That got dark.
Matt: Anyway, you guys, due to distraction, catch it about the same time the rest of the party does. As you look ahead and notice that there is a fog bank forming maybe a few hundred feet ahead of the ship.
Travis: Called it.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Who sees it?
Matt: Well, everybody does now.
Marisha: Oh, everybody does now. Can I do a nature check to see if it looks like natural ocean fog?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's not great. 14.
Matt: 14. It doesn't take much for you to realize that this fog is pretty localized. It's not an entire bank that covers the entirety of the ocean in actuance. You kind of travel from one side of the boat to the other to get the scope of it. It's pretty narrow and pretty focused in its direction.
Marisha: Does this look like something that I would have? Like, is this another druid doing a fog cloud spell?
Matt: You recognize this to be of similar size although magnified.
Marisha: Bigger than us?
Matt: A little--
Marisha: Than my spell. Bigger than my spell?
Matt: Bigger than the usual spell that you are used to casting but it does appear localized enough to be of a similar-type spell or effect.
Travis: Hey, Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Quick question. Is there a d-- decor-- uh, like a proper way to announce ourselves?
Sam: Protocol.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: Well, I--
Matt: The ship suddenly lists a bit as you watch as Adella is now turning the wheel and turning the ship to try and veer around the fog bank that suddenly has appeared, and she's shouting off to some of her crew. They're starting to man the ballista at the back of the ship once more--
Laura: Is this normal? Is this a sea monster?
Matt: "Um. It's fog!"
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: "I have not yet encountered a monster that creates fog! But I'd rather not be caught off guard."
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait, this--
Sam: I can communicate with semaphore if that's something you'd like me to do?
Travis: What's semaphore?
Sam: It's communication with flags. It's a primitive communication technique that I learned in many of my studies, boat-to-boat it's really helpful. I pull out a couple of pieces of fabric and start gesturing--
Travis: Holy shit. You're that guy. (all laugh)
Travis: Where is the other boat?
Sam: Well, you just said to announce ourselves, I could announce. Vox--
Laura: I wonder if they can see through the fog?
Sam: -- Ma--
Travis: Yeah, we should have him do that. You should go to the front of the ship--
Sam: -- chi--
Travis: -- and just make sure they know we're coming.
Marisha: Can you do any flourishes?
Sam: -- na.
Marisha: Can you do any like tosses? Like color guard?
Sam: Oh, no, no.
Marisha: Oh, damn. All right.
Sam: That would be really cool, though.
Marisha: Sorry, Captain? How close are we to our destination? This could be Vesrah.
Matt: "From the recent calculations I made on our map, we're at least a day and a half out."
Marisha: Really? Does this look to be island-sized?
Matt: She's glancing over the front and-- you guys, by the way, are up there in the crow's nest and one of the ship hands is now climbing up the rope net to get to the top as part of his job--
Laura: It's a little crowded up here, but--
Matt: -- he gets up there and goes, "Um."
Laura: I hop on the broom and get out of it so he has more room.
Taliesin: I'm used to this enough, I know how to make room from last time I was on a boat.
Matt: He hops in and pulls out his spy glass and begins looking out. Shouts down to the captain. "Captain! It's moving!"
Laura: It's moving!
Taliesin: It's moving?
Matt: And you watch as she shifts-- the ship begins to turn wide to move around and the fog shifts to meet the direction of the ship.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: Smart fog.
Laura: I just pull out an arrow and get ready.
Marisha: So it's coming towards us?
Matt: Mm-hm, or the ship is going towards it.
Laura: I'm going to tie off a rope to the broom.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Matt: All right. She continues to try and move around, and the fog cloud shifts around, shakes her head and you hear as Adella shouts out, "All right, looks like we're going in. Be at the ready!" And eventually the fog bank hits the front of the ship, and within moments your visibility is cut to nothing.
Travis: What?
Matt: You can see no more than maybe a few feet past the edge of the boat, and for those at the back of the ship, the front of the ship is obscured. Those at the front of the ship, the back of the ship is obscured. It is a very, very thick fog that has completely immersed the outside of the ship.
Travis: Vax, don't try anything.
Taliesin: Everybody keep checking in.
Sam: I will flip a coin to Jumbo over there and tell him, listen, if things get hairy you might want to use this.
Travis: Use what? I can't see you.
Sam: Oh, God! Shit! (all laugh)
Marisha: I do another Gust of Wind and clear the ship deck and clear the path ahead of us.
Matt: Okay. They clear out, and slowly the fog begins to choke back inwards. Slowly, it does help temporarily, but as the ship moves forward basically you move past the area that you've cleared out a little bit, and the rest of the fog tends to envelop it.
Marisha: I'm going to see if I can see what this is from underneath the water. I'll be back. And I swan-dive off of the edge and into the water.
Laura: Did you say it over the earring?
Marisha: Yeah, bye. I'll be back. Bye! I'm going to do Alter Self to give myself little gills and little fin hands and go with the ship.
Sam: As I see her do this, I am going to alter myself to have the same.
Marisha: Oh! What's up, Tary?
Sam: I pick up the coin and hand it to Grog and say, this will make you fly. And I'll dive over the edge as well.
Matt: Okay, Tary gives a graceful, if a little clunkier, dive. In full armor, which makes it hard to swim.
Sam: Oh, shit. (all laugh)
Matt: But you can breathe underwater. It's medium armor, it's not too crazy, you're fine. But you with a much heavier splash. You look behind you, and see Taryon has met you in the water with the gills also kind of extending out of the sides of his neck. I would like both of you to make perception checks. (all laugh)
Matt: Make perception checks, please.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: It was cocked. It was right on a 20, which sucks. That's all right, perception check, 24.
Matt: 24. Okay, as you guys hit the water and go underneath for a second, you can see amongst the water, which is relatively still out here, and there's still the fog above, you see a slight displacement in the water.
Sam: Oh, there's something in the water, a boat.
Matt: Keyleth, you look over and you can see the displacement. There is nothing dark, but it's almost like something is pushing down into the water, or like there is a concave portion of the water.
Marisha: But nothing under the surface? Nothing breaking the surface tension of the water?
Matt: It is breaking the surface tension, like it's in-- as you glance over you can see there's what appears to be an unnatural break in the waves like a path.
Laura: Like it's invisible?
Matt: It's like another ship or something of that size is currently keeping in time with the Drensala Vis.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: It looks smooth. It looks man-made?
Matt: Well, you don't see what's there. All you see is the break in the water.
Marisha: It's invisible. Okay, I come up out of the water and I use my earring to communicate that to everyone else.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Do you still have your fucking gills on?
Marisha: It's, you know-- I don't know, do I?
Laura: Does that mean you choke?
Travis: Yeah are you like--
Marisha: Can I communicate?
Sam: She has gills but she keeps her mouth and stuff right?
Marisha: I can still talk.
Matt: You can still speak, I'd say, once you break the surface of the water.
Marisha: Yeah I come out of the water and communicate it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You sound like Kim Carnes. Everybody, this is great. (all laugh)
Marisha: A little bit like Linda Blair.
Matt: All right, you guys hear Keyleth begin to inform you as you hear off to the left side of the ship two localized sounds-- it sounds like wood slamming into wood or some sort of a heavy impact, two in rapid succession. And you watch as from out of the fog two extremely long metallic jagged and almost like hooks or giant grappling hooks slam into the ship with chains behind them that suddenly grow taut. The rest of the crew begins to turn around and move their ballistas in the direction of where the chains come from, but you still see nothing there. The fog is too thick.
Liam: I'm going to hide.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Travis: And we can see the hooks, right?
Matt: You can see the hooks, yes.
Laura: Can we see the hooks from the crow's nest?
Matt: It's just out of view. You watch them pass through, and you see them arc below you, and then vanish into the fog. And you hear the impact and the ship kind of (impact noise) from the hit.
Laura: I want to try and hover down so I can see a little better.
Taliesin: Are you with me?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to very quietly say that I'm going to grab onto your broom and head towards that end. I'm also going to activate the spider climbing boots.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I would definitely like to go and see the giant sea creature claw that just grabbed onto the boat.
Matt: Okay, you rush up to the edge of this giant claw that's hit it and you can see it's a thick-- like a dark iron pole maybe about that long--
Travis: Oh!
Matt: -- it's about that big around and has a large chain affixed to it that just progresses off that side of the boat into the fog. It looks like a series of giant hooks or curved spikes, and it has jammed and dug itself and dragged and caught on to the actual deck of the ship.
Travis: Good news, not a sea monster. Bad news, a big hook that leads to nowhere.
Laura: Get it off the ship. Can you pull it off?
Travis: Sure. So I'll try and lift the hook off the ship.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. You're lifting right now and it's not shifting. Unfortunately, the weight of both the ship moving forward, the tension on the chain and the hook, and the hook being so heavily dug into the deck, like versus that portion you're just not getting enough of a lift. There's too much torsion on the actual connection to the ship.
Travis: You know what, I want to see where this leads. I'm going to leave it here.
Liam: Fuck you, physics.
Marisha: I'm going to swim closer to where the chains are coming from and swim closer to the invisi-ship.
Sam: I join her.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Trinket's going to run up next to Grog.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket and Grog are now heading to the left side of the ship--
Travis: Hey, buddy.
Matt: --you guys are swimming in the water towards that direction, and you watch as suddenly what was once a slight displacement in the water becomes visible. And you see before you a smaller, more compact-looking ship, but it has a series of iron plates all across it in various places. It's armored from all directions, haphazardly. Not a beautiful construction per se, but made for function.
Marisha: I'm going to come up-- oh, go ahead.
Matt: You look up, and from what you can see on the edge of the ship, and you can see what appear to be two small gray crystals that are giving a faint glow, and it looks like they are actually creating and emanating this fog that is surrounding the space.
Travis: Awesome.
Taliesin: Fog machine.
Marisha: I'm going to come up and, in the path as the ship is going by, can I do a poof of Faerie Fire in front of it? To see if I can Faerie Fire the ship?
Matt: Okay, well, you can only Faerie Fire creatures in a small area, a ship--
Marisha: It's not going to do it.
Matt: --probably shouldn't be Faerie Fire.
Marisha: Okay, then I'm going to see if I can-- can I try and grab onto the side of the ship?
Matt: With just your fingers? It's pretty-- I mean-- okay, you know what, I will say because of the iron plating there is a little bit of a grip.
Marisha: The seams?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: With your webbed fingers.
Sam: Can I join her on this?
Matt: Mm-hm. You can, indeed.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: You reach up and grab, and about three nails snap, and you lose your grip, falling back into the water.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Oh, ow.
Laura: That's just mean.
Marisha: That shit hurts.
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: You barely hold on. You don't climb, but you hold on and watch as Keyleth just--
Sam: Oh! I'm alone. (all laugh)
Sam: Do I see her in the water?
Matt: You see her splash and disappear under the water below. The fog is starting to close around the area.
Sam: Shit. She can swim; she'll be okay. She's so strong and powerful.
Marisha: Do I see Tary?
Matt: You just went under the water. You come back up and you watch Tary vanish as you're now being left behind. The ships are traveling faster.
Laura: Keyleth, can you do anything about this fog?
Marisha: Yes! Once I track down the ship. I kind of swim up and I say, Tary can you catch-- this might be bad. Do I see any type of-- what are they called? Cleats. The ship cleats. Do I see anything like ship cleats? Right?
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's right, it's the little prongs.
Marisha: Like the little things, the prongs. Do I see anything like that? I want to try and do a-- like a grasp-- like Thorn Whip myself to the ship.
Matt: You see one, it's a little ways up from where the ship is actually hitting the water. You would have to probably swim close enough to get there. I'm going to say, make an athletics check to see how quickly you can try and swim against the ocean just for this brief moment. You're going to have to roll pretty high.
Marisha: Well, that's not great. Just straight athletics?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Athletics is pretty good! 15!
Matt: 15?
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: I'll say you don't fall too far behind the ship, it's still going faster than you and the water is kind of up and down. Using your Alter Self gills, you can dive below the surface to try and avoid the choppiness of the ocean, and you come back up. What's the range on your Thorn Whip?
Marisha: 30-foot range.
Matt: 30-foot range, and it pulls whatever is there ten feet towards you. We can say it'll pull you ten feet towards it. So it gives you a slight arc, but not enough to actually reach the ship, you can just cruise past the grasping range of Taryon. So, Taryon, as you're there on the side and you glance over and you watch as Keyleth suddenly produces a large thorny whip, a druidic vine that wraps around the small cleat on the side of the ship.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you watch as she arcs out of the fog towards you, reaching her hand out in your direction.
Sam: I will--
Marisha: Tary!
Sam: Yes!
Marisha: Tary!
Sam: Yes, grab my hero's hand. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. You grab her hand--
Marisha: Tary! I want to apologize right now. Because in this moment, I am a damsel and I am in distress! (all laugh)
Marisha: So cross it off, bitch. Come on!
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Okay. Okay.
Taliesin: Oh, please. Oh, please.
Sam: Wait, strength?
Matt: Yes, just a strength modifier bonus.
Sam: I'm feeling lucky! Yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: 19.
Liam: Hey!
Matt: Okay. All right. You grab her, and you-- it pulls you from two points, but you had managed to keep your hold and grasp Keyleth, now dangling from your arm.
Sam: I did a lot of pushups today! Ow, ow, ow, ow.
Matt: It is. You're very sore-- (all laugh)
Matt: You are very sore, but you manage to get her right up to the edge of the ship, and she manages to get a grip onto the edge.
Sam: I. Was amazing. (all laugh)
Marisha: You were. Today, in this moment, for this 30 seconds of time--
Sam: Augh! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm gonna be in the middle of this for months.
Marisha: --you were a hero.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be right in the middle of this. For months. Okay.
Sam: We'll omit that part. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Did it leave a little stain?
Sam: It's in my nose.
Marisha: Thanks. Okay.
Matt: You look up at this point and you can just barely see the chain, and you watch as a couple shapes, just barely visible through the fog, are now leaping across the chain towards your ship. So--
Marisha: I give a heads up. Heads up, heads up, people. Incoming forces, coming your way!
Matt: You guys in the ship, you glance over where the chains are currently pulling taut. You watch as a series of humanoid figures wearing dark, dark green and black leathers, their faces partially obscured, rush onto the ship, weapons drawn. I'm gonna ask everyone to roll initiative.
Marisha: Fuck. I hope these aren't my--
Travis: Right. You ran into our ship!
Marisha: --these aren't, like, my people, right? I haven't found out who they are.
Laura: I know! What if they are?
Travis: We gonna kill 'em.
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: Whoa! I don't feel good about that.
Laura: Look at that!
Marisha: Yay, it's a boat!
Travis: Boats!
Sam: There's a boat! Oh, wow, the top-down view looks so three-dimensional right now.
Laura: Yeah, really, it does.
Sam: It's really cool.
Laura: This is insane! This looks so 3D!
Travis: Well done, man!
Sam: 1980s graphics!
Matt: I can't take full credit for these. These were already premade
Travis: Aw.
Taliesin: This is like the finest arcade that I've ever been by.
Laura: This is so cool.
Travis: Which one's us?
Matt: All right. There's the two of them in the ocean currently off to the side.
Travis: You dingalings.
Laura: They can fly. They can fly. Oh my goodness gracious. This is so cool. What is this? What is that?
Matt: All right, so. Up in the crow's nest, we have Percy, one of the other shipmates, kinda up there. We have, down here at the wheel, the captain. These two, wielding two different ballistas.
Travis: At the bow of the ship, heading for --
Laura: -- a new land!
Matt: We have Doty, just hanging off to the side, watching and trying to take record of whatever's happening at the moment. Grog, where are you?
Travis: Wherever that grappling hook was.
Matt: That would be right here.
Sam: (roars)
Matt: With Trinket right by your side.
Travis: Welcoming committee.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We're gonna eat it.
Laura: Me and Percy had said we were sort of on our way down.
Taliesin: Or actually, we had sort of headed towards the other boat.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Right, so you guys had made your way. So, yeah. So--
Taliesin: I was gonna ask you to drop me at the other crow's nest on the other ship.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You need more iron in my diet.
Marisha: These are probably the Water Ashari, aren't they?
Matt: So you guys are heading this way? Are you taking him with you?
Taliesin: If you're down.
Laura: Uh, I was going to. I wasn't going to go all the way to the other boat, but I can. If you want to go with us.
Taliesin: Oh, please!
Sam: Toy boat, toy boat.
Sam: Toy boat.
Taliesin: Toy boat.
Laura: Toy boat.
Taliesin: Toy boat.
Laura: Toy boat.
Sam: Tor Books.
Sam: Tor Books, Tor Books. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Tor Books, Tor Books. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Tor Books, Tor Books, Tor Books. It's actually kinda hard.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Vax, where are you? Since you are hiding.
Liam: Well, I did a stealth check, and I got a 25--
Matt: Right.
Liam: I didn't know what the boat looked like, so if there's stuff in the bottom, I'd hide there, but if they're gone, I could also have gone up to the crow's nest. Whichever.
Matt: You could probably be hiding amongst one of the low sails probably. So we'll say you're up in this sail.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: In that vicinity. All righty. So. Bringing us now to the initiative order.
Taliesin: Oh, boy.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Liam: Shit.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Yikes.
Liam: (knocks on table)
Matt: 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 15.
Laura: 18.
Liam: 18.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Eee.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Twins.
Liam: Wapetopetok!
Laura: (explosion sounds)
Liam: (explosion sounds)
Travis: You both had 18?
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Nice.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Travis: 14.
Matt: Grog. All right.
Marisha: Oh. 11. Sorry.
Matt: That's all right. Keyleth. And then?
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Tary.
Laura: Hey, look, some things don't change. (all laugh)
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: Burn!
Sam: Stings.
Matt: All righty. So. You watch as these figures just jump across from the chains that are lashed onto the boat, and as two of them make it across, suddenly, up the side of the ship, you watch as if a singular wave seems to (water rushing) and splash onto the edge of the ship. However, as the water crests and splashes into the ground, it forms up into its own physical entity.
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Oh shit. Water elementals.
Matt: You've seen this form once before, that Keyleth has taken--
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: --this is a water elemental.
Laura: What if this is the Ashari?
Marisha: It probably is. Just haven't figured that out yet.
Matt: (laughs) Where did I last put it? All righty, so. That being the case, I'm gonna go ahead and pull these up there.
Laura: Did we say we did anything about the fog? The fog is still there.
Matt: The fog is still in this vicinity right now. So, you're under the effect of a Fog Cloud spell... for the area. So, basically, the area around is heavily obscured. So that will increase uh, AC to a number of individuals. Perfect. All right, so. So first off, this elemental rushes forward to Grog, splashes around in your direction. Grog, it's gonna go ahead and take a series of swings at you.
Travis: Sweet.
Matt: Yeah, it's gonna take two slam attacks. That is a 23 to hit?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And an 18 to hit.
Travis: Hits also.
Matt: All righty. So you suffer 12 points of bludgeoning damage. That's full damage. You're not raging.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: And that is 15. 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Total? Or 12 and 15 both?
Matt: 12 and 15.
Travis: Gotcha.
Matt: All right, that ends that guy's turn. Next up is Vax and Vex.
Laura: I was on my way over to the other--
Taliesin: Drop off.
Laura: -- towards the other ship.
Travis: Bludgeoning.
Taliesin: As long as you roll by, I'll just let go.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: You can drop me off.
Laura: Percy wants to be dropped off at the crow's nest, so I'll fly over that direction.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Keeping an eye out for anything visible that I can shoot at.
Taliesin: The minute I see a rope, I'll just let go and drop. So she can just keep moving.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say--
Laura: Flyby.
Matt: As you guys make it onto the other side of the ship--
Taliesin: You know, you could've spent your time making two very complex Lego pirate ships. All week.
Matt: You're right.
Taliesin: I'm just saying.
Matt: But I don't have that time, unfortunately. (all laugh)
Matt: Right, so you guys, right over to this ship here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You drop him in the crow's nest.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: All right. And you are currently on your bow? Is that all you're gonna do?
Laura: I'm on-- yeah, I'm on my broom. I'm just riding my bow around.
Matt: Fair enough.
Laura: Can I drift down to where I can see anything and I say to Keyleth, Uh, fog? Can you do anything about the fog?
Matt: On their ship?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So as you coast down a little lower, I want you to make a perception check.
Laura: I like that one. 31.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: 31. You glance down, and as the fog parts, you see on this ship, there are three other similarly dressed, dark green and black leather humanoids that are now beginning to rush over the chain, and standing back, on the back of the ship, arms crossed, you see a large humanoid with a fish-like head. It has no nose, a big fish-like mouth, big bulbous throat, kind of a greenish-blue skin color, very turquoise, with big fin gills at the side and a large crest that goes down the head. But it's wearing fine billowing silks, and a large vest, and its lower torso, from this giant oversized kind of plump belly, the lower torso is just this swirl of water that sits there, and it looks like it's currently concentrating through the fog on the opposite side.
Laura: Oh, jebus.
Matt: It does not seem to notice you at the moment.
Laura: Then, I'm gonna try to Bramble Shot that motherfucker.
Matt: It is right there.
Marisha: Well, that's pretty cool.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot a Bramble Shot at him.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. 20?
Matt: 20? Hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes. Okay. Oh, Hunter's Mark. Motherfuck! That's okay, sneak attack.
Travis: It's all right, you've never played this game before.
Laura: Why? I can't help it, I get so happy. Okay.
Matt: Let's see. Actually, roll again. Because in the fog cloud you do have disadvantage on strikes.
Travis: Oh, that's cruel, man.
Laura: That's cruel.
Travis: (laughs painfully) Don't do it.
Matt: One?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Oh. That sucks.
Laura: That's okay. That's okay, I'm gonna try to do another shot. And in that downtime, I'm gonna fucking Hunter's Mark.
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: There you go.
Sam: Turn them lemons--
Travis: Into orange juice. (all laugh)
Matt: So this entity is currently Hunter's Marked, and you can take your second attack, if you like.
Laura: Okay. I can't do a Bramble Shot again 'cause that was wasted? Or does that mean-- Does a Bramble Shot only work if it connects?
Matt: I'm gonna say for the purpose of this Bramble Shot, 'cause it's only fair and it's a powerful vestige, it only works if it connects. That should change the wording on that.
Laura: Okay. Okay, I'm gonna try.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 does hit.
Laura: Yes! Okay. 15 plus four lightning damage.
Matt: Slick.
Laura: Plus Sneak Attack. Woo, an 11 for the Sneak Attack and Hunter's Mark. And then the DC of 17 or be restrained. That's strength save.
Matt: Gotcha.
Laura: And I'm gonna do the Bramble Shot damage now.
Matt: That is a 13.
Laura: Hoo, yes! He's restrained.
Matt: Go for it, roll the damage. For Bramble Shot.
Laura: Ooh. Is that a sev-- that's a one. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and make a concentration check on him. He succeeds. With a 26. All right, so, the first shot whips past and just slams into the ship. You watch as this giant fish entity kinda glances off to the side, looks down and starts looking up into the fog cloud, but you're right above it at this point, or just off to the side, and you fire your second arrow, it turns just in time to see it hit it in the shoulder, as it glances up, tries to snap it free. The wooden shaft of the arrow suddenly sprouts all these vines and thorns that begin to wrap around it and it tears in its body, and it's currently stuck in place. It cannot move.
Laura: Awesome. And I say, Percy, spellcaster, right below you. Fish guy.
Taliesin: (exhales) Got it. Not sure what to do.
Sam: Noted.
Matt: All right. So, ending that, we come to Vax's turn.
Liam: One of the assailants is directly across from me, on the other side of our boat, right?
Matt: There is one crossing right now.
Liam: But there is one guy who made it onto the boat?
Matt: There's two of them who made onto the boat, right there.
Liam: Right there? I'm gonna attempt to Assassinate that motherfucker.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, god!
Matt: So you're-- we'll say you're up over, you kind of shimmy your way along the edge of the sail, and you're looking right down below him.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: This guy right there.
Liam: So, advantage on this.
Matt: The guy closest to Grog, or the guy who's alone right there?
Liam: The one that you are touching right now.
Matt: Okay, gotcha.
Liam: Yeah. So that is a 32 to hit.
Matt: That will hit.
Liam: So this is Assassinate, it's an auto-crit--
Matt: Did you roll at disadvantage because of the fog cloud?
Liam: Well, no, but I'm at advantage because of Assassinate, so the first roll was a 19.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine.
Liam: Which is still a 32. Here we go.
Laura: I get 2d6 now for Sneak Attack.
Matt: You do. So roll another d6.
Laura: Another six!
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: Hey, that die!
Matt: That's 48 points of damage in one hit.
Laura: Bramble Shot, motherfucker!
Liam: Doing my maths over here. 32, 36, 72. That's 80 points of damage.
Matt: 80 points of damage.
Travis: What the fuck? No wonder Tary almost died.
Liam: Is he still standing?
Matt: No. (all laugh)
Travis: Assassinate!
Matt: Just leaps off the chain and pulls out what looks like-- for this, it would be a dagger and a rapier. Glances around and goes lunging in for the captain of the ship. Gets maybe two steps, before your blade sinks into the back of the neck. And he just hits the side, and collapses, right at the edge of the ship right there. Done.
Liam: Okay, just for funsies I will throw my second dagger at the one right in front of Trink.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So, that is not that good.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: That's a 13.
Matt: Okay, yeah. Even with disadvantage. Okay. So this one you fire, and just disappears off to the side of the ship, but returns to your belt. Are you gonna stay where you are?
Liam: No, I'm gonna drop down.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And circle around Trinket's tush.
Matt: All right. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Just to land from the top there.
Liam: Yeah, 25.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. So you move around behind Trinket. All righty.  That ends your turn, Vax. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm gonna take a quick look around to see if I can figure out what's causing this fog because it's annoying me.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: That's a 19.
Matt: Glancing about in the area, it's hard to see, especially from this vantage point. The area is so heavily obscured with fog. You do glance and see what looks to be a very, very faint general glow in a lower area towards the edge of the ship. But that's all you can make out.
Taliesin: Starboard? Port?
Matt: It'd be on this side.
Taliesin: All right. Somebody take a look at anything. There's a glow coming from the starboard side of the enemy ship. It's the one closest to our ship. We need to find out what's causing this fog. In the meantime, I'm gonna slowly make my way down a couple of the ropes. Is that an enemy right there? That guy?
Matt: You're up here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know. I'm asking if that's an enemy on our ship, right there.
Matt: This is an enemy right there.
Marisha: The water elemental.
Matt: These are enemies. These are your guys, the guys with the red cloaks; the red color signifies your own crewmates.
Taliesin: Okay, so we have two enemies that are currently on their ship.
Matt: Two enemies in their ship, one that's currently crossing, and one that is on the other side.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm gonna slowly start making my way, just maybe a few feet down, and I'm going to shoot those two people who are on the very edge. Both of them in the back.
Sam: There's no honor in that.
Taliesin: No. There is, on the other hand, fine comedy about to happen.
Sam: True, true.
Taliesin: I'm gonna very, very carefully. And I'm at disadvantage with this?
Matt: Disadvantage with each strike, yes.
Taliesin: Oh, that's annoying. Okay, I'm gonna use the pepperbox, the Animus, and I'm also going to burn a Grit for a push.
Matt: For which one of these guys?
Taliesin: What about one on each?
Matt: One of these two?
Taliesin: Both of them. I'll start with the first one, and work my way down.
Matt: Okay. First one there.
Taliesin: All right, so, let's see what happens.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That will do. That's a 28?
Matt: 28 will hit.
Taliesin: And that's-- I'm sorry, you know why I'm a little confused, I just had to switch, again. That's, wow--
Marisha: That's good.
Taliesin: -- that's good. That's 17 points of damage and five points of psychic damage.
Matt: Nice!
Taliesin: And he goes ten feet away from me.
Travis: Ah.
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: (yelps)
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: As he's trying to step across the chain--
Liam: Wilhelm scream.
Matt: (gunshot)
Marisha: (Wilhelm screams)
Matt: He gets blasted. And (Wilhelm scream) just plunges off the side of the chain, loses his footing, tumbles over, and vanishes into the fog. And you hear this splash, a moment later.
Taliesin: Next! I love boats.
Matt: So this guy? Disadvantage on this shot.
Taliesin: Yep. Here we go. That's, oh that's good, 29. I'm rolling really well.
Matt: Yeah, that will hit.
Taliesin: Not as well as yesterday, but really well.
Marisha: (singing) I got a nautical themed, pashmina Afghan.
Taliesin: And that's five, six  that's 11 points of damage and five points of psychic damage, and a ten-foot push.
Matt: All righty. Okay. He also (snapping sound) falls off, grabs the chain, catches it with his finger, but because of the sea spray and the fog, it's too slick and (slipping sound, Wilhelm scream) just falls.
Taliesin: I was just gonna say, he's happy to grab, and I'll deal with that too.
Matt: Yeah. But they both have fallen off the ship.
Marisha: That's what she said? No.
Taliesin: I can make him drop things. I have that power.
Marisha: Oh. My god. Drop the chain they're holding on to?
Taliesin: I've been wanting to watch somebody holding on and make them drop it. I've been wanting to do that for like, probably a year and a half now. God, is there anybody fun on our side?
Laura: The fish guy.
Taliesin: You've got him grappled.
Matt: You've one guy walking across, right now, on the chain, and the guy below you who is grappled, and the water elemental that's also attacking you.
Travis: Yeah, don't you get advantage on grappled guy?
Taliesin: Technically I would. That would cancel out, wouldn't it?
Matt: He is restrained, which means attacks on him are with advantage, so it would cancel it out.
Taliesin: It would cancel it out automatically. Oh. In that case, I'm gonna take a shot on him.
Laura: And it'll probably get a chance to be unrestrained as soon as it's his turn.
Taliesin: Okay, good point. So, I'm gonna take a Sharpshooter shot. I'm also going to-- is he holding anything?
Matt: Not that you can see.
Taliesin: That's good. And he's a magic? Yeah, that will do. I'll just take a good old-fashioned Sharpshooter shot. So that's-- that's not as good. That's 18 to hit?
Matt: 18 to hit? Just barely hits.
Taliesin: Oh, thank god. Okay.
Liam: I hope these aren't your cousins.
Marisha: They might be.
Taliesin: Well. They were a little--
Travis: Nobody's tried talking yet?
Marisha: We'll figure that out.
Laura: We're kind of being ambushed. So...
Taliesin: That's kind of heavy. That's gonna be 24 points of damage, and three points of psychic damage.
Laura: I don't think your cousins are fish people.
Marisha: My cousins might be fish men.
Liam: They could be werefish or...
Marisha: They could be anybody. They could be werefish.
Matt: Gotcha. Okay, so you managed to fire (gunshot) the third shot out from Animus. You see it blasts into the upper shoulder and back portion of this fish-like creature. (growls) It does not look terribly happy. But it is currently still bound by the various thorny vines that have wrapped around it. End your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm just gonna crawl a couple feet into the ropes in that direction.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm just gonna keep rope-swinging. There we are.
Matt: There you go. All righty, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: After getting hit by the water elemental, can I go, Hey! What do you want?
Matt: The water elemental just (gurgling growls).
Travis: Fuck it. You got saltwater in my eyes; I would like to rage!
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I go into a rage.
Marisha: It's not me, Grog. It's not me.
Travis: Oh, I hadn't thought about that. (all laugh)
Travis: And I beat the shit out of it with the dwarven hammer. Two hits.
Matt: Go for it. Two strikes.
Travis: Are these at disadvantage? Or I'm right up there?
Matt: No, you're melee, you're fine.
Travis: Hey! Reckless attack.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, my.
Liam: Hells yeah.
Travis: 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Nice. 17.
Matt: 17 damage. Okay. Now your last strike?
Travis: God, those are balls! They're not literal balls. 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Nice!
Travis: 24. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage? Okay, nice. So you start bludgeoning its watery form. Even though you see the water splashing around, and it's soaking everything in the vicinity, you are still watching as each blow forces the creature to kinda shift and move, and you hear this (gurgling sound) kind of dull thud sound, and a pained noise seems to emit from this elemental creature with each impact.
Travis: You can do better than that.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to the rest of the crew. So these guys-- the water has now pushed them past a bit. They are moved and they're starting to try and swim their way to the edge of the ship, and they're starting to actually-- Let's see what their rolls are for their athletics. Natural 20, nice. Okay, so they both make their way up to the side of this side of the ship and latch onto the edge, right beside Keyleth and Taryon.
Sam: Oh, great.
Marisha: Can I say something to him?
Matt: Yeah, as both (grunts) get out of the water, they're pulling up right alongside you, pulling blades out.
Marisha: Hi! Kaitiyaki. Water Ashari?
Matt: You hear them just growl as they pull their blades out, and continue.
Marisha: Hm. Hm.
Liam: Kick his ass.
Travis: Yeah, we tried to talk.
Matt: So for this one, each of them are gonna make two strikes against each of you with their rapiers.
Sam: Oh, great.
Matt: Taryon, that is a 21?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: And a 21.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: I rolled the same number twice in a row. So you take--
Travis: What's your AC there, big guy?
Sam: 15.
Matt: Nine points of piercing damage and five points of piercing damage.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: As it just thrust--
Sam: Ow!
Matt: -- holding onto the side of the ship's armor, thrusting the rapier into you, scraping past your armor. One catches you in the hip.
Sam: Ugh.
Travis: Ooh.
Matt: Keyleth, the other one's gonna make two strikes against you. That's gonna be--
Marisha: Cousins?
Matt: An eight?
Marisha: No? Oh. Nope, that misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And that's gonna hit you for ten points of piercing damage.
Marisha: Okay. That's-- yeah.
Matt: And it looks like their ascent has stopped and they're just right now happy to just continue to pierce these two stowaways that are gripping onto the side of the ship. This one stumbles across the rest of the chain. And turning and seeing you guys there on the edge, Vax as you dart around the side of Trinket, it's gonna move, avoid the bear, step across, and attempt to attack you twice with the rapier, once with the dagger.
Liam: Sure.
Marisha: Jeez Louise.
Matt: So the dagger's gonna be 11?
Liam: No.
Matt: Not very good.
Liam: That's a no.
Matt: However, that is a 26.
Liam: That hits. Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: And a 19.
Liam: No.
Matt: No. All right, so, they get one rapier strike towards you. That is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Liam: Halved.
Matt: As it just cuts across the center of your armor in the midsection. It doesn't actually get the skin, but it's enough of an impact where you can feel a bruise coming.
Liam: Tight.
Matt: All righty. Ending their turn, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Am I still on the side of the boat?
Matt: You are, yes.
Marisha: I'm gonna climb up that boat.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good, 17 plus my athletics, which is good, which is seven, so 24.
Matt: Okay, so you get up on the edge of the ship, it does get one attack of opportunity against you as you move up. It's gonna slice at you with a rapier. That is gonna be an 18.
Marisha: Miss.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Nice.
Marisha: No. Hit. Sorry.
Matt: Okay, there you go, that's all good. That is ten points piercing damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As the rapier just catches you in the back, and you're like (groans), and you climb up and get back onto the edge of the ship. As you glance around, you can see that there is the weird fish-looking guy in the center of the ship right now. It's currently bound by the vines around him.
Marisha: Any sign that these could still be my people? Pretty certain they're not.
Travis: I think you can let that go now.
Matt: You're pretty sure there's not much of a tribal sign--
Marisha: Nothing?
Matt: -- that resembles anything Ashari-related universally.
Marisha: Guys, real pirates! And then I'm going to do Control Water. And I'm going to raise water 20 feet around me, and start sinking this bitch. I want to sink this ship. 20 feet, just tidal waves coming over the boat, and I'm sinking it.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Control Water, what level is this?
Marisha: Fourth level.
Laura: We could steal this ship. Okay.
Taliesin: It might have stuff.
Marisha: Nope. I'm sinking it.
Matt: Okay, as you get on the edge you begin to pull your arms up, and as you do, you hands begin to glow with a dull blue-turquoise color, similar to the skin of this fish-like creature, and it glances over at you, and its jaw opens. You can see this burbling sound as the edges of the water begin to rise up and splash and pour into the ship, perpetually filling the lower, usually air-filled section of this ship. And it begins to immediately (thud) list a little bit to one side.
Marisha: Do I have any movement, or is that it? Probably getting up is my movement.
Matt: That's gonna be your action, and climbing up is gonna be your movement. So that's kinda where you are.
Marisha: Okay. Cool.
Matt: You can maintain concentration on it.
Taliesin: We're gonna want to break the chains.
Marisha: I maintain concentration.
Matt: You get the sense, it's gonna take a few rounds, but if you keep at this, you'll probably have a  good chance of achieving your goal.
Marisha: Cool. It's what I like to hear in life, in general.
Laura: You might bring our ship down with it, Keyleth.
Travis: If you keep at it, you might be able to achieve your goal.
Marisha: No, it's localized.
Laura: No, but, the chains attaching two ships.
Marisha: Eh. We've got time.
Taliesin: That's the correct response.
Liam: She says as she destroys everything.
Travis: Yep, yeah, yep.
Marisha: Destroy reality?
Matt: Ending Keyleth's turn, it is now the crew's go. So the crew here is gonna turn the ballistas around, as the captain leaps off down and goes behind the guy who attacked you, Vax. She pulls out a scimitar, rushes forward screaming, "Yah!" and just does a full downward arc into the back.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Liam: Adele Dazeem, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: Like Xena. (war cry)
Marisha: Adele Dazeem.
Laura: What does Xena do? (Xena fighting call)
Matt: That is 18. That hits.
Travis: That's it.
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: Second strike is a 23. Both hit.
Liam: She also breaks hearts.
Laura: Left and right.
Liam: Left and right.
Taliesin: Oh, man.
Liam: You can relate.
Travis: Disappointed!
Matt: That's better. 24 points of slashing damage. That ends her turn. These two guys are gonna fire ballistas at the ship. (firing sound, splash)
Travis: Yes! Yes!
Matt: One of them unfortunately just coasts off to the edge and misses the ship.
Travis: Damn it! He's fired.
Matt: The other one is a natural 20.
Travis: Boom!
Laura: Damn!
Matt: Oof, that's gonna be nasty. That, yeah, okay.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: That is 42 points of damage--
Travis: Damn. From one of the ballistas?
Matt: -- to the side of the ship. You watch as one of these ballistas has a similar-looking, like, giant iron arrow, but it's designed to just split and destroy wood on impact. It's pierced, but it seems to splinter out, so it hits, and then breaks as it goes.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: And as it slams into the side of this ship, just above where Taryon and the other guy are. You watch as it (crashing sound) slams and wood splinters and breaks. The impact shakes the side. I'm actually gonna ask both you and that guy to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: That's sorta cocked, but that's okay, I'll take it. That's a five.
Matt: Okay, both of you guys--
Sam: Maybe I'll use Luck, and go again.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: Ooh, yeah. Yeah, that's ten.
Matt: Okay, that's two. That's enough to hold on. The other guy did not make it. So you just hold on from the impact, the other guy (screams) falls back and splashes into--
Sam: You should've worn boat shoes! (all laugh)
Matt: Perfect.
Laura: I like to picture you in full armor with boat shoes on.
Marisha: Boat shoes on!
Matt: As you hold on, you watch as the ballista, which has a chain attached to the back of it as well, is now being ratcheted back. And as it slams through and is pulled back, it's tearing sections of the ship apart. And you can watch now, as it's pulling down and breaking a whole section.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That's gonna go ahead and end this crewman's turn. This guy is gonna go ahead-- crossbow and try to line it up, towards-- I can only see the guy below, with disadvantage. Oh, it's a shame, it's a natural 20. And a 19, actually. Still manages to hit, even with the disadvantage from the fog cloud. Okay, that's eight damage to that guy. All righty. And then this guy over here is gonna move to the water elemental and take a strike on it and misses. (whoosh) It goes and strikes, but the water elemental shifts out of the way, the blade moves past, without an impact. End of the round, we have Taryon.
Sam: Yeah!
Marisha: Taryon!
Sam: Yeah! So, the guy right next to me is gone, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's splashed back. Both of these guys are in the water, back ten feet.
Sam: Oh, they're gone. Okay.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, Can I see? No. I'm gonna climb up.
Matt: Okay, athletics check.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Watch this go bad.
Sam: No, no. It's okay. 16?
Matt: Yeah, that could climb up and get onto the edge of the ship, right next to Keyleth, who's currently concentrating. You see her eyes kinda glowing, and her hands glowing with this faint aqua-look as the water is now, immediately to the right of her, curling up and splashing over the bow of the ship, and just pouring into the ship below.
Sam: So cool. So cool. Okay, I just yell back to Doty, Get rid of the grappling hooks! I don't know, I have no idea what I'm doing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And then I see that the giant thing in front of me, right? Do I see the thing?
Matt: You do see it, yeah. It's currently bound by the series of thorny vines.
Sam: Great. I'll reach into my magic bag, and pull out a vial of acid and just throw it at the thing.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll an attack. It is restrained, so you have advantage on the ranged attack roll.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: What do I add?
Matt: Add your-- it should say under the class.
Sam: My spell attack bonus?
Matt: It should say under the class's ability.
Sam: It says--
Matt: What's your bonus next to it on your sheet? Under your attacks.
Sam: Oh! Oh, it says--
Matt: It should be there.
Sam: No, it doesn't.
Matt: Doesn't? Ah, damn it.
Sam: Oh, wait, no, it says it. But it's cut off. It says, "DC one". I'm sure there's something after that, but are you talking about just to hit it?
Matt: Right. It's their saving throw. It's your spell DC to get past it; I think is what it is. It's not an actual ranged--
Sam: Okay, so then it's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, good to know. Which, he has disadvantage on it, which he rolled a one in the first one, so no.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and roll full damage.
Sam: Great, so that's 7d6.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: LED six!
Laura: They're really pretty.
Taliesin: They're really fun. Yeah, I like it. I know.
Marisha: LED. Six.
Sam: 26.
Matt: 26 points of acid damage.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's good.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Does he let out a fishy scream?
Matt: You watch as you lob your vial, it (shattering sound) burst across the creature's chest--
Taliesin: (gurgling)
Matt: --and the acid (burning sound) begins to burn, burning part of the vines that currently keep it restrained, but--
Sam: Oh, shit! Sorry, sorry! I don't know how this stuff works!
Matt: But it does burn. You see it (gurgling grunts) trying desperately to break free, as you see the smoke of its burning flesh rise up off its body (sizzling sound).
Sam: Okay.
Matt: End your turn, Taryon?
Sam: I have a bonus action. I'll use Sanctuary. On myself.
Matt: Okay. There you go. And with that, Doty's gonna go ahead and reach down and try and grab-- nope. Not with a four. As you see, (creaking noise) you hear the metal kind of creaking, but not getting any sort of actual--
Marisha: Aw.
Taliesin: Knees, not back.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Lift with your knees.
Taliesin: God, robot!
Matt: All right, ending that round, that brings us to the top. The rushing waters: the ships continue to move forward; both of these guys shift backward.
Liam: Bye!
Matt: They're being left behind by the boats.
Taliesin: Good!
Matt: They're trying to swim forward. That brings us to Marid. Okay.
Taliesin: I've been waiting for this so for pretty much a few months.
Matt: So this guy is currently up in the side. And he's looking around, he's gonna make a quick perception check, just to look around. He got shot by you. He got shot by you. He's gonna go ahead and glance up in your direction. He's gonna go ahead and use a Water Jet ability against you.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Actually, let's see here--
Travis: Water Jet.
Laura: (explosion sound)
Matt: You know what, now? No, he's not.
Travis: He's not?
Matt: He is, but he's gonna use a Water Jet--
Laura: Is he not grappled anymore?
Matt: He's still grappled. He's restrained, but he can still do abilities.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: We're fine.
Matt: 60, fine. Yeah, you're up there, but it sees the cluster in that direction. That's his own guy. He won't do that.
Travis: He wouldn't?
Laura: Ooh, honorable.
Matt: Hold on, I'm trying to see what's the most useful--
Sam: Maybe they're family.
Laura: Maybe they are.
Matt: He can't move. He can't angle it. It's really frustrating for him.
Liam: For him, right? For him? It's frustrating for him.
Matt: Yeah, for him.
Travis: It really frustrates him.
Matt: And for that, he's gonna aim for Trinket and Vax.
Laura: What is he doing, what?
Matt: Aiming for Trinket and Vax.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: So, all of a sudden, it turns its head this way, opens its mouth (hoarse gasp) and you watch as this small spiral of  greenish energy begins to swirl. And a singular burst of extremely accelerated water just (hard impact sound) fires through the fog out of sight. You hear this (whoosh) sound, and you turn just in time to watch as it blasts towards both you and Trinket. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, and Trinket as well.
Liam: Vax or Vex?
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Vax. Yeah, you're fine.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine.
Liam: Oh, you're doing Trinket, right.
Laura: Whoa! Trinket rolled so good!
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17?
Laura: Hold on, hold on, holda.
Sam: Hoda, hoda, hoda, hoda.
Laura: Hoda, hoda, hoda, hoda. 20!
Matt: All righty. So Trinket manages to (whoosh) duck down, taking half the damage.
Laura: He was very zen about that duck down.
Travis: (Trinket groans)
Laura: Matrix style, he's diving in. No.
Matt: So 15 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket. 30 to you, Vax.
Liam: But halved, 'cause if I fail, it's halved. If I succeed, it's zero. It's a dexterity so it's Evasion.
Matt: Yeah. Evasion--
Liam: Evasion is for dex saves. If I fail, I take half damage, and if I succeed I take no damage.
Sam: Ooh! That's sexy.
Matt: Right.
Liam: It's how I survive dragon fights.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Travis: (singing) How I survive dragon fights.
Sam: Guys, we're having a water battle.
Laura: You guys!
Taliesin: I've been waiting for this for so long.
Laura: Well, we're having a pirate battle.
Travis: Super soaker!
Sam: Super soakers!
Taliesin: Super soakers!
Travis: Super soaker 250, super soaker 500, super soaker 1000. You remember those?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Sam: Yeah. I didn't know they had gauges.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage. However, you are pushed 20 feet away and knocked prone.
Sam: Ooh. Ooh.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Off the ship?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: (whoosh) Off the edge of the ship.
Sam: Oh! No!
Laura: (gasps) Bro!
Matt: He (splash) into the water below. (splash) It's with such force, that you aren't even given a chance to grab at the ship. You're thrust off at an arc.
Liam: Mm-hm.
Matt: And (splash) into the water. (splash) into the ocean--
Laura: Gosh, thank god Trinket ducked.
Matt: -- soaking you down into the wave. The elemental creature swirls up and occupies both the space of Grog and Trinket, and is going to go ahead and turn it into a whelm. So it's going to uh, attempt to whelm both of you, and I need you and Trinket to make strength saving throws.
Travis: Strength saving throws. I have advantage because I'm raging. 26.
Laura: 18.
Matt: All righty. You guys, both pushed out of its space. So it forces you out. However, you both manage to escape any sort of damage as its giant spiral, this whirlwind of water spins around and you both barely force your way out of it before it can do any serious damage to you.
Laura: Bearly.
Matt: All right, that leads us to Vax's turn.
Liam: Okay, so in the water, click the boots, and the wings shoot-out, and I explode up, out of the water into the air.
Sam: Wow, so cool.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I just start gunning it towards the guy who knocked me in, right?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And when I'm about, I don't know, 30 feet away from him, I'm gonna-- because I'm hasted I get 120 feet of movement just for regular movement.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And when I'm within 40 feet, I'm gonna throw Whisper at the guy.
Matt: Okay, that will put you about there.
Liam: Yep.
Travis: Hit him. Hit him!
Liam: That's 26?
Matt: 26? All righty, that hits.
Liam: And I'm gonna bamf right up to him as I hit.
Matt: (poof)
Liam: That is just a little ten, plus-- 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage with that strike. Okay.
Liam: And I should have one more. So I used bonus action for the wings, I did movement, I did action, so I've got one more action.
Matt: Your offhand attack, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. So I will shank him again.
Travis: Shank shank!
Laura: Shank shank!
Sam: Is that a new thing? Shank shank?
Matt: You have advantage on these strikes now. Because you're right up against him, and he is restrained.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20 hits. And you do get your Sneak Attack, because of your advantage on him.
Travis: No more dagger dagger dagger.
Sam: Just shank shank?
Laura: It's just two. It's shank shank.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: That is just a nine! And I'll unload some poison into him as well. The DC is 15.
Marisha: I feel like 'shank shank' is less attractive on a t-shirt.
Matt: That is a nine. He does not succeed!
Liam: Okay, so he takes 2d10. Do I roll that, or do you, Matty?
Matt: You roll that.
Liam: All right.
Matt: So what's the damage initially?
Liam: It's nine. Plus 13 poison damage.
Matt: Okay, so 22. Are you gonna roll Sneak Attack damage?
Liam: Why would I get that here? Is he up against anybody?
Matt: No, you have advantage on him because he is restrained.
Liam: Oh, advantage, yay, I love you.
Matt: And he is not immune to poison.
Liam: 20 Sneak Attack damage. Thanks, Matt.
Matt: How much is that total?
Liam: 20 for the sneak attack.
Matt: 20 for the sneak attack. 20 plus 22.
Laura: You're attacking the guy?
Matt: We'll see if he maintains concentration.
Laura: How'd you get all the way over there?
Matt: He does not. So. Let me double-check one thing real fast, here, because this will be interesting.
Liam: Shank-shank-shank. Shank-shank-shank.
Liam: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Taliesin: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Laura: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Marisha: (singing) Shank your booty. Shank your booty.
Matt: Okay, got you. So he loses concentration. He is now poisoned and restrained. He has to make a saving throw, actually, to see-- which he did not. So yeah, still restrained.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Whoof. That sucks. Okay, that ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Awesome.
Liam: Get him!
Laura: Cool, then since he's got my brother next to him, I'm gonna fly down so I can see him better, and shoot him two times with my blazing bowstring on the first one.
Liam: She shouts as she flies through the air.
Laura: Blazing bowstring! Activate!
Marisha: (electric guitar sounds)
Laura: Do I still get disadvantage?
Matt: You do, the fog is still present.
Laura: Okay. 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Second attack?
Laura: Second attack is just-- can I do regular?
Matt: Yes, that's fine.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Laura: 12 with three points of lightning damage.
Travis: Did you add your Hunter's Mark?
Laura: I'm about to. 13 additional. And then ten with the blazing bowstring-- nine more with the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Nice, all right.
Laura: And then my second attack--
Matt: Correct.
Laura: 11 plus three lightning.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I don't get Sneak Attack again, but I do get Hunter's Mark.
Matt: You do get Hunter's Mark, yes.
Laura: And three more for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Nice. So, after he's stabbed in the side, and the poison pulses through his system, turns around, and as the arrow slams into him, burst of flame and lightning arcs through his body.
Laura: And I'm gonna fly back a little so he can see me less. And then I'm going to have Trinket, for my bonus action--
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: -- run forward and attack the guy on the edge of the ship.
Liam: Is it a leap year?
Marisha: This hasn't happened in like 20 games.
Laura: I know, I know.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: Is Trinket doing just a regular attack?
Laura: Yeah, because it's my bonus, so he can just do one attack.
Matt: Because if you wanted to, instead of going for a damaging attack, you can go for a shove.
Laura: Oh, I could? I didn't think I was allowed to do that.
Matt: Yeah, you can do it, you can sacrifice an attack for a shove strike. It doesn't do damage.
Laura: I want him to do that. That's what I wanted him to do.
Matt: I was wondering if that's what you were going for. Okay, so go ahead and roll an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Athletics... is that strength? That's just five.
Matt: Five? Okay, yeah, so Trinket goes up and slams into the guy, and he gets pushed against the side of the ship, but not with enough force to shove him over the edge, and he (grunt) catches himself.
Laura: So Trinket just stands up, he's got his paws on his chest.
Matt: Just pressing (growls) on there, yeah.
Laura: Growls loudly into his face.
Liam: (growls)
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Laura: I mean, that's scary, a big bear. Especially if these guys are on the sea. They don't see bears very often.
Taliesin: All right. That guy's still in the vines, right?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Taliesin: He's becoming a problem, though. Okay, I'm going to, if I can pull this off, is it possible that I can break the rope that I'm currently holding onto and do a little Errol Flynn like fly down to the bottom of the boat?
Matt: You can do that, yeah.
Taliesin: Is it possible that the rope I have to shoot is in between me and him?
Matt: Uh... sure.
Marisha: You going to kill two birds with one stone?
Taliesin: I'm going to use a piercing shot, and I'm going to try to do both with one shot and Errol Flynn this shit.
Travis: Oh shit! Oh shit!
Matt: Okay. Make an acrobatics check as part of this.
Marisha: Errol Flynn this shit, is that what you said?
Matt: This is specifically the kind of shit acrobatics is for.
Travis: Totally. 100%. Swashbuckling.
Taliesin: Acrobatics... that's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and take it-- still at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Still at disadvantage.
Matt: Because of the fog.
Marisha: Oh man, now you're in an Angelina Jolie movie.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: Nope?
Taliesin: So this is gonna be funny, because I was using the Animus.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: So depending on how mean you wanna be here, I'm gonna take my 2d6.
Matt: Oh, you misfire?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: So this is gonna be funny. I'm gonna take my 2d6, and that's six points of psychic damage to me, that's cool, that's cool.
Marisha: What if one day you died because of that?
Matt: Okay, so you use your piercing shot to shoot both at him and to shoot the-- or to shoot the rope and then swing down?
Taliesin: Yes. So does the psychic damage mean I let go of the rope I'm holding on to? Or does it not? Also, my feet are sticky and my hand has--
Matt: Your feet are sticky, but your hands are not.
Taliesin: But my hands are not.
Matt: It's the blast of psychic energy. You know what? I'll say go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm down for this.
Matt: Yes, make a wisdom saving throw to see if you can withstand the blast to your brain as your vision goes white.
Taliesin: So that's an eight.
Liam: Goes in the drink.
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Here's the next question  do I have any chance of grabbing anything with my hands and feet on the way down?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. What happens is, as you grab the rope and you fire-- as you slash the rope and go to swing down, you go to fire, and as you do, it backs up, and your vision just goes white and you feel your whole body go instantaneously numb. You're not sure if you're even holding the rope anymore. All of your--
Taliesin: So I'm just gonna wake up on the deck of the floor of the boat.
Matt: -- and the pain sears in your brain, you hear the (heartbeat) the pulse of pain through, and as your vision comes to, it clarifies, and color comes back just in time for you to see the surface of the ship rocketing towards your face. (impact sound) And you slam into the ground, straight across, landing prone at the base of the ground in front of the fish creature.
Laura: Oh, no!
Travis: It was so cool!
Laura: That one was seriously bad.
Sam: Can I yell out, No! New best friend!
Matt: You can. You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the fall.
Taliesin: 12 points of bludgeoning damage. And can I burn a bonus action, am I okay, or--
Matt: You could use-- I mean, that was your action, you land, yeah. You're still prone, but you can still use the rest of your attacks if you want.
Marisha: I'm sorry, your best friend?
Taliesin: I can use the rest of my actions?
Matt: I mean, that was an attack. The piercing shot. So you still have your two other attacks, if you wanted to use them.
Taliesin: Just because it hurts and I'm irritated, I'm just gonna pull out Retort and fire in the general direction.
Matt: Okay, so two more strikes, both at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: (gunshot sounds)
Taliesin: Oh, that's not bad.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Taliesin: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Marisha: That's not as good.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay, so the 28 one does, though. That's seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage. Got it. Okay. So as you roll over on your back and pull out Retort and just fire two shots, one just goes off into the fog. You see it tear through the ship mast for a second, some wood splinters, the other one, you hear the creature take the impact from the blow. You're not even really paying attention where it's going, you're just hearing the sound and shooting in that direction. All right, that'll end your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: What a turn. What a terrible way to go.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: I wanna keep hitting the water elemental.
Matt: All right. So, you turn towards it over there. Go for it.
Travis: Reckless attacks, please.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: First one's a 30.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: 21 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Second attack. It's very methodical. 26.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Does that hit?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: And 17 points of damage.
Matt: 17 points of damage, all right. So you rush in and slam twice in this elemental again. You see its form with each hit is just splattering water against the ground, and where once it came up as this solid force of water, it's starting to have difficulty keeping its form together. Where once it was focused genuinely on you and Trinket, it seems to be lashing out now in a frenzied state, it's just punching all around. Does that finish your turn?
Travis: Am I not good enough to hold your attention? Yeah, that finishes my turn.
Matt: Okay. Got you. All right. This guy here's gonna squeeze past the side.
Laura: Trinket attacks him on the way over.
Matt: He hasn't moved away from Trinket yet.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Actually, no, he's gonna squeeze this way instead because Grog's on that side. He's gonna go ahead and move past the bear and let Trinket push his weight into the side of the ship, and is going to go ahead and take three strikes at you, Grog.
Travis: Yay!
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Another play-friend.
Matt: That's gonna be two strikes against you and one against Trinket. First one with advantage is gonna be a 24.
Travis: Hits!
Matt: Dagger is gonna be a 15.
Travis: Misses. With advantage too?
Matt: Yeah, his first attack roll was a one. All right, so you take ten points of piercing damage, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And then the other rapier attack's gonna go against Trinket. Which is a natural one. Jesus.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: So he just swings and Trinket catches the blade in his teeth, and he draws the rapier back, which is now covered in bear slobber.
Travis: This is not the time to choke, buddy.
Matt: That ends his turn. This guy here is gonna go ahead and turn to face off with Captain Adella. He's gonna make three strikes against her.
Marisha: C'mon, Adele Dazeem.
Matt: That's gonna hit. First rapier strike, second rapier strike, and the dagger, all three hit, unfortunately.
Laura: We're all such dicks.
Travis: You guys are awful.
Marisha: We've got these shitty nicknames for everyone.
Matt: 14, and, okay. Total of 21 points of damage on her.
Travis: 21 points.
Matt: So as she tries to parry to the side, the pirate just catches her off-guard and gets three good hits in, but Adella parries off to the side, gets pushed back a bit, and then forces her way forward, preparing her counter-attack.
Travis: Come on!
Matt: That brings us to--
Travis: We should probably protect the captain.
Matt: -- Keyleth.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, shit. We're still attached to this boat, right?
Sam: Multiple times.
Matt: Currently, yes. If you're still concentrating on this, the water's still pouring into it.
Marisha: I am. How much slack do we have before I start pulling our boat underwater, because I don't want to be that-- kinda thought someone would start--
Matt: It depends, right now it'll be probably two rounds before it begins to genuinely start sinking heavily. Depending on if the ballista get another shot at the side or not.
Marisha: I wanna keep doing this. Can I concentrate my flooding of water so-- there's now a hole in the side of the ship, under where Tary was, right? I had to think not to say Scanlan.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: I wanna flood in more water. Can I flood it more on this side, to where I try and-- or can I do something fancy, like a giant hand of the gods from the wave come up and--
Taliesin: Kind of like Fantasia?
Marisha: -- take the fish-head guy?
Travis: What the shit?
Marisha: Or can I at least try and flood that side to where I can try and toss him over?
Matt: You can either choose to continue to flood the ship, or use Control Water to attack the fish character. One or the other.
Travis: Don't look at us, man.
Marisha: Let me see if I can Control Water and take a wave to toss him overboard.
Matt: Toss him overboard?
Laura: He's a fish! That'll help him.
Marisha: He is a fish.
Matt: He is very plainly a fish-based creature.
Marisha: He is very definitely a fish.
Matt: The lower half of his body is a swirl of water.
Marisha: Oh, right.
Travis: So put him in the water.
Laura: I don't think putting him in the water's gonna help us very much.
Travis: Water and water makes--
Marisha: You know, I'll just keep sinking this ship.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm gonna keep concentrating.
Laura: You could get rid of the fog.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I can't do that right now.
Matt: The torrent of water continues to shove down into the ship. You've redirected it. As it's pouring into the side, you use your other hand to pick up another portion of water and start spraying it into the wound that was left right above, Taryon, you're getting sprayed by water overhead as it's just traveling over you like an Epcot Center water fountain.
Marisha: You're good, right, Tary?
Sam: Yes?
Marisha: All right.
Sam: This is so weird!
Marisha: Good! This is like a Tuesday for us.
Matt: All right, so the crew on this side, this guy's gonna go ahead and move up higher up there and take a swing. Misses, unfortunately. This guy's gonna take another crossbow shot down at the one that's attacking the captain. That will hit, actually.
Travis: Yes! Get him!
Laura: Get him!
Matt: All righty. And then these two guys are gonna take two more ballista shots as they load up, pull it back. This guy continues-- actually, this guy doesn't get a shot, because he spent the last round winching and pulling it back, so he gets one shot retracting. This guy managed to pull it back and take a secondary shot at the ship. That hits. It's not a critical, but it's still pretty decent. That is 14 points of damage on the side of the ship. This one slams into it maybe about five feet to the left. Keyleth, actually all of you who are on the ship, you feel the impact as the second blow hits, and it pulls out the side, this time much lower, and water is now really pushing, the ship is slowly starting to capsize to one side. That ends that group's turn.
Sam: I've read about this. Many of us will die. (all laugh)
Matt: Tary, it's your turn.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay. Is there water all over the deck, is it hard to move, is it okay?
Matt: I mean, it's wet, and the deck is currently listing to one side.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Is it listing towards Keyleth and--
Matt: It's listing this way.
Travis: Boat shoes!
Sam: Yeah, those are like impervious to water. (all laugh)
Sam: Okay. Once again, I'll yell back at Doty and just say, Ahh! The thing with the grappling hooks again!
Matt: Doty actually does succeed this turn. (all cheer)
Matt: Doty lifts it out, and now that it's starting to pull, the chains are very taut, as this ship lists, the ship's being pulled a little ways towards it, the chains are strained, so as soon as Doty pulls it up, it just goes firing off the side and plunges off the water to the other side. The ship's now beginning to slowly turn this way as the other chain is now tugging it from that direction, and this is now listing to that side. So, what are you doing, Tary?
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to cast Haste as my action. And I get a second action, now, because I'm hasted, right?
Matt: You get to use a second action that's a melee attack.
Sam: It has to be a melee attack?
Matt: Melee attack, disengage, hide...
Sam: Can I use-- it said I could use a magic item.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Or use an item, use an item.
Matt: Yeah, use an object.
Sam: Oh, use an object, not an item. I can't use my ring or anything, right?
Matt: I'll say, for the purposes of this? Sure. Why not?
Sam: Okay, so I'm hasted, I will use, I pick up the Ring of the Ram, and I'll ram the fish-man.
Travis: Oh, yes!
Laura: Oh, nice!
Matt: Okay. How many charges does it have?
Travis: Ring of the Ram, that's been a while.
Sam: Three charges, right? So I can use two?
Matt: You can use as many charges as you want that the ring holds. It should tell you up to a certain amount--
Sam: It has three charges.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Well, it says I can use an action to expend one to three of its charges. Okay. I'll do all three, right? (all laugh)
Matt: All right. So, it is still restrained, so go ahead and roll with advantage an attack roll plus seven.
Sam: Ooh. 19.
Matt: With advantage?
Sam: Oh. Natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Oh, shit. Well. Okay. Roll 6d10 force damage.
Travis: Holy shit. 6d10?
Taliesin: How many do you need?
Matt: Well, then we double what he rolled, because it's a critical.
Marisha: Six, you need six?
Travis: And that's force damage.
Sam: Okay. 35. 70.
Matt: 70 points of force damage against the creature. So as you focus on your ring, there's a burst of divine white-looking energy that turns into this giant plate-like shield in front of you, and it just stays there. You're like, huh? And suddenly it thrusts forward, and out the front of it, like a portal, a giant spectral ram-head just slams into the chest, throwing it off the ship, as it screams, it just turns into sea foam. (all cheer)
Travis: You killed it!
Matt: It's scattered into the ocean across from you. It is destroyed.
Sam: Can it be like a kid who's holding a rifle, but not up to him, so it hits him and it really throws me back a little?
Matt: Which, yeah, sure. Roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Off the ship, into the water.
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Splash! Into the water.
Travis: Back in the drink again!
Marisha: Are there still bad guys left?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: There are. There's two over here, and there's two currently in the water below. Ending your turn--
Marisha: But nothing left on the ship, right?
Laura: That we see?
Marisha: That we see?
Matt: Correct. These guys are trying to swim forward. That was cocked. Nope. These guys, at the top of the round, get pushed back.
Marisha: Bye!
Matt: Taryon--
Sam: I lost Alter Self when I hasted.
Matt: Yeah, so you're just generally swimming, but you also float back in the ocean. You're now caught in the water behind, so the ship carries on without you.
Taliesin: And that was the last anyone saw of Taryon Darrington. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: He got his $50,000 worth.
Matt: The water elemental's going to go ahead and take two slam attacks.
Sam: You there! Hello.
Matt: It's taking a slam attack against Grog, it's taking a slam attack against the pirate.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So against Grog, it has advantage on you because you used reckless.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is a 23.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And against the pirate, that hits. And the elemental reaches around, and as it punches Grog in the face, it slams the other pirate in the head, its fist engulfing his head, and he just kind of stands there, trying to find a way out, and it just drowns him while it's standing, and it drops the body to the ground.
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Travis: Oh, it killed him?
Matt: Yeah, it lashed out.
Laura: One of our guys?
Matt: Did enough damage-- no, one of the pirates.
Laura: Oh, shit. He is untameable.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: You know when you look at a cat that's alarmed because it's nervous and all the hair is puffed out? Vax's feathers are all going like pffft, watching Keyleth wreck the boat, I could fucking watch you do this all day. Up into the air, and I go and get Tary out of the water.
Sam: Aw!
Matt: You go grab Tary.
Liam: And I'm gonna pick him up and dump him back on our boat, towards the back of the ship.
Matt: Okay, carrying him, we'll say you're at half speed, so that gets you just to the edge of the ship.
Liam: Cool. I'm good. Wait, no, do I have an action left? Can I use Divine Sense right now?
Matt: As you're hasted, you have the haste action...
Liam: Yeah, I am hasted.
Matt: I'll say you can use Divine Sense, sure.
Liam: Okay. I pat him down and go, we're good, we're good, and I'm just gonna make sure he's not a demon.
Matt: Oh. Taryon.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: A demon? What?
Laura: Why a demon?
Marisha: What? Why would you think he's a demon?
Sam: Guys, the conclusion of the epic series Shades of Magic, A Conjuring of Light, was just released, so go pick it up. It's put out by Tor books, a leading publisher of science fiction and fantasy for over three decades.
Matt: Okay. That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'll fly over to Percy, who's on the fucking ground.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I say, are you good?
Taliesin: It was worth it. Good.
Laura: Lovely. Get off this boat. And I'll fly over and try to help out the fight on the other side.
Matt: Okay. We'll say that's 20... 40... yeah, you can get over here.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You'd still be just above the fray.
Laura: And then I'll shoot some arrows at--
Matt: There's one guy left, and the elemental.
Laura: I'll shoot 'em at the guy.
Matt: Okay, go ahead for two strikes on that.
Laura: Yeah. Oh, disadvantage, too?
Matt: The fog is still around, so yes.
Laura: Oh, damn it. Okay.
Travis: Oh, one of them was a--
Laura: Yeah, but. 20 on the first one, and 15 plus seven on the second one. 22.
Matt: Both hit. Roll damage.
Laura: Awesome.
Marisha: You have a d3?
Sam: I need a d3.
Taliesin: It's a d6.
Marisha: It's a d6 cut in half.
Sam: Wait, two, four, six or something? Okay.
Laura: Oh, Jesus, this is terrible, this is terrible.
Taliesin: There is actually a d3 that has two ones, two twos, and two threes.
Laura: 17. Plus three lightning damage. And then... 16 plus two lightning damage. And then for my bonus action, Trinket's gonna-- and it was Sneak Attack, because there's something next to him, huh?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: (cackles) Five for sneak attack!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then Trinket will attack him too.
Matt: Roll an attack for Trinket.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: (bear noises)
Laura: Yes. That is-- what is that, a bite attack?
Matt: Whichever one you decide.
Laura: Sure, it's a bite attack. A 24.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Laura: It's 11.
Matt: 11. As both arrows staple, one into the guy's knee, he falls down to the ground on one knee. The other one hits him in the side of the body, and he looks up just as Trinket chomps down over his head. (all cheer)
Matt: And just crunches down. You watch as his skull collapses with the force of the bear's jaw, and the arms just go limp at the sides. (all cheer)
Matt: Trinket then shakes him a bit, and his limp body just goes whoompf, whoompf, just slamming and breaking into the side of the ship, and then drops it on the ground, and Trinket turns around and looks in your direction.
Laura: Good job, boy!
Liam: That made us all so happy.
Laura: Yeah, it's great.
Marisha: See a guy get thrashed.
Laura: I wish Scanlan could've been here to see that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: 87 episodes. One kill.
Laura: He's had more than one.
Matt: Two of the guys are trying to swim, but they're not able to keep up. You just watch them slowly vanish behind you in the fog. All right, Percy?
Taliesin: The water elemental's still a problem, I take it?
Matt: You can see it still lashing out, yes.
Travis: And there's one hook left.
Taliesin: I'm going to stand up, dust myself off, pull out Bad News, take careful aim-- slightly irritated aim at that water elemental, and see what happens.
Matt: Go for it. Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: Disadvantage on the shot.
Travis: Has the fog not dissipated because fish-head got done with?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Not yet. I'm actually going to spend a grit to gain my advantage back.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: Come on. Thank god I didn't do that too weird. That's 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: I'm also gonna blow through most of Cabal's Ruin, 'cause that's funny. I know, I say that a lot. So that's standard damage, is 15 points of damage, plus where is--
Marisha: 1d4 plus four... 1d6 lightning damage per charge expended.
Taliesin: Okay, 1d6 per charge. You know? Let's end this. Should we just end this?
Marisha: That's good. Lightning's bad for water. Not that I'd know.
Taliesin: I figured it would be. I'm just gonna blow eight of the charges, so do you have five more--
Marisha: Yeah, I do. Five more, of course. Dream come true, make it happen.
Laura: If this doesn't end it...
Taliesin: So plus (counting) 23 points of lightning damage on top of that.
Matt: Okay, so as you bring Bad News down and aim across the way, fire the bullet, it blasts across, and you guys see this glow of electrical energy that just shoots through the air, the bullet enhanced by the Cabal's Ruin vestige enchantment. As it blasts into the side of the elemental, the elemental gets blown back through the air, and as it does, it just vaporizes. (all cheer)
Marisha: Is that everyone done?
Matt: All the enemies currently seem to be not on the ship, or dragging behind. However, (creaking noise)
Taliesin: I'm going to stop, I'm going to wave, and I'm going to go walk over and start looking to see if I can see what that glow is. I'm going to deactivate this, because I want to loot this ship.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's better. That's 25.
Matt: 25. You glance in the side, and you see now, there is a singular small palantír-type orb, but smaller, that is a foggy gray color on the inside that's slowly swirling, and you can see it's gathering condensation and mist around it.
Taliesin: Does there seem to be any mechanism for turning it off or otherwise?
Matt: It looks like it's just embedded into it.
Marisha: Take it with us, take it with us.
Taliesin: I'm going to at least try and pick it up, and--
Matt: Make a strength check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: While he's busy, I'm gonna jet over next to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Oh, are we in combat rounds?
Matt: We're going to stay in order for a second.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Matt: There is a bit of a--
Taliesin: That's adorable.
Marisha: That's sad.
Taliesin: Three.
Matt: (straining sound) You feel something pop in your back shoulder, and your right arm gets a little numb.
Taliesin: That's so mean. (all laugh)
Liam: It's like when you just reach out to pick up something--
Marisha: Yeah, you never know. Getting old, man.
Taliesin: There's no way to--
Matt: As you go over to it, you see it's there, but it's currently held in place by something that's beneath the orb, or at least it's either adhered or glued to or held there, you just don't have the strength to lift it.
Taliesin: There's gotta be a way to turn this off.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Marisha: I shout to--
Matt: It's Grog's turn, actually.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: I go over to the harpoon hook, and like, fuck this harpoon hook. Can I try and get it out of the ship with my strength?
Matt: Sure, go ahead and roll a strength check. With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: Hey. 25.
Matt: One-handed.
Laura: Hey!
Matt: (tink, fwoomp) And it just flies out of your grip from the tension out of the ship. You have to pull your hand back 'cause the-- one of the giant gnarled edges of it almost take your arm off in the process.
Travis: (gasp)
Laura: You almost lost that gauntlet!
Matt: It tears a section of the edge of this boat off. Just the railing on the side kind of pulls through it immediately.
Travis: I'll pay for that.
Matt: Trinket has to pull off to the side and the one guy kind of backs up immediately as it shoots off into the water below. For you guys, the ship, now that it doesn't have the tension to the side, is now capsizing very quickly and turning on the side.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Travis: I feel like I did something bad.
Marisha: That was cool!
Travis: Oopsie.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I say  Hey guys! Cruises are really trashy! (laughs)
Travis: Jokes while you're doing that.
Marisha: And I still have Control Water going.
Liam: Tip your waiters.
Marisha: Can I flush out the bottom of the cruise ship and bring whatever treasure is up out of the bow with what water is there? Just kind of (whoof)?
Taliesin: Like a spigot.
Matt: You're kinda off to the side. You can look down, it's not very well-lit on the inside at all. Like, it is not lit on the interior. You do have your elven darkvision for a few feet, so you have to glance over and look into the room below, but right now all you're seeing is seafoam and ocean pouring into the side of the ship.
Marisha: Okay, I stop sinking the boat. Because we're not dying.
Matt: Okay. The ship is still sinking. You filled it with water, and currently the side of it has been blasted twice.
Marisha: I bring the water up like a fountain of wealth and youth. Just coming up. Out of the bottom. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: Just other way.
Liam: Oh, boy!
Marisha: Seeing what comes out from the bottom of the ship.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully not dead bodies or like--
Taliesin: (sings) It's rainin' men...
Laura: I know, if there were slaves--
Marisha: Slave trade or something sad-- yeah, like slave.
Laura: Fingers crossed. Let's not do that to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, come on!
Travis: It's just kids!
Marisha: He's looking at his notes like it's a thing!
Travis: It's just kids.
All: (laughs and groans)
Travis: Kids and puppies!
Marisha: That's my worst nightmare!
Matt: You're terrible!
Travis: Kids and puppies!
Liam: Gosh!
Matt: Okay, so as the water comes rushing up from underneath, you see a lot of genuinely soaked food items come shooting up, large chunks of broken wood, what appear to be additional iron ballista spears.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: And lots of chain come firing up from the inside.
Marisha: Watch your head! Points!
Matt: Furniture, chairs, occasionally (water sound effects) just pieces of broken things from the interior. You're not seeing much else than that at the moment.
Marisha: Aw. These were lame pirates! No treasure.
Taliesin: Let's get the orb at the very least.
Matt: (sarcastically) Good pirates keep all their treasure on their ship at all times.
Marisha: Lame! (all laugh)
Liam: Just hundreds and hundreds of NES classics.
Laura: We really should've kept one of them alive.
Travis: Do you wanna check the captain's quarters before it all goes down?
Laura: Yeah! What if there's a map to treasure?
Liam: (sighs) Looks like it's going down pretty fast, though, yeah?
Travis: Those of you on the boat--
Taliesin: Doing it now-- yes, we want to it now while there's an order of operations based on a die roll!
Marisha: I have control! I have control!
Matt: Taryon!
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Anything you wish to add to this circumstance? You're now soaking wet, but your winged savior has lifted you down onto the edge of the ship.
Liam: (ting)
Taliesin: (sings) And I would do anything for love.
Sam: How many of you can fly?
Liam: Two or three, give or take.
Sam: Amazing! Incredible! Stupendous! No, I have nothing to add, other than-- do you need my assistance in cleaning up any of these ruffians? Oh, also, one question.
Liam: Yeah?
Sam: Did I hurt the beast?
Liam: Man, you did great! You knocked that guy clear off!
Sam: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I killed it!
Liam: That's a good start, man.
Sam: What was it?
Liam: What was it?
Sam: Yes!
Liam: Oh, you need to ask the white-haired one. I dunno.
Sam: Okay!
Taliesin: Oh, that's me!
Sam: Was it bad?
Liam: The worst!
Matt: All right, so you spend your turn conversing.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Pretty much!
Liam: Six seconds of dialogue, right there!
Matt: All right, we'll say for the pace of things here, guys, the ship is maybe 30 seconds from fully sinking into the water. Anybody you guys wanna--
Laura: 30 seconds?
Liam: I'm gonna do what I said before, and I'm gonna go and land next to Keyleth.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: See if we can grab the orb. I'm gonna run downstairs and see if I can see paperwork in the captain's quarters or anything-- or run in the captain's quarters and just do a massive loot, really, just as quick as I can.
Matt: Investigation check with disadvantage. The room is currently tilted pretty heavily, and everything has slid and collided onto one side of the room. It's just a giant pile of broken furniture.
Marisha: I said I balanced it out and that I'm kind of doing that.
Travis: You want me to jump over there and go get the orb?
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: We also kinda put a bunch of holes into the side of it.
Matt: Yeah, there are a bunch of holes in the ship--
Marisha: So I can only do so much.
Matt: Your Control Water can localize some cool effects, but overall the ship itself has taken too much damage.
Travis: Can I use my boots of Feral leaping to leap from one ship to the other?
Matt: Sure, make an athletics check.
Laura: I want to fly down and help Percy investigate. If there's time.
Liam: We're pretty flush already. Let's make it quick.
Taliesin: Well, there might be something magic. Okay. My investigation check is 19.
Matt: 19 with disadvantage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Nice! All right, pulling from the inside and rummaging through, you find--
Taliesin: Any papers I'm just gonna grab.
Matt: Yeah, you grab whatever papers you can, there's a small leather tube, you grab that. Looking about inside, there's a ring of keys. You find a bunch of scattered coins throughout the room. It looks like there was a couple of small chests that just opened up and--
Taliesin: I'm looking more for magic, I don't care about gold-- magic or weird.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: Catch the eye. Are the keys, like--
Matt: They look like some sort of opening device, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, no. Okay, yeah, I'm gonna grab them anyway.
Matt: Okay. So you grab the keys. Cool. All right.
Travis: 22. To jump across.
Matt: To jump across, okay. So you make it across, and you try and go underneath now. The ship, now, not only is it listing to one side, but it's starting to lift up a little bit.
Marisha: I try to balance it as much as I can.
Matt: So you're slowing the process. Slowing it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Make my way to the orb. Rip it out.
Matt: The ship is also slowly moving behind the other ship, as it's no longer maintaining speed. All right, so what are you doing?
Travis: I'm trying to make it to the orb that he was too weak to pull out--
Matt: Strength check.
Taliesin: I hope you pull something in your knee.
Travis: Hah! 25.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: (popping sound)
Travis: I got it! Throw it in the water?
Taliesin: No! Let's keep it, let's bring it to the other ship.
Marisha: Put it in the Bag of Holding, Grog.
Travis: In the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I run, and I try and jump back to the other boat.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: I'm not gonna make it, but--
Laura: You might.
Liam: You might.
Travis: 23.
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20... You catch the edge and are dangling on the side of the ship as your fingers are right there.
Liam: Looney Tunes!
Travis: (breathing hard) I'm good.
Sam: You could have flown.
Travis: I swallowed the coin.
Matt: Percival, water is now starting to spill in underneath you, and you're now about knee-deep inside, and everything's-- all the papers that you haven't already grabbed are soaked and floating up at the top.
Taliesin: I'm gonna run out. There's-- oh, man. I don't hear anything coming from down below, do I?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Did you ever hear that I wanted to go help Percy investigate, was I able to do that?
Marisha: Please tell me I didn't kill someone innocent again.
Matt: Yeah, you could fly over. Because you're behind him. As you rush in to help him, he has a couple armfuls of things, the room is now about knee-high with water and is tilting heavily to this side, and there's just floating bits of paper and soaked books and pieces of broken wood and furniture-- the room is utter chaos.
Laura: Anything interesting?
Taliesin: Yeah, I don't know. Hold on. I'm gonna listen for it.
Marisha: Hopefully no innocent people.
Taliesin: Perception check.
Sam: (muffled) Help me, I'm an orphan!
Taliesin: You're terrible. 17.
Matt: 17? You take a listen. Through all the splashing of water, the sound of wood creaking, and the ocean outside, you don't hear anything.
Laura: What are you listening for?
Taliesin: I show the keys. I'm worried there's a cage down there. I still have the spider boots, so I'm holding on.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I hear anything with my elven ears?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: You've got an elven perception check.
Liam: They're taking the hobbits to Isengard.
Laura: What do your elf eyes see? Oh, nothing.
Liam: It was a one.
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You go down and listen, and as soon as you do the water splashes up into your ear, and you get a bunch of salt water in the ear canal. Up in your nose a bit. You're like, ugh.
Laura: That was awful. We should get out.
Taliesin: I'm gonna hand her a bunch of stuff, including some of my things, and be back-- I'm gonna try and see if I can just--
Matt: Spider-boot down.
Taliesin: Spider-boot and see if I can hold my breath and look.
Laura: Don't drown, Percival.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab, and try and use the lenses on my mask to even get a clear shot of what's under there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm just trying to visualize with the last ten minutes that I have of Control Water to clear the bottom of this passage.
Matt: So you can do that. You can prevent, slowing the sinking, to part water.
Marisha: The rushing-in, that's what I want to do. I wanna part right where Percy's heading.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, the ship begins to list even further back and at an angle, and you watch as the front of it comes upward, and everything on the ship begins to slide past--
Travis: Yes!
Matt: -- in the direction of Keyleth and Vax.
Marisha: Sorry, physics.
Liam: Get off!
Matt: Can I have you both make dexterity saving throws, if you could.
Marisha: What, me too?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Jesus F. Christ.
Matt: A bunch of barrels just (rolling sound) in your direction.
Marisha: Oh, that's not too bad. Just straight dex saving throw. Plus five.
Liam: Natural 20.
Marisha: What did I roll? 16.
Matt: Okay, yeah, you both manage to just sidestep out of the way as they tumble past and splash into the water below.
Taliesin: Get out of here, you two!
Matt: You're starting to lose your footing a little bit. You probably have one more round before you just start sliding off the edge.
Liam: Let's go, man!
Marisha: Quick, quick, quick!
Taliesin: I'm fine. Vex is here, you two leave.
Matt: Percival. Perception check, as the water separates in the room.
Taliesin: Yeah. That's what I'm hoping for.
Marisha: Aw, you rolled a 19!
Taliesin: That's 26.
Matt: Okay. As you push down into the chamber with the walls of the water to the sides-- as you look down, and most of the furniture that was thrust up out of this area is cleared out. You do see two cages in the far back, one of which is empty. The other one does seem to have some sort of humanoid inside.
Taliesin: I'm going for it.
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: Okay. You rush up to the cage, and you look inside and you can already see what looks to be a slumped-over humanoid. You see no features, and there's no light down here, and your human eyes don't make out a lot of detail. The fact that you rolled so high-- it's only the little bit of light comes down here that's reflecting around.
Laura: Shit.
Taliesin: I've already got the keys in my hand and I'm just going to start going for it.
Matt: First key, nothing. Second key, nothing. Third key, noth-- (creaking sounds)
Sam: Cut the red wire!
Matt: Water begins to pour in from another side, and the ship itself is pulling back. I want you to go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Come on, Percy. Come on.
Taliesin: I'm going to choose to use a Resolve. That's a save, isn't it?
Matt: That's for a saving throw.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Travis: Why didn't you roll the snitch?
Matt: What did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a one.
Matt: A natural one. You start getting the keys in, and there's probably a good 15 or 16 or so keys on here, and you get through about six of them before the ship itself has gone into a fall, and the cages begin to slide--
Taliesin: Okay, I'm rolling. There's someone in there, but I can't get it! And I'm going to spider-climb on the upside, on the wrong side of the wood and stay out of the water and crawl out.
Liam: Was he under water, or was the water--
Matt: The water is being parted by Keyleth, currently.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The cage is beginning to slide now, towards the back of the ship.
Taliesin: I don't know what to do. And I'm running out, I don't know what else to do.
Matt: Okay, so.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: There's someone in a cage. I don't know what to do!
Liam: I'll fly at that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Are you going? I'm gonna try whatever last bit of Control Water I have to try and part and calm the waters where Vax is going, and I say, go Vax, go!
Matt: Okay, so you just fly in?
Liam: If there's a cage, I'll go to it.
Matt: As you rush down inside, you watch as these two large, heavy cages are tumbling in your direction. An empty one slams just past you, and the other one slams into that, itself turning up a bit, and something inside slumps to the side of the bars.
Marisha: I'm trying to calm the water as much as I can.
Liam: Can I even see the lock or where the keys were?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: All right.
Matt: The keys you do not have. Percy has--
Taliesin: I have the keys, but none of them were working.
Liam: That's a 21.
Matt: 21. You manage to, as you leap up using your wings in little bursts-- this is a small, enclosed space, you can't use too much of the air to fly. In what little bit of parting of the water's being done, you catch up and climb onto the top, and you can see the cage has turned on its side, and the doorway is on the top. So you can see the actual lock.
Liam: All right. While I'm hasted, do I have an action left to get up there and pick it?
Matt: I'd say yeah.
Liam: Yeah? Okay.
Laura: Go, go, go!
Marisha: Go, go, go!
Liam: 32.
Matt: You reach out and pull out your picks, and as you look up-- Keyleth, at this point you're parting the water, but the ship is now sinking, and you are-- you're sliding off.
Taliesin: I grab. Can I make a jump to grab?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: And I'm just holding concentration, hoping someone catches me.
Taliesin: My dexterity-- save or check?
Matt: Either.
Taliesin: They're both the same. It doesn't matter.
Marisha: That's good, that's good.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: Just catch Keyleth as she's about to slide off the edge, and you hold her there. Now, I will not require a concentration check from you, however, you're about to both go under water.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You're holding her at the edge of the ship. You get the door open. It slams over on the side. And looking down inside, you can see what appears to be a slumped-over, soggy mess of a person. Unconscious.
Liam: Okay, can I keep going here, or--
Matt: Yeah. Grab them, pull them up, fireman's carry--
Liam: And then just try to slowly, messily float him up and out of here.
Laura: I want to go help if I can.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, there's not much room for flight, it's more like--
Liam: All right, so pull.
Matt: -- leaping through, as you make your way there. You just get up onto the edge as the water goes past both Percy and Keyleth. You guys, your faces just (splash) beneath the ocean water.
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: I shout out, Twinnie!
Laura: I help, I help, I help.
Matt: You rush down from the broom. He goes and flings the person over your lap, and you take up on the rest of the ship as the boat now is completely submerged. You watch the tip of it just (splash) beneath the water. Bubbling the water up around as--
Marisha: I drop Control Water, switch back to my Alter Self, grab Percy, head back to the boat.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: While this is going on, I'm asking Captain Adella's crew for towels. Could I get a towel? Or some sort of-- I'm really wet, here.
Matt: They're all on the edge of the ship, watching this happen. With one in the crow's nest, keeping an eye out. And they're not paying any attention to you.
Sam: I'm just worried that this will rust if I don't get it dry soon, so if I could get some towels, or maybe someone to fan it off, that would be great. Thank you.
Matt: All right. No response, but you are eager to repeat your question. As you make your way over, Keyleth, you pull Percival-- because both of you guys sink quite a bit below with the ship. As soon as it goes under, it goes under fast, and as soon as you glance up to watch that Vax makes his way out, and you can just see over the surface, you relieve that to start swimming up, and both the two of you-- you release your boots, and begin to make your way to the surface. It takes a moment, and you just get to the cusp of what you can hold your breath, before you both break the surface. Percy takes a deep breath, and you guys eventually swim your way over towards the edge of the boat. The fog, by the way, has begun to dissipate now, and has been slowly doing so since your removal of the orb from the edge.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys all manage to make your way back onto the surface of the ship, waterlogged and tired, we're going to take a break for the restroom.
Travis: Nice! A fight at sea!
Marisha: A fight at sea!
Travis: We made it off the Titanic!
Taliesin: I fell off a boat.
Liam: This is stupid, Rose! This is stupid!
Travis: This is stupid, why would you do that?
Marisha: Like Battleship, but better.
Matt: So we'll be back here in a few minutes. We do have a Wyrmwood giveaway for you guys in the chat room. Be active in the chat room, just you have to use the phrase 'Wyrmwood', w-y-r-m-w-o-o-d,  in the chat room, once they initiate the actual contest, and we'll come back from the break with the winner. So we'll see you here in a few minutes, guys.
Travis: Yeah! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role! First off, thank you again to our evening's sponsor, Tor Books!
All: Tor Books!
Matt: For coming out and sponsoring this episode, make sure to check out A Conjuring of Light, the conclusion to the Shades of Magic series is now available. Also, we had a contest in the chat for this fantastic mahogany dice vault by Wyrmwood, the winner is Terrythesortofgamer. (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, Terry, we're gonna go ahead and get this signed and shipped out to you ASAP. Thank you all for entering, we'll have more giveaways in future episodes as well as Talks Machina on Tuesday with Brian Foster. Anyway, let's bring it back in.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: So, having returned to the ship, the fog lifted, and the path before you now clear, the rest of the open, cloudless sky before you, you continued ahead in the southwestern direction towards the Islands of Anamn, which is where Vesrah exists--
Laura: But I wanted to see the prisoner--
Marisha: Yeah, the prisoner.
Laura: -- are they okay? I mean, did I check them out while I was--
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: We're getting to that right now.
Marisha: Let's bring 'em back.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Fuckin', just cool your jets.
Marisha: We wanna talk to him.
Laura: Well, I mean, I had him on my lap as I was flying back. I wanted to make sure they were okay.
Matt: Right, so you come back to the-- as you bring the prisoner down, you lay him down-- and it is a man, early, mid- thirties-ish, maybe looks grizzled, kind of a half beard growing in--
Travis: Kill him.
Matt: -- he is drowned at the moment.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Oh, he's dead?
Matt: He's not breathing, he is waterlogged, and even at a quick glance, you can see he has scars all over his body--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: -- his clothes are tattered--
Marisha: Do I have any residual Control Water left? Yeah?
Matt: I'd say yeah, you're still concentrating--
Laura: I roll him on his side.
Marisha: Can I see if I can pull any water out of his lungs?
Matt: You know what? Make a wisdom check.
Liam: Out come the lungs.
Laura: (vomit noise) And he's dead. Dead dead.
Marisha: That's good! Just straight wisdom?
Liam: He's inside out.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Straight wisdom?
Travis: What is dead may never die!
Marisha: 21.
Laura: Oh no, you keep scooching back.
Matt: 21!
Marisha: Just straight wisdom?
Liam: What the heck, Laura.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you get down on the low, and you reach out and grab the shoulder, and using the last moments of your Control Water spell, you focus and begin to just siphon the water out of the lungs, and immediately the body kind of convulses, the throat opens up from the outside, and you can see the water just project outward as the chest pushes inward, expelling the rest of the liquid from the lungs. Immediately, (coughs).
Marisha: Vax. Help.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Pat, pat, pat, pat, pat.
Liam: I do pat, pat, pat, except I cast Lay on Hands when I do it.
Laura: Yeah, well, I cast Cure Wounds while that happens, so go fuck yourself.
Liam: Seems oddly competitive at this moment, where we're saving a man's life, but all right.
Matt: What last murmurs of this man's life that remained as he began to fade to the drowning, you both manage to just bring him back from the cusp of death, and coughing profusely over the next 30 or so seconds, turning onto his stomach and gathering himself, taking breaths, spitting out whatever seawater still remains in his lungs, he looks back up at you all, and you can see he has a ragged, mouse-brown hair on top, and it's shorter on the sides around the ear, rather large ears, kind of square jaw but very scrawny, and once again from the tattered clothes and scars all over his body, some fresh, some old, looks like he's undergone a rough recent weeks--
Laura: I feel like we're finding Percy all over again.
Marisha: No shit.
Matt: Kinda looks up at everyone. "Wh-- Where am I?"
Laura: On a boat!
Taliesin: Different boat. Ship.
Liam: Our boat.
Matt: "What do you want?"
Laura: How long have you been in that cell?
Matt: "Who are you?"
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: We're your saviors.
Matt: He leans back, falls onto his palms a bit, and is just kinda laying back, too exhausted to move away, but trying to just move back a bit.
Laura: Can I insight check him and make sure? I just don't trust anyone.
Matt: Sure. Insight check.
Laura: Ooh, natural 20. Wow wow wow.
Sam: He's a demon.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: It's Hotis, it's Hotis, it's Hotis, it's Hotis!
Laura: Oh it is, it's Hotis, it's Hotis!
Marisha: Oh, I don't wanna fight Hotis on the ocean.
Sam: Guys, feel free to keep--
Marisha: What you got? What do you got, Grog?
Matt: Shove off, Travis.
Sam: Keep tweeting those pick-up lines to @TorBooks. They like 'em. I do, anyway.
Liam: Guys, I'm gonna make a Tor Books run, does anybody want anything?
Matt: Curse you, Travis.
Sam: Grande fantasy novel?
Laura: Don't worry.
Matt: (coughs)
Laura: Your captors have been defeated.
Matt: "Well that's good, eh?"
Laura: You're safe. What's your name?
Matt: He leans forward, sits up and looks at you. He seems to soften a little bit, though he's still guarded. "Thenton Groose. First Mate of the ship Tempest Fang. Yeah."
Laura: Tempest Fang?
Matt: "Tempest Fang. Yeah. It was taken by a bunch of bastards, kept me in that cage for a few weeks."
Laura: Weeks.
Marisha: Tempest Fang-- where do you hail from?
Matt: "Who wants to know?"
Marisha: Keyleth, of the Air Ashari.
Matt: "From around."
Marisha: From around?
Matt: "I'm a businessman of the seas."
Marisha: Not the sailor type, then?
Matt: "Sail a bit."
Marisha: What were you doing on the Ozmit Sea?
Matt: "Making a shipment across to Emon from Issylra, and this group of thugs decided to go ahead and ransack us from the side. Took our ship down and most of the crew. Kept a few of us alive underneath. Seems like I was the one who lasted the longest."
Marisha: From Emon to where?
Liam: From Issylra to Emon.
Matt: "From Issylra."
Marisha: Oh, from Issylra.
Liam: What was your cargo?
Matt: He looks at you for a second, reads you up and down as you step into the conversation. "General goods. Few fancy textiles--"
Liam: Insight check.
Matt: "Some silks, some furs."
Taliesin: Insight.
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: 18.
Taliesin: 19.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Oh boy!
Laura: Again, again!
Sam: Lots of whispers, guys.
Liam: Just come sit with us.
Marisha: All the whispers.
Laura: Oh, but do you just wanna hang out over here? 'Cause Travis is just gonna fuck with your shit again.
Sam: Hey, in the future-- Travis, what do you think about this-- don't shake your butt.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: That's disgusting.
Marisha: Get it, Levi's, yeah.
Sam: What if we-- here's my pitch. What if we have two tin cans and a string that just goes to Matt, and we can do like one of these things.
Matt: That's a great idea.
Sam: Ah! Ah!
Laura: That would be so cool.
Matt: "Yeah, I'm just-- I'm glad you came along."
Taliesin: Tell me, friend. Why did they keep you alive?
Matt: "That's a good question."
Taliesin: It is.
Matt: "I don't fucking know."
Taliesin: What did they ask you?
Laura: Can we get some food?
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Matt: Immediately his eyes widen--
Laura: I was talking back to Captain Adella or one of the crewmates. Not you, Grog.
Matt: As soon as you do that, Captain Adella goes, "Ah, I don't get food. You get food!" And one of the other crewmates, "Oh, oh right." And he immediately jumps down below the deck.
Sam: I'm gluten-free!
Liam: Well, we saved your life, how else can we help you, friend?
Matt: "Oh, just drop me off at the nearest port you get to, please."
Taliesin: That's going to be a while.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "That's fine. That's fine."
Marisha: Have you sailed frequently before? What was your exact duty on this ship?
Laura: First Mate?
Marisha: Oh. Right. He already said that. So, you sail a lot.
Matt: "A fair bit, yeah."
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Any tattoos on him?
Matt: Yeah, actually, a handful visibly.
Taliesin: Any I'd recognize? I was on a boat for quite a while, as well.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: It was a long time ago.
Matt: Make a history check.
Taliesin: All right. Let's say 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. None of the symbols you recognize, necessarily, however, the arrangement of them-- the placement of them and the general design are not used as-- there's tattoos you could see they're decoration, there're tattoos you could see that are meant as-- they mean something to the person. These tattoos and their placement seems intentionally to intimidate.
Taliesin: Huh. Okay.
Laura: Was he a pirate?
Travis: Mr. Theton Groove, is anyone looking for you right now?
Matt: "I don't think so, my crew went down with the ship."
Taliesin: What was your captain's name?
Matt: He kind of looks over at you, "Wha-- what-- why--"
Taliesin: I was just curious how quickly you'd answer it. It's fine. Carry on. You will be getting food, don't worry, this is not us being threatening, we're just... it's odd finding a man in a cage in the bottom of a terrible ship filled with awful people. That alone makes us like you, but you are a bit weird.
Marisha: That's true. That's all true.
Taliesin: It is true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Forgive us, we have to be a bit wary.
Marisha: We've seen a lot.
Matt: "No, no, that's--"
Taliesin: We don't mind if you're disreputable, we just would like to know if you're our kind of disreputable.
Sam: If I may, new companions.
Travis: Oh god.
Sam: When my father would have--
Taliesin: Oh boy, okay.
Sam: -- sort of a cagey individual that he needed to interrogate, he had an employee named The Dog who was a large man, who would come and just squeeze them until they talked. Why don't we just do that here? It seems like it would be much quicker than talking in circles like this.
Marisha: Do you have The Dog with you?
Sam: Well, we have this guy, who's pretty big--
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: -- and I bet he could squeeze--
Travis: I mean, I second that method, but I'm just seeing if anybody else--
Taliesin: I feel like that's deeply premature.
Travis: It's deeply immature. I would never do something like that.
Taliesin: Immature indeed.
Sam: Well, all right.
Laura: Plus he's so frail right now, I'm afraid Grog would just break him in half.
Travis: Probably.
Matt: He is noticeably looking nervously back and forth between Taryon and Grog, and--
Travis: I mean, after all, we saved your life, right? You wouldn't be (yells) hiding nothing, would you?
Matt: "No?"
Travis: See?
Marisha: Honestly, this is how we treat people we like.
Taliesin: God, that's also true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Does anyone have any water?"
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Matt: "Fresh water? Oh, thank you." And he pulls it out and just starts drinking thirstily from it.
Marisha: All right. So we've cleared a few things, right? You seem untrustworthy, and broken, so therefore we like you. What else can we learn about you?
Matt: "I don't know what you're talking about. Look, I have business contacts, I can get you paid, just get me safe somewhere."
Taliesin: What sort of business contacts?
Matt: "The sort that I do business with, I told you. We deal in trade across the Ozmit."
Liam: Yeah, I mean, he's shifty as fuck, but it's no skin off my back, right?
Taliesin: No, not really.
Travis: We got any cages on this boat?
Taliesin: Oh, we're not-- we don't need that yet, where's he going to go?
Laura: Do I see any, like, Clasp markings on him at all?
Liam: That question might be great, but I think we're all right.
Matt: Nothing Clasp. Not really.
Travis: Gotta sleep at some point.
Matt: You kinda glance over and look at the middle of his shoulders and his shirt is kind of billowing, and torn. No symbol of the Clasp.
Laura: Those scars on your body. Were they from before you were captured, or after?
Matt: "Some-- both ways. The cages don't really protect very well."
Laura: What were they doing to you?
Matt: "They were just having fun, trying to get information about my company, and, you know. Being general pirate arseholes."
Travis: Sounds fun.
Marisha: And you're sure they were just pirates, yeah?
Matt: "Well, what else are they? Not the most pious men I've ever met."
Marisha: I don't know. I've never met a real pirate until just now.
Matt: At which point, one of the crewmen comes up with a small cluster of biscuits, and hands them over as he greedily reaches out like, "Oh!"
Marisha: Wait, one of the crewmen?
Taliesin: One of ours.
Marisha: One of ours?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I asked if they would bring him food.
Sam: We asked for food.
Matt: Adella just sent him for food.
Laura: I asked him to bring food.
Marisha: Why is he acting like he's starving?
Laura: Because he's been in a cage for two weeks. They didn't feed him very much.
Marisha: Oh, him, not our crewmate.
Travis: Holy shit.
Taliesin: Oh, okay, I--
Matt: The crewman brought food, and he reached out for it.
Marisha: Oh, sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Marisha: Sorry, we were confused. Sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Liam: Can't you see everything around you? It's all here.
Travis: He brings up a plate of biscuits and hungrily starts eating.
Taliesin: Bangarang. Bangarang!
Marisha: I brought you biscuits! (eating sounds)
Taliesin: Congratulations, Peter.
Matt: The crewman's a dick, by the way. Just--
Marisha: Do you want these?
Matt: These are good biscuits, starving guy! To be fair, that is kinda your style.
Laura: Thenton, you will forgive us if we don't give you free rein of the ship while you're on here.
Matt: "Oh no, that's fine. That's fine. I mean, lock me up, whatever you need. Just get me back to land, please."
Laura: We'll promise not to poke you.
Matt: "That's appreciated."
Marisha: So, you said you travel the Ozmit Sea frequently, yeah?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Have you stumbled upon the island of the Vesrah? The Ashari people of this ocean?
Laura: (laughs) Of the Ashari.
Marisha: Of the Ashari (laughs).
Matt: He says, "If what you're referring to is the Islands of Anamn, we generally steer clear. Too many reefs."
Marisha: Of Omand? Alland?
Matt: Anamn. A-N-A-M-N.
Marisha: Almond?
Sam: Aman.
Taliesin: Joy.
Laura: A--
Marisha: Almond Joy.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: The Island--
Matt: A-N-A-M-N. Anamn.
Marisha: A-N-A-M-N.
Taliesin: Cluster.
Marisha: Anman. An-amn.
Travis: Well, we should introduce ourselves, at least.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: We are Vox Machina, a travelling group of acrobats, and--
Laura: Defeaters of dragons. No big deal.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I do Van Damme splits, just as he finishes that sentence.
Laura: Trinket gets up and starts dancing around like he knows what to do, when we say we're performers.
Marisha: And I light up my fire hands.
Travis: We do have two smarter members that are not here, Scanlan and Pike, but maybe you'll see them later if you stick with us long enough.
Laura: She's a sailor, too.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: "Great."
Sam: Percival, am I misreading the scenario here? Can I please just pour acid on him until he talks to us? It seems like he's holding back, am I misreading, here?
Taliesin: No-- well, sort of-- not really-- sort of. It's complicated. We don't pour acid on people-- well, that's not true. No, that's a lie. We don't just pour acid on people, I feel like that's reasonable to say. We don't just pour acid--
Liam: Context. Context is key.
Taliesin: -- there's usually context involved. Things are complicated.
Sam: I am following your lead. But--
Taliesin: When it is time to pour the acid, we will undoubtedly make sure that you are on the front-- not yet--
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: -- but you're good.
Sam: All right.
Liam: Hey, Captain.
Matt: Adella's behind you guys--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: -- just kinda watching this whole thing with her arms crossed. One of her crewmates is currently at the helm.
Liam: I mean, the closest place to us right now is our desination, most likely, right? We're not gonna be able to dump this guy before we arrive, do you think?
Matt: "Yeah, no, we got maybe a day and a half travel 'til we reach the islands, so--"
Liam: Oy.
Laura: That's all right, he can stay on the boat.
Travis: We got an extra room for him?
Matt: "We got a-- we can throw him in the brig."
Taliesin: We can make the brig comfortable.
Laura: Yeah. We'll give him food. It's all right, right, Captain?
Matt: "We'll set some of-- one of our men on guard. All right! Pick him up. Throw him in the hole." Two of the crewmen come behind and pick him up, and kind of lean over the shoulder, like, "Ooh, thank you. Thank you very much, all of you." And he gets dragged off down below into the ship.
Liam: Byeee.
Marisha: Bye.
Laura: Captain, have you heard of the Tempest Fang?
Matt: "I've heard a thing or two."
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Taliesin: Is it a pirating vessel?
Matt: "Yeah." (all laugh)
Matt: "I was gonna let him finish his whole diatribe before we had a conversation, but he's one of 18 working companies out of the archipelago, so--"
Travis: I believe it's arch-i-pelago.
Sam: Sea diarrhea!
Travis: Jot this down! (horn noises)
Liam: That was sudden!
Taliesin: And the tension is relieved.
Marisha: So, wait. If he works for one of 18 companies of the archipelago, that means the archipelago has pirates--
Laura: -- 17 other companies.
Marisha: 17 other pirate ships?
Matt: Pirate companies. It's a very-- some of them have alliances, some of them have very, very deep-rooted rivalries, and yeah.
Taliesin: The companies themselves have more than one ship, if I recall.
Matt: Some of them do, depending on the size.
Marisha: Wait, did we just sink one of the other 17 companies of the archipelago?
Travis: Is there any extensive damage to our ship? Are we still pretty good, other than the railing getting ripped off?
Matt: "Looking around, my crewmen tell me we're doing all right. So we'll do some repairs when we drop off at your location. Once you do your business, we'll have some time to go ahead and do a once-over of our ship."
Taliesin: I may have some charts that I stole from the other ship, as well.
Laura: Oh, yeah. I put them in the Bag of Colding for the time being. Pull it out.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, a lot of them are maps of portions of the archipelago, the Hespit Archipelago, some are markings of various pirate headquarters, various places of parlay. A lot of them are waterlogged and soaked and damaged, but you can see elements that are-- a lot of them are hand-drawn notes in sections. The leather tube that you found, you pull it open, and there is a very, very immaculate piece of vellum paper that appears to have a number of glyphs scrawled across it.
Laura: Shit. Do we understand?
Sam: May I see that?
Taliesin: Sure.
Sam: I will Identify it.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What? (all cheer)
Sam: Much easier this way.
Laura: That's great! You can Identify things? How many times a day can you do that?
Sam: I think all? Scroll of Programmed Illusion. Scroll allows an arcane caster to use an action to cast the sixth-level spell Programmed Illusion. If the spell is higher-level than the caster can use, they must make a spellcasting blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
Laura: Are you an arcane user?
Sam: I think I am.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Is this basically like the thing in Superman 2 where Lex Luthor's playing chess--
Travis: In the prison cell?
Matt: Kind of?
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You have to look up the spell for the specifics, but yeah, it's got some interesting uses.
Sam: Are you arcane?
Laura: So basically it's you. You can use it.
Sam: Am I the only arcane?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a natural caster. You're the only arcane caster.
Laura: I mean, hold on to it in case we run into Scanlan again.
Travis: I am a powerful magician.
Laura: Or you can use it.
Travis: And with that, I take out the little gem thing that I pulled off the other ship.
Sam: Ooh! Should I Identify that?
Taliesin: You should Identify it.
Marisha: You should.
Sam: Can I, more than once a day?
Matt: Look at the ability. It's the spell-- I gotta look.
Sam: It's the Identify spell.
Matt: Yeah, it's a first-level spell.
Marisha: All the papers. All the papers in the world.
Taliesin: I imagine you're sitting here going--
Matt: It's a first-level spell, so as long as you have a first-level spell slot.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Oh, I have a spyglass, I didn't even need to ask for Captain Adella's.
Sam: It's a ritual, though, is that--
Matt: Oh, yeah, if you can use it as a ritual, then it won't use a spell slot when you do that.
Marisha: You just do it, it just takes time.
Sam: All right. I will ritually Identify that. What's that all about?
Matt: That is a fog marker. It can be used by holding it a round, but it is generally used to create a 100-foot-wide fog cloud that lasts for an hour when used.
Sam: Do we know how to activate it?
Matt: To activate it, you have to spend a ten-minute period of time concentrating on the orb, and then as it gets moved, it carries the fog cloud with it and lasts for an hour.
Laura: That's cool.
Sam: Could be useful.
Laura: Super useful.
Taliesin: At the very least, it could be installed in the ship. They could have it as a possible--
Sam: Cloaking device?
Travis: You could put it in the guts of Dottie.
Sam: Doty.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Deedee?
Marisha: Could you do that?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's not like he's hollow.
Marisha: In Doodie?
Sam: I mean, he's got a lot of stuff in there.
Travis: But that's not important, that stuff in there.
Liam: What kind of stuff?
Taliesin: Things.
Sam: You know.
Liam: No.
Sam: When you have two wheels and some ropes and it makes a pulley system--
Travis: Okay, no, just give it back to me, I'll put it back in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Thanks.
Taliesin: How big is the orb, out of curiosity?
Matt: The orb is maybe seven-inch diameter. It's about that big.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: It's seven-inch--
Matt: Yeah, it's about that big.
Taliesin: Interesting. All right.
Matt: So the ship is still progressing in that direction.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check on it? On the orb?
Matt: To? What do you want to do with the nature check?
Sam: To see if it smells like nature.
Marisha: Did it come from any Water Ashari, or anything like that? (all laugh)
Travis: What?
Matt: Roll a nature check.
Sam: Are you my brother? Are you my brother? (all laugh)
Marisha: 14?
Matt: It looks like a magic item.
Marisha: That's awesome. That's cool.
Taliesin: Does it have smoke inside when you turn it?
Matt: Yeah, when you turn it--
Taliesin: Like those weird balls filled with weird sand--
Matt: Yeah, actually, it kinda looks like that. As you shift it, it swirls on the inside. It causes the air-- intense condensation that eventually drips from the outside of it when it's activated.
Laura: Cool.
Marisha: (laughs) Outlook cloudy.
Matt: All right. So as everything rests down in the ship you can use, you have about a day and a half travel until you're supposed to reach the islands.
Travis: Can I post up outside of the brig where stabbed-in-the-body McGee is sleeping?
Matt: Yeah. And as he--
Travis: I'll forego my room. I just want to sleep sitting up.
Liam: Do we have rooms? I thought it was like Amex City on this--
Laura: No, we have rooms. But they're combined.
Matt: Yeah, they're clustered, you have many people per room. They're like bunks. So yeah, you post outside of the brig. As evening comes, the night passes. Is there anything you want to do? You just rest for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just keep the other guard company.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just to give him a little expert help.
Taliesin: We've been tinkering on the ship, so.
Matt: What have you been tinkering?
Sam: Science-bro stuff.
Taliesin: Science-bro stuff. Do we have to tell you what it is?
Matt: To tinker it, so I can give you a DC, yeah.
Taliesin: So he's got this really cool--
Matt: "We tinkered something really cool. Did it work?" Sure, it succeeds. "We built Voltron."
Taliesin: You were very cagey about knowing what it is while we were on break, so I didn't know if this was a thing.
Sam: So, using one of the opals from my Helm of whatever, Brilliance, he wanted to craft a housing for it--
Taliesin: So I've built a couple housings for these opals. So, you pop the opal in, and it will allow it to create either a concentrated beam--
Sam: Spotlight.
Taliesin: Spotlight, basically, like a little flashlight, a radiant beam like a torch--
Marisha: Floodlight.
Taliesin: Like a floodlight, or while it's on spotlight, it's got a little railroad thing, it's got a little slot that will go in and give me a little bit of a red vibe, so we can have a low-light red light, and I'm also going to make a little clip so I can stick it on my gun, so I can have a little spotlight on my gun when we're going through a--
Liam: It also ensures you cannot get a prom date.
Taliesin: Hey, I'm doing okay, just saying. Percy doing okay.
Laura: I don't know, you've been tinkering a lot lately.
Matt: Okay, so that's doable. The opal doesn't perpetually glow--
Sam: Yeah, it lasts for an hour. Is that something we can turn off and on and it lasts for an hour, like a battery, or is it just an hour, it's off--
Taliesin: And then we have to pop a new opal in.
Matt: Generally, you have to pop a new opal in.
Sam: Okay, no problem.
Taliesin: But you crack the opal, you put it in, it's like one hour of either flashlight, and then a little blinder to turn it on and off-- it's basically like a little train lantern.
Marisha: I was gonna say, like an old-school lighthouse.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinker check.
Taliesin: Doing this together?
Sam: Can I help him?
Matt: Yes, you would be giving him advantage as you attempt to do that. So you just roll it twice, Percy.
Taliesin: That was pretty good.
Sam: Did we get two 16s?
Taliesin: I got a 19.
Sam: Oh. I got a 16, but I get plus ten with my tinkerer's tools.
Taliesin: And mine's proficiency bonus and dex bonus on top of that 19? So that's 30.
Matt: Between the two of you guys, it is not an issue. Even with your limited materials, but your travel-tinkering capabilities-- you manage to deftly create this seamless, beautiful, you could sell it on the street.
Taliesin: So they can-- we may even make a little headband so they can pop it on.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: (laughs) You guys are so cute. All right.
Marisha: I spend my evening reconnecting with Vax.
Matt: Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: The Hallmark card way of saying fucking.
Taliesin: Well, there goes our sponsor by Hallmark.
Matt: Yeah, thanks. Sorry, Hallmark.
Liam: It's a couple days-- we've been traveling for a while, right?
Matt: It was three days before this encounter, you have a day and a half left.
Liam: And has a day passed since that fight?
Laura: No.
Liam: No, this is that night?
Laura: This is that night, yeah.
Matt: This is the evening afterward.
Taliesin: I'll see if I get my charges back.
Marisha: I don't want to say I feel like I'm being replaced. You know? It's not that. It's just that Percy's kinda found a new friend.
Liam: You're losing some friends.
Taliesin: We're not hanging out all the time, we're being social.
Marisha: No, it's not that. I'm a good friend, right?
Liam: Oh hi, Percy.
Sam: I was going to say we're being social.
Taliesin: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You guys aren't there. I got distracted.
Matt: No, you guys are busy tinkering. You two are having a conversation where Vax is trying to console Keyleth's sudden friendship crisis.
Sam: Oh! Oh! You've got a little smudge right there.
Marisha: I mean, I know I can't--
Liam: You're missing your friendo time, I understand. (all laugh)
Marisha: I can't fulfill every need.
Liam: We hear them laughing from their room. (all laugh)
Taliesin: (snorts)
Matt: It is a very thin wall.
Travis: Yes, snorting.
Sam: And it was the metric system!
Sam: (exaggerated laugh) (all laugh)
Taliesin: (exaggerated laugh) (all laugh)
Marisha: I will never know what the metric system means. I don't know what that is.
Liam: They're both, you know, really special and--
Marisha: I'm still a good friend, right? I'm still a good friend?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Am I a good friend?
Liam: Yeah. You're his best friend.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: Yeah, that's just new--
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: -- and those two have never met--
Marisha: No, I know.
Liam: -- a nerd as pure as the other.
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: I know I told them to like, bond but now-- I mean (sighs). No, it's fine, it's fine. I'm cool. I'm cool.
Liam: You're more than cool.
Marisha: I've missed you.
Liam: (chuckles) Hi.
Marisha: Hi. (crying sounds) (all laugh)
Liam: I dry the tears away. Do you know--
Marisha: (tearfully) New guy and the new guy dynamic! And I don't know what the new guy's chemistry's like!
Liam: Do you know what's really cool, though? We're not on the verge of death every fucking day right now.
Marisha: (tearfully) That's true.
Liam: Yeah, you know, pluses and minuses.
Marisha: (tearfully) I'm glad the new guy's the worst of our problems. (all laugh)
Liam: Come here, you.
Marisha: (tearfully) I just love Percy so much.
Liam: I know, I know.
Matt: Aw.
Liam: I know.
Matt: An evening of consoling and the rest of you guys get your evening's rest, you outside the brig, uneventful.
Laura: I did want to talk, but that's okay.
Taliesin: I get that.
Laura: I can talk later.
Matt: Oh, did you want to talk? Go for it. Go for it.
Travis: (burps)
Liam: Go interrupt the party.
Laura: Yeah no, I was going to. TALIESIN; Well, I was going to say, you're welcome. We're finishing up, you're welcome in.
Marisha: (sobs)
Laura: Oh! Only when you're finishing up.
Travis: Ooh.
Taliesin: Well, I don't know when you were-- We obviously did it.
Sam: We built our--
Taliesin: I love that so much, it's so--
Travis: Wow, wow.
Liam: Did it?
Taliesin: Yeah, we put the whole thing together.
Liam: Put the whole thing?
Taliesin: The whole thing put together.
Matt: Phrasing.
Liam: Sure, yeah.
Marisha: Man, you're going for it. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear, as you guys are finishing up, you hear a knock at the door.
Travis: Cleaning up your--
Laura: Hello?
Taliesin: Yes! Come in.
Laura: Is it filled with smoke in here?
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: Oh, hi Tary. I didn't see you.
Sam: We were welding.
Laura: Fun! Exciting! On a boat, even. Wow.
Taliesin: It's relatively safe.
Laura: So! What'd you make?
Taliesin: (sighs) Can I crack one?
Sam: Let's do it.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Oh wait, we're using one?
Taliesin: We're using one.
Sam: All right, sure. Why not? It's 1000 gold, but okay, sure. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It's his father's money.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: (crack, dink) As he flicks the opal, it gives off a bright equivalent of the Light spell.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Daylight.
Matt: Daylight! I'm sorry. This is--
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: The power of the sun.
Laura: That's powerful.
Matt: Basically, there's a sun in the room suddenly (crackle).
Taliesin: Wait.
Laura: Oh wow, you guys made a--
Matt: You're literally blinded for a moment.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: Your eyes just go (crackle).
Taliesin: We put it in the box, contain it.
Sam: Well, wait, open it just a little bit.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: And then I'm gonna take my Helm of Brilliance and just put one of the diamonds up to the laser beam like light coming out so it makes like a dazzling light across the--
Laura: Wow.
Matt: It's a beautiful prism, which you're able to see in about 40 seconds. (all laugh)
Laura: It's a lot, it's just a lot of spots right now, but I'm sure.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Laura: Eventually. Oh! Pretty. Um, get out. You, not you. If you don't mind.
Sam: I don't at all.
Laura: I mean, of course you can stay--
Taliesin: Get out. It's okay.
Sam: I have a lot of dictation to do.
Taliesin: Out, out, out, out, out.
Laura: (quietly) Hi.
Taliesin: And I boot him out. Oh hi, thank god. And--
Laura: So, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes, dear?
Laura: I've been meaning to bring something up to you.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: At the risk of bringing up Scanlan again--
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: Something I'd rather ignore.
Taliesin: Yes, me too.
Laura: When he left, he said something that caught my ear, which was that he heard. He heard Pike and his daughter, calling to him.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: From the other side. Which is strange really, because when I was on the other side, I don't remember hearing anything. What about you?
Taliesin: Okay. I'm gonna sit down and open up a bottle.
Laura: Busting out the Courage again?
Taliesin: The Courage, I think, is long gone at this point.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going for the Tear whiskey, fuck it Take a swing, and I pass.
Laura: Mm.
Taliesin: I was not in a good place, I was-- what I am choosing to describe as great motivation to live a long life. There was pain and sound and I've tried hard not to think about creating words to articulate it, but it was the feeling of being-- it was not pain without end, it felt like pain that would have an end because eventually there would be nothing left of me. I felt consumed. And yes, I heard. It was the only thing I heard. Yes. I know you well enough to know-- trying not to embarrass you, but--
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: -- yes.
Laura: I'm not embarrassed.
Taliesin: Well, I would've, honestly-- I would've never hoped otherwise. You're far too wonderful for an idiot.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: So (sighs), but I'm more hopeful. I'm not quite as fearful of whether-- I'm worrying less about what may happen when I die again and if I'm going to go back there.
Laura: Well, that's good. I would hope he's not waiting on the other side for you.
Taliesin: I hope not either, and--
Laura: What about when you were killed by Raishan?
Taliesin: That was quick. It was fine, but it was quick, so I'm not sure if that means anything yet. I've overthought this quite a bit and I don't know if you care to hear too many of my fears in this direction, but, I do think about it.
Laura: You can always tell me your fears, Percy.
Taliesin: Where do the people I kill go? I know you don't have an answer, I don't have an answer either, but--
Laura: I don't, I suppose it depends on them, doesn't it?
Taliesin: Does it? Or does it depend on me? Or does it now depend on this thing?
Laura: You don't think they were doomed to suffer the same fate that you were?
Taliesin: Maybe. I don't know, maybe I keep feeding it every time--
Laura: Oh no.
Taliesin: I don't quite know how to find out, other than I had a moment where I thought about shooting someone, bringing them back and asking them.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: There was a moment I thought about shooting someone. Well, if it comes to it, it's something I've had in my back pocket as killing two birds with one stone.
Laura: Maybe we can just try that on someone who we already need to kill.
Taliesin: That's my thought.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: And, I worry about what all of this is doing to us, but at the same time, I have such faith in-- I have such faith in you and Keyleth, and occasionally Grog, and occasionally your brother.
Laura: (laughs) Are you listening?
Taliesin: (laughs) But I'm starting to wonder if this is what all those heroes I read about when I was young, if this is what they felt, is just a lot of getting very comfortable with not knowing and being nervous and wondering if you're really just the villain of someone else's story.
Laura: I'm sure that's how they feel. No one's ever sure they're doing the right thing.
Taliesin: But I did hear you, sorry to-- I did hear you and sorry that I didn't say.
Laura: No, it's all right. Takes the pressure off, really, knowing that you know.
Taliesin: I treasure every minute, and you remind me to not be so serious.
Laura: Yes. So serious.
Taliesin: I'm not saying that you're not serious but-- (sighs)
Laura: (exasperated voice) You can go play with Tary some more if you like.
Taliesin: I'm done with Tary for the evening.
Laura: Great! Then you can play with me! (all laugh)
Taliesin: And crossing the whiskey off the inventory.
Matt: Off the-- yeah.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: All right, as the evening--
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: -- the evening comes to a close, the next day's journey is met with a coming cloudfront, does not appear to be storm-bearing clouds but the clear skies seem to have come to an end.
Marisha: I'm restless in all of my night's sleep as we get closer.
Matt: Mm-hm. As the next day comes to a close, the sun setting, you hear a call from the top of the crow's nest that shouts out, "Land ho!"
Laura: We go running up.
Matt: You guys all catch up and you can see--
Liam: (quietly) You got this.
Marisha: (groans)
Matt: -- just as the last bit of sunlit glow behind the clouds begins to fade into darkness, you see ahead the gentle shape of islands just breaking the horizon ahead, and one by one, little lights (click click click) coming on.
Marisha: I rush to the bow of the ship.
Matt: As you come up to the bow of the ship, you can see at this point now, Captain Adella is starting to shout off to the side, "Keep it all high!" and is currently moving around and you see there are three guys at the front who all have lanterns out and they're watching the water below and they're shouting out, "Five to the right!" and they're giving different degrees and she's navigating through what looks to be a channel of reefs, as you glance over the edge. And you can see there are pathways here, but it looks like a lot of this water is very dangerous water and eventually you get to a point where one of them shouts, "Stop! Stop!" and they immediately throw down the sails and someone throws the anchor off the side and the ship (crunching) comes and slams to a halt as the anchor clicks and you can feel it grinding for a bit as it catches the edge of one of-- it looks like a reef below, but the ship eventually stops as you glance over, there maybe 15 feet away from hitting the edge of a reef. (grinding sound) It stops and the water (whistling) slowly comes to rest as the ship comes to a rest. Looking over the edge, you can see the water maybe about 20 or so feet down with what little bit of light the lanterns have put over, you can see the very top of various reef cliffs and hints of beach shelf beginning to rise up towards this cluster of almost like still fairy lights in the distance, unmoving. Captain Adella comes up to the edge of the ship and goes, "Well, that's about as far as we can get with this ship. My apologies."
Marisha: No, this is fantastic. And I run to the edge of the ship and I shoot a Daylight into the spell and throw a Create Water and make a rainbow over top of us.
Matt: Wow.
Marisha: (tch boom) Ooh.
Matt: So with that (pffff) the spray of vapor in the air of the night sky, the darkness ahead of you that was currently-- the clouds obscuring any sort of starlight, suddenly is showered with a spray of vibrant colors across the entire spectrum, as the vapor slowly cascades around each side of the ship. As it does, a few moments pass and you watch more lights spark open in the distance (puff puff puff puff puff) whatever the source is, you begin to get a clearer view and there you can just barely begin to see the edges of what appear to be a very, very faint outline of a number of buildings all springing up from the water itself.
Travis: (quietly) Oh shit.
Matt: The city is not on one of the islands, the city is in the center of them, there's a triangulation of these land masses and the city itself resides between all three.
Sam: (quietly) Wow.
Matt: Some of the guys in the front of the ship start taking small rowing boats and taking them up and latching them in and setting them off the side into the more shallow waters below.
Marisha: I run past all of them and just jump into the water, not gracefully like before and start swimming.
Matt: Make a perception check. (all groan)
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Perception check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: We're at a reef!
Liam: Don't face-plant on a reef!
Marisha: Fine. Ooh!
Taliesin: There is now!
Liam: I'm on a reef.
Marisha: Oh that's just a dexterity check?
Matt: No, perception.
Sam: Perception.
Marisha: Oh, perception. 28.
Matt: You run to the edge and right as you're about to leap, you look and realize there's relatively shallow reef in the direction you're about to leap, so you kinda turn and (laughs) go at an angle instead and (plop) into the water below.
Marisha: (nervous sounds)
Matt: A second, almost a second after you, the ship (cracks) hits the water below and they start throwing down the rope ladder and you guys are allowed to then step into the rowboat.
Laura: Broom.
Taliesin: Carpet?
Matt: You have the broom. Or carpet if you like?
Marisha: I just start--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get on the carpet and offer it to anybody who likes.
Marisha: Using my cantrips--
Travis: Well, I need the boat 'cause I'm heavy.
Taliesin: What about the boat?
Sam: I want to be on the flying carpet, 'cause that's amazing.
Laura: Trinket will get in a boat with Grog.
Liam: What are you doing?
Laura: No! Trinket's gonna be in my necklace.
Matt: All right. Trinket goes in the necklace.
Laura: Yeah, for a minute.
Liam: Hopping on behind my sister.
Matt: Okay, so your sister, you guys are taking the carpet--
Sam: Yes!
Matt: -- Grog, you're going in the boat?
Travis: I got my own rowboat.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: With a robot. Robot in the--
Sam: Oh yeah! The robot is--
Travis: No. Dottie is not coming with me.
Taliesin: Dottie is coming with you.
Sam: Well, he can come on the--
Laura: No, he can't. It's too heavy. It's too heavy for the carpet.
Taliesin: Doty cannot come on the carpet.
Matt: It's too heavy to go on the carpet.
Sam: I have to stay behind with Doty.
Taliesin: Yeah well, have fun.
Travis: Yep, see you later.
Laura: Get him on a boat. Get on a boat, Tary.
Sam: Is there another rowboat for us?
Matt: They have other rowboats on the side, you can request another one.
Sam: I would like to request another rowboat for Doty.
Marisha: (laughing) A boat for Doty.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys begin making your way, roughly five minutes behind you, as you all are kinda moving forward together via carpet, flight, and her swimming, and Grog strongly pushing his way through, Tary's just impatiently waiting for them to get the other boat off the side of the ship and they're slowly lowering it down, kind of the ropes having to adjust as it goes and you're like (groans). (all laugh)
Travis: I see adventure over this way! Too bad you won't be there to see it!
Sam: I'm missing it, hurry up! (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys begin to approach, Keyleth, your feet eventually hit sand as opposed to treading water, and as you begin to walk up, the water comes past your waist, down to eventually your knees, and that is about as low as it goes.
Marisha: As far as it goes, yeah.
Matt: And looking out above you, you can see this beautiful lagoon that is completely submerged in about a foot, foot and a half of water for a good mile in all directions. And you can see dozens and dozens of these Grecian looking white and green marble structures that rise up out of the water. You can see a series of poles that stand up holding these lanterns that have all been magically set alight to give the city a sort of a glow. You see shapes moving, you see figures shifting out of these buildings and making their way in your direction, and as you're looking at this space in front of you and you guys begin to kind of meet up, you watch as a figure (whoosh) out of the water next to Keyleth. You glance to your left and look down and you see what appears to be a child, maybe about 13 years old, human-like, though his ears come to a bit of a finned appearance. You can see what looks to be gill slits to the side of the neck, and he looks up at you with kind of a tattered, long-stiffened piece of cloth tunic and shorts that end at the knee,and he kinda looks up at you and just kinda smiles with these very, very bright, orange-ish yellow eyes, "Hi."
Marisha: Kaitiaki. And I drop to my knees and drop down and--
Matt: (sploosh) You go face-down into the water.
Marisha: Gah! (heavy breathing)
Matt: Get up and (groans) push the water-- the hair back a bit.
Marisha: And bow again.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Okay. "Um... what are you doing?"
Marisha: Sorry, are you the leader-- are you the headmaster?
Matt: "Yes. Yes, I am."
Marisha: Oh! Hi. Uh, Keyleth.
Matt: "Keyleth. " And he reaches out and grabs your hand. "Yulan."
Marisha: Yulan!
Matt: "Leader of the Water Ashari."
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: I am Keyleth, daughter of Vilya and Korren of the Air Ashari, and I am here to complete my Aramente. And I bow again, under the water.
Matt: (splash) Into the water again.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: He shakes his head, you can see now he has these tossed medium-length dreadlocks that shake with his head as he turns side to side, (laughs) He looks up at the rest of you, "So! She yours?"
Laura: Mm. Mm-hm.
Taliesin: More or less.
Matt: "You bad people?"
Laura: Uh-uh.
Taliesin: Nah.
Travis: Not today.
Sam: We're just rowing up. What'd I miss?! Start over, start over! (pants)
Matt: "Is he a bad person?"
Laura: Nah.
Liam: Nah. He's all right.
Taliesin: He's workable.
Matt: "Okay. Well, come with me." And he reaches out and taps you on the shoulder, Keyleth.
Marisha: (gasp) It's just such an honor.
Matt: Come on.
Laura: Keyleth!
Marisha: What?
Matt: He grabs your hand and pulls you up out of the water, and starts running in towards the city, holding you behind him. Just kinda tugging you by the hand.
Laura: Oh, he has legs?
Matt: He does have legs.
Laura: Man!
Taliesin: And he does know how to use them.
Travis: Keyleth!
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: Splash, splash, splash splash splash splash...
Travis: Be cooler.
Marisha: Cooler. Cooler. (blows) And I let a little frost go from my breath.
Matt: (blows) Okay. Splash, splash, splash splash splash splash splash. He's just running through the water. You can see a number of people have now stepped out of the buildings as you guys approach. And each one of them-- all of their clothing ends at the knee. You can see that this entire society walks through and lives partially submerged. There is an ever-present water element to their day to day life.
Laura: They must have the pruniest feet!
Marisha: -- feet.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: I know, right?
Liam: (laughs)
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: That was amazing. I would live there in a second!
Taliesin: How did that happen just now? How did you just go there?
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: The sand is soft and still strangely warm beneath your feet, though the night has come. And even through the distant sparkles of light everywhere, this city-- a lot of the buildings seem hollow and open, like what walls that there are, there's large windows. It seems like everything has this very kind of open-air, free lifestyle to it. And as you begin to approach--
Marisha: As he's dragging me, I just start, like, rambling all the questions at once. I'm like, Aren't-- This is such a gorgeous city you have. Are you freshwater or saltwater? Do you have webbed feet? Does everyone have webbed feet? How many people can control water? Wow, look at that. Look at those. Is this fire that you use? Or is it all arcane?
Matt: He's not answering any of your questions, and you hear a voice shout out: "Yulan!"
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: And the boy kinda stops and drops your hand and backs away with his hands kinda crossed behind his back, and he steps away, bowing his head a little bit and (splashing noise) away. The crowd-- and you can now see, all these different people, most of them appear to be human, elven, there are a handful of dwarves, a couple halflings, it's a spread of races here. You see two half-orcs that have these large tridents off to the side, and they're guarded but they're all deciding whether or not this is a welcoming circumstance, or a careful parlay. The voice that rang out, the crowd parts a little bit, and you watch as the water around you guys begins to spiral into these columns. Each one appears to be similar to the entity you saw rise onto the ship. A series of water elementals begin to rise out of the water, as some of the individuals in the crowd pull their hands together, and then you see four of them rise and begin to circle. Not closing in, but just keeping very close vigil around. And you realize at this point that, while the city is welcoming, they are also a carefully guarded people. The crowd parts, and you see stepping out, with the tiniest of splashes, a very tiny woman. Old, shriveled, most of her hair is gone and these thin wisps of white and gray, a wide oval-like head, the skin itself an olive yellow tint. Very wrinkled and pruny, the eyes are almost these tiny little black beads. Gnome, very old, with a long staff that's twice her height that just kinda with each step (squishing splash) kinda like a weird female Water Ashari Yoda. And just kinda steps forward through the water--
Marisha: Rad!
Matt: "Yulan, you are not to greet our guests! Now, you. What is your name?"
Marisha: Hi. (clears throat) Kaitiaki, I am Keyleth, daughter of Vilya and Korren of the Air Ashari, and I am here to complete my Aramente. I am--
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Kaitiaki. I am honored to be in your presence.
Matt: "I am Uvenda, Heart of the Tides here. I had my own Aramente, long ago. And I knew your mother who came for her Aramente, as well."
Marisha: You knew my mother?
Matt: "She came here for her own Aramente. And now you come to complete what she could not. So--"
Marisha: I'm-- I'm--
Matt: "-- you are welcome, Keyleth of the Zephra."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm-- sorry, that just means she visited the Earth, and the Fire, and the Water Ashari. She completed her Aramente.
Matt: "She did not, child."
Marisha: What hap-- She-- I-- Everywhere I've been, she's been. Why not?
Matt: "Come. Come. We shall speak, there is much to discuss, and it is growing cold out here, and you could probably all use a warm fire. So? See to our guests!" And the folks around go from their tense reverie and begin to approach and take, like just instinctually taking your belongings, and helping you unload. You guys (laughs) withdraw, and they back off as soon as they realize that wasn't part of the circumstance. But you are led deeper into this city, and there is a central temple that has multi-layers. Three floors with a number of spiral staircases on the outside of the structure that lead to it. Each floor is still very open and you get the sense that this whole city is built around the flow of ocean air and sea spray. And there is almost like a constant breeze that just blows through. And a lot of the buildings are rounded at the edges. The heavy waves and water that just come through here has-- you can see rounded and brought curvature to all the structures for as long as the city's been around. There are elements of shell-type shapes, there are bits of ocean inspiration to the architecture, it's a very interesting, alien, and beautiful place compared to where you've been before. You're led into this temple structure in the center of this city, you're brought to a series of what look almost like tree stumps, but they're made of a bright, bleached white, almost spongy material. And as you sit on them, food is brought to you, fish, fresh cooked platters. You guys are now being treated like honored guests, as you arrive. As you sit down, Keyleth, Uvenda, has a servant bring a much taller sponged stool than the ones you guys have, and it's set in front of you, and she uses her staff and (grunts) pole-vaults on top of it, and sits, crosses her legs, and sets the staff off to somebody and kinda leans down with her hands in front, her chin resting on them, her little beady gnomish eyes looking down at you. "So, Keyleth, the Aramente is not easy."
Marisha: I know.
Matt: "Do you know what this leg of your journey entails?"
Marisha: I mean, I've made it this far. In my heart, I feel like I'm almost complete, but I feel like you're about to tell me something different.
Matt: "You are near the completion of the Aramente, this is true, and through this, you will learn the strength of utilizing your own capabilities and those of your trusted allies. You will learn various ways of looking at the difficulties and challenges that are before you. And there are lessons as part of this, so listen carefully. For the final leg of your Aramente, we will wait 'til the morning sun comes to these waters, you and your compatriots will be brought down below the waves, below this city, to the Aerie of Torrent, where the Vesrah rift resides to the Water Elemental Plane. The Aerie is where we implant the lodestones that keep the village from sinking, and the rift size contained. The lodestones, unfortunately, do wane in power over time, so we must occasionally cross into the rift, and have our fastest Waverunners recover replacements within the Elemental Plane. The source of the lodestones, in which we have built and maintained this city. But the once-challenging path to these lodestones has now become deadly for all but our swiftest."
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "We would find these stones sparsely scattered throughout the plane, just beyond the rift, leaving us uncertain of their origin for as long as we've been here. For generations, they would just fall and sink to the bottom, or we'd scavenge them from the silt and sand below. However, this last generation of Waverunners have discovered them to be a product. Natural waste of a particular creature that resides within the boundless oceans of the plane. An ancient beast, once guided upon creation by the Titans that claimed this world their own before the gods came and gave light to our souls."
Marisha: What's it called?
Matt: "They are known in many languages, by many names, but the common tongue knows to them as the krakens."
Laura: (yells)
Marisha: (yells)
Sam: (scared panting)
Travis: (excited hyperventilation)
Matt: "Humongous, tentacled beasts, long free of their servitude from their creators. One of these such krakens has taken to the waters near the rift, and made it its home on the other side. And this beast appears to have been producing the lodestones that we relied on for ages. This research, and information they've gathered, however, garnished the attention of this terrible fiend, and was accidentally led directly to the rift where it now nests, and feeds on the other creatures naturally drawn to the energy of the tear between the worlds. We now use the lodestones and our powers not only to control the merging of the planes at the rift, but to also prevent this monstrosity from crossing over into our world and tearing our city asunder. Your task--"
Marisha: So--
Matt: She puts a finger out to stop you. "--would be to descend into this Aerie of Torrent, enter the rift, and recover three of these lodestones, and return to us. That is all. Avoid the beast if possible, for to battle it is folly, and to kill it is to sink our city, and curse the rift, to eventually fade."
Marisha: So, don't kill it?
Laura: Do. Not. Kill. Got it.
Marisha: Don't kill the kraken. Right? Don't kill the kraken?
Travis: No, kill the kraken.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Get kraken.
Sam: We can reason with it.
Marisha: Get three lodestones, bring it back, don't kill him because he is responsible for you guys not sinking into the ocean.
Laura: Because he makes the lodestones.
Sam: With his poop?
Liam: Poopstones.
Marisha: He makes the lodestones--
Laura: Basically.
Sam: Poops lodestones.
Marisha: -- with his droppings?
Matt: "Essentially, yes." (all laugh)
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "To use such base terms."
Marisha: All right. So he drops these lodestones at the base of the water plane.
Matt: "Yes. Often found within the vicinity of the rift, but such is the beast. Be quick, be careful, be stealthy, and return as soon as you have them."
Marisha: Do you have an example of these lodestones so that we know what we're looking for?
Matt: "We will show you at the Aerie tomorrow in the morning."
Marisha: All right. So this starts in the morn-- Which is exactly what you said. You totally said that, didn't you?
Matt: "Yes. Yes, I have."
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Is there something that helps those of us who don't breathe underwater breathe underwater?
Marisha: I can handle that.
Laura: Yes?
Marisha: I can handle that. So. What happened to my mother?
Matt: She swallows strongly. "Your mother was a brave woman, very much like you, now that I see you before me. Unsure of herself, and wishing to please, and not disappoint. And it's hard to ascertain but I fear it's perhaps that lack of confidence that may have caused her failure."
Marisha: Did she not make it out? Of the water plane?
Matt: "She brought her own companions, that she had found and brought with her along her path. Our guides brought her to the rift, and her companions did not survive. Your mother did not return, and we sent scouts to try and retrieve her body so she could be interred correctly, but we only found a leg."
Marisha: She's still alive. That means she's still alive.
Matt: "Hold onto that hope. Use it, and finish what she started. She lives through you at the very least. Hold that memory."
Marisha: I will hold on to it, but I hope you know that does not define me. I'm not her.
Matt: "Good. Then perhaps you have a chance."
Marisha: We'll complete your task. Thank you.
Matt: "You've come far, young Keyleth. I have faith that you will rise, and become the Voice of the Tempest. For now, we rest. Eat. Sleep. For tomorrow, you face the pet of the Titans." And that's where we'll leave tonight's session.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: (scared panting)
Travis: We're gonna kill a kraken!
Marisha: No!
Liam: No!
Laura: No!
Marisha: Kill a kraken!
Sam: No, don't kill a kraken.
Marisha: Right, we're not gonna kill a kraken.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: We are going to not kill it.
Taliesin: We are going to irritate a kraken.
Laura: We are going to--
Taliesin: We are going to make it--
Travis: Holy shit!
Laura: -- We're going to steal some kraken's poop.
Travis: I have no idea what that means.
Marisha: We're gonna collect kraken droppings.
Travis: I don't know what a kraken is like in D&D, but I'm fucking stoked to find out.
Taliesin: We're gonna bring a bottle of Kraken.
Marisha: We're gonna bring a bottle of Kraken.
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Oh, I'm so gonna bring a bottle of Kraken next game!
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: (excited shouting)
Taliesin: You know what else we're gonna do? We're not gonna finish it.
Marisha: We're not gonna finish it.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Yeah, we're not gonna finish it.
Marisha: That's game, we do not finish it.
Matt: That's kind of perfect.
Laura: We're gonna drink most of it.
Liam: (chuckles)
Taliesin: We're gonna drink most of it, but we're not gonna kill the kraken.
Marisha: Except for like one-fourth of it.
Laura: Yeah. TALIESIN. Don't. 'Cause we don't kill the kraken.
Marisha: We let it live.
Liam: We're gonna give that thing some maylox. (proot fart sound)
Taliesin: Don't kill the kraken.
Travis: Nice job, Matt!
Matt: Nice job, you guys.
Travis: Nice C!
Taliesin: Good game. Good game.
Laura: C!
Matt: All right. We'll bring this up next week on Thursday for the last leg of Keyleth's Aramente--
Sam: Hey.
Matt: -- as the party might face a kraken!
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Matt: That'll be interesting.
Liam: One of 17.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Yo momma is the kraken.
Marisha: That's what I'm most afraid of!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: I've already thought about it.
Taliesin: Long John Silver!
Travis: Wow. No, no, no, no.
Marisha: That she's the full Long John Silver.
Taliesin: She's gonna go pirate, she's gonna have a patch and a beard--
Marisha: And a peg leg!
Taliesin: -- and a peg leg.
Marisha: She totally has a peg leg.
Laura: Ew.
Taliesin: And like a little cuttlefish instead of a instead of a parrot.
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: Rad!
Marisha: My mom's a pirate!
Laura: Definitely.
Liam: (singing)
Taliesin: (joins singing)
Marisha: (joins singing)
Sam: That is not the key at all.
Travis: Oh god, get us out of here.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: All righty, guys. (all laugh)
Matt: We'll pick up next week on Thursday. (laughs) Thank you so much for watching. Thank you again, Tor Books, for sponsoring.
Sam: (incoherent background noise) Tor Books, toy boats, Tor Books.
Liam: Tor Books.
Matt: Wyrmwood for being awesome. We're gonna go ahead and rest. Oh, I forgot to mention. I will be on the Rollplay live anniversary game on Saturday. I'm actually flying up to Canada to go play with them in person. So-- (all cheer)
Matt: I'm gonna be jumping in for one episode of the Swan Song series.
Travis: Are you gonna play?
Matt: That will be fun. Yeah! I get to play!
Sam: In Canada?
Liam: In Canada?
Matt: Up in Canada, yeah.
Sam: Each d20 is actually worth 22 up there. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Is that where you have to roll backwards?
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: You roll backwards there?
Matt: Yeah, that's how it works.
Marisha: And, as always, don't forget to watch Talks Machina on Tuesday--
Laura: On Tuesday!
Matt: With Brian.
Marisha: With Brian Foster!
Matt: That will be fun.
Marisha: At 7pm.
Liam: Matt's always talking about his campaign up in Canada, I'm not sure if it's real or not. (all laugh)
Marisha: What are you talking about, guys?
Matt: It is real!
Marisha: This is fine.
Matt: It's real!
Laura: Totally real.
Marisha: This is great!
Matt: Anyway. Have a wonderful night, guys. Rest well. Laura, get up early.
Laura: I know!
Matt: I'm sorry. Is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. For our 99th episode, which is crazy, that's absolute batshit. Makes next week the 100th, which is crazy, even more crazy, and we'll be more crazy.
Travis: You did the math wrong there. Oh no, that's right.
Matt: Yeah, that's right. Yeah, intelligence six. Anyway, guys, welcome! We have an awesome guest. Tonight Jon Heder will be joining us-- (cheering)
Ashley: Who is it? Who is it?
Matt: -- at the point in the narrative in which his character will arrive. But, before then, let's go ahead and get to our announcements for the evening. First and foremost, we have a new merch item, I believe.
Laura: Yes, we do!
Matt: Laura, if you want to introduce it and possibly--
Laura: Oh, well I know some of you have been wanting to hear more about Scanlan, and we thought it would be great to release a concert tee of his. Wait, turn around, because it's even better on the back. (cheering)
Laura: And if you notice, he's got a few canceled appearances there at the end because--
Sam: Because he died.
Travis: Because he's a traitorous bitch.
Laura: Yeah, and it's pretty cool, so there's that. And that's in the store right now! Go check it out.
Marisha: Oh my god, right now.
Travis: Enter the Meat Man.
Sam: If we can't have Scanlan, at least we've got the shirt.
Laura: That's right. That's right.
Liam: And good memories. (laughter)
Laura: Maybe, maybe we'll see Scanlan in concert sometime.
Marisha: And we'll be like, "We used to hang out with him before he was famous."
Laura: Yeah, before he was famous. Marisha, you've got a little food on your mouth. Under your lip. You got it.
Sam: Announcements continue!
Matt: Yes, so anyway, other things. The campaign guide, the Tal'Dorei campaign guide, info is up on the Green Ronin website. If you're looking for it, they have dates of release, price points, and where you can find it and when. So if you go to the Green Ronin website, Google search for Green Ronin, they have a section there for the front page that has all the updates, or you can look at @GreenRoninPub on twitter. They have the updates there as well. I also retweeted it on my twitter so you can find it there. But that should answer your questions. We've gotten a bunch today. Also, tomorrow and Saturday, up in Seattle, the actual folks at Dungeons & Dragons are doing the Stream of Annihilation, in which they're having a bunch of people from the community coming out there to play games together, mix it up, be crazy, and unveil their new story setting which I'm really excited for you guys to find out about. But as part of that, Marisha, Taliesin, Liam, and myself will be going up there and playing some games. I'll be running a game on Saturday morning with the Guts, Girls, Glory group. And that is going to be a lot of fun. So you should come watch. Find the information at the official Dungeons and Dragons twitter, and we'll look forward to seeing you guys over the next couple of days up there as well.
Laura: I'll be in Las Vegas this weekend for--
Liam: Gambling?
Laura: No, for Gears of War event.
All: Ooh!
Laura: So if you guys play Gears of War competitively, come out and fight and then see me while I'm there.
Travis: Are you going to play competitive Gears of War?
Laura: No, but I'm going to cheer people on, though, real good. (laughter)
Matt: Well, cool, awesome! Also, next weekend, not this, but the weekend after that, I'll be at A-Kon June 8-11 in Fort Worth, Texas.
Travis: I went to college there.
Matt: Yeah, Travis went to college there.
Matt: Also, wanted to let you guys know that there is a charity banquet event happening at the event, which is going to be a two- to three-hour dinner, meal provided. Hang out. I'll be a part of that. You can come actually talk to me in person. One of the few guaranteed ways I'll have an opportunity to interface with people, so you don't have to wait in line for it necessarily. It's an add-on to your con ticket, and if you're there, the proceeds of that ticket all go to the Texas Scottish Rite Hospital. So it's a cool event, happy to support an awesome charity, and hopefully get to see some of you guys there. Wednesday Club, Taliesin, what you got coming up?
Taliesin: We're talking about the Young Avengers this next week. We just finished Wonder Woman; it was a great time. We wore tiaras and capes and talked.
Marisha: Did you really?
Taliesin: Matt wore the cape and I wore the tiara. It was really good.
Sam: The Young Avengers?
Taliesin: We're going to be talking about the Young Avengers which are--
Sam: Kid Hulk, Kid Iron Man.
Taliesin: You are-- Hulkling. And Iron Lad. But we're going to be talking about the teenage superheroes of the Marvel U, specifically the ones who take the Avengers name, and they're really fun and the modern take on them is really going to be influencing a lot of the stuff that ends up on TV and it's going to be a lot of fun. They're some of my favorite books; they're badass.
Matt: Awesome, thank you, Taliesin. Check out Wednesday Club. And of course we have Talks Machina live on Tuesday next week, about this episode you're gonna see tonight, at 7PM Pacific Time here on Twitch and Alpha, hosted by our fantastic Brian Wayne Foster.
All: Brian Wayne Foster!
Matt: Yes, so check it out, then.
Laura: I've got one.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: I didn't put it on the list.
Matt: No, you didn't.
Laura: But it's a present for Liam O'Brien. (cheering)
Laura: I didn't get to give him his birthday present last week, and now I do get to.
Liam: (shrieks)
Marisha: I just remembered it was your birthday.
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Laura: I wrapped it all pretty, open it up.
Liam: Okay, with a thank-you in advance and afterwards as well.
Laura: Open it up!
Liam: We'll edit this part out, right? I just meant the unwrapping.
Sam: It's a ring box.
Travis: Please be a turd.
Laura: It's just a pile of blue poop.
Liam: Oh. Oh my god.
Laura: Did you see it?
Liam: Yes. Not big enough. It's a-- aw, man-- it's beautiful.
Travis: What is it?
Liam: It's a ring and it's got raven feathers on it and a little black gem. And on the inside it says, "Do not go far from me."
Travis: Aw! Wow, twinsies.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: You're welcome. I don't know if it will fit you, but you know, happy birthday.
Sam: Is it a genuine gold-style ring?
Laura: Did it fit?
Liam: It fit.
Laura: I guessed it! Yes!
Liam: It is beautiful. I love it so much. Perfect. Love it. That's a great birthday present.
Laura: Well, all right.
Matt: That's really awesome. Happy birthday. Both of you guys after the fact. Yay. All right, then. Unless anyone has anything else? Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. So, where we last left off, Vox Machina had discovered that one of their companions, the most recent addition to their team, Taryon Darrington, had gone missing, seemingly taken by a bounty hunter who had masqueraded as a pastry chef and was retrieving him to be returned to Wildmount within the city of Deastok to the rest of the Darrington family. Upon heading them off the pass and retrieving Taryon, you all made your way to Deastok and spoke with the rest of the Taryon Darrington family and discovered, it seems, that they have gone into serious debt. There's been a long-running agreement between the Darringtons and a criminal syndicate known as the Myriad that seems to be very prominent in Wildmount. And as the years have gone by, that debt has compounded and compounded to the point where they were threatening to take everything from the Darrington family and toss them onto the street. Your father, Howaardt, told you that his plan to prevent this from happening was to marry you off to a very rich and powerful family up in the capital in the kingdom, and you decided to look for other options. You went and spoke with a gentleman named Korshad who was within a secret bar beneath the Grumpy Lily tavern where a bunch of, it seems, Myriad and other lowlives go to drink, be merry, and go about their business in a safer environment. You seemed to talk with him about a possibility of making some sort of arrangement, and an accord was made where if you went and cleansed a nearby platinum mine of Herethis, that had seemingly been overrun with some sort of awoken entity that had prevented them from mining the platinum, and are losing a lot of money-- if you were to destroy this creature or cleanse the mines of the threats to it, they would forgive some of the debt. They would still take the lands from the Darrington family, but they would leave the estate, they would leave whatever remains on that land, and would not mess with them any further, thus ending the contract and still leaving a comfortable lifestyle for the family. You agreed to this, made your way to the Herathis platinum mines, delved deep into the open sinkhole that seemed to consume a portion of its construct, and discovered what had awoken within, a strange, once-seeded celestial that had been awoken too early and too young. As such, its weird, angelic, baby-like form had withered and twisted, and in battling the celestial, which manipulated the terrain around you, you managed to defeat it and destroy it before it could escape, gathered some of its remaining glittery ashes, if you will, and proceeded to fly up through the sinkhole as the rest of the ankheg swarm that seemed to parade through the tunnels within began to swarm up the sides and spit acid at you as you escaped out the top. Into the moonlit sky looking down below, you could see the swarm now crawling up and out of the maw of this mine, and that's where we left off. So as you've all just emerged out of the central portion of the mine, taking a deep breath as you're now suddenly out of the immediate danger, you can look down and see the dozens of large insectoid-like ankhegs now clambering up to the top on the edge, some of them seemingly shooting jets of acid too far away to make any impact, but they are intent definitely on trying to either shoo you off of their territory or hit at some sort of lucky impact. What do you guys want to do?
Sam: I, Taryon Darrington, would like to call to the rest of the gang and say: Wait, before we fly away, hold.
Taliesin: Superman.
Sam: Oh, okay. Thought it was some sort of power move.
Laura: How are we positioned, again?
Matt: So you have the broom riders. You have Percival on your broom. You're flying with your wings. And everyone else is on the carpet.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: I would like to just sort of shout to my friends. Oi, can we, just before we go, could we maybe just swoop down one more time? Just a quick flyby. I have an idea. I feel like we need just an insurance policy when we go talk to the Myriad fellow. I was wondering if Kiki here could maybe throw a spell down before we leave? Is that something?
Travis: You just go down by yourself, right?
Laura: Do you have any spells left?
Marisha: I do still have some spells left. It depends on what you want to do, though, and what I have prepared.
Sam: Well here's a question  can you make it look like the mouth of the cave isn't there anymore? Has caved in or is covered in dirt or rocks or something?
Marisha: I can. I have a few options for that.
Laura: Why do you want that?
Sam: As I said, I feel like when we talk to the Myriad fellow-- oh wait, let me fly over to you. (laughter)
Sam: I feel like when we talk to the Myriad fellow, we have lost our bargaining position at this point, because we did what he asked. But if we hide the mouth of the cave from him, then we have information that he needs, like where did it go, how do you get in, that kind of thing. I was also hoping maybe dear Pike could leave some sort of a trap, again as just an insurance policy.
Ashley: Like a glyph situation?
Sam: Yes, some sort of a thing that would explode when someone comes by. But I know it's crawling with characters down there, so I don't-- should we wait? I don't know.
Ashley: I could do such a thing.
Marisha: I can do a Hallucinatory Terrain, which I could do right now because I do have it learned. It covers a 150-foot cube, which I don't know-- How wide is the hole?
Matt: Is it a 150-foot cube? That would cover pretty much the sinkhole itself. Do keep in mind the agreement was to cleanse the mine, not just of the creature but of the infestation.
Laura: Oh, we have to kill all the fuckers?
Matt: Or at least enough to the point where the infestation is no longer an issue.
Travis: Tary, can you tinker up some Raid real quick?
Sam: I cannot. Wait, we have to kill more of these fuckers?
Laura: Maybe we just get high enough that they can't get to us with the acid, and then we just fire things down at them.
Liam: Roughly speaking, how many of those did we see when we came up?
Matt: You saw probably close to a hundred. There were a few that you destroyed on the way up, or some that got wrecked. But you probably have somewhere in the neighborhood of I'd say anywhere from 60 to 70 that are now visibly coming up the wall. You can see in the moonlight-- you can see the walls moving.
Marisha: Well, we can if we gather them in one place. Are they attracted to anything like shiny things or movement?
Travis: We need bait.
Taliesin: Us.
Matt: You're not sure. They seem to have been drawn by the sounds and the movement of the combat you had at the bottom of the cavern. It took them long enough for the battle you had to get down there, and now they're skittering back up the wall as you guys, with your torchlight, are making your way up towards the bank
Taliesin: I might just start shooting there if they keep coming.
Liam: T.D., do you have anything that lets you teleport us all?
Sam: No. Not really. I can become invisible and fly down there.
Taliesin: Do you have any good terrain modifier something to trash them?
Marisha: So they're attracted to movement and sound. Percy, you have a very loud banging thing.
Taliesin: I do.
Marisha: If we can get them all clumped together, I can throw down a few Fireballs and Flaming Spheres and probably take a lot of them out. But I need them clumped together.
Taliesin: What do we have that's dead in the Bag of Holding right now? Let's just start throwing them down some things to eat and I'm going to start making some noise.
Marisha: Are they still on the walls?
Matt: You can see a lot of them are still making their way towards the mouth of the cavern. There's probably about 25 or so that are gathered around the outside. Some of them are spreading a little bit out, trying to get towards where you are on the edges of the hole. If you wanted to move towards the top, you might draw them towards the edge.
Taliesin: Let's fly above it and I'll take a few shots and we'll just start dropping things down.
Liam: One other idea. What if I go in as bait, make a lot of noise, and as they swarm I throw Whisper and throw it into his shoulder blades, and then on I'm piggyback.
Laura: No. What? Why? They're already at the top.
Liam: Yes, but would the Fireball, where they are, encompass them all or-- I'm just saying if they--
Marisha: Not all of them, but I can get a lot of them.
Sam: I can also throw some Fireballs.
Marisha: Yeah, we can Fireball together.
Laura: Percy and I just fly up and we start firing down.
Taliesin: I'm going to start making noise and just boom-booming.
Marisha: I point to a spot for Percy to see if I can get them to gather there, and I start readying a Fireball to launch.
Matt: Okay, so the two of you fly over to that side, and you start making Bad News explosion clatter as your gargantuan firearm just (gunshot noises).
Taliesin: Yeah, some shots at them as I go.
Matt: And you take one or two of them down through repeated shots as their armor cracks and breaks and you hear (dying noises).
Taliesin: We'll throw some meat down there too.
Liam: Is the noise centered on your gun, though, and not down below?
Laura: Yeah, but they'll gather in the spot to get to it.
Matt: They watch as you fly above, and you can start see them shooting these jets of acid in the arc as it begins to spray through, and you mark a little bit to stay just out of that range as you continue to do so. But the noise you are making is-- you're watching them slowly cluster up beneath where you guys are.
Marisha: Okay, let me know when it looks like a good cluster.
Matt: You got a pretty good cluster, you could probably get about ten in one blast.
Marisha: Yeah, let's just throw down a big ol' Fireball.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: 20-foot radius.
Sam: (sings) You shake my nerve--
Travis: (sings) -- and you rattle my brain.
Travis: (sing) Too much love drives a man insane.
Ashley: (sing) Too much love drives a man insane.
All: (sing) You broke my will, oh, what a thrill. Goodness gracious, great balls of fire!
Matt: And with that, for the sake of brevity on this standpoint, you wait until they begin to gather into one space, and with a singular Fireball, Keyleth, you watch as (explosion) you send four of them screeching down, falling into the pit from the blast, while six of them appear to be heavily wounded or burned to a cinder and run off screaming, before collapsing and then smoldering maybe 20 feet from the pit. More swoop up to gather into that space, now that that explosion has drawn their attention as well. And you see a few stop for a second, smelling the ruin of their companions, and you see a moment there to shoot another Fireball as soon as they're gathered. (explosion) This one finishes off any of the stragglers there and heavily damages a handful of others. You watch now, over the period of time of you both shooting, you taking arrows and what's available, over the next five to six minutes or so, you guys cut down the numbers to about half what they were. And there's now just broken wreckage of ankhegs just torn open from the explosion, their chitinous armor fractured and open with the smoldering innards burning and sizzling from the impact of the fire. They start to slow their ascent as more and more of them begin to die, and you watch as they all begin to burrow back into the earth, scattering deeper into the ground.
Marisha: Hey... Vax, do you still have any of that--
Laura: You had to think about it. (laughter)
Marisha: A hundred episodes, yeah. Five years, a hundred episodes later. Do you still have any of that poison? That poison-- anybody have any poison?
Travis: I do!
Marisha: You have poison?
Travis: Yep! Yep, do you want some?
Marisha: Well, I was thinking--
Travis: You got it. I pull out the jug and I yell, "Poison!"
Matt: Splashes around inside.
Marisha: That's pretty good, Grog.
Travis: Did you want to drink it?
Marisha: Well, no.
Travis: No. It's really hardcore, if you do.
Marisha: Ah, another time. I'll raincheck you, bud. Do we still have any more orc or boar parts?
Travis: No, we've got an orc, like, calf, and a foot, and it looks like a skull, covered in like, pasta sauce.
Marisha: Yeah, like actual Raid. Like Raid. Like if we dip, maybe, some food in poison and throw it down there, everyone that's left will come and eventually eat it and die.
Laura: I think we have, like, 40 or 50 of them left, right? And they're burrowed, now?
Matt: Some of them have burrowed and some have gotten wind of the wreckage and ruin--
Laura: (gasps) I wonder if we could send fire into the caves where they've burrowed?
Liam: Or you've created tsunamis, as well, d'you think you could flush them out?
Marisha: I could-- I do still have my sixth-level spell, I could attempt to get to a few of their tunnels and collapse their tunnels.
Sam: Can you fill the whole tunnel with water and drown them?
Marisha: I could--
Sam: Too big. Too big.
Laura: What's too big?
Sam: To fill the whole tunnel with water and drown 'em?
Laura: That's a lot.
Taliesin: We can't create chemicals, can we?
Sam: (laughs) Your mind.
Marisha: Hm, no, not really. I can create water, but I don't think it would be enough to flush them out.
Travis: I just made this poison for, like, no fucking reason? (laughter)
Taliesin: We could do shots. I'm just kidding.
Marisha: I mean, you volunteered it very quickly.
Travis: Are we just above the hole?
Matt: You're above the hole, holding the jug--
Travis: I take initiative and I take the orc leg, dunk it in the poison, toss it, then I take the last-- this is the last orc piece in the bag--
Marisha: Is that remnants of Dork, still?
Travis: I dunno. No, no. The ox is way gone, that poor bastard.
Taliesin: We burned through that ages ago.
Travis: Two little orc parts, now poisoned and...
Matt: Yeah. Two-- they're very soft. Very, like, long-cooked lamb, just dripping off the bone, you're like-- throw it off there--
Laura: We might have some stuff in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Were they in the Bag of Colding? No. They're definitely soft.
Marisha: If I do like, a Commune with Nature, and then, because I know they're already--
Matt: Build a commune with nature?
Marisha: Commune with Nature, and I--
Liam: Whoa. Glass houses, and all of that.
Matt: I like the image of a spell that-- I just like a spell that creates a hippie commune somewhere in your fantasy world. I think it's pretty cool.
Marisha: I thought that was Conjure Fae.
Matt: True enough. Continue, what are you doing?
Marisha: Can I, because I already got a map of their tunnels. Can I then do Move Earth to, like, try and collapse?
Matt: You get the sense that as burrowing creatures, collapsing the tunnels might slow them down, but they'll probably still dig their way out.
Taliesin: What are the chances I have materials for making explosives on me?
Matt: I mean, enough to maybe, like--
Taliesin: No, but like just the materials, not the time to make them, but just the materials. Because one of the materials in making TNT is diatomaceous earth. And if it's micronized diatomaceous earth, that means it's actually an insecticide.
Travis: Fucking Taliesin Jaffe. What are you talking about?
Taliesin: Specifically for hard-shell insects.
Ashley: I have an idea! I have an idea.
Sam: Pike has an idea!
Matt: You wouldn't have anywhere near enough to do what you're trying to do.
Ashley: I'm going to--
Laura: Wait, wait, wait!
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: I would like to cast Earthquake--
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And maybe I can wiggle it all closed.
Matt: Okay. Okay. So you cast Earthquake, what's the casting time on that?
Ashley: It's just one action.
Matt: Okay. So you look there and focus for a second, close your eyes, and you guys watch as the edges of the sinkhole begin to shift. The single tower that was partially collapsed? Collapses into full bits of rock and rubble, and some of it spills further into the tunnel as the tunnel begins to cave in. Basically, you fill in the rest of the sinkhole, and the mine now drops 25, 30 feet as the rest of the earth comes and fills it in. Eventually, the rumbling slows and comes to a calm, and you see now there's a dip where the space in the forest was-- it's like a big bowl, and some of the trees fall into it and get buried in the earth and stone as it collapses inward.
Liam: I love that everybody was up here bickering and Pike just went "hm." (laughter)
Matt: A few moments pass, and you watch as some of the ankhegs begin to pop out, like the collapsed tunnels have forced them to begin burrowing their way to the surface to orient themselves. You watch as about five, ten, 20 or so of these begin to emerge, and as they emerge they look around the space. And you watch them looking at each other and sniffing the area--
Ashley: I'm going to Fire Storm them.
Marisha: You're going to Fire Storm them?
Travis: Just let Pike off the leash.
Sam: Oh, by the way, I can create a holocaust? Is that what you're doing? (laughter)
Matt: (sings) Pike can end this world in a holocaust, in a holocaust-- All right, so. As everyone's marveling over your Earthquake, little Pike goes, "And also--" And you watch as about 30 or so of these creatures have now emerged, and they're all communicating with each other, and their antennas are going by, and they're beginning to look around-- and this streak, this zigzag of burning flame just tears across the base of this bowl and just incinerates about 20 of them. You now see them immediately smoldering, turning to ash, these blackened clusters of heavily charred husk, and the others that came to the surface just scatter into the forest. You get the sense that the ruin you've left, the collapsing of the tunnels and the rather large portion of their populace that you've left destroyed, there's probably not much of an infestation left here in the mines.
Travis: Yeah, not too bad, Vasquez.
Laura: Did we also destroy the mine?
Taliesin: Well, it's still there, it's just been filled in.
Marisha: Plus, technically isn't the point of a mine to, like, dig out holes?
Taliesin: Now they can dig extra. The Etch-A-Sketch has been shaken.
Liam: There's none left? They're all gone?
Matt: I mean, that you saw come to the surface gathered.
Laura: I think we did a good job.
Liam: We could've smushed those and gotten so drunk.
Ashley: How do you feel, Tary?
Sam: That's pretty awesome. (laughs) Yeah, I think mission accomplished. Let's go.
Travis: Yeah, I think we did it. Let's get the fuck out of here.
Matt: Okay. So. You guys make your way back towards Deastok-- Yes. Make your way back towards Deastok. You still have access to your Wind Walk, since it's not concentration, it lasts a while, so quickly enough, with your equipment in place, you guys can traverse rapidly back to the city in which you began this journey. You make your way back to The Grumpy Lily, introduce yourself to the two denizens within, with the phrase, if you recall.
Travis: Chicken and biscuits.
Sam: The Many, the Many, yes.
Matt: The same elderly gentleman is like, "Well, okay," and shuffles over and opens the same doorway that leads you through the stairs, into the central hallway where there's that one gruff guy on the stool, he recognizes you, nudges you and opens the door. And you step into the tavern. It's not as busy as it was last time, it's probably about maybe two-thirds of the clientele there, but the music's still going, there's people chatting, having drinks, and at a different table you see Korshad just sitting alone, hands still crossed, cup half-full, still resting beneath him. And as soon as you enter, his eyes are trained on you. Whether it was expectant or just sheer luck, or his eyes are always trained on whoever enters the door, as soon as you enter the establishment, you watch as his smile cracks the sides of his mouth and his-- the edges of his eyes, the little crows' feet curl up a bit. And he motions you over.
Marisha: Do you think he has friends? He's always alone.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to start eyeballing the room while sis goes and talks.
Travis: Is Camilla still playing music?
Matt: The musicians are not currently playing.
Laura: What time is it now?
Matt: At this point, it's early morning. I'll say for the purposes of the hour that you got there, best that I can recall, it's like 1:30 in the morning. It's pretty late.
Sam: Excuse me, may we sit and talk?
Matt: "But of course. Have a seat."
Sam: Thank you. We have done our share of the bargain, and we're here to cash in our chit, as it were.
Matt: His head looks at you. "You did not leave but a number of hours ago. Am I to expect that you have completed this task already?"
Laura: Yeah, we're really, really good.
Marisha: And you should know that if you've apparently been watching us?
Matt: He motions his finger up towards one of the second rows, and you watch as one of the guards there, the ones that you've noticed before and kept your eyes on that have the hidden crossbows, knocks on the edge of a door that opens up slightly. He whispers to somebody and a few moments later another guard walks up, escorting what looks to be a young mousy woman of red-brown skin. Her eyes, as soon as you get a glance, are snow-blind. And you watch as the guard that's with her is actually holding her arm and guiding her as she walks. She has big black curls that trail down to her middle back and as she's led to the table Korshad gives a little whistle. And a drink is brought at her place and she sits down. Looks a little confused and nervous, but sits down and leans into Korshad, and he turns to her and says, "This is Duala. She will confirm your words. Duala?" She glances her face over past your group and as she does, she reaches into a pouch and brings out what looks to be a few stone runes. And she clatters them across the table. And as soon as she puts her fingers out in front and spreads them like that, the runes all magnetically (scraping) shift to match the placement of her fingers below. Her snow-blind eyes now go pure white. And there's just a moment where you watch as her head begins to drift back like a slow hinge.
Marisha: Do I recognize this spell?
Matt: You do not.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: At least not this form of casting. After a minute or so, her eyes come back to their snow-blind appearance, her fingers curl back in and with a very small voice she goes, "The mine is cleansed, though the mine is also collapsed." Korshad's looking at her, and goes, "But you say it is cleansed, yes. Of everything?" She gives a nod. "It is free." He looks back to you all with a very sly, begrudging brow, one eye still partially closed. "Very well. We will send men to confirm the depths of this, and operations will begin. If at any point it is discovered that this was some sort of charade or the means of our agreement were not met fully, we will be happy to make sure the rest of the Darrington estate falls back squarely under our grasp. However, for the time being and if what you say is true..." He reaches under the table and sifts through a small sack that he had held between his feet and ankles, pulls out a heavy piece of parchment. "The deed to the Darrington estate. Signed over to one Taryon Darrington."
Sam: Might I make a few more requests? When last we spoke, we spoke in vague terms. There was some cash talked about, and also a place for my family to make a little bit of money or food. There's a farmhouse nearby our main estate. It's nothing special, a few acres of land. I would love to keep that as well so that we can have a source of food for the winters.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, Mr. Doe-Eyed Young'un.
Laura: Blink-blink!
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. "Hmm. You are young. Not yet spoiled by the strange truths of the world around you. I admire your optimism in the face of the unknown. It may be your salvation or it may be your end. Only time will tell. I'll give you this farmland."
Sam: We are most grateful.
Matt: "But. If at any point your family comes back to me requesting any more inches in our agreement, I will happily take it back."
Sam: Understood. I wasn't quite finished yet, though.
Matt: He leans back in his chair, his arms now being removed from his mouth and going to an expectant cross.
Sam: What we saw down there in the platinum mines was the 230,000 gold that we owe you times ten. Times 20. What we've just done for you has given you access to as much money as you could ever want, and I feel that's valuable. My family will require a bit of spending money to get ourselves back on our feet. We are... accustomed to a lifestyle, and we'd like to maintain it for a little while at least. I'd say 50,000 gold should be about enough to last us for a year or two.
Matt: He nods, leans forward. "Then you'd better start saving."
Sam: What if I sweetened the deal? We have among us an amazing sorceress who could open that mine up for you with a flick of her wrist, save you hours and hours of work. Possibly back-breaking work that could cost the lives of many of your men.
Matt: "That would be a very kind gesture towards the state you left the mine in."
Sam: (clears throat) So that's a maybe?
Matt: "Let's call it the last thread of my patience, young Darrington."
Sam: So that's a hard yes. (laughter)
Matt: "Duala, you may return to your quarters." "Thank you very much." She gets up and looks past you all with a nod, and then her guardian escorts her back into the chamber as Korshad is just trained on you. "What I have given you is far more than many in my position would. I will work hard to make sure that this softness I have displayed does not hinder my reputation. And the more you press, the more you may be the end of that softness, my friend. I recommend you stick to the deal we've made. Be happy that I've shown any mercy. And be on your way."
Sam: All right. I'll make do, and we'll have to adjust our living standards, that's all.
Matt: "Indeed. Perhaps your father might raise a finger or two and earn some money for himself."
Sam: We'll see. Thank you. Bidet.
Matt: "Good evening."
Laura: He almost said it back.
Sam: Almost.
Laura: We're starting something.
Matt: He takes a drink, and sips it, and gives this motion with his hand as his eyes finally avert from Taryon and the rest of your group and he looks away with a contemplative expression. As he does so, you watch as the guards all begin to shift out of the crowd. And you watch as many of the various tavern folk that were laughing and drinking are all quiet now, looking upon the rest of you.
Travis: That's some Moriarty shit right there.
Matt: And you get the sense that pretty much everybody in this establishment, patron or not, are all keeping an eye on this. They're all part of Korshad's guard in some way, shape or form, and you've been given leave.
Marisha: You're totally right, he has so many friends.
Taliesin: I told you.
Travis: Let's do this. Everyone dies. Everybody. Let's light it up.
Matt: You watch as Wence comes up to you, as this is happening, and goes, "Hi. Look. You seem like very nice folk. You should probably..." (clicks tongue)
Laura: We're leaving.
Matt: "Okay, good. Drink for the road?" And he gives you a little shot, to you, Vex, and goes, (tongue click).
Ashley: But why do we have to go? I'm just kidding. (laughter)
Ashley: I just really like it here!
Matt: And that was the end of Vox Machina's story. No. All right. You make your way out, back up through the Grumpy Lily, back onto the streets of the deep, deep dark morning hours in Deastok. What do you wish to do?
Marisha: Wow, that was weird, you guys. It was weird.
Laura: Do we need to tell your family what we did?
Sam: Absolutely.
Liam: Break the news to dad, yeah?
Laura: Right now. In the morning?
Sam: I guess maybe in the morning? They're probably all asleep now.
Laura: Well, I haven't actually had the drink yet, I was afraid it might be poisoned.
Sam: Yeah, maybe not.
Taliesin: I'm going to steal a sip of the drink.
Laura: (gasps) Percival!
Matt: Make a con-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Taliesin: I haven't swallowed it, I'm just going, hmm, hmm.
Laura: How is he?
Matt: It numbs a bit of the surface skin, seems like a strong alcohol.
Laura: You're fine? All right, fine. All right. Congratulations, us. Maybe later.
Travis: We are a little beat up and stuff.
Laura: We should probably heal up. Talk to your father in the morning.
Sam: We'll go to my house.
Taliesin: Your house!
Marisha: It is now your house.
Sam: Yes, it is.
Liam: Whose house? T's house.
Taliesin: Well done.
Laura: It's in your name.
Marisha: You're a homeowner.
Sam: I could get a second mortgage!
Laura: You could kick your dad out!
Marisha: You get to pay property taxes!
Sam: Oh, god.
Ashley: You could refinance!
Sam: I could refinance. I hear mortgage rates are really low right now.
Laura: I hear the Myriad's giving really good deals.
Matt: So you make your way back to the Darrington estate?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. The guest quarters are cramped for the volume of travelers you have with you, but as you approach and knock on the door, there's a slight pause before your...
Sam: Berthold?
Matt: Yes, thank you. Berthold, the brass-skinned dragonborn companion comes up with his nightcap on in front of his face, and he's got his little lantern. He's like, "I assume you wish to stay here. I'll arrange for... Come in, come in." He rubs his eyes as he leads you inside. It's quiet and still, and the house is dark. No light aside from the small lantern that Berthold has, and he leads you on the bottom floor to the guest quarters, which are two separate rooms, each with a singular bed. You watch as he begins to grab cushions from various chairs and display sofas that are covered in dust, that haven't been sat in for a decade, at least, and is trying to arrange them in a haphazard floor bedding scenario.
Taliesin: I want to see where he's going with this.
Matt: He gets to a point where he gives up and goes, "Oh, there. Good night." And walks away.
Laura: Well, we've slept in blanket forts before.
Liam: Not the first, not the last.
Marisha: I get the big cushion!
Taliesin: It's got a bar in the middle.
Marisha: Display furniture sucks.
Matt: You still do have your room, Taryon, if you want to use it.
Sam: My room? Oh, yeah, of course I'm going up there.
Travis: Oh, really, you're going to leave us down here? Fucking high-born piece of shit?
Sam: All right, I'll stay back down here with the pillow fort thing. Fine. But after they go to sleep, I go upstairs and go back to my bed.
Matt: Okay, then. Make a stealth check.
Sam: Oh, Jesus. Four.
Matt: Half of you open an eye in the middle of the night as you hear the creaking of the wood flooring.
Sam: Just going to the bathroom!
Liam: By the way, do you have any beast changing left in you?
Marisha: I do, yeah.
Liam: Could you go Minxie for me?
Laura: Oh, kinky.
Travis: Gross, we're all in the same room.
Marisha: Yes, why?
Liam: I want a pillow.
Marisha: Fine.
Taliesin: That is the most Brian Blessed thing ever.
Laura: You could've just used Trinket.
Matt: Trinket farts are an issue. Then again, so are Minxie farts.
Ashley: I want to get in a circle, like a dog, on one of the cushions.
Taliesin: You turn around three times.
Matt: That's how rock gnomes sleep, they do a little circle around the cushion.
Liam: I just turn into Macklemore.
Matt: All right. So you make it to your room, left as it was. Most of the furniture is covered in sheets, but untouched as to where you left it the last time you were here. There's a firm layer of dust across most of it, and as you step into the room, with each step you can see the footfalls leaving a small trail on the floor. You have a large shelf of books that line the right wall. You can see the footsteps to and from the bookshelf where it seems like your mother has taken, here and there, little elements of your collection. You see the covered outline of your workbench, which inhabits the far side of the chamber, and a familiar smell of old oil and leathers immediately causes a flood of memories to hit you of growing up in this space. You do see, poking out from one of these sheets, some of the leftover pieces from when you constructed your first Doty, and you see the armored hand, partially open with some of the gears and runes only partially put into the hand and then discarded and left to the side, and it also reminds you of those years. You have this nostalgic wave hit you as you pull the sheet off your bed, and dust it out, and fluff your pillow, and for the first time in a long time, have a night's sleep in your own chambers.
Sam: I'll cuddle with the Doty arm.
Matt: It's very cold, but sleep does take you. You guys finish your evening's rest. You awake. After the stress of the previous battle of the day, you all tend to sleep in for the most part, plus the late hour of eventually getting to rest. You all eventually come to later in the morning, closer to noon, but as you wake up, you wake up to the smell of food being cooked. You make your way out into the central foyer area of the estate, and you can see Berthold is running around the kitchen, desperately trying to put together whatever meal is viable, and eventually shouts out, "Breakfast is served!"
Liam: What you got, Bertie?
Matt: "It's... dinner time! Dinner you're having-- breakfast, staying the night, and the market wasn't open."
Laura: Potatoes!
Matt: "Potatoes. Some bread, might be a bit stale. I made some stew. Breakfast stew. It's just stew, but you're having it for breakfast. Some mushrooms. That's it. I am sorry."
Liam: A lot of carbs.
Taliesin: It's like Comic Con all over again.
Travis: Is this how we're supposed to eat in the house of Darrington, Tary?
Laura: We just used up all of their food and they don't have any left.
Sam: I'm sorry. I'll talk to the help about this.
Travis: Can't you pop a crystal off of that helmet of yours and make a banquet?
Sam: No. I could burn us all alive, though, with one of them.
Travis: Not the same thing.
Taliesin: Did we ever discover whether or not the magic jug does coffee?
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Travis: Only one way to find out. Hold on. Be my guest.
Liam: Americano.
Travis: Nope.
Sam: How about tea?
Taliesin: Tea.
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: It can make alcohol and poison, but it can't make an English breakfast? Bullshit.
Laura: English breakfast ale!
Travis: Baked beans and sausages and-- ! No.
Marisha: Yeah, breakfast ale. That works.
Matt: As you guys complete your breakfast, you notice that eventually Maryanne's voice begins to echo through the stairway. She comes down and goes, "My word, Berthold, what are you cooking this-- " She comes down. You can see her hair is curled in front of her face and pulled back and tied up into this tight bun in the back, and she's just wearing this long, deep blue robe over her casual silk blouse attire and pants. She glances down, holding onto the railing. "Good morning."
Sam: Good morning, sister. These are my friends, Vox Machina.
Ashley: Hello.
Matt: "Right."
Sam: Grog, Pike, Vex, Vax, Percy, Keyleth.
Matt: "Pleasure. Brother, I wasn't aware we had company staying."
Sam: I travel with a group now.
Matt: "I've heard. I just didn't realize..."
Sam: I bring news, and I know it's early, but could we have a little family meeting over breakfast?
Laura: It's super important.
Matt: She gives you such a stink eye. "I'll go speak to Father."
Sam: And Mama.
Matt: "And Mama." And she heads up the stairs.
Marisha: She seems nice.
Sam: She is not.
Laura: I like her a lot.
Matt: About five minutes pass, and you hear the sound of multiple footfalls as the rest of the Darrington family makes their way down. First you have Maryanne, same attire, but she's a little more put together. You can see now she's left the robe behind to have more of her classic formal presenting-to-company outfit. Behind her you have Mariya, your mother, who is in practically the same outfit she was in yesterday. She really doesn't seem to care at this point, it's more about being comfortable.
Laura: Sweat pants!
Matt: A few feet behind, to his own entrance, there you see with his thick mutton chops and a tied-over, deep red, burgundy coat, Howaardt Darrington. As they all enter, Mariya immediately runs forward and goes, "Oh, I didn't realize breakfast was going to be made!" She goes over and takes a little plate and starts filling it with rolls and potatoes. She goes up and rubs your head a little bit and kisses you on the forehead, and goes, "It's nice to have company."
Sam: It's nice to be home.
Laura: Did you want some stew?
Matt: "Oh, yes."
Matt: Howaardt, at this point, is sitting back next to Maryanne, and goes (clears throat).
Laura: Oh, did you want some as well?
Matt: "I'm fine for now. Your sister tells me that we are to have a family meeting."
Sam: Yes, and with your permission, I would like to invite my friends to stay for it as well, as it does concern them.
Liam: Hey.
Marisha: Hi!
Taliesin: Charmed.
Matt: "Very well."
Sam: I bring you news, and I bring you a proposal, and as a businessman I hope you'll listen to both.
Matt: He seems keen at the choice of words. "Yes, my son."
Sam: First, the news. It's good news. First, I will not be marrying this Lydia person. There's no need, and also I think we all know I would not be happy in such a marriage, and we should all be free to pursue whomever we love. That's beside the point. It's not necessary, because I have made a deal with the Myriad. A deal that will spare us from any danger, and clear us from all debt. We-- Well, they, really, carried out a task for the Myriad that has absolved us of the debt that you ran up, and we are free and clear.
Matt: He looks to Mariya and Maryanne and softens up. "I am... If what you say is true, then this is indeed a great day, and I owe each and every one of you a great debt. We owe you a great debt."
Taliesin: Let's not get ahead of ourselves, but thank you.
Sam: Yes, they don't-- Forgive me for speaking on your behalf. I don't think that they want to collect on a debt. They just did this because we're friends. The forgiveness of debt comes with some strings attached. We will lose most of our property and assets, but we will maintain the homestead here, and all of its possessions and artwork and belongings, we get to keep. We also get the nearby farmhouse and all of the land, and we get a new lease on life, and a new beginning. I think it's an opportunity for our family, and that leads me to my proposal. Father, as much as I have respected you for keeping us safe and providing for us, you have not given us the one thing a family needs, which is love. Real love. You have made sure that we are safe, because you care about our blood, because it is your blood, and you care about the fact that we bear your name, but you haven't given us the opportunity to be a real family, and I believe we can be, if we start out new and fresh together. Here's my proposal. I will come back and live with you, in Wildmount, and I will lead this family to a new chapter. Our business model will change a bit. I propose that we do not engage in real estate anymore, but in another venture. Forgive me, but you have sullied our name.
Matt: Maryanne, at this point, says, "No, brother, you have!" And you watch as Howaardt puts his hand out in front and dad-hands her, immediately, and pushes her back, not stopping his gaze from you. His jaw clenches tight as he clears his throat and his hands go back behind his body.
Sam: The Darrington name is one of ill repute. We are scoundrels, and we are land barons, and we are awful people, and now we are penniless awful people. But I feel that we can fix it. What I propose is this: Our home will be vacated by us. We are going to move to the farmhouse, where we will all live as a family. We will tend to the farm, and we will raise crops together. Our home will be turned into the Darrington Fund, for charitable giving, where people who are down on their luck can come and live and get back on their feet. Now, such a fund will need donors, and you have many contacts in the business world. You, and possibly sister, could run this foundation and spread goodness all over Wildmount, instead of badness and evil.
Matt: There's a flash of movement. Quicker than you've seen your father move, he has grabbed a chair behind him, and thrown it across the room, smashing it against the nearby wall. (heavy breathing)
Liam: I take a step forward and unsheathe a dagger an inch and say, we're going to keep this civil today, aren't we?
Matt: "You have no right to talk to me... You stand here and shame the work that I've done, and given my life to secure and give to you and your sister, and to uphold the mistakes that my father made to the best of my ability and fix them. And you waltz in here after a year of adventuring and just expect me to accept you throwing everything I've worked for into the sewer?"
Sam: I didn't do that, Father, you did. It's gone. Everything is gone. You don't even own your own house anymore.
Matt: "It wouldn't be that way if you would've just married that girl."
Sam: That's not going to happen. In my year of travel, I didn't just dilly-dally around the world having fun. I was learning about the world and about life and about family. I was learning from these fine people what it means to really be a family, and care about each other. I learned from Grog and Vax what it means to be a man, and to be a father. I learned from Pike what it means to be a caring mother. I learned from Keyleth what a real sister is like, one who loves you and cares for you. I learned from Vex what a best friend is like. These are things you never gave us, growing up. I even learned from Percival... the type of man I would want to marry one day. And we never got that at home. And from this day forth, I'm going to create a home, my home, that I own, that values and respects the opinions of each family member. That cares for one another. Where we stick up for each other, and help each other through hard times, and not just rule by decree. If you don't want to be a part of this, that's fine. You can leave my house. But I want you to stay. I need your counsel, and I need your help, and we need you as a father. I need you and Sister to run this foundation for me, to repair our name and our reputation. It could be great. It could be the best thing that's ever happened to us. And there's more. I have an idea. To create something else. A team of adventurers, based here in Wildmount. The Darrington Brigade, led by me, Taryon Darrington. We will fight for justice, and win battles against evildoers, and spread the Darrington name around the continent. I know I'm getting ahead of myself, but I feel like if we embarked on this new adventure together, it could save our name and repair our relationship. As a businessman, I'm asking you to consider it. Because your other options are... Well, they're not great.
Matt: Make a persuasion check
Laura: The deal we made with the Myriad, sir...
Sam: I'm going to use Luck.
Laura: No one would know that you were forced out of your home. Everyone thinks that this was your choice, that you're being charitable.
Sam: I'm going to see if the fates can help me.
Travis: You're going to use it now?
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Cash it in!
Sam: That's a 25.
Matt: That's a moment to do it. You see as Mariya, your mother, has now moved to the side of Howaardt, holding his arm. "Honey, there was no other path. This is a gift." He pulls his arm from her and begins to walk toward you. You watch as Maryanne has put on a shocked face, gone pale white, and for a moment, the facade of the adult gives away to the child. "Father." As he walks up to you, you watch as he brings his hand up, and falls into his own hand, and falls to his knees on the ground. He's shaking, he's quaking. His fist is clenched there, and he slams it into the ground, once, twice, a third time, each one a resounding knock of him hitting bone and skin against wood. And he does it again, and again, and again, all the anger and fury being focused into this. As he stops, you can see the blood pouring from the side of the knuckles, and his hand is shaking. He stops and looks at it. (deep breath) And for the first time-- not even the other evening, in which there was a sort of feigned softness to him, that you have read through before and seen-- for the first time you see your father as a broken man. He looks up at you. "I lost everything. I did this to us." He looks back at Mariya, and Maryanne, and to you. The dampness gathering down the side of his wrinkled cheeks, gathering across the stubble on his chin, and vanishing amongst the cluster of thin, bristly facial hair. "I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
Sam: I am, too.
Matt: He looks about at this point. Now, his focused anger has subsided, and this emotional moment realizing that there are strangers at the table, and he (clears throat) "If you could please give us a bit of time." His hand still clustered there. He looks over to Berthold, who ushers you all out front, you staying behind, Taryon. About ten minutes or so, as you're all awkwardly waiting outside in the quiet. The cloudy day that originally brought you into Deastok is breaking in places, you see hints of blue sky peeking through, and a little bit of sunlight occasionally finding its way across the cobblestone roads of the cityscape. You hear the occasional tweet of birds as they jump from tree to tree. And in this silence you really get to take in the surrounding beauty of this town, even as oppressive and gloomy as your arrival may have been, and the tenseness of the work you had to do in this space. You allow yourself to realize that this is a nice town. You hear the door open once more from the front of the estate, and there you see Maryanne, wet on the cheeks. "My father would like to speak to you, if that's all right."
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Sure, sure.
Matt: She steps back in and Howaardt comes back. He is more composed than he was before. He is back to his presentory self. "When my son left, I was under the impression that his fanciful ideas would either break him and send him back to me to finally listen to what I had to teach, if luck was with us. If not, his fool's errand was bound to get him killed. It is by some miracle that he found you. I don't know what's in store for my children, my wife, myself. There is a lot to discuss, a lot to decide. Us as a family. And I'm still processing all of it. I'm sorry you got pulled into all of this, but I'm glad that you gave him your friendship. And I'm sorry you had to see this." He's hiding his bad hand under the good one. "I'm sure in time I'll come to appreciate this. Out of desperation and obsession, I became my father, something I promised I would never do. And I'm sorry." He looks back over his shoulder at Tary, who's a few feet behind him. "I'm sorry." Then he walks back into the house and just--
Liam: Sir.
Matt: He stops a little bit and looks back over his shoulder towards you.
Liam: Second chances are a gift. I pray you don't squander it.
Taliesin: You're not the first man to panic at the loss of his shackles. I hope you eventually enjoy the freedom that you've just been given from your legacy.
Matt: "Legacy." He continues walking into the house.
Ashley: Sir, may I have your hand, please?
Matt: He stops. "I'm sorry, what?"
Ashley: May I have your hand? Not in marriage, I worded that strangely. Just your hand that's hurt.
Matt: He's still clutching and hiding it. He gives you a look of understanding of what you're asking. "I appreciate the offer, but this needs to heal on its own."
Ashley: Understood.
Matt: "This pain shouldn't be fleeting." And he walks away inside.
Travis: I have a question. Is there any more stew?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: My stomach is making noises, I'm so hungry.
Marisha: I feel like we could find better stew. No offense.
Laura: So...
Sam: Oh, yes. My place is here. I'm coming back to Whitestone with you, I have to. I have to retrieve Doty and my personal belongings.
Laura: But we just finished your room!
Sam: Well, I'll come visit. I was thinking, for my Darrington Brigade, I'll need lots of recruits, and maybe I could get some down in Whitestone. You know, fine fighters and young trainees. I even have an idea for my first adventuring partner. I think if I sold my old armor, I could afford that drow for a year, and she lives close by.
Taliesin: This is a lot.
Liam: I don't think that's a half-bad idea. We're all very proud of you.
Marisha: So proud.
Taliesin: It's very impressive.
Marisha: I understand legacy and responsibility and I think it's very admirable of you to recognize your place.
Sam: I've always known that I was not fit to travel with you all, and I know that you all love me, but you don't really like me that much. Oh, I can be kind of a dick sometime.
Laura: I like it! I like dicks!
Marisha: A year ago, it was definitely true, but now...
Travis: What about the bakery?
Sam: Oh, the bakery! I'm really bad at baking too.
Laura: No, but you're so good at selling stuff!
Sam: Yeah, I am.
Laura: I feel like some people come in just to see you and see you smile.
Marisha: Yeah, you're definitely the face guy! You're the good salesman!
Sam: Sure, sure, that makes sense.
Marisha: You can sell anyone on a shitty cake that you baked!
Sam: I'll come down and visit a lot.
Ashley: What's a lot?
Sam: You know, once every year, around Winter's Crest. Well, I mean, it's a long way, and I can't Tree Stride or whatever you call it.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Sam: Listen, let's not do this now. I'm coming back with you. I have to go get my robit. All right?
Taliesin: Well, don't expect us to be okay with this. That's not going to happen.
Marisha: I mean, to be fair, Tary does have a point. I also have a responsibility, and...
Sam: You're leaving, too?
Taliesin: Yes. Well, technically...
Marisha: I'm the chief of my people.
Sam: Oh my god, are we all breaking up?
Laura: What?! No!
Ashley: We're not doing this now! What's happening? What is happening?
Sam: I didn't mean to do this! I didn't know this was going to happen!
Taliesin: There's no more discussion until there's food and caffeine. This is madness.
Ashley: We're just hungry! We're just hungry.
Taliesin: This is hunger talking.
Travis: We're just feeling hangry as shit.
Ashley: Everybody needs to calm down.
Taliesin: We need brunch.
Travis: All right. We'll get brunch back in Whitestone, right, and get out of here?
Laura: Let's go to Whitestone. Let's leave. I don't like this place anymore.
Travis: Let's go, then. You don't say one word. No, you shut up.
Sam: I need to go say good-bye to Mama, that's it, then I can go, all right?
Taliesin: She can come to Whitestone anytime.
Sam: She literally has no money to travel.
Taliesin: We can make it happen.
Travis: Well, say your goodbyes.
Sam: All right, I'll go find Mom.
Matt: She's inside right now. As you walk inside, she's sitting at the table where everyone had breakfast, she's eating what was on her plate, alone. She turns around.
Sam: Mama, I'm sorry to spring all of this on you and I must go back to Whitestone with my friends, to tie up some loose ends, but I'll be back soon. Days, maybe a week.
Matt: "Be back, please."
Sam: In the meantime, though, can you think about something for me?
Matt: "Of course, what do you need?"
Sam: The charity. Papa and Sister can run it, they have smarter business acumen than I do, but the brigade, I was wondering if you wanted to do it with me. You have a taste for adventure, you could help be our manager! Tend to us when we're injured...
Matt: "Taryon, I'm far too old for adventure."
Sam: I don't think that's true!
Matt: "As an organizer?"
Sam: Yes, yes! Remember in Escape from Brave Mountain? Remember the kindly old wizard who stayed back and tended to the injured and fed them when they were sick with that mystical plague that they got? You could be that old-- Yes. Think about it. Read the book again. And when I come back, we'll talk.
Matt: "All right. But if you're going out and you're coming back, and I'm to help, bring back a better outfit."
Sam: Okay! Do you have a color in mind?
Matt: "Royal blue."
Sam: On it. I give her a big hug.
Matt: She gives you a big hug. As she hugs you, her mouth gets near your ear and she goes, "I'm glad you listened."
Sam: Me too. Mama, this is going to be fun, fun, fun!
Matt: She sniffles a bit and pushes you away. "Now go, go! Hurry back! Be safe!"
Sam: Maybe! All right, let's go.
Travis: Do we assume the form of clouds?
Marisha: Oh, no, this is probably a Tree Stride situation. Let's do that.
Taliesin: It would have been a very long cloud stride. Is it even possible to cloud stride?
Matt: It's possible, it's just going to be a long journey.
Laura: Tree Stride!
Matt: Transport Via Plants. Tree Stride is a very different spell.
Marisha: Whatever, that one. Sorry, that's the fifth level one. The sixth level teleport... transport...
Matt: I know what you mean, but I was opting for clarification. Transport Via Plants. I know what you mean.
Marisha: It is. Tree Stride just rolls off the tongue easier.
Matt: I know it does.
Taliesin: Plant Walk. Tree Trip.
Marisha: Tree Uber.
Taliesin: Treecycle. Leaft.
Liam: Sorry, pull the plug, people, wrap it up.
Matt: You find the nearest large tree and with a quick snap of your fingers, a flash of druidic energy, you watch as the tree form splits open, revealing the doorway. On the other side, the main thoroughfare of Whitestone. You step through and find yourself back in your home city.
Marisha: On the way out, I give the Sun Tree our secret handshake.
Travis: Like, a judo strike?
Sam: You just killed the tree.
Liam: Quivering Palm the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Sun Tree is still doing it the first time, three years ago.
Marisha: It's so slow.
Matt: You knock on the Sun Tree a little bit, continue walking. First thing that catches your attention, the main square of Whitestone, largely around the Sun Tree, is fairly empty except for a few carts. It's mostly for traversing. There's a small garden that's in the early stages of being set around. As you walk into the main area, you notice that there's a lot of carts that are circling the north end of it, like a small caravan of sorts. You see a series of wagons, some horses that are tied off at a couple of hitching posts off to the side, and you see what appear to be tents and tables with various wares for sale. Fruits, vegetables, some exotic cloths and tapestries, clothing available.
Liam: Is this a festival?
Laura: Traveling salesmen?
Taliesin: My god, it's a shopping episode! I'm so excited! Just appeared out of nowhere!
Sam: Do they have something in royal blue?
Taliesin: We're going to buy so many imaginary things, Travis.
Marisha: What's happening though, really?
Taliesin: No, really, what is happening?
Matt: You don't recognize any of these people, necessarily. There's no reason, there's no calendar element to it. As you walk up, one of the nearest Pale Guard is doing a walk-through.
Taliesin: What's this all about?
Matt: "Percival. Now that the trade routes are open, we're having more caravans to and from Emon."
Marisha: It's a farmer's market!
Matt: "Essentially. We're just keeping the peace."
Taliesin: It's been several years. Why you should be even vaguely surprised by this reaction is baffling to me.
Matt: "It's baffling that you are so comfortable with it still."
Taliesin: Excellent, carry on, keep shopping.
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Taliesin: It's a farmer's market.
Marisha: Hi!
Matt: He walks off. Do you guys want to walk around?
Taliesin: There's a farmer's market!
Marisha: I need some fresh halibut right now!
Sam: Are they selling or are they just setting up?
Matt: At this time they're selling. You see some of the populace has come out. You see delicious fruits, some swamp roots, there are some herbal setups that have things that are from Stillben and things that are not indigenous to the Whitestone area.
Liam: Are there heirloom tomatoes?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. No I'm not, I'm kidding.
Matt: Best Luck use ever.
Taliesin: I think they're all heirloom tomatoes. There's no such thing.
Matt: You find some nice tomatoes. They're real tasty-looking tomatoes. There's one oddities shop that has small baubles and little jewelry, trinkets that they have for sale. There's a lot of dried meats. There's no fresh fish because a lot of the fishing that's done locally doesn't travel very well on caravan.
Marisha: Is there flowers? Is there a flower shop?
Matt: There is no flower shop on the caravan. There is a flower shop in Whitestone, but you don't really travel to bring flowers, they don't keep very well.
Taliesin: I assume the castle's going to be doing a run of this anyway, but I want to see the trinkets.
Matt: You walk up and you see a number of delightful things. You see a small rack of various glass vials with various-colored liquids inside. Some of them seem to be swirling. As you walk up, you see this gentleman in his early 40s, this long handlebar mustache that curls past the edges of his jaw, his hair is combed over to one side and slicked down. As you approach he's like, "Oh, hi! Yes, I've heard of you, you're Vox Machina! Well, if there's a team looking for the things I have to sell, it would be you!"
Sam: He's day-drunk.
Matt: "Now." He immediately goes into his spiel. You watch as some of the other carts nearby begin to roll their eyes a little bit. "So! Vox Machina. First off, how do I do the pleasure?"
Taliesin: Quite impressively, actually.
Matt: "Theobold Cans, by the way. That's my name. Keep it in mind. Theobold Cans."
Marisha: Like the festival. Yeah. Just go with it.
Taliesin: The Theobold festival, it's very popular.
Matt: "I have here acquired a few interesting things that may help you on your journeys. Here." He pulls out one of the vials and swirls it for a second. It has an orange-ish, yellow-ish color to it, and as it flows around its side, it has a thick movement to it, like a syrup. "This liquid, upon being imbibed, will temporarily allow you to see, read, and speak any language you like!"
Taliesin: That's very impressive.
Matt: "Isn't it, though? So I'll put that one aside as a possible, yes."
Liam: Is that for real, that one?
Sam: Oh, yes, I should Identify that. I'll Identify that.
Matt: You glance over and take a moment to concentrate. Yes, it is a Potion of Tongues.
Sam: Okay, great. Thank you for reminding me that I do that.
Matt: "Now, these, you might be interested in." He pulls out what appears to be a set of goggles with these thick crystal lenses in the front. "Now, these, these fit over your eyes, and upon activation, they have the chance of dazzling somebody and calling them a friend for some time. So. In the maybe pile? This is--" At this point, in the middle of this conversation, you specifically, Vex, you glance over your shoulder as you see the crowd parting off to the side. There's a large figure beelining in your direction.
Laura: I nudge my brother.
Liam: What the hell?
Laura: I head-nudge him.
Matt: You glance over and you see the crowd's being parted. You see a seven-foot-tall, not quite Grog-level but comparable imposing figure, coming right towards you. You see darker olive skin, appears to be a set of half-plate armor, no sleeves, just plate on the chest and on the legs. You see short hair that's buzzed on the sides with a curl of dark in the front, a Superman S curl in the front. You see a big broad smile, a tusked smile. You see orcish blood in this figure as it approaches with a big sword across the back.
Liam: I take an instinctive step forward, just a half step in front of Vex.
Travis: Maybe he'll kill us and we don't have to shop anymore.
Matt: As the figure rushes up, apparently drawn by the sound of the phrase 'Vox Machina'... (cheering)
Sam: No one can see you.
Laura: We know it's there, though!
Travis: Yeah!
Jon: There's an enchantment on it. It's actually this big.
Sam: Oh god. Oh god! Much, much bigger than Hardwick! (laughter)
Matt: So, as you have been in the process of specifically keeping an eye out for a group of individuals, specifically looking out for the name or any mention of Vox Machina, you've spent a number of hours with no luck, frustrated. But you've made some friends in talking around, and then suddenly you hear someone shout the name from a distance. You glance over and see a cluster of individuals that match the descriptions you were given. You immediately beeline up to them. You watch as two similar-looking half-elves spin and give you the evil eye.
Liam: Hey, friend.
Jon: Hi!
Liam: You look like you're headed this way, did you need something?
Jon: Yes. I'm looking for some help.
Laura: Oh, wow, yeah? What kind of help?
Liam: With you so far.
Jon: I'm with a group of these guys and we have a bit of a problem back in our homeland.
Liam: Which is where?
Jon: I have a problem with memory.
Laura: Do you remember your name?
Taliesin: The phrase 'day-drinking' has already come up today.
Jon: Well, my name is Lionel Gayheart, but most people call me Chod.
All: Chod.
Jon: Although, that was my born name, but I call myself Lionel Gayheart, it's a better name.
Laura: It's a much better name.
Liam: On the end is '-hard' or '-heart'?
Jon: Gayheart.
Liam: Heart.
Travis: People call him Chode.
Marisha: Chode.
Taliesin: Lionel.
Liam: Right.
Jon: But, so, yeah, we've been having some problems and we need some help.
Travis: What kind of problems?
Liam: Like opening a peanut butter jar, or how big?
Laura: Or, like, dragon kind of issue?
Jon: Well... More like creepy guys in a big group issue. I'm with this guy, you guys, you've heard of, he's pretty big in our parts... you've heard of the Meat Man? (gasping)
Marisha: What?!
Travis: Are you fucking shitting me?!
Laura: You!
Jon: You guys know him?
Travis: Yeah, we know him.
Jon: I thought he was just big in our parts.
Laura: Where are you from?
Taliesin: Is this what's happening right now?
Marisha: Are we all paying attention at this point?
Matt: It's hard to miss this guy show up.
Taliesin: Was trying to ignore it. Now I'm failing.
Laura: I'm going to throw something again at Sam.
Liam: Is Shorthalt around right now? Is this a prank? Is that was this is? Is this a joke?
Jon: I don't know jokes.
Liam: Insight check.
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: It's fine. No, it's not fine. That's better. 14.
Matt: He seems pretty lost on the name Shorthalt, but seems to be upfront with his intent.
Marisha: So, wait, he does know jokes, or he does know the Meat Man?
Jon: I know the Meat Man.
Marisha: But you don't know jokes?
Jon: I don't know jokes.
Ashley: How do you know the Mean Man?
Marisha: Do you know Parchment, Boulder, Shears? Never mind.
Jon: The Meat Man, he's my boss.
Travis: What? Really?
Jon: Yeah!
Laura: Wait, what does he look like? Short guy?
Jon: No, well, he's shorter than me, but, you know.
Liam: Where on yourself does he come?
Laura: Is he this size?
Sam: She's a gnome.
Jon: No, no, he's bigger than that.
Liam: Excuse me?
Marisha: What?!
Jon: It's the Meat Man, you guys seem familiar with him, you know what he looks like.
Travis: Is this the Meat Man we know?
Matt: No, not at all!
Marisha: Is he pulling a Dread Pirate Roberts?
Travis: He's not the Meat Man that we know.
Laura: Well, we don't know, maybe it is! Where are you from?
Marisha: Does he wear a beret?
Jon: I'm from an area where-- we're from the desert. It's like a desert area. We've traveled across a very, very far way. It was a long journey.
Laura: Marquet?
Marisha: Marquet?
Jon: No.
Liam: Did you cross the ocean to get here?
Jon: Yes, we crossed the ocean. We were on those wooden things that have, like--
Laura: The ships?
Jon: Yeah, ships! That's it!
Marisha: Ank'harel? Bigger than Marquet. Ank'harel?
Jon: Ank'harel!
Marisha: (gasps) We're getting closer! Oh my god!
Liam: Is your boss with you right now? Did he come with you or did he send you?
Jon: No, I'm with him, well, he said he was around here somewhere.
Liam: Shut the fuck up! He's here right now?
Jon: Why, is that bad or good?
Travis: No, real good. Real good thing.
Jon: It's a real good thing?
Laura: But will you bring us to him?
Jon: Yeah, I need your help. We need your help! I'm kind of his messenger, I was supposed to find some--
Taliesin: This is your first time being a messenger, is it?
Matt: "I don't mean any offense, here, but I was in the middle of a transaction, if you don't mind, sir?!"
Marisha: We'll take the Tongues potion. How much? Come on, give it to me.
Matt: "7,000 gold pieces."
Marisha: What?! I don't have that much!
Ashley: What was the third one, though?
Matt: "The third one?"
Laura: The one you were about to say. We were going to hear you say it before--
Taliesin: Before you were so strangely interrupted.
Ashley: This is very important, but...
Taliesin: You didn't have it, did you?
Matt: "There's a ring."
Travis: A ring?
Matt: "A ring."
Travis: What does it do?
Matt: "Allows you to move freely."
Marisha: Is it under a thousand gold?
Matt: "No!"
Marisha: Then goodbye!
Liam: We're moving, we're moving.
Matt: "Gaaah!"
Marisha: We're getting out of his store front.
Laura: Wait, Chod! Chod!
Travis: Chode.
Taliesin: Lionel.
Jon: Chod. But please call me Lionel.
Liam: Oh, you prefer Lionel!
Jon: Yes, of course!
Laura: Lionel's way better.
Jon: I probably should have told you my real name. It's Lionel.
Marisha: Can we call you Lion for short? That's fierce! I'm Keyleth.
Jon: I might get confused if you call me Lion, though, I'm just warning you ahead of time.
Marisha: Keyleth. Nice to meet you.
Taliesin: I have a feeling you're going to get confused even if we call you Lionel. It's Percival, it's a pleasure, Chod. Hello.
Jon: Hello!
Sam: Taryon Darrington!
Jon: You're a fancy lad.
Laura: Vax. Vex.
Liam: This is going to be difficult.
Laura: Just say Vex.
Jon: Vex? And your name's Vex, too?
Liam: Call her little elf girl, and you can call me little elf boy. Could we meet your boss?
Travis: Hold on, Pike had a question.
Ashley: Why is he your boss? What do you do? What kind of work are you in?
Jon: Oh, you know, we do various things. I round up-- He likes to make sure everybody's in line back in our area. Sometimes he makes me (sighs) make sure people pay up, and--
Laura: So, wait a minute, so he's like a bad guy?
Jon: No, he's a good guy!
Liam: Are you a bouncer? Is he playing music and you're his bouncer? Do you rough up people who try to cause trouble?
Jon: Well, you know, in the nicest way possible, sometimes.
Liam: Sure, that's what I do.
Ashley: Do you know someone named Kaylie?
Jon: Kaylie? No.
Laura: But do you know a girl that looks kind of like the Meat Man?
Jon: I don't talk to many girls. Oh, you're a girl! I'm sorry. Well, I'm talking to you, that's awesome!
Laura: Hey, that's great!
Jon: That might be a first. I forgot, so, I wasn't supposed to call him Meat Man. In these areas, he's known as Aes Adon. I think that's what he said.
Laura: Aes Adon? But he's actually the Meat Man.
Jon: Maybe.
Liam: So we get to meet the Meat Man?
Jon: Yeah, we need your help. But I'm just checking you guys out first because he said I'm a real good judge of character.
Laura: And what do you think? What do you judge on us?
Jon: Oh, you guys seem really nice.
Laura: You seem really great, too. You should probably take us to him, then.
Jon: Yeah! It's nice to have to, you know, go do something with people where I don't have to hurt them.
Laura: Yeah! We feel the same way sometimes.
Ashley: So he didn't send you here to hurt us?
Jon: No, no.
Ashley: Just to come.
Jon: Yeah, well, we need to enlist your help.
Marisha: Hang on a second. Will you earmuffs? He knows what earmuffs are! That's good. Anyway, why would Scanlan send a messenger? He has the gate stone! And why him? Scanlan's smarter than that, right?
Laura: Maybe Scanlan's trying to play us and he accidentally sent someone that--
Marisha: Chode?
Taliesin: Lionel!
Travis: Aes Adon. I don't think it's Scanlan.
Laura: It's got to be Scanlan.
Marisha: Look, a lot of people could go by the alter-ego Meat Man.
Laura: What other weirdo would name themselves Meat Man?
Marisha: Good point.
Taliesin: I'm also going to put out there that we all know we're going to go do this because we're desperate for anything to put off the inevitable goodbyes that we were heading towards. So let's distract ourselves for a little bit.
Liam: And, fucking Scanlan!
Taliesin: We'll see.
Marisha: Look, he's still doing it! He does follow directions well.
Laura: Lionel!
Taliesin: If I were to trick us, that's how I would trick us.
Marisha: Lionel.
Jon: What? Oh, I was having such a nice story in my head. What is it? What do you guys want?
Liam: You are very likeable. Do you have problems talking to people? To women, even? JONL No, no, I'm really good at talking to myself sometimes. That's where I get most practice.
Liam: It shows.
Taliesin: Quite a bit of practice.
Liam: Let's meet this chap!
Jon: Yeah, let's go meet him.
Matt: You watch as you're led by this lumbering oaf of a half-orc who has a spring in his step and a perpetual smile. Everyone around just can't help but watch him as he goes. He exudes this natural force of personality in spite of himself. People are enthralled or spooked or just trying to figure out what the heck this individual is that's now talking and walking with a very confused-looking Vox Machina. He leads you along to the southern side of Whitestone, talking about his tales of growing up around Ank'harel and Marquet. Any other tales he wishes to express along the way. But, eventually, leads you to one of the inns in the south side of the city. The interior is empty. There is nobody in there. It is just devoid of any people working there. You recall, because you were told to pay everybody to leave.
Jon: Yeah. But he was here, so, yeah. I don't know, you guys, like, make yourselves comfortable.
Liam: This is the craziest 48 hours, I swear to all the gods.
Jon: It's cool. Aes Adon has the best mutton. He keeps it normally-- I don't think I made the mutton leave, so you can check the drawers.
Laura: I go search the drawers.
Sam: In drawers?
Laura: Yeah! I start searching.
Sam: I'm not going to eat any mutton from drawers.
Laura: He gave me free rein, I'm searching this fucking place.
Matt: You start pulling through the drawers. There is a piece of mutton in there. You get the sense that it wasn't stored there, more than maybe it was half-eaten and left there for later.
Taliesin: 25 perception, I don't know, I'm just looking around.
Liam: I'm looking for weirdness and traps.
Matt: Okay. Make investigation checks, you guys.
Liam: 24.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: Should I be investigating, too?
Matt: Sure. So, what'd you get?
Sam: Ten.
Marisha: Not good.
Liam: 24.
Laura: 11.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: You find the partially eaten mutton. Vax, you find the tavern has many drinks on tap, it has a number of cups. Looks to be remnants of people that were possibly eating or finishing a meal that quickly left. The coffers for the tavern are gone.
Liam: No traces of poo anywhere?
Matt: No traces of poo, no.
Laura: Scanlan! Scanlan, are you here?
Matt: You hear footsteps coming down a stairway on the far end of the tavern.
Jon: Who's Scanlan?
Sam: He's this really creepy weirdo they always talk about.
Jon: No, I don't think there's a Scanlan here, no.
Matt: You watch as an imposing figure makes his way down the stairs. As he turns around the corner, the light comes in. You see a human man, very, very tan skin. His body is thick with muscles and is imposing by just his stance. His shoulders are forward a little bit, his fists clenched to the side. You see a dark leather vest that is affixed to the torso and a hood attached that hides elements of his appearance. But you do see long stringy black hair that cascades out the front and as he turns around, you see a very craggy, pockmarked face adorned by a thick black mustache, a deep scar that sits on his face under one eye, and you see his one hand is rested on this curved, jeweled dagger that is sheathed on one side. Turns around (thudding steps) walks over to one of the far tables, pulls the chair out, spins it around, sits in it and rests on it. "Welcome, friends. You are Vox Machina, yes?"
Liam: Who's asking?
Matt: "Sit down, please. If you don't mind. You are guests of mine right now."
Sam: Is this Scanlan?
Taliesin: No.
Laura: I want to roll a perception, I want to see if it's an illusion, if it actually is Scanlan.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Jon: I told you, I don't--
Matt: "Chod! Good job." And he flicks you a gold coin.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25.
Travis: What? Oh god! Jesus! Balls!
Sam: Whispers!
Liam: Incoming whisper!
Sam: The Scanlan Shorthalt t-shirts are available on the store right now. Travis is wearing one. You can see it maybe on your screen. He's doing a little jig! Boop boop do boop boop! Boop boop! Buy your shirts today.
Liam: The hottest penguin I ever saw.
Matt: "My name is Aes Adon."
Jon: Told you.
Matt: "I'm but a humble merchant from Ank'harel, and I'm seeking to make some contacts in this rumored emerging metropolis of Whitestone. Yes?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Now, I have information that may be of use to you, my compatriots have told me. And, should my gatherers and whisperers be correct, in trade I would like to get some information from this one."
Taliesin: Possibly. What is it that you want to know?
Matt: "Rumors tell me of these fabled Riflemen of Whitestone."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "While paltry mechanical imitations have occasionally come across the markets on our side of the world, I hear that you were the designer of these instruments of death."
Marisha: Oh no.
Taliesin: I am.
Matt: "Well, in the intent of expanding my influence in keeping the peace where I do business, I would like to make a trade. This important information for you to grant me access to your designs."
Taliesin: What is this information? You don't even need to tell me what it is, but that would be worth quite a lot, and what you knew would have to be worth quite a lot.
Marisha: Selling the secret recipe, man.
Matt: "Let's say that information has come to my attention regarding a hidden location on Marquet. A compatriot of mine, whom you've already met--"
Jon: (heavy, repeated sniffing)
Matt: "-- recently returned from an expedition I sent him on, where he stumbled upon a pyramid."
Travis: A pyramid?
Matt: "Yes. Does this pique your interest?"
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: Ziggurat.
Matt: "So, this is the information I have to offer."
Marisha: Wait, he said Marquet, though.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Another one.
Laura: Did you go inside of it?
Jon: No. No.
Laura: Did you see anybody around?
Sam: Did you see anything about it?
Jon: Yeah!
Matt: "I would request you hold that information until we make a deal."
Jon: Sorry, Aes. Sorry, Aes.
Sam: No, no, you can go ahead and tell us!
Jon: No, he's my boss.
Laura: Does it count if it's a girl that he's talking to? I mean, it's not quite the same, right?
Matt: "Silence! My deal is with you, Vox Machina."
Liam: You can tell us later.
Taliesin: What is this worth?
Jon: You should listen to him.
Marisha: I guess it depends on what he thinks it's worth to us. What makes you think that we want this information so much?
Matt: "I've had a compatriot of yours stumble through my city seeking information about, apparently, something beneath your city. The whispers come to me. I saw a connection. From what I hear, you've put quite a bit of energy into this darkened orb."
Taliesin: Well, this leaves me with a bit of a conundrum. Traditionally, when people come either asking to see my designs or if we come across people who have been attempting to replicate them, we just simply have them executed on sight. Traditionally.
Matt: "I would not recommend that."
Taliesin: Well, if I were going to do it, it would have already been done, now wouldn't it?
Jon: Well, I don't know about that. Remember. Enchantment.
Matt: "Thank you, Chod."
Sam: I think that was a threat.
Taliesin: That was a very good threat!
Jon: Really? Was it?
Taliesin: It was definitely a strong six.
Liam: How'd you hear about this compatriot? How do we know you're not selling us a song? Who was this compatriot of ours?
Laura: What?
Liam: He said someone came through? He's talking about this guy?
Matt: No.
Jon: My name's Lionel, you guys.
Matt: "I did not meet this individual, but apparently they belong on the council of your country."
Marisha: What?
Liam: Little bit more, please.
Matt: "Blonde of hair. Traverses through arcane means."
Marisha: What? What'd he say?
Liam: Man or woman?
Matt: "Woman. Blonde of hair."
Marisha: Allura.
Taliesin: Well.
Marisha: What is happening?
Travis: She went to go find information about it, that's not strange.
Marisha: That's not bad, right?
Ashley: What does the Meat Man mean to you?
Matt: Leans back and you see he takes the dagger out and spins it a little bit on the fingertip. "The Meat Man is before you. I don't know where you heard this title, but--" (laughter)
Jon: I told you guys, it's Aes!
Matt: "There will be a conversation later."
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: "But that is a business alias of mine that I've had for a short time."
Ashley: You don't need to get upset with him for it.
Marisha: We had a friend who we thought it might've been him.
Travis: Keyleth, stay on task!
Marisha: Sorry.
Matt: "There is no other Meat Man."
Liam: It's kind of a sticking point for us. You're coming to us with one piece of information that we may be interested in, but you're accidentally tipping your hand towards something else that we want to know about. We know a Meat Man, and he is not you.
Ashley: Do you know... the Meat Man?
Liam: Do you know the muffin man?
Taliesin: This meeting is only happening because we were hoping to meet our Meat Man.
Matt: "If you are referring to the small one, he's been dealt with. The title is now mine."
Taliesin: Dealt with.
Liam: Roll back a step or two. Dealt with how?
Matt: "Dealt with in the way that anyone who does sloppy business: imprisoned. No longer of consequence. I was next in line."
Marisha: I'm sorry, you think that the title of Meat Man is so important that you had to kill or attack a gnome who also went by Meat Man?
Matt: "The Meat Man I take the title from was not killed by me. He was a great man. Small, but resolute. Confident. Handsome as they come. He taught me everything I know. It is a shame that he has been lost in chains beneath the city, but I am keeping up."
Laura: Such a shame that's he's been lost.
Marisha: So, you've taken on the title yourself.
Matt: "I have, in his memory."
Marisha: And what city is he in chains beneath?
Matt: "Beneath Ank'harel in its deepest prisons."
Ashley: Did he tell you to take on his name?
Matt: "No, it was bequeathed by the others left behind in his absence. They respect me, and as such, the Meat Man is I."
Liam: The name was simply meat-ed out.
Marisha: He's totally Dread Pirates Roberts-ing this shit.
Taliesin: The designs of the guns are out of the question. That doesn't mean there aren't things on the table.
Matt: "If not the designs, perhaps a few rifles and some ammunition. Something I can take back to my workers."
Marisha: Here's a question  Why did Allura come to you for information?
Matt: "Oh, she didn't come to me, but whispers came to me that she was seeking this information."
Marisha: Right. So you have ears in all the right places.
Matt: "Everywhere, my dear."
Sam: You said workers? Are you a foreman of some sort?
Matt: "You could say that. I run a business in various goods. Some legal, and I make sure that clients get them in a very forthright manner."
Taliesin: We're sadly very protective of our copyrights, and my designs are not for reproduction. Attempts at reproducing them tend to end poorly. Many have tried; most have failed. If you wanted, perhaps, a few designed, that could have been a conversation, but so far, I'm not impressed by you.
Matt: "Well then, we have nothing more to discuss, then. Come, Chod."
Jon: Okay, see you guys later!
Liam: Before you leave-- prison. What was this other Meat Man's offense? Do you know?
Jon: I don't know.
Liam: You don't know anything.
Jon: No, I don't know a lot of stuff. He doesn't tell me.
Liam: Do you like working for that guy?
Jon: Yeah, he's great, he gives me money and food and mutton.
Marisha: What if we gave you money and food and mutton?
Liam: We have mutton.
Marisha: How much money does he give you?
Jon: I like working for him. He keeps me safe.
Sam: What about this guy?
Liam: What about this guy? For Wildmount! Your brigade!
Sam: I mean...
Liam: I mean, you got to start somewhere!
Marisha: You could recruit him!
Sam: Wow. I mean--
Liam: You were rough around the edges when we met you!
Jon: I feel like I should do earmuffs right now again.
Sam: Yeah, I'm pretty sure I can do better than this guy. I mean, he's really imposing and strong. Also, guys, not to split hairs here, but his boss is literally right there, listening to us. So maybe we shouldn't be talking about recruiting his employee.
Matt: "Your shiny friend has a point."
Taliesin: I'm quite surprised by the brazenness. What on earth made you think that we would sell these designs to you? You obviously are paying attention.
Matt: "As you hopefully know, the intent of negotiation is to aim high."
Taliesin: That's fair.
Matt: "Then bring your expectations. So perhaps not plans. But a few rifles, a pistol or two and some ammunition would be enough to outfit my team."
Laura: A whole team. With one pistol.
Taliesin: One pistol can do a quite a bit. One pistol can go far.
Marisha: The problem is that once he has the designs, he can replicate them.
Liam: Reverse engineer.
Laura: I don't think he would be able to reverse engineer it.
Matt: "But I have my artisans at my disposal."
Ashley: Wait, why did you think we would want this information?
Matt: "Well, if you don't, I'm happy to leave. Make some business here, some gold and then be on my way. But I was informed that you, Vox Machina, so widely respected, so strong, so rich, so involved in yourselves and your worldwide endeavors, that perhaps a little more world-saving might be up your alley, but maybe I thought you wrong."
Taliesin: How's giving you one of my weapons world-saving?
Matt: "Because the information I give you in return may help save the world."
Liam: You sound like you know about the stakes involved.
Matt: "Just what I've been whispered."
Marisha: We've met a lot of doom-seers. You sure you can stand up to them?
Matt: "I grow tired of this conversation. If this is a declination?"
Taliesin: At the very least, this is a conversation of whether or not you're ever going to do business in this city again and what that business is going to look like.
Matt: "Do not worry. You'll not see this face in your precious Whitestone again." He stands up.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if I can glean any more of what he knows about this world-ending thing?
Matt: Okay. Insight check.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Sam: Whisper!
Taliesin: Earmuffs! Earmuffs!
Laura: Everybody earmuffs!
Liam: I mean, Tary, Grog is about as smart as a golden retriever and he does great.
Sam: I know! But this guy seems like he would lose a spelling bee to Grog. He's really dumb!
Laura: Well, up until a few weeks ago, Grog couldn't really spell, either.
Ashley: We could hold a spelling bee!
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: Is he still walking away?
Matt: He's going over to the half-orc. He goes, "Come on, we're leaving."
Marisha: I look at Vex and Vax and them and I say, we know him.
Laura: Give it a moment.
Marisha: There's something familiar about him.
Laura: I go and I follow him.
Matt: Okay, he walks out.
Marisha: He knows more than he's letting on.
Matt: "Come!"
Jon: All right, I'm coming. You guys should really reconsider, that's a word he just told me. I mean, he sounds scary and all, but it's really awesome stuff he has to share if you guys just shared back. Okay. See you.
Laura: I follow him right out of the room.
Matt: Both of them walk out into the daylight and you follow.
Laura: Aes.
Matt: He turns around. "Yes?"
Laura: I run up and I hug him.
Matt: Okay! Full-body?
Laura: Just a big hug! And I go down.
Matt: Okay. Immediately, instinctively, he backs up and you watch as Vex's arms pass through the legs and thighs and grab onto something smaller on the inside.
Marisha: Motherfucker!
Sam: (as Scanlan) Stop! Stop stop stop stop stop! Not here! Not here! Let's go somewhere else. Now. Let's go.
Taliesin: What?! What?! No!
Marisha: Motherfucker! Motherfucker!
Matt: And let's go ahead and take a break! (screaming)
Travis: I'll kill you! I'm going to kill you!
Marisha: Motherfucker!
Travis: How could you?
Marisha: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Oh, well done, you.
Matt: We're going to take a quick break, be right back here in a minute to pick this up. We're going to go ahead and have a Twitch giveaway in the chatroom for this awesome Wyrmwood complete system. This includes a dice tray, a dice box, a couple of fun things. It's zebrawood, which is nice. But, to win this, you have to go into the Twitch chat. The code for this is 'bardbarian.' B-A-R-D-B-A-R-I-A-N. Barbarian, but with bard-barian. Cool. So, we'll see you guys back here in a few minutes.
Travis: You! Son of a bitch!
Laura: Oh my god! [break]
Matt: Hello, guys! And welcome back to tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Matt: (laughs) So picking up where we left off, Lionel, you just watched as this half-elf girl forcefully merged with part of your boss, and your boss starts freaking out as everyone else, you all spook in mid-daylight as you hear this familiar voice come through, saying... What did you say, again?
Sam: They were all there? I thought she just followed me.
Taliesin: We were not there.
Matt: Oh, it was just you. You guys were still inside the tavern.
Sam: Is Lionel there, though?
Matt: He left with you.
Jon: (gasps)
Sam: Lionel. Please. Go back inside.
Jon: What did you do? What did you do?
Sam: Go back inside the tavern.
Jon: Where's Aes? Where's Aes?
Sam: I am still he. Please, go back inside the tavern.
Jon: Okay.
Sam: Wait for me there.
Jon: They were nice people anyway. All right.
Matt: So, Vex, you're now there, staring at the Danny Trejo-like visage of the Meat Man.
Sam: I'll grab her by the hand and pull her into... Is there a back alley or a side place or a shadow anywhere?
Matt: There's, maybe about 15 feet off, a little alley you could duck into, yeah.
Sam: Come with me.
Laura: Of course.
Sam: When we're safely off the street, I take off the Hat of Disguise and reveal myself.
Laura: Scanlan!
Sam: Hi.
Laura: What are you doing? I mean, I knew it was you, but I thought you were going to reveal yourself to everyone.
Matt: What you do notice about Scanlan... Definitely tanner skin; that scar you saw under the eye, still there on Scanlan, and the clothing and the outfit design is much more Marquesian than you recall. Definitely more Gilmore than Scanlan.
Laura: Have you been there the whole time?
Sam: Not the whole time, but for much of it. I didn't know if I could talk to you all.
Laura: I hold his hand and just listen.
Sam: There's a lot to talk about, but not here. I have appearances to keep up, I have people depending on me who work for me.
Laura: Are you really the Meat Man there?
Sam: I am many things.
Laura: Darling.
Sam: Well, I am.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Yes, I am, but it's not what you would think. I'm not a bad guy. This is not the place to talk about this. Listen to me. Vex, there will be a time to discuss this, but right now, I'm casting Modify Memory on you.
Laura: Don't you do it.
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Don't you do it! I push him against the wall. Can I break it? Can I break it before he does it?
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw. Actually, no, for this I'm going to have to ask you guys both to roll initiative. That's what this is going to come down to.
Marisha: Come on, Vex!
Sam: That's not good.
Taliesin: Yes!
Liam: We got an actual dice roll in the game!
Laura: 24.
Sam: Six.
Matt: Okay. So he begins, after saying this, casting the spell. What do you do?
Laura: No! I grab his hands and cover his mouth!
Matt: Okay. I'll say go ahead and make a concentration check, so make a constitution saving throw. I'm going to have you... Let's see, for this... Just roll a d20.
Sam: Constitution saving throw?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do I add to it?
Matt: Roll a d20 and add your dex modifier to it.
Laura: Dex modifier or dex saving throw?
Matt: Dex modifier.
Taliesin: No! No!
Marisha: No!
Travis: Oh, two ones! Two ones!
Liam: Everybody speechless.
Matt: So as you go to push him into the wall, you accidentally hit between where his foot and the edge of the stone is and it causes you to stumble forward and slam into him. You fall over. You, in the process, she hits you in the side of the...
Sam: Do we accidentally kiss? Is that what's going to happen here?
Matt: Almost, but instead, you both accidentally end up elbowing the shit out of each other. She falls over, you tumble over her and become this tangled pile of soreness. The spell is lost.
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: However, you guys in the tavern, hear a (flurry of blows) against the wall on the outside.
Liam: I was starting to follow. I push the door open...
Sam: You can't tell them! You can't tell them!
Liam: Holy shit!
Taliesin: I hear that and I start walking out.
Liam: Holy shit!
Laura: Shut up, shut up, shut up! Shush!
Marisha: I bust through right behind Vax.
Matt: You guys all rush around to the alley.
Marisha: You dick!
Taliesin: Now I run.
Marisha: I knew you were familiar!
Laura: Everyone, shut up! Shut up, shut up. If you need to do something, change back, do it.
Sam: How long does the hat take?
Matt: It takes an action to do the spell.
Sam: Okay. Hat on. (whoosh)
Laura: Appearances are important.
Ashley: I make my way through. What's going on?
Marisha: No one talks about Scanlan being handsome as much as Scanlan does. That was your first giveaway, mister!
Liam: We're in an alley, though, off to the side, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're in a dark alley.
Liam: Well, then I'm giving him a big fucking hug!
Sam: It's hard to do, but yes.
Matt: So, Lionel, everyone just charges out of the tavern, and you hear a big commotion and voices on the side.
Jon: What's going on, you guys? What's happening? Can I... I think they're attacking him.
Matt: At this point, you watch as the other one is now grabbing him, merging.
Jon: Yeah, it looks like they're attacking. So I want to protect him.
Sam: As he should.
Matt: What are you going to do to protect him?
Taliesin: You can go ahead and just say.
Matt: Are you going to scare them off, are you going to attack them?
Sam: Kill them?
Jon: Yeah. No! I want to scare them away, and...
Matt: Do you have an ability that does that?
Taliesin: Or you can try and intimidate us, and say something really scary, or make some noise.
Jon: No, I want to do the Frantic Flail.
Matt: Okay, all right. So as you're hugging him, you guys watch as the half-orc turns the corner, spooks, and then, suddenly, you watch as something beneath the armor glows briefly, and he starts flapping his arms, going (honking) right at you. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: What?
Jon: It'll be explained later.
Liam: It's not... Does it have anything to do with charm, or sleep, by any chance?
Matt: Nope.
Liam: No. Okay. All right. Oh, that's fine. 20.
Jon: Damn.
Matt: Okay, so it doesn't spook you off, it's just a little weird, as this giant man is now honking and waving and flapping his arms at you. He doesn't seem to be affected by it, he just gives you a strange look.
Jon: Yeah.
Sam: It's okay, stand down, Lionel. I can defend myself.
Jon: Because you know I'm good for... That normally works on everybody else.
Sam: You are my best man, and I appreciate your concern, but these people pose no threat to us.
Liam: That is a really good accent.
Marisha: Yeah, you're so good at that.
Jon: What are they talking about, accent?
Sam: They are beguiled by our foreign ways and they are scared of what they do not understand.
Liam: True.
Taliesin: That's true. I'm going to start walking back to the inn, and I'm going to start pouring a lot of drinks and putting them on the table.
Sam: I do have information to share with you.
Liam: We want to hear all of that information.
Jon: You still gotta give us the designs. No?
Laura: No.
Sam: I mean.
Marisha: Why did you want the designs?
Sam: Percival's guns are really cool, and I've always wanted to have some of my own, and I used all of my ammunition over the year, and now I just have this pistol. And I produce the pistol. But it has no bullets! I don't know how to make any more bullets! I need more bullets!
Marisha: Are you a mafia don, Scanlan? Are you a bad guy?
Sam: I'll take off the hat.
Matt: Okay. Lionel, you watch as your boss for the past five months shifts into this tiny little man.
Sam: Lionel, we'll talk about this later.
Jon: (screams)
Sam: I have many forms and I am-- Did you just piss your pants?
Jon: I'll go stand in the corner now.
Sam: I have many forms and I master magic that you will never understand, but know this: The money I pay you is real, so you still work for me.
Jon: That's true. Okay, I'm good.
Sam: All right. Just hang tight. I mean, you can stay, stay here. Mop yourself up or something. You're a good man. I'm sorry I do these things to you.
Jon: You're so tiny, though.
Sam: I'm strong of heart.
Jon: You haven't been that strong, but anyway.
Marisha: I pull Chod, Chard, Chode...
Jon: Lionel.
Marisha: Lionel. I pull Lionel aside. And I grab him by the face, and I say, we need you to be coherent and honest during this. And I cast Enhance Ability and give him Owl's Wisdom.
Matt: Okay.
Jon: I'll take that. I'm not going to fight back.
Marisha: It increases your wisdom. You get advantage on wisdom.
Sam: Yeah, but now I can't erase his fucking memory.
Laura: You've just been going crazy with that Modify Memory, haven't you?
Sam: Hey, man, it's my bag of tricks, all right?
Liam: So are we going to do this in an alleyway, or are we going to go get a drink, and you tell us where the fuck you've been?
Laura: Should we go inside? It's an empty fucking bar.
Sam: Okay. Let's go back inside the tavern, but just know this. He doesn't drink, all right?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: Whatever. Come on. We want to hear what you've been doing for a year. Come on!
Sam: All right.
Jon: Thank you for remembering.
Sam: You're my guy.
Matt: You guys make your way back into the tavern.
Taliesin: It is set up.
Matt: You now have the delightful experience of roleplaying two characters, Sam, in the same scene.
Liam: Boy, that's got to suck.
Matt: Welcome to my world.
Jon: I can kill Taryon.
Sam: I have to go check on Doty! Look at the time! Good-bye!
Laura: Look, this is that guy we were telling you about for so long.
Sam: The skeevy asshole that you always talk about?
Taliesin: Yes, the skeevy asshole, that would be the one.
Sam: He's pretty handsome.
Taliesin: You would say that, wouldn't you?
Ashley: I think I'll go with you, Tary.
Laura: Pike...
Ashley: It's fine.
Travis: Yeah. I'll go, too.
Sam: What? All right.
Taliesin: I want to listen.
Liam: I'm curious. Talk to us, man.
Sam: All right.
Laura: Talk to them. Don't let them leave.
Sam: You all can stay. It's been a while.
Travis: It has.
Sam: Yes. Yes, just stay. It's fine.
Marisha: Is it, though, Scanlan?
Taliesin: What would you have done if I had just decided to open fire on you?
Laura: I would've stopped you, darling. I knew it was him right away.
Sam: I would've done what Scanlan would always do. I would've won and killed you. I mean, I'm super powerful and awesome.
Taliesin: Yes. But really. This was not a good plan.
Marisha: Scanlan, there are some hurt feelings in this room, and it might be time to address those.
Sam: I know. I know. But for now, let's just catch up. What have you guys been up to for the last year?
Liam: No, no, no. After you, dear. After you.
Marisha: I'm chief of my people!
Sam: Oh, you did your Aramente!
Marisha: I did! I wish you were there! I mentioned you and everything in my speech.
Sam: You did?
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: That sounds nice.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Anybody else ascend to new heights? No?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Yes?
Taliesin: Yes. None of your business at the moment. Tell us your business.
Liam: Where have you been?
Sam: I went traveling a bit. I did what gnomes do, I went into the forest with Kaylie.
Ashley: Oh, is that what gnomes do? They go into the forest? I'm so sorry, please continue.
Sam: Forest gnomes do. And we talked, and we sang songs, and we camped, not in the mansion, just in a tent. We had some good times and bad times together, and eventually we found our way to Ank'harel, and some stuff happened, yadda yadda, and I'm here now, you know?
Laura: I try to pass my hand through Lionel's stomach to see if he's actually Kaylie.
Sam: Is he?
Jon: You feel tons of abs. It bounces off and hits you in the face with your own hand.
Taliesin: I was with you on that one.
Laura: Serious, serious abs.
Liam: Where's Kaylie now?
Sam: She's with me, yeah? No, did we leave her back there?
Matt: Kaylie's in Ank'harel. Essentially, you...
Sam: She is... It's complicated, but right now, she is the Meat Man. She is back in Ank'harel, taking on the business while I'm off here.
Liam: How are you two doing?
Sam: Pretty good. We're a good team. Yeah.
Marisha: Does she like you now?
Sam: 'Like' is a strong word.
Taliesin: It's really not.
Jon: 'Love' is a stronger word. That's why people use 'like'.
Liam: There's that Owl's Wisdom right there.
Jon: Whoa. What just happened?
Taliesin: You have advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Jon: It's weird. It's new to me.
Sam: We're fine, she and I. We're a team, and she's taught me some stuff, and I've taught her some stuff, and we operate together.
Marisha: And what kind of operation do you operate?
Sam: We went to Ank'harel to get a little simple revenge, and it turned into something more than that, and I didn't mean to, but I guess I became one of the three largest crime bosses in Ank'harel.
Liam: In a year.
Sam: Eight months, really. We traveled around close to here. We were only 20 miles away for most of the first couple months, and then it took us time to get there. Don't worry, though, I'm not a bad guy. I just sell things, trinkets, furniture, art pieces, antiquities, that sort of thing.
Liam: Nothing dangerous?
Sam: Nothing dangerous. All fake.
Marisha: And to whom do you sell these things?
Sam: Rat bastards. People who deserve it. People with money to burn, and people who have done wrong in their lives. I take some back.
Liam: Why now? Why have you come back? Not that I'm not overjoyed to see you, but I'm curious.
Sam: I had information, and you had to know it. It's important. We found another one. Lionel did. The ziggurat.
Laura: Did you go inside?
Jon: Another? You didn't tell me there was more!
Sam: No, no, I mean, there's the one you found, and then there's one here.
Jon: (gasps)
Sam: Yes. Will you tell them what you saw?
Jon: Well, me and my buddies, we went inside this...
Sam: Can I clarify, these are all hired men of mine. They're not his buddies. I pay them all.
Liam: Could be both.
Sam: I mean, maybe they're friends now, but, okay.
Jon: Well, no, they're dead now.
Sam: That's fair.
Jon: I guess, if they weren't buddies, then I shouldn't feel bad anymore. The bad feelings will go away. We went inside the mountain, following some people that... Do I call you Aes, or?
Sam: That's fine.
Jon: Okay. Aes here told us to follow some people.
Sam: I had learned of someone new coming into town and stealing some magical artifacts and leaving some dead bodies, and it wasn't my organization, and it wasn't any of the other two leading crime organizations, I found out through my whispers. So it was someone new, and I wanted to find out who it was, so I sent Lionel, my best man, and his buddies to investigate.
Taliesin: There was a comma there.
Jon: So, yeah, and he knew he could trust us because we're awesome. We were going to go get some information. So we followed them into this big tunnel that goes into the mountain. We had to go through, it took a long time and we had to fight a lot of cool stuff along the way, but nothing important to this.
Sam: I mean, all the details are good, just, when you tell a story, lots of details.
Jon: Lots of details?
Sam: Yeah, yeah, paints a picture.
Jon: Well, I've never been good at stories.
Marisha: You're doing great.
Jon: But when we got to the middle, we found a big giant pyramid. Or a ziggy-star-- what?
Sam: Ziggy stardust.
Jon: Is that what you call it?
Sam: Ziggurat.
Liam: Pyramid's good. We're with you, yeah.
Jon: We found a pyramid, and we saw all these guys hanging around it, and right at the top of the pyramid was this big black ball. It looked like a pearl, but it was giant. It was at the top of the pyramid, and these guys, wearing these really cool but scary hoods and robes, they were throwing stuff on the black orb, and it was breaking and absorbing the stuff. And then this one guy--
Marisha: What were they throwing in?
Jon: Oh, it was anything. Some of them threw treasure, some of them threw some real animals. Alive.
Sam: And a person.
Jon: I was getting to that!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, I don't want to cut you off. Keep going. Keep going.
Jon: And then one of the guys actually jumped in and it absorbed him.
Laura: Did it look like he was in pain?
Jon: No, it just went (sucking sound). And he was gone. And so I had to get out of there. By then, my buddies, they were dead and taken away. So I was the only lone survivor, and that's why you can count on me the most. He knew I would survive. Is that why you sent them? Because you knew only I would survive?
Sam: I assumed that... Yes?
Jon: See, I'm the best. So that's what I saw.
Laura: Was it a lot of guys?
Jon: There was a whole bunch of these guys in robes. It was really creepy.
Sam: And dark hoods, executioner-style.
Jon: Yes, matching robes, and I got a really creepy feeling when I saw it, besides being in the middle of a mountain.
Liam: Roughly how many?
Jon: Oh, I don't know. I mean, it was dark.
Liam: More than us?
Jon: More than you.
Matt: When you were there, it would've been about 12 or 13 of them there.
Taliesin: That's a lot of matching robes.
Liam: And they all looked the same? Nobody looked a little more important than the others?
Jon: I couldn't see their faces, I couldn't see. They were all covered in these robes. It felt like...
Laura: How long ago was this?
Jon: This was a couple months ago. I mean, you know, I lost track of time when we were on the ship.
Sam: It's a couple weeks. (laughter)
Jon: I was asleep for most of the ship ride. I was pretty sick.
Laura: I get sick, too. I understand.
Sam: It was hard to tell. His face is always green, so we couldn't really tell.
Jon: You guys were good. You guys gave me all the leftover stew that you had.
Laura: So, wait, and then you saw Allura there? That's bullshit?
Matt: No, that was all bullshit.
Sam: No, I'm sorry. I lied to you.
Laura: Oh. Oh, you suddenly lied to us. Wow, I feel so shocked.
Sam: I didn't know. Listen, I wanted to tell you this information, but I didn't know how to do so. I still don't know what's going to happen. You all might draw your knives and kill me right now, I just wanted to get this information...
Jon: No, they won't kill you. I promise.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: No one wants to kill you.
Ashley: Well, that's debatable.
Taliesin: You tried to get me to give you my gun designs?
Sam: Just some ammo.
Taliesin: For what?
Sam: For my gun that I have.
Taliesin: You have a gun?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: He stole it from you.
Laura: Remember?
Marisha: No, you gave it to him!
Taliesin: No, I didn't give it to him.
Jon: Do you want it back?
Sam: No, please don't give it back.
Liam: What's your best-case scenario here? What did you hope would happen? You'd come and tell us these things and then what happens next?
Sam: You would go investigate.
Liam: With you?
Sam: No. You would go investigate and I would go back to my job.
Marisha: So you're just here to be an errand boy. That's all you want. To help us out.
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: You traveled to a separate hemisphere to be a messenger.
Jon: It was only a couple weeks.
Ashley: Can I insight-check him?
Matt: Sure.
Ashley: 23.
Sam: 37.
Liam: He's back.
Matt: Hard to read.
Sam: I've thought about you all a lot, during this year, and I owe you all an apology for leaving you, and I don't know what I'll ever do to make it up to you.
Laura: We deserved it.
Sam: No, you didn't.
Taliesin: No, we didn't.
Sam: There was a night. There was a night early on, a few weeks after I left you. It was just me and Kaylie by a campfire, and she was asking me about myself and my life, and she has this thing. I don't know if it's a spell or a special ability, but she can always tell when I'm lying. She's the only one. And I was trying to spin some sort of bullshit to her about my past, and she called me on it, and said, the truth. Let me hear it. And I told her everything. I told her about all the lives I had ruined, and about the women, and about all the other Kaylies out there that I know of, and the ones that I can only assume exist. And everything. And she spat at me, and she gave me this scar with her knife, and she left. And I thought that was it. I had ruined it. But before dawn, she came back, and she unrolled her bedding, and she went to sleep, and woke up the next morning, and said, what's for breakfast, Dad? And I realized that I've been wrong, that you don't leave your shit behind and keep going. You take it with you, and the ones you surround yourself with better get used to the smell. And she stayed with me despite all my flaws. And when I left you all, it was the first time that I had realized that you were all really flawed people. Really flawed people. And I left. And I did not come back. And I was wrong, because family sticks around even if you kind of hate the other person. And I didn't. I betrayed you. And I've lived with that shame for a year.
Liam: Are you happier now?
Sam: Well, I have a purpose. I have a job. People depend on me. Strong people, like this guy. That's you.
Jon: Me?
Sam: Yeah. And smart people, and Kaylie. And I'm a pretty big shot.
Jon: You're not so big anymore.
Sam: Well, it's a metaphor.
Laura: You always were.
Liam: That doesn't sound too bad to me.
Marisha: Did you not feel like you had a purpose when you were with Vox Machina? I'm not judging you in the moment.
Sam: I knew I was part of something, but I always thought I was... I've been a storyteller, but I didn't think I was part of the story. And for the last year I've been the story, and it's felt good. But I'm back, and I've given you the information, and you can tell me what you'd like me to do next.
Marisha: You know, there is a point that we are all family, but we are also all friends, and there is that old saying, be careful of the friends that drag you down. Maybe we were dragging you down.
Taliesin: I'm going to put some pistol shot in a small bag. What's Kaylie's mother's name? What is it? I toss it to him. Dick. And I leave. For the record, it's Sybil.
Ashley: I think I hear something. Do you hear that? It sounds like small little violins that I hear. Do you hear that?
Travis: Yeah.
Jon: I don't hear anything. (laughter)
Ashley: I forgot I had to talk to Percy about something. Bye. Good to see you.
Marisha: You know, you've broken a lot of hearts, Scanlan. I think you're still a heartbreaker. And I leave with them.
Laura: I think they'll come around.
Sam: I doubt it.
Liam: No, I think she's right.
Laura: I think more than anything they've just missed you, darling.
Liam: Can I tell you a secret? All this last year, I've known we would see you again.
Laura: He's full of shit. He totally said that you were never coming back. I knew.
Liam: It's good to see you again.
Sam: It's good to see you all. I don't really know what to do now. I have... I really don't know what to do now. And that's a new feeling for me. I have information. We should travel back to Ank'harel so I can show you.
Laura: Of course.
Sam: And maybe then you all can decide what to do. Whether to part ways, as friends or enemies. But I can help you. I know people there, and I can get you safe passage, fine accommodations, the best food, even some realistic-looking antiques.
Laura: Ooh. I like it.
Sam: Grog?
Travis: I leave.
Liam: Give him time.
Laura: Scanlan. I think you need to talk to them. Pike didn't get to say a word to you when you left. Grog was...
Liam: Grog.
Laura: Grog was hurt.
Sam: All right. Should I go now? I should give them some time.
Laura: Maybe a little bit of breathing room, and then, yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Little steps.
Sam: Lionel. Thanks for sitting through all this. I really appreciate it.
Jon: I was just telling stories in my head again.
Sam: Oh, really? The good ones or the bad ones?
Jon: The bad ones. They just pop in there.
Sam: I'm sorry. I know you've had a bit of a rough life.
Jon: Are you wanting me to talk about my life?
Sam: No, no, no, you don't have to. We're already weird right now, so I'm cool.
Marisha: Can we go to sleep now?
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It's eight AM.
Marisha: Everyone's emotionally tired.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: So are we going to see an orb in the morning?
Matt: It's midday at this point, so you guys all go to your separate rooms and take time to yourselves independently, converse amongst individually.
Taliesin: Pike, Grog, do you want a drink?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, I was just about to ask you the same thing.
Laura: Oh. Well, I mean, yeah.
Taliesin: Grog, I want to go find that orb.
Marisha: What? The orb in Ank'harel? Are we all talking over our headpieces? I think that's what we're doing.
Laura: I'm sure Scanlan still has his. He can probably hear us talking right now.
Ashley: Scanlan, can you hear me now? I take out my earpiece.
Marisha: He's a dick, he can hear us. I know the range of these things.
Travis: Yeah, I take off my earpiece, too.
Taliesin: I kind of want to go work the blood out, Scanlan or not. I like Lionel. He's funny.
Liam: We're all agreed on that, at least.
Marisha: Are we supposed to be angry, or sad, or happy? I don't know what all these feelings are all at once.
Taliesin: You can have them all at once.
Marisha: Can I?
Taliesin: Yes. They're not exclusive.
Travis: Percy. Where would someone like him stay in Whitestone?
Sam: Where are you guys right now, by the way?
Taliesin: We just went to the closest pub.
Sam: Is Lionel with them?
Matt: Lionel's left behind with you unless you gave him instructions otherwise. He's your bodyguard.
Sam: Would you like to go with them or stay with me in my sad room?
Jon: I'll go with them. (laughter)
Matt: You guys sit down, you get your drinks, and right as you're about to have this conversation, Lionel just moseys up to the table. The barmaid's like, "Um..."
Taliesin: He learned a lot about his employer today, I have no problem with him being here.
Marisha: Yeah, he needs a stiff drink.
Matt: "Can I get you some wine, ale, beer? What would you like?"
Taliesin: Fruit juice, maybe?
Jon: Do you have chocolate milk?
Taliesin: We do have hot cocoa.
Matt: "I'll see what I can do." She walks away.
Taliesin: Hot cocoa is doable. We've done hot cocoa before.
Marisha: And security blankets.
Taliesin: It's the orange blanket wrap. Grog.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Taliesin: What do you think?
Travis: Lionel. Real strong, are you?
Jon: I'm really strong. I don't know a lot of things, but I think I know that.
Travis: Aes. Does he depend on you?
Jon: He does.
Travis: How long have you known him?
Jon: Probably about... Well, I'm not really good with years, or days or months, but probably a lot of days. Maybe a year.
Travis: How strong do you think you are?
Jon: The other day I tried to high-five a--
Travis: I reach across the table and I just punch him in the face.
Matt: All right. Roll for an attack.
Liam: I love the malice radiating this way, and the absolute lack of recognition.
Marisha: It stops here. It stops at the camera line.
Travis: 24.
Matt: So what's your armor class?
Jon: 18.
Matt: 18. Go ahead and roll, for this here, I'd say a d4. Why not? Because you guys are pretty beefy. A d4 and add your strength modifier.
Travis: Nine. Ten, sorry.
Matt: He comes across and cold-cocks you in the chin. You take ten points of damage from a single punch. You feel a looseness to one of your back teeth, and the white hits you, and your vision clears for a second, and you look over and you see the beefy, gray-skinned goliath, his fist still extended as he pulls it back, staring right at you.
Jon: Whoa, that hurt!
Travis: Yeah. This bar, there's a lot more where that came from. All you can eat, yeah.
Jon: Show me! That was awesome!
Travis: Rage.
Laura: Oh no! Oh no.
Travis: Total rage.
Liam: We're not here.
Laura: Yes, we are.
Liam: I thought you and I-- I asked...
Laura: I thought we all said we went.
Liam: They all left, we were behind. This is the problem when everybody's thoughts are in different heads.
Matt: Do you guys want to be in the same bar or not, that's my question right now.
Laura: We don't have to be. Okay, then no. We're not there, then.
Matt: Okay, so you're not there. This is happening between you guys. Grog goes into a rage.
Travis: Are we at a bar? At a table?
Matt: You guys are in a tavern. There's a few people, and as soon as that punch happened, a few people were like, "Ooh!" in the background, and as soon as you stand up and go into a rage, people begin to back out of the way. Tables are being pushed to the side.
Taliesin: I'm pulling gold out to pay for this.
Jon: I think it's awesome. I'm like, I want to fight back. But not-- it's play for me, now.
Matt: So then, I want you guys both to roll initiative.
Marisha: Grog, don't kill him! Grog, don't kill him!
Jon: What's my initiative? Oh, plus one. So what is that, a six? That's a nine. So ten?
Taliesin: Yep.
Jon: Ten.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All right, so as you get up, you're like "All right!" And this guy-- you're used to being the biggest guy in the room. He's a little bigger than you.
Sam: I, Taryon Darrington, rolled a 14.
Jon: You're not here.
Sam: I'm with you guys.
Matt: He did come with them, yeah.
Jon: I thought you said-- Oh, Taryon.
Sam: I'm Taryon Darrington. I stand up and I say, I've seen this before. He will attack brutally. Drink this. And I shove a Swift Step draught in his mouth. You can run 80 feet now every turn.
Matt: All right, so you can move pretty fast if you want to.
Marisha: Keyleth is just watching intently, and more importantly watching Grog, making sure he doesn't actually beat him to death. We'll stop this if it gets bad.
Ashley: I take a seat on a bar stool and just start drinking.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're sitting next to you.
Matt: As you're preparing, Grog, this guy who's a little larger than you are, and as soon as he stands up you're like, "Oh!" And he's quicker than you thought. Grog, what are you gonna do?
Travis: Are we at a table or the bar?
Matt: You are, yeah.
Travis: At a table or at the bar?
Matt: Oh, you were at a table within the bar.
Travis: Magnificent. I flip up the table in my hands and I smash it over his head.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Taliesin: That doesn't belong to you. That's coming out of my coffer.
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. That hits. Go ahead and roll another d4.
Jon: So I'm quick but not that quick.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12 points of bludgeoning damage to you as he smashes the table over your head. Lionel, the wood splinters and breaks around you, and you hear the crack of the broken wood, and you can feel the splinters shred across the edge of your shoulders, causing the burst of warmth and blood begin to flow to the top of your shoulders, and you're like, "Oh, this is exhilarating." All right. That's your turn? All right, Lionel, you're up.
Jon: Okay! To fight?
Taliesin: You can do anything you like.
Jon: Yeah, I definitely want to fight back because this is fun.
Taliesin: Cool. Here to help.
Matt: It's a bonus action to rage if you want.
Jon: Yeah, but I like the-- What?
Matt: It's a bonus action to rage, if you want to do that.
Jon: Yeah, I saw his rage, and I-- no, I'm going to rage, because I want to mimic. Like, hey, I can rage, too! Watch this! So do I roll that?
Matt: No, no. You're now raging, so now your muscles swell, the veins bulge out, with this big grin on his mouth. When Grog's raging, Grog's angry rage. He's happy rage.
Jon: Oh, check it out! You can see my veins go (jingling).
Matt: So what do you want to do for your turn?
Jon: I want to go and do... So I run up to him, and I go to do the really cool thing I heard in a cool story where I twist up my fist and I go (whoosh) (pow). I've always wanted to try this, and this looks like a better time than ever to try it out.
Matt: So, roll for an attack and it's plus ten. We'll say plus ten for this.
Jon: 17.
Matt: What's your AC? 17? Go ahead and roll a d4 and add your strength modifier, which I think is a plus five.
Jon: And I am looking for what?
Taliesin: And you add five for your strength, so you got--
Jon: So, eight.
Matt: So, eight points of bludgeoning damage. You take four, Grog.
Sam: Plus three damage.
Matt: Oh, plus three damage on top of that! So, eight, so 11. Sorry, you take five.
Sam: He takes half-damage. But you did great.
Matt: You're both raging. You're both taking the lesser damage of each hit.
Sam: You get two attacks, but you're raging, so you get a third attack?
Matt: No, Grog has that ability. He has a different-- he's not a frenzy barbarian.
Sam: But he does get two attacks.
Matt: He does get two attacks. So you get to attack again.
Jon: This time, I run around him because I'm super quick and like using this new speed I've never experienced. And I jump on his back from around and I try to choke him.
Taliesin: Grapple.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Taliesin: That plus ten.
Jon: 23.
Matt: You go ahead and roll an athletics or acrobatics check to resist it.
Sam: Oh, shit, his is huge.
Travis: That's not great. That's a 14.
Matt: 14. You leap up behind him and put your arm up under. His jaw's like concrete, but you still find the one soft part and jam your bulging forearm up into that space and you feel the windpipe (choke) close and clench in.
Travis: (choking sounds)
Matt: And your really, really fast feet are now dangling about two inches off the ground as you're on his back right now. That's the end of your turn. You're currently grappled, Grog, what are you going to do?
Travis: (choking sounds) I'm going to put it in reverse straight towards the wall.
Matt: Go ahead and roll. Are you just going to stay holding on as you're doing it?
Jon: Yeah. Yeah. Because this is the first piggyback he's ever had.
Matt: It's kind of fun for a second before you hit the wood. Wham! I'll say, go ahead and roll a strength saving throw to see if you can maintain the hold after the slam.
Jon: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay, I'd say that's enough for the strength of the hold. So he keeps holding on after the slam in the back. Anything else you're going to do with your turn?
Travis: My action. I take my elbow, raise it up and drive it into his ribs.
Matt: Okay, roll for an attack.
Travis: Yeah, that's a 28.
Matt: Yeah, so 1d4.
Sam: Now he has to roll damage.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: So, ten damage halved to five and you have an ability as reaction, if you remember. It's in your totem abilities that you can use as a reaction.
Jon: Oh! Off a Duck's Back!
Marisha: Off a Duck's Back?!
Jon: The duck is my animal totem, you guys. I can explain that later.
Matt: So, as you go to slam him with your elbow, you hit, but you feel like your elbow slips off his body and doesn't quite do the damage you hoped it would. So you take two points of damage.
Jon: Sweet!
Taliesin: Covered in duck butter.
Liam: It's the saxophone player from Lost Boys greased up!
Travis: For my second attack, can I throw my head back in a headbutt?
Matt: Go for it, roll for an attack.
Travis: Yeah, 23.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll 1d4 plus strength.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. So you take five points of bludgeoning damage, because you can only use that reaction once per round.
Jon: I took five points.
Matt: You have to use an action to try and break free of a grapple. So you took five, yeah. So now it's back to your turn. He slammed you into the wall, he's elbowed you twice in the stomach, you've resisted some of it, you're still holding him there.
Jon: Okay.
Matt: So if you wanted to, because of one of the feats you have, you could turn that into a pin if you wanted to.
Jon: One of the feats I have?
Matt: Yeah, it's on the bottom.
Jon: Now this is turning into a wrestling match, I like that.
Matt: Or you could just keep whaling on him.
Jon: I want to take him out. Not kill. He's just having fun.
Marisha: It's going down in the Whole Foods parking lot!
Jon: So I'm still hanging on him.
Matt: Yeah, you're holding onto him by throat, he slammed you against the wall, he's elbowed you in the stomach twice.
Jon: I'm, again, having fun, superspeed. I'm going to, while holding onto him, crawl up his back and jump over and try to land and try to do the move where I do that and throw him.
All: Yeah!
Jon: Yeah, against one of the pillars in the bar, away from the innocent people.
Matt: Make an athletics check. And you have advantage on this because you're raging, so you roll twice and take the higher of the two.
Jon: Oh, it's just the best?
Taliesin: Roll again. Yeah, roll again, best of two. Better!
Jon: 22.
Matt: Okay, 22. Grog, I'm going to say, because you're grappled, go ahead and roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Travis: You got it.
Matt: It should be one roll, because you're raging, you also get advantage on it, technically.
Travis: Just one roll? 24.
Matt: 24. You reach off, you leap over and you grab him and you go to pull and it's like pulling a pillar. Not budging. You can try again if you want to, or do something else.
Marisha: Oh, because he has a second...
Matt: He has a second attack, yeah.
Jon: I tried to jump over, so now I'm just-- Actually, I did the flip but I didn't pull him, so now I'm just hanging on the front of him. I'm still holding on, but now I'm in front of him, dangling.
Matt: He's stand-spooning you.
Travis: What is this?
Jon: Yeah, so now I--
Sam: Reverse pile-drive.
Taliesin: Go for it! Don't think, act!
Jon: Well, I want to start--
Marisha: What would Chode do?
Jon: Well, this is play for him, so I don't know, this is not an attack, I just want to tickle him. Kind of grinding on him. In a way, trying to use that to his advantage to make him uncomfortable.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Jon: That's an intimidation, okay.
Matt: Against Grog? Yeah.
Jon: 27.
Taliesin: Oh! Grog's ticklish!
Matt: Grog, make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Minus two. Four.
Jon: You guys get what I'm doing.
Matt: I'm going to say, for the purposes of this, it catches you so off-guard and it's so unexpected that you're stunned for the next round.
All: Oh!
Matt: As you do that, you see him walk up and he starts pushing you away.
Jon: Does he let go? I can let go now.
Matt: You can let go, yeah. He's like, "Uh, uh!" You get a full other turn, what are you going to do?
Jon: Can I run back, and then do a (yelling) and then I just dive in with the biggest punch I can.
Matt: Go for it. You back away, you leap--
Jon: Yeah, everything I can put into it, all force, because I still want to get a good punch in there.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and roll for an attack. If you want it, you can make it reckless.
Jon: Yeah, he's definitely reckless.
Matt: So roll twice and take the higher on each attack.
Jon: 15. What is that?
Taliesin: That's a 20.
Sam: Oh, that crits!
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d4.
Taliesin: He's also got Brutal Critical, so that adds 2d6 to that, but we'll get to that.
Matt: Technically, it would add a d4, because he's not using his sword. So, roll that twice and then add your strength.
Jon: 15.
Sam: But he's raging, so another three.
Jon: 16.
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Grog. That's eight.
Travis: Eight, got it.
Laura: How are you doing, Grog? Are you still okay? Are you bloodied yet?
Sam: He's down 22 hit points.
Matt: As your first attack, you run in. Right as soon as he looks up, you're smiling as you come at him. You watch as the beard shakes in opposition of the jaw quiver and you feel and can taste the iron welling up in the back of your tongue as you may have bitten off a small piece of the back of your tongue. As soon as you land from that punch, he looks a little stunned. You have a second attack if you want to.
Jon: I'm going to do my Wave Kick. That's just something he's always wanted to try, he doesn't know if it'll work. It's where he does a full-body-- and then his foot kicks him right in the groin.
Matt: Awesome. You've practiced this alone many times, this is your first chance to actually use it. So go ahead and make an attack for your Wave Kick.
Jon: Right in the crotch.
Liam: Lionel, with his nunchucks, in the family den.
Matt: Basically.
Jon: So just an attack?
Matt: Well, it's reckless, so you roll twice, take the higher.
Taliesin: Roll again. Better.
Jon: 17.
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d4 and add your damage.
Jon: One.
Sam: Plus five is six?
Taliesin: No, you only roll the d4 once.
Sam: So one plus five plus three.
Matt: Okay, so nine. You take four points of bludgeoning damage, Grog, and you just took a swift Wave Kick to the groin, as he kind of (whack). Little snap right to the nuts, so it's not like an immediate pain, it's the tap. The dull nausea pain, and he seems to shake a little from the impact as he kinda grins and glares at you with his angry eyes. Well done. Grog?
Ashley: (deadpan) Grog, stop, no, don't kill him.
Travis: I'm so confused. I've never had another male do that to my body. He shimmied on me. And then he punched me. And then he kicked me in the jellies. I turn around and I leave. (gasping)
Matt: He just walked away.
Sam: It's over?
Jon: That was fun, you guys. That was fun.
Taliesin: Pike, do you want to go deal with that?
Jon: I was just having fun. Is he all right?
Taliesin: He'll be fine.
Marisha: I've never seen Grog walk away from a fight. He's not fine. What are you talking about?
Taliesin: I didn't say he's fine, I said he will be fine.
Sam: I'm pretty sure this makes you a member of Vox Machina now.
Taliesin: Let's not get ahead of ourselves.
Sam: Well, that's what happened to me, they attacked me and then I was in.
Taliesin: There was chocolate milk on the way.
Matt: You see the woman in the back is carrying this mug and is like, "Right."
Sam: He'll need a straw.
Matt: "Here's your chocolate milk."
Jon: Anybody else want to fight?
Ashley: I punch him across the face. (cheering)
Matt: You get the chocolate milk to your mouth, before (impact sound) knocks it right out of your hand.
Taliesin: Were you standing on the table when this happened? I'm so excited.
Matt: And you watch, the fist comes across, and the gnome that is in an arc of movement lands on her feet. You look down and you can see the white-haired, fully armored gnome there with her big gauntlets is now there below you, kind of grinning and growling.
Marisha: That was good chocolate milk!
Taliesin: We'll have another.
Jon: I'm bummed about the chocolate. You guys have any more chocolate milk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Taliesin: Another round.
Matt: "Okay." She wanders off.
Marisha: Chocolate's expensive, here.
Jon: That was awesome.
Taliesin: She can take it.
Ashley: I'm pretty awesome. I finish my ale, flick a money on the bar, and leave. Oh shit, I don't have any money, because I gave it all away. Tary, Tary?
Taliesin: I'm covering, I'm covering.
Sam: Thank you, because I don't have much.
Matt: She goes, "And the table?"
Taliesin: Sorry. There's a pile that's been growing on the table of gold for the furniture.
Matt: "All right, thank you." Brings you another round of chocolate milk.
Jon: Is anybody going to hit me before I drink this?
Taliesin: No, I think that's done now.
Jon: I'm not, like, I'm not checking. It's fine if you do. Okay.
Marisha: Just drink it first.
Taliesin: I think it's chocolate milk time.
Jon: Mmm.
Taliesin: Maybe I drink too much. I'm not sure. This is really nice.
Jon: I just want to say, you guys, this is the most fun I've had in a long time. Aes, or you guys call him Scanlan?
Taliesin: Aes is fine, Aes is fine.
Jon: He's all I've known for the past year, you know? He took me in when, you know, things weren't going too well for me. And it's been great. He had a really cool speech about family, I've never heard him talk like that. It was kind of weird, because he's always been this really tough guy, but I don't know if you guys realize that I just found out he lied to me for a year.
Taliesin: No, we know. It's why we took you to a bar. He's lied to us, too.
Jon: Well, I know that he lied to you, and I just found out that he lied to me, but it's okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Jon: Because I realise that he was always there, and even though I worked for him, and, you know, he told me what to do, and would bark orders, he always had my back, and he was the only one who took care of me. So I think you guys should, like, be nice to him. Or--
Taliesin: That's the trouble, he does always have your back, until he doesn't.
Marisha: The idiot has a point.
Sam: Well, let's not call names.
Jon: What's an idiot?
Marisha: Oh hey, Tary.
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: You're still here.
Sam: Yes. I am.
Taliesin: I get confused because of the cup.
Marisha: I know.
Sam: Taryon Darrington, pleased to make your acquaintance. Hi. I'm going to be leaving soon. (laughter)
Jon: Can I kick you in the nuts?
Sam: Uh, please don't. I'm very dainty.
Jon: Okay.
Taliesin: Extremely dainty.
Jon: You guys seem like you all enjoy that kind of stuff, it's awesome.
Taliesin: Well, you've met the couple that do.
Marisha: You're not wrong.
Marisha: Only Scanlan can make Vox Machina speechless. It's happened a few times tonight. Did you notice that?
Taliesin: Hadn't.
Marisha: I did.
Taliesin: I'm really angry.
Marisha: What do we do?
Taliesin: I want to go see that bloody orb.
Marisha: Hey, Chode?
Jon: Mm?
Taliesin: Lionel.
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: You're so good about this normally.
Jon: It's all right. At least you guys are remembering one of my names. I had to come up with a couple-- I used to have ten, just to make it easier for people to even call me a name.
Taliesin: I have quite a few names myself.
Marisha: Chard? Where did you come from before you met Scanlan?
Jon: Well, I lived in the desert. I woke up, I don't remember much when I was a baby. I'm sure you guys all remember when you were babies, but--
Sam: Nope. Usually not.
Jon: I always thought that's how it was done.
Sam: Nope. Nobody does. So far, so good.
Taliesin: Don't break him, please.
Jon: But the only thing I knew, I was orphaned, I didn't-- I never know my parents, 'cause I woke up in a basket, in a small creek, and the only thing that was there were ducks.
Sam: Wait, wait--
Taliesin: No, no, no, don't say wait! Go on.
Marisha: Just let him tell his story.
Jon: And ever since then, ducks have been my spirit animal, and I feel like they bring me strength, and bring me-- make me smarter and they give me courage. So I grew up in the desert. It was a rough time, but--
Taliesin: Were these desert ducks?
Marisha: Yeah, how'd you know they were ducks? Normally ducks don't live in the desert.
Taliesin: These must have been very interesting ducks.
Liam: They were actually vultures. (laughter)
Laura: You're not there.
Jon: What's a vult--
Taliesin: Nothing-- said a voice that wasn't there. Carry on.
Marisha: They were ducks.
Jon: It was a small pond in the middle of the desert. Some people called it an oasis or something.
Taliesin: An oasis, yes.
Jon: Now, you know, I never saw ducks again there, so, I don't know, but I'm confident they were real.
Taliesin: Migratory, perhaps.
Marisha: The ducks blessed you. And your birth and your survival.
Jon: Yeah, I just, uh--
Marisha: He doesn't know what a vulture is! (chuckles)
Jon: I realised I was strong, and I could do really, you know, awesome things with my body, so I did-- that kind of helped me when growing up, and then finally I came to the city of--
Sam: (whispers) Ank'harel.
Jon: Ank'harel.
Marisha: That's a continent, but-- oh wait, no, the continent-- no, Marquet is the continent. Ank'harel is the city, okay.
Jon: Yeah, stupid. (laughter)
Marisha: That's fair. I've earned that.
Jon: Ever since I got to the city, I started using it, but people would abuse me, and my body for its, like, abilities. So until one day, I met Aes. He was kind, and he brought me into his family.
Marisha: Family.
Jon: A lot of talk of family, today.
Marisha: He talked a lot of family to you?
Sam: And ducks.
Marisha: And ducks. Did he talk much more about his family to you?
Jon: No, I didn't-- I didn't know he had a daughter. I mean, there was this really, like, killer babe in our group, I didn't-- where is he? Where's Aes, you guys?
Taliesin: Aes ain't here right now.
Jon: Well, don't tell him, but... I always had a thing for her, but now that I know it's his daughter, yeesh.
Taliesin: You're not the first.
Jon: Yeah, that's good to know. So. But no, I didn't know much about, you know, he didn't tell me much, I didn't ask a lot of questions. Nobody's ever asked me questions. You guys are great.
Taliesin: Boy, that's not true. But that's good. You're a fascinating creature, sir. Good man.
Marisha: We like you. We like you, Chode. Lionel. We like you, Lionel. Hey, Lion. C'mere, c'mere.
Sam: No.
Marisha: Parchment-boulder-shears. Parchment-boulder-shears! I'm going to teach you.
Sam: It's like rock-paper-scissors.
Marisha: Okay, ready, ready, ready? Boulder, parchment, or shears. Okay. Ready? On three.
Jon: One, two, three.
Marisha: One, two, three.
Jon: I punch her. (laughter)
Taliesin: Never mind, not disappointed.
Matt: As this transpires, we come over to you two, having a drink. So you guys find a separate pub.
Laura: I figured we just sat under the Sun Tree.
Liam: Yeah, I've got a flask.
Matt: Okay, so you guys sit under the Sun Tree. It's midafternoon.
Liam: This is complicated. Real complicated.
Laura: Yeah. I was so happy to see him.
Liam: Me, too. Grog and Pike were not happy to see him.
Laura: No. We've got to find a way to get them talking again.
Liam: Yeah. Yeah. I think they will, but you're right, it will take some massaging. You know, I wasn't lying, I knew we would see him again.
Laura: I know. Couldn't let him know that, though.
Liam: This has been nice. It's always nice.
Laura: Mm-hm?
Liam: I'm real happy in my setup these days, but--
Laura: With Keyleth?
Liam: That was the implication, yeah. But I miss you busting my balls on the regular.
Laura: I know, right? Yeah. I miss it, too.
Liam: I think-- we were about to head back, but we've got to get this sorted out first.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: What do you reckon's next? We're going to Marquet, then?
Laura: Yeah, probably Ank'harel.
Liam: You all right?
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine.
Liam: You don't seem fine.
Laura: No, I'm great. You know, it's interesting, Scanlan being back. Makes me realize that, you know, he's not the only one who keeps secrets.
Liam: Mm-hm.
Laura: And you can't blame someone for keeping things to themselves, so I'm not mad at him anymore for the things that he keeps to himself, because everybody's got their something, you know?
Liam: Are you getting at something?
Laura: No, I'm just saying, I understand where he's coming from, and I am all right with it now. I'm fine with it. With the secrets.
Liam: I feel like I'm missing something.
Laura: No, nothing at all.
Liam: Well, I'm not mad at him. I hope Pike and Grog can come around.
Laura: I think they will. He's quite charming. I think everyone will come around.
Liam: I hope so. I feel like, you know.
Laura: The Sun Tree? Pelor? Raven Queen?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Hey! (laughter)
Liam: I wonder if it's time.
Laura: Time for what?
Liam: Nothing, I'm drunk, never mind. Did you see this ring I picked up?
Laura: (laughs) Oh, did you buy that off a little caravan?
Liam: Yeah, while you guys were fucking about with him.
Laura: That's great!
Liam: It's very handsome.
Laura: It's really nice. It's really nice.
Liam: Yeah. Well. I love you.
Laura: I love you. Glad we're all here. I'm glad we're all here!
Liam: All of us. All of us. Do you want to go find the rest?
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: Let's go find the rest.
Matt: Okay, all right.
Marisha: Right as Vax walks in-- Fuck!
Matt: You guys begin walking back to the pub. You've been hearing the commotion in the distance. You assume that's it. You watch as Grog walks by in a huff.
Laura: Grog?
Liam: Big man?
Travis: What?
Laura: Are you all right?
Travis: Cat. C-A-T. And I leave.
Laura: You're so smart! Do we see Pike come out after him?
Matt: You're still in the tavern?
Ashley: I left after him.
Matt: You did. So then you watch Pike come out in a huff a little after him.
Laura: Pike?
Ashley: Hey!
Laura: What happened in there?
Ashley: Oh, nothing. Just hanging out. Just having a drink. I'm going to go take a nap, I'm very tired.
Laura: Pike.
Liam: Insight check.
Laura: Well, we don't really need to roll an insight check to see this one's not doing so well.
Liam: It was really low.
Ashley: I'm great! I'm all right. Just going to sleep it off, I think.
Liam: Yeah, too much to drink, probably.
Ashley: Yeah, I'm feeling very drunk, so I'm going to go to bed.
Liam: Pickled Pickle.
Ashley: I'm a pickled Pickle, yeah. But I'll see you guys tomorrow.
Laura: Everything will be better in the morning.
Ashley: Sleep is the best medicine.
Sam: You are a cleric.
Matt: Pike wanders off. You guys make your way to the tavern where the commotion's there. You walk in just as you see Keyleth and Lionel in the process and about to play an intense game of Boulder-Parchment-Shears before Lionel just decks Keyleth across the face.
Marisha: Hey, guys! We're playing Boulder-Parchment-Shears! And then I Alter Self my fist into a rock elemental fist, a Keyteor fist, and I go, see, look! Boulder! And I backhand Lionel.
Matt: First off, you roll damage for her now. That's going to be a d4 plus your...
Taliesin: d4, you already hit. Just the d4.
Matt: I'll say you hit because she wasn't expecting it.
Sam: Is he still raging?
Matt: He's still raging at this point. Why not?
Jon: I'm still raging. How long does that last?
Matt: Actually, no, you'd have to be raging again because you did do your whole duck speech.
Jon: Six.
Matt: So you could rage and then attack.
Jon: So I could rage-- yeah, okay, so, that was just-- yeah, that was all right.
Matt: So you take six damage. Now, Keyleth, go ahead and make an attack roll. With your earth elemental, I believe it's a plus what, to hit?
Marisha: Just with my fist? Sure, you want me to use Earth elemental? I mean, yeah, yeah, totes.
Matt: Just the attack bonus.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? What's your armor class? You just hit. Add your strength modifier to one. So what's your strength modifier?
Marisha: Just to one? Plus five. So, six, six damage.
Matt: So, six damage, you take, whack! To the chin. Her fist is a rock.
Jon: And do I take half that or no?
Matt: If you started raging before that, then yes, you would.
Taliesin: But you weren't raging yet.
Jon: Okay.
Matt: But you can use your reaction to-- Off a Duck's Back.
Jon: No, no, I don't want to.
Matt: So you take the five damage right to the jaw. Whack! So now you got both sides of the jaw ringing a little bit in pain.
Marisha: This is the best game of Boulder-Parchment-Shears!
Jon: Who else wants to-- Is it just a two-player game?
Taliesin: I am walking away with my chocolate milk and walking over to you guys. They're bonding.
Jon: And as he's going, I sneak a bullet from him.
Taliesin: You can try. You can certainly try.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that. Roll your sleight of hand. And Percival, I want you to go ahead and roll a perception check.
Taliesin: Perception is 19.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll.
Jon: So I have to get what?
Taliesin: You're rolling with sleight of hand, so add sleight of hand to whatever you roll.
Jon: 13 plus 11. 24.
Sam: He beat it.
Matt: You pocket a little shot.
Laura: Oh, shit, he beat my passive perception, too!
Matt: Yeah. Nobody sees it. Nobody sees it.
Taliesin: Well done.
Marisha: Hey, guys, does anyone have any shears?
Taliesin: Yes, and no.
Marisha: Shears?
Taliesin: I have them. You can't have them.
Matt: So Percival walks past and approaches them.
Taliesin: They're bonding. He's a bit adorable.
Laura: Seems nice.
Liam: He's likable.
Taliesin: I am angry, frustrated, and violent, and so I'm going to try something new and drink chocolate milk, and listen to you and do whatever it is you think is best at this point. I don't know what to do. What do we do? What do I do?
Laura: I don't know what to do either, dear. I think it's a matter of... Forgive.
Taliesin: Well, I'm not there yet, but I know I'm feeling emotional, and I know that's when I need to shut up and listen to you.
Laura: Well, it's going to take time, I think. I'm surprisingly okay with it. I'm just happy he's back.
Taliesin: I'm less not-okay than I thought I'd be. I'm worried about Grog.
Laura: I'm very worried about him and Pike.
Taliesin: I'm very worried about Pike. I don't know what to do.
Liam: Are they fist-fighting in the background?
Marisha: I go, hey guys, hey guys! Shears! And I grab onto his plate armor and I cast Heat Metal. (sizzle)
Matt: Your armor suddenly begins to turn bright orange and burn your skin. (sizzle)
Jon: Oh! Okay, okay, that hurts, that hurts.
Matt: How much damage does that do, Marisha?
Marisha: 2d8 damage.
Taliesin: Oh, that's going to hurt. And you get to re-roll that one, don't you?
Marisha: Oh, I do. Elemental damage. Ooh, yeah. Ten damage.
Liam: Fuck him up, babe!
Matt: (sizzle) It sears into you, and you're like, "Ooh, it burns! That's new! That's new! That's new pain!"
Jon: I try to do a little bit of the Off a Duck's Back.
Matt: Yeah, so you go ahead and you take five damage. You shrink into your armor. You try and minimize your torso.
Liam: He's turtling.
Taliesin: All right, one second. I'm going to gently walk up behind them while this is happening and I'm going to Vulcan neck pinch him with the Diplomacy.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Taliesin: That's... Where is that? There it is.
Jon: This is going to take a saving throw?
Taliesin: 21 to hit.
Jon: I have danger sense, so does that...?
Matt: Yeah, so what's the save on that?
Jon: It just says I have advantage.
Matt: On dexterity saving throws.
Jon: On dexterity saving throws. Is that a dexterity?
Matt: What's it say on Diplomacy?
Taliesin: It's a... I have to pull out the thing, I didn't pull this together as much as I thought I should've. It's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Which is a d20. I'm going to roll the damage really quickly. Oh wow, this is a lot of damage. I apologize. 17 points of lightning damage.
Matt: So you take 17 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw now.
Jon: 20.
Taliesin: He saves. That's a natural 20. Oh well, that didn't work.
Matt: You feel this burst of electrical energy.
Taliesin: That was supposed to knock you out, and now it didn't.
Jon: Yeah, and it's just like, ha, that tickled. I'm going to go to bed, you guys. That was fun. Anybody else want to? No? Okay, I'm going.
Matt: And Lionel just leaves.
Taliesin: This thing never works properly. I really have to work on that.
Jon: That was a weak hit, by the way, if you were trying to hit me. See you. Oh, wait, hold on. Are you going to drink this chocolate milk?
Taliesin: You can take it. You've earned it.
Jon: I'll take it.
Sam: Just leaves the bar with the glass.
Taliesin: Another gold coin goes on the table.
Liam: I mean, would you stop it?
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So the four of you now sit there in the bar.
Laura: Five of us, Tary is there.
Matt: Tary is there, that's right.
Sam: He really would be good for the brigade.
Taliesin: I kind of like him.
Sam: Yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: He's the sort of positive energy I think your family's going to need around.
Sam: Absolutely. I like him a lot.
Laura: Are you sure you can't stay?
Sam: I'm staying for a little while. I have to find Doty.
Taliesin: I understand.
Sam: I have to find Doty and get some stuff, and then I've got to be on my way.
Taliesin: By the way, what you said back there, with your family, about me.
Sam: Yes?
Taliesin: That was very flattering.
Sam: Well, I know you're taken, and, you know.
Taliesin: Doesn't mean I can't be flattered. I'm quite flattered. That was very flattering.
Sam: I meant it.
Taliesin: And, you know, if things were different, I would feel the same way. If things were very different.
Sam: I get it. I get it. You're sort of making it worse.
Taliesin: You're quite a catch. You're quite a catch.
Laura: Can you stop flirting with each other?
Taliesin: I thought it might be fun. All right. I'm going to gather up our things and prop up the table again and leave-- How much gold would be appropriate for the damage and then some?
Matt: The table isn't that expensive, to be honest. Between the drinks you guys had, a solid seven or eight gold will handle it.
Taliesin: I'm going to leave ten gold and be like, I'm so sorry, but try never not to make it worth your while and not be too horrible.
Matt: "It's nice to know that the de Rolos are as lively as the rest of the people who live here."
Taliesin: Thank you for running this establishment. Have a good day.
Matt: "You, too, my lord. My lady."
Taliesin: Let's go find the kids and see if we can make them feel better.
Laura: I think they were going to bed, but we can try.
Marisha: Keyleth throws her arm around Vax and catches him up the whole way we walk. I really think you would really like Chode. He's super nice, and he likes drinking chocolate milk...
Liam: I do, I like him already. He's instantly likable.
Marisha: We got to talk a lot. We talked about his background...
Liam: I was trying to...
Marisha: Yeah, gosh. Where were you?
Liam: I was trying to pitch him to Tary, but I really like him. I want him to stay.
Sam: No, this is all good. I love how you've all fallen in love with Chod over here. It took you guys a full two weeks to even stomach me for a day, but that's all right. It's fine.
Taliesin: We not asking him to join, while we were thinking about having you join.
Sam: No, he's great, though. We're instant love with him.
Taliesin: He's not Vox Machina material, though.
Jon: Are you Taryon right now?
Liam: Hey, you know, I feel like we were about to make our exit, but it's a little more complicated now, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Might need to stay on a day or two.
Taliesin: Are we doing this thing?
Laura: Oh, we're definitely doing this. We're going to Ank'harel.
Liam: I think we got to.
Marisha: The ziggurat's kind of a big deal, right? I feel like that's warranted for extra Ashari leave time, for diplomatic duty. Right?
Taliesin: You said duty.
Marisha: I did say duty.
Taliesin: I know. I knew you would know. Never change.
Marisha: I'll let Dad know he's going to have to watch the tribe for a few more weeks.
Taliesin: I'll let Cass know.
Marisha: But one of these days I will have to be getting back. Very soon.
Taliesin: Let's talk to Pike. Let's talk to Grog. Let's see how they feel.
Laura: Pike? Grog? Did you put your earrings back on?
Matt: You hear nothing.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: I think they're really depressed, dear.
Taliesin: I think they're angry and sad.
Sam: What? Percy?
Marisha: Oh, this is like a one-channel frequency. We can all hear you.
Taliesin: Oh, is this a party line?
Marisha: Yeah, definitely. Yeah.
Laura: I'm just letting you know their earrings are off. They can't hear us.
Taliesin: Or they're not talking.
Sam: What should I do?
Laura: Say you're sorry.
Sam: But they can't hear me.
Laura: Well, go fucking find them.
Marisha: Something like this is better done in person, as opposed to over a communication device.
Sam: I shouldn't text my apology?
Marisha: Nope, you should not.
Taliesin: Boy, there's a life lesson. D&D continued.
Liam: Don't use the Message spell to drop heavy shit!
Taliesin: Eye contact, motherfuckers. Eye contact.
Jon: Right then I walk into wherever he is, right?
Matt: Right, you go back to the tavern.
Jon: And I walk in. Hey. Boss. I got you the bullets.
Sam: You did?
Jon: Yeah.
Sam: You are my best man!
Taliesin: I did give him a bag of musket shot. It's okay. Carry on.
Jon: So, anyways. I'm going to go to bed now.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Jon: It's nighttime, right?
Sam: Yeah, no, it is. But did I buy him a room, or is he just sort of...?
Jon: No, you don't have to buy me a room.
Matt: You bought out the inn.
Jon: I'll just go sleep in the corner either way.
Sam: Okay. Yeah. If anyone tries to kill me, kill them.
Jon: Oh, yeah, I got it. I have danger sense.
Sam: Oh, you do?
Jon: And the ducks will tell me if there's anything wrong.
Sam: The ducks. Yes, I know this about you.
Jon: I actually have Commune with Ducks.
Taliesin: He does actually have Commune with Ducks. It is on the page. Staring at it right now.
Jon: You know what, I'm going to use it right now.
Sam: Do we have ducks near us?
Taliesin: There are ducks in Whitestone!
Matt: In Whitestone, there's a lot more ducks in this area than there are in Marquet.
Taliesin: There are ducks. We have ponds in the local park. There's a small pond in the cemetery.
Jon: I forget I can do that wherever I go, and I never get the chance.
Sam: What are you going to ask them?
Jon: They can tell me up to three facts about the land.
Taliesin: Yes, what do the ducks of Whitestone say?
Marisha: What do the ducks say?
Taliesin: (quacking)
Matt: As you take a moment and you kneel, and you close your eyes, you envision the connection you had as a child to the ducks along the pond of the oasis, and as you open your eyes again, you see there, waddling in through the doorway of the inn, as the sun in the afternoon is going down to dusk, this one duck (quacking).
Jon: Hey, Brownie! What do you have to say about this place?
Matt: What do you want to ask it?
Jon: Oh, I have to ask.
Sam: All I hear is quacking, right? He's just quacking at the duck?
Matt: You're just hearing quacking back and forth.
Jon: Do we get bad weather here? Do you get bad storms here?
Matt: You hear through the duck's quacks, "It rains quite often, actually. It's pretty cloudy. Great."
Jon: Okay, so don't leave the hut without an umbrella, okay?
Sam: Okay, thank you.
Jon: And then, do we have to worry about-- Are there any pyramids? Have you seen any pyramids around the place?
Matt: The duck's head turns the other way, and it says to you through quacks, "Actually, there's one below the city."
Taliesin: How do the ducks know that?
Laura: They wander everywhere.
Taliesin: How did they get down there?
Matt: The essence of nature.
Marisha: The same reason why pigeons are in Costco, okay?
Jon: He said there's another pyramid under the city.
Sam: The duck knew that?
Jon: Yeah!
Sam: That is crazy.
Jon: Should we go?
Sam: No, no, no.
Jon: Okay... Is there anything you need to know, master?
Sam: Yes.
Jon: About this area. It's pretty limited.
Sam: Have Vox Machina been happy?
Jon: Ducks, do you know if that group over there, have they been happy? Have they been happy?
Matt: "They didn't look happy when they left the tavern."
Jon: I think we all knew that you kind of wasted that last one. It's okay, we did it. See you, Brownie! That was awesome!
Matt: (flapping wings)
Jon: Can we go to another city sometime soon so I can do that again?
Sam: Yes, we will definitely do that. Absolutely. Yeah. You need to use that skill more often. You know what the problem is, we don't have as many ducks in Ank'harel.
Jon: I know. And most of the time I just find out if it's going to rain or not. It's not that useful.
Sam: You've been great this whole trip.
Jon: Thank you.
Sam: I'll tell you what. I'm going to buy some ducks, and just keep them back in Ank'harel for you. They can be your little birds.
Jon: I go to hug him, but then I forget that he's... Is he still enchanted?
Sam: No, I'm a little guy.
Jon: I squeeze him hard. A little too hard, probably.
Sam: Ow, ow.
Jon: All right, I'm going to go sleep in the corner.
Sam: Please do.
Matt: Sleeps in the corner. All right. Scanlan, are you doing anything?
Sam: I mean, I was told to come apologize and find them.
Travis: I was told...
Sam: I'll go seek my friends out there in the world.
Matt: All right. Where do you go?
Sam: Where am I going? Hello? It's me, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Laura: Where do you want to go?
Sam: I don't know, where is everybody?
Laura: Well. Pike and Grog went back to their rooms.
Sam: I don't want to disturb them. They're by themselves, alone. Should I go knock on their doors?
Laura: It's up to you.
Sam: Okay. I'll go find-- Do I know where they're staying?
Matt: You do. You've been to Whitestone Castle, you know where the rooms are in the castle, it's just been a while.
Sam: I'll go knock on Grog's door.
Jon: Do you need me for anything?
Sam: No, you sleep it off.
Jon: Are you sure?
Sam: Yeah, you've had too much chocolate milk.
Jon: Yeah, I am feeling a little bloated down there.
Matt: You make your way to the castle. You're let in, because the guards still recognize you as a member of Vox Machina. Which room do you go to first?
Sam: Grog.
Matt: Grog. Are you in your room?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Matt: (knocking)
Travis: Pike?
Sam: It's me! Scan-man! Can I come in? I Dimension Door into the room.
Matt: Scanlan (poof) appears in the center of your chambers.
Sam: You okay? You didn't come to the door. Big fella.
Travis: I leave.
Sam: I let him go. I take a shit on his bed -- no, I'm kidding.
Matt: Grog leaves the chamber and exits.
Sam: I'll walk over to Pike's room, then.
Matt: Okay. Pike, are you in your room?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: (knocking)
Sam: Hello? It's me, Scan-man.
Ashley: What do you want?
Sam: Just to talk and say hello.
Ashley: Oh, but we already said hello.
Sam: Just to apologize again.
Ashley: I'll open the door. Yes?
Sam: Hey, listen. I know that we haven't seen each other in a while, and we left on weird terms. And everything that's happened between us. But I want you to know that I held no ill will towards you, and I thank you for agreeing to my request, a while ago, to look after Kaylie if I should fall. And I'm glad it didn't come to that, but it's an honor to know that you would have even considered it.
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah. I slap him across the face.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: (echoing slap)
Ashley: Do you know... Do you remember what you said, before you left? I mean, obviously you said lots of things. But there was one thing in particular that's always bothered me.
Sam: What?
Ashley: You said that you were kept alive by some weird fucking magic. And that's what I do. And I brought you back so you could be with your daughter. So fuck you.
Sam: Well, that was a cheap shot.
Ashley: Sure. And you know what, I apologize for putting you in my clothes, but the Scanlan that we know would've thought that was funny. I'm sorry I didn't know your mother, but I imagine you don't know my mother's name.
Sam: I don't. Pike, I don't have anything to say in my defense. I was wrong, about the whole thing. I was not a good friend, and I was not a good teammate. And I'll have to live with that. But I can tell you this. I like who I am now, and I didn't then. So maybe, someday, we'll meet, and you'll get to know the new guy, but if it's not meant to happen right now, that's okay, and I understand. And I will go back to what I was doing before.
Ashley: So you like who you are better without us?
Sam: No. No, that's not what I meant. I meant, I like who I am now that I know my daughter, and I know that no matter what, I have someone out there who's rooting for me. And no matter what happens, I've got that. And I... Yeah. That's it. I don't like what I've been doing the last year in terms of, you know. I've been breaking the law a bit, which I know you don't love.
Ashley: I don't care what you do.
Sam: But I'm doing things that I want to do for me and my girl, and it's been rewarding and it's been fun, and that's all that matters at this point. I'm comfortable with the bastard that I've been, because I know that the man I am now is different. So I can't make everybody happy anymore, and I think that was my problem before. I was trying to make everyone happy, and that's not my goal anymore. I'm sorry if I hurt you. I'm sorry how I treated you when we first met, how I ogled you and flirted with you relentlessly. That was disrespectful. But what I'm most sorry for is that you met me then, and not now. And that's all I can say.
Ashley: Well. Perhaps we'll meet again in different circumstances.
Sam: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Good night.
Ashley: Good night.
Sam: I'll leave.
Matt: Okay. You make your way back.
Sam: And I'll just phone Vex real quick and say, hey, didn't work. I'm going to go back to Ank'harel now.
Laura: No, no, no, Scanlan.
Sam: Yeah, it's not working, it's not great, so, nope.
Laura: Scanlan, it takes time. Things take time.
Sam: I'm sure it does.
Laura: Scanlan, where are you?
Sam: I'm outside Pike's room, weirdly.
Laura: Shit. Stay there.
Sam: I mean, I think she can hear me talking through the door.
Laura: She can't, I don't think she's wearing the earring. Unless she put it back in.
Sam: No, no, no, I'm really outside her door, talking. I'm sure she can hear me through the door.
Laura: Oh, seriously? Right there?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah. Pike, can you hear me?
Ashley: Yes, I can hear you.
Sam: Yeah, she can totally hear everything.
Taliesin: This is an open channel. We can all hear.
Marisha: Hi, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, hi! Hi, Keyleth.
Liam: Maybe you should just sleep on it before leaving town, buddy.
Laura: Well, no, we're coming with you. You're not just leaving us again.
Marisha: Again!
Laura: You just got here.
Liam: And some of us are happy to see you.
Taliesin: We're going to go see the pyramid.
Marisha: Yeah, you can go to Ank'harel, but we'll be right behind you, I guess. We know who you are now, Aes... Agus...
Taliesin: Tary, are you in for one more adventure before heading home?
Sam: That would be a sweet close to it. I met you in Ank'harel, didn't I?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: I'm down.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Marisha: To Ank'harel in the morning, then. Because I'm trying to sleep, you motherfuckers.
Taliesin: Take your earring off, put it on silent if you ever want to fall asleep.
Marisha: The clasp is rusted from when we were in the water plane, I can't take it off.
Taliesin: We take ours off, I'm taking mine off now. Good night.
Laura: Okay, okay, shut up everyone.
Marisha: It's stuck there.
Matt: All right. You all eventually find yourselves to rest for the evening. Scanlan, you make your way back?
Sam: I'm going to leave the little rock thing that Grog gave me right outside his door, and I'll get Lionel up at first light, and I guess we'll set off for Ank'harel.
Laura: No!
Marisha: We'll see him there.
Matt: Okay. That's a two-week journey for you.
Sam: I got no other way to get there.
Marisha: You could come with us.
Sam: It was not offered.
Laura: Yes, you were, we didn't tell you to go! Scanlan, we said don't go!
Sam: Didn't you just say I will see you there?
Laura: No! Fucking Keyleth said that!
Marisha: I said if you run away we'll still find you.
Ashley: We'll still be right behind you.
Laura: We're not telling you to fucking go.
Sam: Wait, so you want to travel with me?
Laura: Yes!
Sam: Oh, okay, well, then I'll stick around.
Liam: All over the earring.
Taliesin: You know, I miss this drama. This is the drama I missed. This is great.
Matt: So we'll say at the next morning light, as you all come to consciousness, you find there, spry and waiting in the center of town, one Scanlan Shorthalt and one Lionel Gayheart, ready to join you on a trip back to Ank'harel. And that's where we'll pick up next week.
Travis: Did you want to say something?
Ashley: No.
Matt: Is there something you wanted to do? Something you wanted to button it on? Let's do it now. As you guys are gathering in the center of the city, on your way to the Sun Tree, they stand there in the light. You guys have your equipment on you, you're prepared for whatever may come on the other side of the world in the deserts of Marquet, wherever this mountain may be.
Ashley: Oh, you're still here.
Sam: Yeah. You need me to find this thing, so I'll lead you to it.
Ashley: I throw him a bag of cookies. So we opened a bakery while you were gone. We have these. They're called shorties. They're after you. So hopefully you like them.
Taliesin: Much like you, they're a bit disappointing.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: I'll try-- Well, does it have any...
Jon: Cookies! (nom)
Matt: And that's where we'll end the episode this week.
Taliesin: Well fucking done, man! Well fucking done!
Laura: Holy crap!
Matt: Thank you so much for playing with us this week! That was so much fun!
Marisha: Yay Chode!
Sam: Chod?
Jon: She still can't get it right.
Matt: By the way, I forgot earlier to mention that PseudoSomething won the thing in the Twitch chat. Congratulations to you. Denoba will contact you if they haven't already to get your information.
Laura: What was under the blanket the whole time?
Matt: We'll have to wait 'til next week.
Taliesin: Next week is what's under the blanket. That or cake.
Matt: Possibly.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Taliesin: Actually, I was about to say, because he's not seen a proper battlemap, so maybe...
Matt: I'll show him once you guys leave, but yeah. Dude, thank you so much for coming and playing with us. Seriously.
Laura: That was so much fun.
Taliesin: That was amazing!
Marisha: Lionel!
Taliesin: Prepare for so much duck art. There's just going to be... It's going to be like a 50's study. It's going to be so much.
Sam: Ducks everywhere.
Matt: I love it.
Taliesin: Mallard art.
Laura: Oh my God, next week's our 100th episode! How fucking weird is it that we got the T-shirts released...
Matt: Oh, dude. The minute that you showed that the T-shirts had shown up to everyone in the store tonight, me and Sam were like...
Marisha: Like, if people didn't think we had a writer's room before, they definitely are now! This feels like a marketing campaign!
Taliesin: I didn't know about the shirts until we showed up. That's just been in process.
Laura: Yeah, we've just been working on this shirt for a while. And it came out this week.
Travis: We didn't plan that in any way.
Ashley: Serendipitous.
Matt: It's kind of amazing. But anyway, guys, we're going to go because some of us have flights in the morning to go the Stream of Annihilation tomorrow and Saturday at D&D. Big round of applause for Jon Heder. (cheering)
Matt: That's for you, that's for you. Have a wonderful night, guys. Rest well. And is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Close. Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons, rolling dice and shit. So welcome! Always awkward. Anyway, before we get into the game, we're going to do some quick announcements for the evening. First off, we had our recent 100th episode, and I think we have some merch in there. Laura, any updates?
Laura: Oh my gosh, all that crazy merch that we have! We have those posters, you guys, those amazing David Mack posters that look so pretty. The signed versions are going to be in the store for one more week, and the non-signed version is going to be in the store for two more weeks! And that's it, and then they're gone forever. So tell your friends, tell your buddies, tell everyone you know.
Travis: Hide your neighbors, hide your wife.
Laura: That's right. And we also have our Scanlan concert tees and our Slayer's Cake aprons. Our hats are out of stock, but everything else should be in there if you guys want to go check it out.
Matt: Fantastic.
Laura: In the shop at Geekandsundry.com.
Liam: Sold.
Marisha: Word.
Matt: Thank you, Laura.
Laura: Hey, you're welcome.
Matt: That's so sweet. All right, that is that. Let's see, here else. Just a reminder, the Tal'Dorei campaign guide pre-orders go on sale mid-July. You can go to the Green Ronin website for info on that, and it will be released physically bound at Gen Con first, and then it will be coming out weeks after that on the interwebs. Check out Green Ronin's site for all that information! And we're excited about Gen Con insanity, so see you guys there. Let's see. Wednesday Club? Mr. Taliesin Jaffe?
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got something special planned, but I don't know if it's official yet, but I think that we are going to be celebrating Pride Month, and we may have a special guest. I can't say for sure, but we're going to be talking.
Sam: It's Stan Lee.
Taliesin: It's Stan Lee. He's coming out on our show.
Liam: You heard it here first.
Taliesin: He and his pansexual adventures throughout comicdom. Excelsior. It's going to be fun. It'll be a thing.
Matt: Go watch it, true believers!
Taliesin: Possible special guest.
Matt: I love it. Check it out, special guest for Wednesday Club next week. Awesome. Thank you, Taliesin.
Liam: Why limit myself to just one?
Sam: That's Gilbert Gottfried?
Matt: All right. Also, we have Talks Machina Tuesdays at seven PM Pacific time here, on Twitch and Alpha, to discuss what you'll watch tonight on this episode.
Travis: Getting turnt.
Matt: Yes, that. Thank you, Sam. That's okay. Well done.
Taliesin: It's really pleasing in the hand, isn't it?
Marisha: That's what she said.
Matt: And I think that's it. Quick announcements this evening. Nice and quick. I like it. That means we get to dive back into the story here, guys!
Taliesin: Should we mention that we had to reprint some character sheets, or are we not mentioning that? I've now said it online.
Matt: Yeah! A few characters levelled. We have a few folks at 18 now, so that's fun.
Taliesin: Old enough to get in trouble for drinking.
Laura: Do you want to make a special announcement?
Ashley: So, special announcement about my hair. No. There's a time jump in Blindspot, so I'm here.
Sam: Spoiler!
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Do they just assume your character doesn't go to the salon and cut your hair? Is that not a thing?
Laura: But they're so pretty!
Ashley: I love them. So much hair!
Liam: Did your character in the time jump go to the Feywild, or go sailing on the sea?
Matt: I'm pretty sure she makes her own bakery cake store. It's going to be great. It's called the Slayer's Bake. Anyway, guys, I think that's it, and that being the case, let's go ahead and hop into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back. So last we left off--
Laura: Wait, do I put that on my saving throws, too?
Travis: Are you serious?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: We need to share it with the world. Laura just leveled up, and her attack bonus went down.
Laura: Because I was doing it wrong this whole time. Yep.
Matt: Oh boy. Anyway. Last we left off, Vox Machina had discovered the existence of a second ziggurat-like structure on the continent of Marquet, and apparently a cult of the Whispered One there gathering magical artifacts to toss into a second darkened black orb, similar to the one beneath Whitestone, all this time. You ran into Scanlan once more, and leading you guys to where this cavern was found in the mountains of Smouldercrown on the continent of Marquet, you did battle with the cultists there, and seemed to reveal one of the leaders in that group was none other than the not-dead Delilah Briarwood. She fended you off, completed their ritual, and some of their surviving cultists fled into the orb apparently to the other side. You then gathered yourselves, gathered some supplies, your information, and then proceeded to travel through the orb in Whitestone into the Shadowfell, the shadow plane, dark mirror to the Prime Material, where you stumbled upon a partially ruined city that had undergone some sort of ancient siege, and much of it still lies in ruins and disrepair, where you discovered what seemed to be two other siphon orbs existing around the outskirts of this forgotten city, leaving threads of magical energy being siphoned and transferred to a singular black obsidian tower, for whatever purpose the Whispered One, the Undying King, has for this energy. You began to make your way deeper into the city, masquerading as some undead. In the process you killed a few cultists wandering the street, and intimidated one-- Or, I should say, you didn't intimidate. You killed him, and then asked his corpse. I guess that's a form of intimidation. Probably one of the most extreme forms of intimidation, really. Discovering that this city is under the title Thar Amphala. Thar Amphala, you don't know too much about it, other than it seems to be where an ancient battle took place. Much of the undead that wanders this realm carries armaments, weapons, and symbols that seem to be of Pelor, the Dawn Father. You also discovered that there's this tower in the center titled Entropis, where all the magic is being funneled at the moment. Thus, having found this information, gathered your resolve, you continue your trek deeper and deeper into the city surrounding the tower Entropis, to discover what your purpose is here in Thar Amphala. So, Vox Machina, what do you do?
Liam: Figuring it all out.
Sam: Taking five.
Laura: Time out, time out, time out.
Ashley: Just hanging out.
Sam: So we found out that there's a ritual happening soon.
Laura: Yeah, like super stat.
Sam: And there's no day or night here, so who cares, right?
Laura: Right? It's all just night, all the time.
Matt: It's kind of a sunless gray sky. There's some low light, like a very heavy-- Like a very dark, thunderous Seattle.
Ashley: (singing) Hello Seattle! It's a song.
Travis: What song?
Ashley: I think it is.
Matt: It is now. So.
Sam: We have to make our way to the big tower, right? Super fast, and invisibly. Oh, we're also vampire creatures!
Laura: Oh, we look like the gloom stalkers! No, those are the flying ones.
Sam: We look like miscellaneous vampirey things, right?
Liam: Yeah, shambling zombies.
Laura: Scary ghouly creatures.
Taliesin: Extras from a bad zombie video.
Travis: Is Pass Without a Trace still kicking?
Sam: What?
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: I would say probably because you haven't cast a spell yet that would've interrupted it, it would be...
Laura: I cast it when we landed here.
Matt: But I don't think you've done anything that altered that concentration yet.
Laura: I don't think so. So it's still going?
Matt: I think so. For maybe another 30 minutes or so.
Laura: Yeah, I didn't Hunter's Mark either of the guys that I attacked.
Travis: And we've got the smoking thing, right? What's it called, the censer?
Laura: Yeah, that thing.
Travis: What is it?
Laura: The smoky thing.
Sam: The censer.
Travis: Is it called a censer?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: First try!
Liam: And we learned that it does something, too.
Sam: It protects you from ghouley deads.
Liam: From ghouley deads, specifically.
Ashley: Will it protect all of us?
Taliesin: I think it's got a range.
Laura: If we stay in this... tight.
Ashley: If we stay tight?
Taliesin: Stay tight.
Sam: So why don't we just walk through the center of town, in the middle of the road, with the censer, and walk into the tower? No? Maybe?
Laura: No. I see nothing wrong with this plan.
Sam: Fly up to the top of the tower?
Travis: Oh, no.
Taliesin: Stay on the ground.
Sam: Teleport somewhere?
Laura: Do you have that ability?
Sam: She does.
Laura: There's no trees on the top of the tower.
Sam: Or we can be smoky mist.
Laura: Then it'll take us a minute to not be mist anymore, and by then they'll realize we're there on the top of the tower.
Travis: Should we take off the robes that they had and pop it on some of us?
Laura: Sure, why not? I mean, we're undead. We look like we're undead.
Taliesin: I think they probably know we're here. I think they probably know we're coming. I think let's just trepidatiously make our way a little closer, see what else is in this town, see if maybe there's anything useful.
Liam: And stay low-key. We don't need to go marching.
Laura: Blend in.
Taliesin: Let's not blow anything up yet.
Sam: But we're making our way to the tower.
Taliesin: Making our way towards the tower, in a towerly direction.
Laura: Are we at full health?
Taliesin: No. I'm not.
Laura: I'm not either.
Ashley: I can help with that.
Laura: Should we take a 30-minute rest and roll some hit points?
Marisha: Did we fight? Oh, no, that's right, we went down going through.
Matt: Yeah, going through the actual portal, the spinning ball of death caused some damage.
Laura: I don't know if there's actually time for that, though, to take.
Taliesin: I'm all right with mine. I'm 20 points down. I don't mind being 20 points down.
Sam: Let's be all full, though. We can be full.
Laura: We're going to fucking potentially fight Delilah Briarwood.
Sam: Yeah, let's be full.
Marisha: I'm assuming it's going to take us some time just to even get there, though, right?
Laura: Is it considered healing as we walk there, though?
Matt: No, you have to take a rest.
Taliesin: Let's get a little closer, then, and survey the situation, and then take a break. I feel like we're a bit far.
Laura: I just don't know if there's time. If she's already started a ritual.
Taliesin: If we run into something on the way there, though, I don't want to be at peak performance yet.
Laura: Yeah. All right.
Travis: Let's move.
Sam: Oh, God.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: This is going to be fun.
Marisha: Do we still have Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: You do. For the next 30 minutes or so.
Taliesin: So let's take advantage of this.
Marisha: Yeah, let's at least move for 30 more minutes.
Travis: Who's got the censer in the front? Because we've got to stay together.
Sam: Someone in a robe.
Laura: Oh. Who's in a robe? We're all undead.
Marisha: Are me and you in robes?
Taliesin: We can do robes. I'm all right with robes.
Travis: There's only three of them.
Taliesin: I'll take a robe.
Laura: I'll take a robe.
Marisha: You lead with the censer.
Taliesin: I'll take a robe with the censer.
Matt: Okay, Percy and Vex?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You both throw robes on over your Seeming-altered undead bodies. Percy, you're carrying the censer?
Taliesin: Yes, I'm carrying the censer.
Matt: And you're all slowly clustered behind them?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (chanting)
Travis: (chanting)
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: All right. So you guys continue moving, what's very plainly towards the center of the city as the tower stands as this giant beacon of shadow in the center of the horizon. The streets are scattered and broken. You can see there was, what may have seemed almost like a hint of cobblestone at one point, really just looks like largely broken and shattered badlands and dried stone that seems to have been pummeled by impacts of some kind, cracked into small pieces. This is a city by function and function alone. There was very little considered in the beauty of its construction, at least this far out. As you continue to press towards the center of the city--
Laura: I want to keep an eye out, just to see if anybody's noticing. If it seems like people are paying attention to us in a way that they shouldn't be.
Matt: Okay. Well, as you're keeping an eye out, I would like all of you guys to make a deception roll, with advantage.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Come on, Gil.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Sam: 33.
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 17.
Liam: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: 22.
Travis: Eight.
Liam: Too big.
Travis: I'm sorry.
Matt: As you guys make your way further down one of the, not major thoroughfares, but one of the general streets that snakes around towards the central area of the city, some of you gently moaning and gurgling as you walk, behind you, you have Grog Frankensteining his way down the street. (laughing)
Travis: Oh man.
Matt: The sound of your rendition, that song. As you're walking, a shadow seems to cross, a large hulking shadow crosses past one of the roads and turns and begins walking your direction. And you see ahead what looks to be about a ten foot tall, thick, burly figure of brownish red flesh, torn, and chains and hooks hanging from it. It looks to be almost like an amalgam of large hobgoblin body parts that have been sewn and stitched together with spikes and iron plates, jutting through, keeping it together at the seams. Where there would be a face, you see instead a giant metal mass that looks like a cage of some kind, and behind it these two glowing beads of yellow eyes poking through, and you watch as it just walks in a straight line (impacts).
Laura: Coming right for us?
Matt: Walking in your direction. Its arms are curled in front of it like a gorilla, its fingers dragging in the dust below it.
Liam: Does it look like it's just happening in our direction, or is it coming toward us?
Matt: It's hard to tell. It's about 60 feet up.
Laura: Is there a road we can turn directions?
Taliesin: Is there a nonchalant way of maintaining direction but getting out of its way?
Matt: There would be enough space to give about a ten foot berth to it as you put your back against the side of one of the nearest buildings and let it pass.
Marisha: Like parting for the queen at the Ren Faire?
Matt: A little bit, yeah.
Liam: Or Taliesin Jaffe.
Marisha: Or Taliesin Jaffe at any party.
Ashley: I move to the side and put my head down.
Sam: What's our ploy if this thing tries to kill us?
Laura: Kill it.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Same old same old.
Matt: (heavy footsteps) You guys all make your way to the side and you watch. It's autonomous, it's not being brought along with anybody. It's running a path down the road. You all move off to the side, and as you maneuver to the side of it, it gets close to the censer you're carrying, and it (groaning) puts its fingers out of the way, actually crushing some of the stonework on one of the nearby buildings to pull itself aside, trying to avoid the billowing of the smoke from the censer. It gives a dull, deep resonant (huff) in your direction as it passes, and then eventually passes by the cluster of you that have all moved to the side, after its head shifts and scans back in the path that it's walking and it moves past you, following the direction you just came from.
Taliesin: Way to be Fonzies.
Laura: Nice. Very nice. So cool.
Sam: Wow. This thing works.
Taliesin: Lot of Fonzies. Smells terrible.
Matt: You continue further into the city. You still hear the distant, low shrieks of the gloom stalkers (shriek) overhead, swooping past in clusters, circling around. Occasionally you watch one or two swoop down and land on a distant rooftop, and you hear the crunching of heavy stone and whatever materials were still remaining on the roof of that structure as it lands and surveys a bit, and then (whoosh) takes off and joins the rest of its kin.
Taliesin: Do any of the buildings look remarkable or interesting? I'm trying to keep an eye out for any building that may have anything inside it of vague importance. Either the building itself is slightly more interesting, or it looks like maybe someone has boarded something up to try and maintain some kind of vigil against the darkness? I'm not entirely sure. Out of the ordinary.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: I knew you were going to say that. I'm not good at this. Nope. Nope, nope. That's a four. That's a natural one.
Matt: A lot of these buildings are hard to tell apart when they're all just in this state of disrepair and destruction.
Taliesin: Some of them have doors.
Matt: Some of them do. Some of them have windows, kind of.
Taliesin: Holes where windows might be.
Matt: Possibly. Some, you can't tell if it's a hole, or a window. Or a door? As you press forward.
Taliesin: I felt Orthax take over again.
Liam: So this is Osgiliath, right? It's wrecked ruin, no complete buildings, or are any of them?
Matt: You see some further in. The exterior appears to have been the most heavily sacked. There's been little intent to reconstruct from this point. Like I said, you're still probably a good mile and a half out from the center of the city, and as you walk further in, you can see more clusters of skeletons traveling in groups of 12 to 15, somewhat erratically. You've seen some creatures that seem to walk with an intent pattern, like they have some sort of a sentinel path that they follow to keep watch on the perimeter or the roads of the city. The skeletons that wander, the undead that you see clattering about across the dusty, cracked grounds between the buildings, are erratic, uncontrolled. Mostly it seems to be less intentionally created undead, and more just risen by the nature of the plane you walk, and haven't bothered anyone yet, or at least those who live here. As you begin walking forward, you watch as a cluster of them spills into this T intersection a little ways up, a few of them falling and tumbling and getting back up (cracking). As they cluster together, some of them bang into each other. You hear the clattering of metal from the bits of armor that still cling to their long-rotted forms. Broken bones, some of them are missing arms, or sections of a skull is exposed and cracked open on the side, where you can see what looks to be some sort of long-dried and rotted away gray matter was left to slowly collapse like a flan in a cupboard. As you begin to approach that area, they separate a bit and scatter to fill, almost diffusing in the center of this intersection, and then they contract, almost like there's a strange hive mind magic that seems to draw them back together. They're just moving in these autonomous clusters of chaos. You see on them still, similar to the ones you noticed earlier, some of the armor that they're wearing appears to be reminiscent to the armor that the black guard that you battled at the ziggurat earlier had, or similar dark metal, and others have long-destroyed, ruined, scraped and scarred bits of silver and gold armor that are emblazoned with long-ruined and defaced symbols of the Dawn Father, Pelor.
Laura: Does it seem like both of those factions are still-- are they clustered in the same groups?
Matt: They are. And you get the sense that whatever battle took place here long ago was probably between these two factions, and those that were lost in that fray have been risen over time and wander aimlessly through the streets.
Taliesin: Free range undead.
Liam: We've seen long-dead people. This is fucking creepy in the upside-down. (airplane noise)
Sam: What's going on?
Matt: I called the airport to try and coordinate this time with you guys. Cost me 17,000 dollars for that one five-second bit, so enjoy it, guys.
Liam: Worth it.
Matt: Totally worth it.
Liam: These bodies, compared to the ex-champion of the Raven Queen, do these bodies seem even older? More decayed? Do we have any sense for how old these fuckers are?
Matt: You would have to get up close and that would be a medicine check. Would you want to try and make your way close enough to one of these bodies to inspect it enough?
Liam: How far off are they?
Matt: If you guys continue moving forward, you'll be at that intersection in about 30 seconds.
Liam: I'm not going to go. I'll wait.
Ashley: I could go up close with somebody and do a medicine check.
Laura: Keep up near the thing. Everybody get close to the censer.
Taliesin: I'll guide us towards something.
Liam: Yeah, no one poking out ahead for this.
Laura: Hopefully they'll be affected by the censer.
Travis: Let's just stop by.
Matt: So who's moving forward?
Laura: The whole group. So we can all be with the wispy smoke.
Matt: Okay. So you guys make your way towards this intersection.
Laura: We're normal people in robes.
Matt: You also watch as you begin to walk further in that elements of the ground are growing more jagged and craggy. You can see bits of stone and earth are jutting out in large stone spikes, either through some upheaval or elements of the tumultuous landscape long ago that just caused elements of rock to spike outward up five, ten feet in sections. You watch as you grow close to this intersection, about half of the group all at once (groan) turns and looks in your direction and begin to (footsteps).
Laura: Can I just waft some of the smoke towards them?
Matt: Shamble in your direction. The rest of the group noticing-- You begin blowing the censer smoke that way. You watch as three of the closest skeletons make their way into the fume and seem to vaguely lose interest for a brief moment.
Ashley: Since we're close, can I do a medicine check? Are we close enough to?
Matt: Yes, but with disadvantage because of the smoke.
Ashley: Oh, shit. Okay.
Laura: You got this, Pike.
Taliesin: Roll like it's a stealth roll.
Ashley: 13?
Matt: With the brief glances you have, it's hard to really tell. Plus, you're not too familiar with the overall weather of the Shadowfell. You don't know if there's enough weather to manifest as general decay, or if they've been beaten by the ravages of time, if it rains here or not. It's hard to tell. You gather it probably doesn't rain often. They're definitely hundreds of years old. That's the most you can really tell. They aren't fresh dead. These are long dead.
Liam: I'm feeling Foresighty. Can I creep up behind and do the same?
Matt: I will say you can do that, however you still have disadvantage, because she's already taken the roll and you're supplementing her roll in a very short period of time.
Liam: Would that be an even roll, then, since I have advantage on everything?
Matt: You have advantage on everything. I'm giving you a chance to do this when normally you would have none, so the Foresight's allowing you to have a roll with disadvantage. Go for it.
Liam: Oh, that's going to fail. Ooh! 18.
Matt: Or not. Getting a glance at the one nearest to you, the bodies seem to be fairly well preserved for as long as they've been here, so you get the sense that there isn't a lot of heavy weather here at all. And given that fact, the decay that's there, it is reminiscent, maybe not quite as old as the corpse of Purvon when you discovered the tomb originally, but comparatively ancient. At least over 500 years.
Travis: Old Purvon.
Matt: Good old Purvon.
Laura: These skeletons are almost as old as you, Scanlan.
Sam: Good one.
Matt: As you continue to walk forward, and the skeletons part around the cloud of the censer, you push deeper into the city, and they coalesce behind you and follow. They're keeping a perimeter cluster now. They're still being held at bay by the wafting of this thick blackish-green smoke that's billowing off of it, but they're staying just outside of it and slowly shambling at your speed, waiting for an opening.
Laura: I have an idea. What if, right when we get close to the tower, all of these trailing skeletons that we have on us, you just Turn Undead? And then you control them all?
Sam: You can do that?
Matt: Destroy them, yeah.
Laura: Oh, you can't control them? I thought you could.
Ashley: I could turn them.
Matt: Turn them means they just run away screaming.
Ashley: I can make them run away.
Matt: You're at a level where you can just make them explode if they roll low. Up to you.
Travis: We've got a little nuke in our pocket.
Ashley: I want us to be quiet. I don't want to make a big spectacle. Because I can make them go boom boom, but let's just wait.
Laura: She can make them poop.
Taliesin: And they don't even have bowels.
Travis: Is anything stalking us from above while we're moving?
Matt: How astute of you, I was just about to get to that.
Travis: Did you hear that? Astute.
Sam: You put the ass in astute.
Laura: Hey, did you guys know that Travis is the smartest guy at the table?
Marisha: I could tell by his Cheers shirt. (laughing)
Matt: So. In the billowing smoke that's coming around, Grog, because you brought it up, as well as the twins who have relatively high passive perceptions, and Keyleth as well, actually, you glance up and notice that the erratic patterns that a lot of the gloom stalkers take in the sky, there's two that seem to be circling, and circling.
Ashley: I don't like it, I don't like it.
Matt: One of them (shrieks), and you watch as it goes into a dive in your direction.
Sam: Oh, God! In our direction?
Laura: Is there a building we can duck into?
Matt: Make a quick perception check.
Sam: But quick!
Laura: 33.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. Both of you, really quick, you see in two different directions, past the intersection on the right, and on the left, you see two buildings that are mostly still intact. They've sustained some level of damage, but they still have two solid floors, maybe a partial roof missing, but they appear to be structurally sound enough to at least jump into. They both have doors that are partially ajar and a darkened interior.
Laura: And a roof.
Matt: And a roof.
Liam: (grunting)
Laura: (grunting) Why am I? I can talk. Go in that building.
Travis: Yeah, we go in there.
Laura: That way they can't dive bomb us, at least.
Taliesin: I go in last. Censer.
Matt: All right. So you guys all rush into the building on the right or the left?
Taliesin: Yours.
Laura: The right.
Matt: All right, so the one that Vex found. You guys all rush into that building with Percival the last one in there. As you--
Laura: Weapons drawn in case there's something in there.
Sam: But also moving like zombies.
Matt: Okay. Perfect. So as you guys all rush into the building, weapons ready, who's first in the building?
Laura: Me, maybe, because we saw it.
Matt: The two of you guys. Both of you roll perception as you enter the interior of the building. The undead that are clustering behind you are beginning to gather in a semicircle as soon as you hit the inside of the building, and they're clustering at the door as you close it behind you.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. As you enter the inside, you look around and you can see what appears to be the remnants of a few tables, very simple tables, that have been shattered and destroyed, broken into ruin around the area. You see what appear to be blades, two left in the wall, one broken off, in the center, that have long rusted over time. You see what appear to be the signs of bodies, blood, dark, dark dried blood circles on the ground, but no corpses, no bodies.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the broken tables and swords to barricade the front windows or holes, I'm not sure which they are, but I'm going to barricade them. And the door, use the sword to jam the door shut.
Laura: Are there dark corners that anybody could be hiding in, or another room?
Matt: The room itself is pretty damn dark. The little bit of light that comes in through the distant, broken elements of the wall, there's enough light where you can kind of-- it's very dim light for you, Percy. Everyone else with Darkvision is all right to make out the interior.
Liam: Cursory trap check, even though it seems unlikely.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: 19.
Matt: No traps from what you can gather at this juncture. But you do hear, as you close the door and begin barricading it with Percival, you hear the multitudes of bony claws, hands, and bits of armor slamming and brushing up against the outer wall that you just came through. The doors (bang) as the undead have now clustered and are trying to push their way in. They seem to have a scent.
Laura: We'll keep the censer near the door.
Marisha: Yeah, I do a little Gust cantrip and put a little of the censer smoke under the door. I'm like an oscillating fan.
Matt: Druids get pretty cool at 18, guys. Just saying. Timeless body, oscillating fan. Best wild shape ability ever.
Liam: Wait till you see the sprinkler system.
Matt: So as you're blowing the smoke from the censer beneath the doorway, it lessens the impacts, but the undead, more than a dozen or so of these, probably about 15 or 16 of them, have spread out, and they're all clustered at that side. The little bit of the fumes that you can push beneath the doorway are only reaching a handful, and it's keeping them from the main door at the moment.
Sam: Can we see outside at all? Is there a peephole or anything?
Matt: There are no windows at the front of this building. You see a sliver where it looks like a portion of the wall suffered some sort of an axe or hatchet impact a long time ago and someone tried to pull their way through. It's maybe about that wide, and that's where the one source of light is coming through.
Sam: I'm going to go over there.
Laura: Wait.
Sam: Oh. Don't do anything?
Laura: I was going to say, what if we turned ourselves into something else and snuck out, and they would think that we're still in this building? Anything that was tracking us.
Sam: I was going to try to make a little diversion to draw them away from the door.
Matt: (boom) You guys hear a heavy impact on the roof above.
Sam: I'll do that. I'll do my thing.
Matt: You hear (boom) what sounds like really heavy footfalls along the roof of the building.
Sam: I'm going to look through the little sliver and I'm going to cast--
Taliesin: Do you want to see what they're burning in the censer?
Marisha: Yes, I do. That's exactly what I was going to do.
Taliesin: I'm going to open up the censer.
Matt: Hold on, just a second.
Sam: I'm going to cast Major Image and make a small little human girl in the middle of the street, crying, bleeding from the arm. She looks disoriented and she's walking towards the other building that we spotted, very sad and (whimpering).
Matt: Okay. As you glance through and create this image, this image appears of this tiny, saucer-eyed French poppet of a girl with a little dress. Her curls are mussed up.
Travis: Dragging her dolly by one arm.
Matt: It's missing one button eye.
Liam: You summoned Cosette.
Matt: Yes, basically. And she goes running off, screaming and crying. You guys immediately hear the shift of the undead beyond the door (rumbling) and begin getting fainter and fainter. As that happens, you also hear (whoosh). Scanlan, you glance out and you watch the shadow of one of the gloom stalkers flying overhead swoop down and attack for the little girl.
Sam: Okay, she's going to run. She's going to book it into that other building to try to get away as fast as she can. And she can move super fast since she's not real.
Matt: This is true. This is actually very true.
Sam: She's like the fucking Flash.
Liam: (singing) There is a lady all in white...
Sam: 120 feet is all I can move her.
Laura: She's sweeping as she's running towards the door.
Matt: Yeah. You can make her move with an action 120 feet. So the little girl goes from (whimper) to (fast running) and goes into a full sprint in a really creepy, Ring-style way. That was for you, Travis. Across the way, and you watch as the gloom stalker swoops up and (impact) slams into the side of the stone building, causing part of it to crush inward and break. The roof partially (rumbling) has to settle and it falls into itself as the creature rights itself (shriek). You now have a much closer look at this entity, and it is billowing black shadow like smoke off of it. You can see glimpses of some sort of physical form in there, but it's so blurry, it's almost like it's phasing between physical matter and dream. You're not sure what it's made from, but you can see what looks to be an elongated neck, some sort of snapping jaw at the end, and two bright, greenish-yellow glowing beacons like eyes at the front of its face. Its wings don't have skin or flesh, it's just dark smoke, and as it flaps, it leaves these trails, these curling bits like black, black, black smoke.
Liam: Are we talking dragon size?
Matt: It's wyvern sized. It's maybe 20 feet from wingtip to wingtip.
Marisha: Is it anything like we've ever heard about?
Matt: No, you have not encountered a creature like this before. But you watch as it glances, and at this proximity, Scanlan, you're the one who's getting the view of this, you watch wherever it looks, its eyes seem to emanate these tiny cones of light, like little flashlights, and as it scans past, the little girl, where the beam goes past, her body is nothing there.
Laura: Is there another door in this building?
Matt: There is on the back side, yes. It's partially covered by what looks to be debris, and it looks like somebody else barricaded the other side, but did not seem to cover both ends before they fell within this building.
Sam: Let's get out of here.
Laura: We should go out the other door as fast as possible.
Travis: I'll take care of that barricade.
Laura: But quietly. We don't want them to know that we're getting out the other side.
Travis: I don't know if I can guarantee that.
Matt: What are you doing, Grog?
Travis: Moving shit out of the way of the door, in a...
Taliesin: Medium pace?
Travis: Let's call it a medium well.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: You are a terrible stage mom, by the way.
Sam: Well, she died.
Matt: She's still there.
Sam: She got her equity card.
Matt: And that's what matters. She's still there, and you watch, the creature seems confused. The eye beams move past it, and the little girl's still there crying and still darting around the area, and the creature's like (snarling), lands on the ground, and comes up and swipes and bites at her, and it goes through her form. You get the sense these creatures aren't super intelligent, but they are effective at seeing through certain glamors.
Laura: They're going to know that we're not. They know we're not zombies.
Liam: Is it still after her, or has it given up on that ghost?
Matt: It's in the process of giving up on that ghost right now.
Liam: Still a cat and a flashlight.
Laura: We've got to go.
Travis: 21.
Matt: At this point, you watch as Grog goes over with his giant mitts and single-handedly shifts the entire pile over with one shove, exposing the door there before you.
Laura: Out the door, out the door.
Matt: You open the doorway.
Sam: Can we leave anything behind, like a dead body or something for them to eat?
Laura: What dead body?
Sam: He's got a ton of them in there.
Laura: Actually, yes. Throw a dead body in the room.
Travis: Who's laughing now, bitches? Dead body!
Matt: And like the world's most macabre flower girl, you produce one of the...
Travis: I birth from the Bag of Holding a dead body.
Laura: And use Dust of Tracelessness as we run out the door, so they don't follow us.
Travis: Who's giving the orders around here?
Laura: Me. Please?
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So as you throw the body behind you, the door's now being slammed a bit. It seems some of the undead wandered towards that illusion, some are still on the other side, and now that you've pulled the censer back from it, the other door's kind of (bangs) coming pushed in. You can see light peeking through. You guys rush out, still with your Seeming illusion on, and you hear, very loudly, almost omnipresent, the screech, the (shriek) of the gloom stalker, right around the corner from you, as it begins to take off just on the other side of the building.
Laura: Should we look for another building we can duck into? To lose their-- So they can't find us?
Liam: Yeah, we can just go hopping from building to building.
Matt: I want everyone to roll a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Do we still have...
Matt: You do. You're getting close to the tail end of it. You have about five minutes left.
Laura: Natural 20.
Sam: Me too.
Matt: Shit.
Taliesin: Thank God we still have a thing.
Matt: So natural 20.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: Did you add ten?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: 36.
Liam: 39.
Taliesin: 22, I mean.
Laura: Natural 20.
Ashley: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: We did not roll well. But we're fine.
Matt: So you all got above a 20. That's good.
Sam: We needed above a 40.
Matt: So you guys rush past and, quick glance around, you find one of the nearby buildings. It's a little more dilapidated, but it seems to have at least enough cover where you can all dive into the shadows and seemingly vanish. You all stand there for a second, and you're super quiet, all breathing heavily (panting), the censer still billowing this awful, awful fume. It's filling your nose, your eyes are watering instinctually from the presence. It stings just to get into your sinuses, but you're all enduring it and trying to be as quiet as possible.
Laura: Is there another door in this building that we can exit out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'm showing Keyleth what's inside the censer.
Matt: Okay, we'll get to that.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. It's hard to tell. It looks like where there may have been a door, a portion of the roof in here that has also collapsed, it looks like a giant siege stone, about that big, from a catapult was launched and tore through the roof and shattered that side of the building. The only way out is the same way you came in.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Unless you climb up and out. But as you open the censer and look inside, it looks like there is this ember, this cluster of burning, dried herbs. You're not quite sure what it is or where it came from, but it's currently glowing red in places.
Taliesin: I'm going to give some of the herbs to Keyleth to examine. It's like on a charcoal?
Matt: It has what looks to be charcoal stones in the bottom clustered around, and these herbs are placed over it, and it's burning and smoldering over time.
Marisha: Sure. Can I tell what the herbs are?
Matt: Make a medicine check. No, this would be a nature check, sorry.
Marisha: Thank you. Is this something that I would get advantage on for my herb book?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Marisha: 28.
Matt: Okay. I get to look this up.
Sam: Oh, look it up. It's a real thing. Wow.
Matt: It's called Wild's Guide. It's a tobacco-like leaf that was used... It was briefly used for recreational smoking and treatment of small wounds, but it tended to have a very quick diseased, sickening sense to it. Those that smoked a lot tended to get sick very quickly, and it went into disuse from there. It's largely considered to be a relatively useless plant. There isn't a lot of medicinal quality to it. It's just something that exists in herbalism books, as things to avoid.
Taliesin: Comes in green and red, available in the Resident Evil universe.
Matt: You get the sense that them using it for the censer is probably not a widely known use for this type of plant.
Laura: You found a new use!
Marisha: I did! I write it down and I press a flower, or I save some of it. And then can I Druidcraft some more, now that I know what it is?
Matt: From that cluster, I'd say yeah, you can create a little bit more, but very little bit.
Marisha: Okay, I'll go ahead and make as much as I can.
Matt: Okay, so you spend some time there to focus on it, and from the remnants there you can make about twice the amount than what was in the censer, so you have probably a good, solid softball-sized cluster.
Taliesin: The resin's the best part.
Marisha: Okay. I take half, put half back in the censer, and give half to Percy. Does anybody else want some? Actually, should we dab ourselves with it? No, is that weird?
Laura: Maybe just give it to Percy.
Matt: Really? After all that, no dab joke? Anyway.
Sam: Too classy for us.
Matt: I guess so.
Taliesin: Whatever the opposite of standards are, I know we have them.
Marisha: Give some to Percy, anybody else want some?
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I don't have any way to make fire, but I'll take it. Definitely in my shirt now.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you hear the (snarling), and you hear the (flapping wings). It's hunting from building to building. (impacts) Closer. (flapping wings) (snarling) A little further away. (flapping wings)
Laura: It's gone? Did it fly away?
Matt: Sounds like it, at least.
Laura: Should we leave, and go to another building?
Sam: Let's keep going.
Liam: Building to building toward the tower?
Laura: I feel like it's not really gone.
Liam: Well, we'll find out. Let's make a break for it.
Matt: Okay, who's going first? Okay. Vax, as you dart along the side, glancing up in the air, you can still see. And it looks like there is some communication, because where once there was maybe two, you can now see a lot of them have clustered closer in your direction. There seems to be some sort of an overhead hunt.
Laura: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace on us again? Are we running out of time on it?
Matt: You're getting pretty close, yeah.
Laura: I'm going to cast it again, just so we don't.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Pass Without a Trace again.
Liam: And are we, Without a Trace and Dust of Tracelessness? That's just a one time...
Laura: Dust of Tracelessness is just so they can't track us.
Matt: So the second thing you've gathered, these creatures are not very intelligent, but they do have some sort of communication between them, and there apparently is a rush on their end to search for whatever was recently spotted. So as you guys make your way, following Vax's lead, down some of the alleyways, and begin slithering through the back ways and the small side streets, avoiding your first attempt to walk straight through the center of the town.
Laura: It's crazy how that didn't work, though. I mean, because it was a really smart plan.
Matt: It worked for a bit. Not every plan is going to hold you to the very end. There was some cleverness to it. So you begin to move through these buildings before-- It would be Keyleth, Vex and Vax. You guys come around one small alley and it opens up into another main road, and this road's hard to avoid. It seems to be almost a circular central road that marks the outer and inner rings of Thar Amphala. But you see there, marking right across this road, a 15 foot tall wall that seems to lock in the inner cloister of the town.
Marisha: How thick does it appear to be?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Maybe we can go under it.
Marisha: Or through it. 17.
Matt: It's hard to tell from this perspective. You have to get a better glance. You have to find if there was a break in the wall anywhere. You do see what looks to be some variation in texture a little ways to the right. It could be a gate, it could be a door, it could be an opening, or it could be some change in its rather solid, not very varied exterior.
Marisha: Go to the gate?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Why don't the half-elves go real quick, just to stay small and quiet. No clanking, no crushing. You take a look at the wall, and then we just call everybody up. Just two seconds if it's the way to go.
Laura: Is it far away? It's like 15 feet from us you said? Is it farther than that?
Matt: Probably about 60 feet down to the right of you guys.
Liam: So the change in the wall's about 60 feet, but the wall from our hiding spot is how far away from us?
Matt: Across the way it's about 30 feet from you. it's only about 15 feet tall, it's not crazy big.
Marisha: I'll see if I can discern something here a little bit better. You go. Go check it out.
Laura: Sure.
Matt: So the two of you dart off to the side, following Keyleth's impression of where she saw this shift, and as you make your way along the edge, you glance over and you see two things. One, there does indeed appear to be a small, cut doorway in the wall, maybe about six feet up, three feet wide, that's designed for a single file passage of any creature that wishes to move through. It's open. There's no closed door there. Above it, just above it, about eight feet up, you see what appears to be a deep cerulean blue gemstone, about two feet across, that's embedded within the wall.
Liam: I think it's fine.
Sam: Just go through the hole.
Liam: We're good. We found it.
Matt: It's a big blue stone, about that big around. It's embedded into the wall above the door.
Marisha: I ask them, how thick does the wall appear to be around that side?
Liam: Looking through the door, can we tell how deep?
Matt: Yeah, actually, you can. It's about three feet wide, four feet wide.
Laura: The depth of the wall?
Matt: The depth of the wall, yeah. It's a big, heavy wall.
Travis: Vex, I bet if you go real fast, you can totally make it.
Laura: Good idea, Grog. I'll definitely try it.
Marisha: I can try and Stone Shape through it.
Matt: You two... recognize, at least, there's something very familiar about that stone embedded in the wall.
Travis: It's blue.
Matt: It's definitely blue. It's very similar in size, installation, and functional placement as the threshold crests that adorn the exterior of Syngorn.
Laura: Which are definitely used... Wait. To teleport things?
Matt: The ones that are used to transport Syngorn to the Feywild and back.
Marisha: Oh, weird. Oh no.
Laura: Oh my god, if the ritual finishes, they can teleport this whole fucking city. Shit. We have to stop this.
Marisha: What if we dismantle the gems?
Taliesin: We would probably have to dismantle a bunch of them.
Travis: We're out in the open. Dismantling that's pretty tough.
Taliesin: I feel like it would be easier to wreck the operator than try to break the machine.
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: I mean, we've got a guy who crushes rocks all the time.
Laura: Yeah, but I don't think it's safe to touch those things.
Liam: And the moment he makes a ruckus, the air squad is coming down on our location immediately.
Marisha: Didn't we take some of that crystal? Didn't we take some of that?
Taliesin: Which crystal?
Marisha: Didn't we take shards of it from the thresholds in Syngorn?
Laura: I don't remember. I don't have any in my bag.
Marisha: One of them shattered, and I feel like we took some.
Travis: Yeah, I did.
Laura: You did?
Travis: Yeah, shards of blue crystal.
Laura: Matt's like, uh...
Marisha: I don't know, maybe it's useful in this case?
Travis: It's not pretty, it's all broken.
Liam: One question is, if these stones are used to pull this tower into the main realms, is there another purpose to them here, or is that doorway safe, is what I'm wondering?
Laura: No, that doorway is in no way safe.
Marisha: Where was the gem embedded in the doorway?
Matt: About eight feet up. About two feet above the doorway.
Liam: I feel like we should go through the wall or over it, just on principle.
Taliesin: We can go over it. We do have a magic carpet.
Laura: Yeah, and all the flying creatures are going to see us immediately. We either go under the wall... How far from the wall to the tower is it? Does it seem?
Matt: Probably...
Laura: Can we see the tower through the doorway?
Matt: You can see across, and it's not a straight shot, but you can get low and you can see where it breaks. Since you have a good sense of direction, being the ranger, I'd say you know it's at least under a mile.
Laura: A mile to the tower? So it's probably two miles wide, this whole...?
Matt: Probably less. It's hard to pinpoint directly from what little you can see, but it's definitely within a mile to a half mile of that door, that wall.
Liam: Kiki, would you be able to Great Escape us underneath this wall?
Laura: Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. What if we go under the ground all the way to the tower?
Marisha: Is it unworked stone? What's the ground like?
Matt: The ground is unworked stone. It is broken dirt and earth and stone. From what you gather, at the very least. A heavy layer of dust.
Marisha: I could attempt to tunnel us there. Percy, I'm sure you would know more than anyone. What's the likelihood that we might encounter, that I might bust through a dungeon or something, though, over there?
Taliesin: That would be the question. It's A, where do we come up? B, how do we tunnel without collapsing a building on us? And C, what if there's buried dead that haven't been able to break?
Marisha: I can get us under the wall for sure. I can do both, it's just figuring out what we want to do.
Taliesin: If we can tunnel under the wall and then come up in a building.
Liam: I think so. We're not trying to get all the way there, just past this.
Marisha: Okay. Can I Stone Shape--
Laura: From within a building.
Marisha: -- a crawlspace through the wall?
Matt: Yeah, you can probably do that. Let me look at the Stone Shape spell here real fast.
Marisha: Big enough for at least Grog to marine belly through?
Travis: We're all undead, so I'm a little smaller right now, actually.
Matt: Well, you look smaller.
Taliesin: You look smaller than you are.
Matt: You're still your same height.
Taliesin: You would be a little zombie, floating, stuck.
Laura: Can we be zombie cows?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous, and it's a section no more than five feet in any dimension, so Stone Shape would be just a one-hit boom. You could not create a long tunnel.
Marisha: But I can't carve a shape through the wall to just crawl through, five feet?
Matt: Oh, through the actual wall itself?
Marisha: Yeah, through the wall, not under the ground. I want to bust a crawl space through the bottom of the wall.
Laura: Don't you think the flying guys will notice that?
Matt: Yeah, that could work. So do you want to do that?
Marisha: It's not a dynamite blast, it's like a (rumble).
Sam: Yeah, it's just a hole in the wall.
Taliesin: It's like butter.
Marisha: Yeah, it's like butter. So...
Matt: Okay. So you dart across the open road to the other side, where the wall is.
Marisha: Cover for me.
Travis: How would we do that?
Taliesin: We are stealthed.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I-- Shit, well, you already rolled. Can I have been keeping an eye on the sky and give her a go ahead when it looks like they're not going to see her?
Matt: You begin to do so as she runs across the road.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Just go. Just fucking go.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You hear the distant shrieks, communication between the various gloom stalkers that (snarling) echoing in the sky. You make it all the way across to the wall, and get low, focus, close your eyes, press your hand against the cold, dark wall, and feel it (whoosh) as immediately, you carve a circular tunnel through that goes completely to the other side. Seemingly to no negative effect.
Marisha: Seemingly to no negative effect, I've made a tunnel.
Sam: You sound different. Why are you using weird words?
Marisha: I'm whispering! I'm just trying to be more pragmatic.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Hey, guys, we didn't eat a Heroes' Feast yet, either.
Sam: We didn't heal ourselves.
Marisha: No, we didn't.
Taliesin: We've got to get through the wall.
Sam: Let's get through the wall, and then we'll heal.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: He is looking at each one of us and rolling.
Taliesin: He's making eye contact and rolling a die, like it means something.
Laura: I'm not going to look at him.
Marisha: Keeping track. Why is he keeping track?
Liam: If I don't look, he can't kill me.
Ashley: If you don't make eye contact.
Laura: It's like in school, if you don't make eye contact, maybe they won't call on you.
Matt: Yeah, it's the old Warner Brothers rule. So as you guys all, one by one, dart across and leap beneath the tunnel that Keyleth had created, Keyleth, have you gone through the tunnel, or are you seeing everyone else through?
Marisha: I'll wait and see everyone else through, just in case.
Travis: Oh, how generous of you.
Laura: We all are dead.
Matt: You all begin darting through, one after another.
Marisha: I'm going to try and keep a lookout.
Matt: Keyleth, you glance up as, at the very tail end of it, you have Scanlan and Pike at the very end, ready to rush through the tunnel.
Sam: We're slow.
Matt: Because of the gnomish feet. They both get there as you glance up and watch as one of the gloom stalkers (shriek) and goes into a full screeching dive towards you outside of the wall. What are you guys doing?
Sam: Hurrying.
Ashley: Jumping through as fast as our little gnome feet can take us.
Matt: Okay, so Pike, you dart through, Scanlan, you dart through. With the size of the tunnel, it's easy enough for the both of you to just run through while crouching as opposed to having to get on your hands and knees, so you guys start making your way through to the side. Pike, you make it out the other side. Scanlan, you're halfway through. Keyleth, you're still there, ready to go in after as it's about to bear down on you.
Marisha: It's not coming up?
Matt: Oh, no, it's going for a straight dive. It's going right for you.
Marisha: Oh, god, am I trying to do anything but get through?
Liam: You're running! Come on!
Laura: She has to duck down.
Marisha: I don't know, I've got to crawl through!
Laura: Yeah. So do you have protection? Do you have something you could turn into?
Marisha: Yeah! Thank you! Thank you! I'm going to see it and immediately Beast Shape into a little mouse and (crawling sounds) through.
Matt: I want you to roll an initiative roll to see whether or not it gets to you in time.
Sam: Am I rolling, too, since I'm half-out?
Matt: You're halfway in the tunnel. It couldn't fit in the tunnel if it wanted to.
Sam: But, I mean, am I watching this?
Matt: You're watching this.
Sam: I'm going to roll. Okay.
Liam: I'm going to say that I didn't leave the other side of the wall when I realized that she wasn't coming through. So, waiting right in front of Scanlan.
Marisha: 18.
Sam: Two for me.
Matt: Okay. Natural 19 plus three. So, as you shift down into the tiny mouse-like form, its claws immediately slam into and sink into the mouse body. Yeah, that's a 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah. Immediately poof.
Matt: How much hit points does your mouse form have? Like one?
Marisha: I'm assuming no more than a kitten's worth.
Matt: Right, so yeah. So, we'll say for the purposes, one. So that would be 16 points of piercing damage, so your form immediately reverts, its claws now fill with your regular Keyleth form. You take 15 points of piercing damage, Keyleth, and you are grappled.
Marisha: Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool story. Cool.
Matt: As soon as it grabs you, it begins to pull you out of the tunnel and lift with you in its claws.
Ashley: Can I grab her arms?
Matt: You're on the other side of the wall. Scanlan's on the other side right now.
Liam: I'm three feet away from you.
Laura: Yeah, but he's in front of you.
Matt: Everyone else on the other side of the wall, Scanlan in the middle, Keyleth in the front. You saw it shriek and dive down, you don't know what happened from that point. You can glance down and you watch as Keyleth is being pulled up. You see that happening. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I'll yell to the rest  it's got Keyleth. I'll cast Dominate Monster on it, I guess.
Matt: Okay. So, what's the spell DC on that?
Sam: Well, I was probably not fast enough to pull up my horn, so 20.
Matt: That's a natural four plus three. So, as you say that and turn around, you bring your hand up and begin muttering the incantation and finish it with a flourish!
Sam: I could have just done that this whole time?!
Matt: As you finish the incantation, you watch as a small ring of glowing purple-pink glyphs appear like a crown around the outside, floating about three inches from the gloom stalker's "head." Its shriek goes (intense to calm croaking) and it's just there, hovering in the air, about ten feet up, clutching Keyleth.
Sam: All right. Please deposit her on the other side. Over the wall.
Matt: You guys watch as the gloom stalker (wings flapping) over the wall. Lands on the ground, slamming Keyleth. It slams you into the ground as it lands. You take five points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: (wheezing) You could have told it gently!
Sam: I don't speak Gloom!
Marisha: Five points?
Matt: Yes. You (wham) and almost knocks the wind out of you, and you slam into the hard ground, but the claws unfurl and leave you.
Marisha: (wheezing) I made it, guys! I'm glad you made it!
Sam: Only 59 more minutes.
Ashley: Maybe he can tell the others to leave us alone!
Marisha: Yeah, call them off!
Taliesin: Or maybe there are birds on the other side of the wall.
Sam: Does he keep rerolling for breaking, or is that it?
Marisha: Tell them it's handled, we're dead.
Taliesin: And then we can ride him!
Laura: Ask him if he has any money, and ask him if he can make a good dinner because I'm hungry.
Marisha: Where's the nearest 7-11?
Matt: Each time the target takes damage. It has to take damage to get the save. So, it's under your control for an hour or until it takes damage.
Sam: All right. First things first, please go tell your fellow gloomy friends that the hunt is off. No more flesh down here. And come back!
Matt: (croaking) You can see that it's landed, its giant wings have folded under into these folded knuckle-like claws that hit the ground as it (croaks) and he gets really close and snarls at you. As it gets close, the air gets colder in its presence, it's almost like it brings this drop. It's already pretty cold here in the Shadowfell, but it becomes pretty much freezing as soon as it gets within five feet of you. It seems to suck heat out of the air. As it's glaring at you, (wings flapping) begins to take up. You can see three other gloom stalkers who saw it dive earlier are all arriving towards your location. As it rides up towards them, you hear (gloom stalker speech) and the other ones (gloom stalker speech) snap at it, circle it and they all have what looks like an argument, if there was. And then, eventually, they break and they begin shouting off (gloom stalker speech). You watch as the heavy clusters that had been swarming this area of the town begin to respond in kind. You hear the echoes, the cacophony of various screeches and screams and they all begin to slowly dissipate and diffuse amongst the entire city of Thar Amphala.
Taliesin: Well, that went well.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan.
Liam: Welcome back, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: Thanks, Scanlan!
Sam: It's good to be back. Okay, we'll need a name for him, obviously.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: So, anybody got any ideas?
Laura: Benjamin is what I'm thinking.
Sam: Benjamin is great.
Marisha: Mr. Mistoffelees!
Sam: That's way better. (laughing)
Taliesin: Can we ride him to the tower?
Sam: Well, some of us can, right? By looking at him, how much can he carry? Or she!
Matt: You're not certain, based on its size, it could maybe carry three medium to small people.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: (whispered) What's around us right now? (regular volume) Sorry, what's around us right now?
Matt: So, as you glance around the other side of the wall, the city is denser within this inner cloister, and the buildings all seem to be newer. Or repaired. It seems like this inner sanctum of Thar Amphala has garnished most of the attention of those that currently reside within its space. As you are glancing up, too, you see the flicker, the faint flicker of the conjoining strands of magical energy that are rising up to the pinnacle of the tower of Entropis where you see these three heavy claw-like fingers that jut out of the top of the tower all curve inward. The flash is in the center of it, it's just glowing brighter and brighter. That pulsing is (pulsing). It's almost like seeing this heartbeat of pure energy that's swelling and swelling.
Laura: I don't think we have time to stop.
Sam: Well, so no more healing. But we could fly right up there and break that thing.
Marisha: Do we really not want to do any other healing?
Laura: Pike can heal us, but we can't rest. There's no time for a rest. No time for a Heroes' Feast. I bought those fucking chalices.
Taliesin: Next time.
Marisha: Might still be useful.
Ashley: How long does Heroes' Feast take?
Sam: Like an hour or something.
Taliesin: It will hardly matter.
Ashley: We can't just take an hour?
Laura: I think that thing is like, going to go.
Matt: It's up to you guys. It's a gradual. It's not like all of a sudden, right now, you watched it pulse. As you've been getting towards, you've been watching it slowly swell. So, who knows.
Sam: Some of us could get on Mr. Mistoffelees and fly around the tower and see if there's a window that we could bust in or something.
Laura: I wonder if Delilah's on the top of the tower.
Sam: Yeah, but we'll be on a thing, so maybe we won't be very conspicuous.
Taliesin: Actually, maybe if we ask Mr. Mistoffelees-- I'm going to never get tired of saying that!-- to go up to the tower, greet whoever's up there, and throw them off.
Sam: It's just a pulsing orb of doom, isn't it?
Taliesin: Just go up there and cause havoc.
Sam: One of us needs to see what's up there.
Taliesin: No, we can just send him up there, and then we can head in through the tower. He can just be a problem.
Sam: He's dumb! What if comes back and he's like 'I don't know!'?
Taliesin: Just say, go up there and if there's anything living up there, throw it off.
Sam: Can't one of us go up there with him to scout it out? Yeah, if someone's invisible. Can't you all be invisible?
Taliesin: Yes, all of us.
Sam: Just me.
Taliesin: Yes, it's just you.
Laura: Can't you make all of us invisible?
Sam: Not while I'm concentrating on Mr. Mistoffelees! (laughter)
Taliesin: I say we head in closer on foot. If you want to ride Mr. Mistoffelees up to the top of the tower, that's one thing. But I think just sending him up there, or sending him to be an agent of chaos.
Liam: I could probably ride him, and if shit goes south, I could get away.
Taliesin: You could always get swallowed.
Liam: By Mr. Mistoffelees?
Laura: By anything.
Taliesin: I get the distinct impression we're going to have options before this day is over.
Marisha: I feel like we're going to have to do a lot of things to stop this.
Sam: We need to get into the tower! We don't even know how to do that!
Liam: We don't know what we're talking about, which is why I think the idea to go scope it out is a good one.
Laura: Does it look like there's any windows on the tower, or is just a big old Rapunzel tower?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Nope!
Laura: Well, hold on. 19.
Matt: 19, still pretty good. Not a single window. It's a solid tower.
Ashley: Are there any doors? No windows?
Matt: You can't tell from your perspective right now. The base is currently obscured by the very, very dense buildings.
Laura: Ultimate challenge for Vox Machina.
Travis: Should we check one of the buildings, and then we can figure out who wants to go check it out, so we can get out of the open?
Laura: Yeah, let's get in a building and hide!
Travis: Because he's a cleaner!
Liam: The tower, is it obscured by all this shit happening on top of it? Vex can see there's no windows; can we see if there's a rooftop to it at all?
Matt: There is a top to the tower.
Liam: Is it this, is it this, or can we not see?
Matt: The tower gently tapers and then comes to an end. There is a top. You see there's three giant, curled finger-like black spires that curl inward on the outside, inward. And then there's the platform where the tower stops, where it seems like there would be somewhere to stand.
Laura: The thing that's glowing is off of the ground of the tower?
Matt: It's filling up the entirety of that space between the fingers on the actual roof of the tower.
Marisha: What if it has to keep expanding all the way to the crystals?
Travis: What's the nearest building? Is there one building that's closest to where we came through the tunnel?
Matt: Yeah, you guys are about ten feet from the nearest building.
Travis: Can I walk over? Are there any windows?
Matt: This building does not have any windows.
Travis: Does it have a door?
Matt: It does.
Travis: Can I knock?
Matt: (knocking) You watch as an older gentleman with a very thin gray goatee, looks a little sallow, missing his left eye, he currently has a small sack over his shoulder, he opens the door. "Can I--"
Travis: Hey, come here! And I grab his face.
Matt: (muffled yelling)
Laura: Inside! Inside!
Travis: We just go in. Push in.
Taliesin: Well, we're going in now, aren't we?
Liam: And we're walking, and we're walking.
Sam: I'll tell Mr. Mistoffelees to do a 90-second loop and come back down and check in on us because he can't fit in the door, right?
Matt: No!
Sam: Fly around 90 seconds and swoop back down.
Matt: He does a small circle as you guys all rush into the building. You enter the inside. You see what looks to be a lot of building materials. It looks like some of the outer buildings here were used as the storage facilities for what a lot of the city was rebuilt as. There's nobody else inside right now. This gentleman looks like he was on his way out of the building as you interrupted him. As now most of his head is just clasped by your giant goliath Titanstone Knuckle-adorned hand, you see a little bit of his eye peeking over Grog's, and he's like (muffled yelling).
Travis: Shh.
Matt: You see he's got the heavy male pattern-- looks like the old D&D Dungeon Master from the cartoon. He's bald on top, has long gray hair that goes past his shoulders. Very thin, missing the left eye, and he's just limp. He's not even going to fight it.
Laura: Oh hey! We were sent here by Delilah Briarwood. You may know her.
Matt: (muffled yelling)
Laura: Right. The ritual that's happening on top of the tower. How long until that thing's done?
Matt: (muffled noises)
Laura: Blink once for 15 minutes. Blink twice for an hour or more.
Liam: Three times for a bunch of days.
Sam: Maybe he doesn't know.
Laura: Yeah, do you know? Blink once for yes, blink twice for no.
Matt: (muffling noises)
Sam: 15 minutes! No, that was once for 15 minutes!
Laura: No, that was an hour, at least!
Marisha: I thought he blinked before. Are we at an hour and 15 minutes?
Taliesin: I don't think you can call it a blink if you've got one eye. I think it's just a wink.
Marisha: A wink? Man, semantics!
Matt: You get the sense that, as you say that, it does hurt him a little. His demeanor, while already pretty shattered, just even further (sad noise).
Travis: Does he have any pouches on him, or anything in his hands?
Matt: He had a small sack over his shoulder that he was leaving with. He's just adorned in regular--
Travis: Is the sack on the ground now or is it still over his shoulder?
Matt: No, it's currently on the ground. He dropped it as soon as you rushed and pushed him.
Travis: I take the satchel, and I give it to Pike and say: look in here.
Matt: You glance inside. As soon as you grab it, you hear the clanging of metal. You look inside and you can see what appear to be a handful of dark metal shortswords, daggers, simple dried rations, and, in fact, as you glance inside the room now, you can see a lot of the supplies here, aside from construction supplies, you see a handful of weapons that are well-made, recent-made, not seen battle yet.
Sam: They're about to invade.
Laura: What if we burn the fucking city down?
Sam: I mean, sure! What?
Laura: I mean, if they're planning on transporting this whole fucking city, and setting an army loose on our world, why don't we just burn the whole fucking city down? Destroy their rations. Destroy their weapons!
Taliesin: I am excited by this plan.
Sam: Wait, what? No! That's terrible!
Liam: Let's burn down Manhattan. How do you do that?!
Travis: Shall we ask this gentleman some questions? All right. I'm going to remove my hand. Obviously, you're like really cool with the purpose-- perspective of dying, and I'll quicken that if you make a loud noise. Right, like, if you've ever seen, like, Jello mixed with, like apple pudding. That's what I'll do to your head.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Laura: You did your hand signal for Arnold Palmer.
Travis: I did!
Matt: Universal.
Laura: Arnold Palmer?
Travis: 22!
Matt: 22. He doesn't make a sound, more than the gentle trickle out of his pant leg does. (laughs)
Taliesin: I think that's a yes.
Travis: Grab the scruff of his collar.
Matt: Okay, as you release, he (gasps). His teeth are broken and yellow, his one gaping socket is twitching a little bit from the recovery of the sudden, rapid series of events that he was not expecting today. As he gathers his breath, and scratches the side of his leg, "So. What do you wish to do to me?"
Sam: Nothing! We've got to hurry!
Laura: No, really, do you know anything about the ritual?
Matt: "I mean, not the specifics."
Laura: Do you know if it's going to be over soon?
Matt: "I know that some of the acolytes were rushing through, expediting things recently."
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "I don't know!"
Sam: Did they tell you to gather weapons?
Matt: "They just told us to be ready."
Liam: For what? What's the plan here, man? You're really far away from anything fucking nice.
Matt: You watch him close off as you start saying that. He catches himself saying too much information. His demeanor goes cold.
Laura: Please, we know you're going to transport to another plane.
Marisha: You're trying to bail, aren't you? Were you trying to run?
Sam: No, he's joining the fight.
Laura: Oh my god, he was going to leave.
Travis: Well, he's clearly clamming up. I put my hand back over the front of his face, I take the other one, put it on the back of his face, and I start making my fingers touch.
Matt: (muffled groaning) He reaches up and grabs the small symbol, familiar loop with the fork above it. He clasps it in his hand and doesn't resist.
Travis: Do you want it?
Ashley: Yeah! Put him a little lower, Grog. I rip off the necklace.
Matt: He's like clasping it in his hand. Make a strength check.
Taliesin: Drop it! Drop it!
Ashley: Oh my god, we're so terrible!
Travis: Are we?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Matt: He's clasping it, and you can see his one eye rolls back to hold onto it and he's muttering a prayer beneath your fingers and he's (muffled muttering) and you tear it from his grasp. (muffled panic)
Ashley: We'll give it back! You've got to answer some questions for us.
Travis: No, he won't. Look away if you want to preserve anything, and I just squish his head.
Matt: As you're saying that, you watch as one eye opens and his hands go limp and then (face exploding) and it just (splattering).
Ashley: Grog!
Matt: Spray on Pike.
Travis: I thought you were me giving the signal like, end it!
Ashley: No! I was going to-- whatever.
Travis: All right. We'll work on it.
Ashley: We'll find another one. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, I'm really sorry. Sorry.
Ashley: Brains!
Liam: Pike got Dragon Aged.
Matt: Yeah!
Marisha: Is there a water bucket around?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: So, but, set fire to the house, right? Burn the whole city down?
Sam: No!
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: The city is mostly stone; I don't know if we can burn it down.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you do find a small basin that's filled up with water. The people that live in this city still need to live. It looks like there are the means of feeding and drinking, though you get the sense that they may or may not-- most of the supplies do come from outside the Shadowfell.
Laura: Let's poison the water supply!
Marisha: I take a little bit of the water and control it and let Pike wash off a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I think I got a little in my mouth (gagging).
Liam: Wait, there's a little bit of skull right there. All right.
Taliesin: That's the little chunk where the joint is. It's just this little bit, it just breaks naturally if you put pressure on that side.
Matt: There's this slumped pile of dark cloth, thin body, and Riki-Oh mess on the ground.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow! Way to bring that back!
Matt: So, what's the plan, guys?
Taliesin: We've got a little shadow creature coming back around in a moment.
Sam: Want to jump on and do a scouting pass?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: You guys do the scout, we'll heal?
Ashley: You guys, are we not going to do a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: It's an hour. It takes an hour, right?
Sam: We can't risk it.
Liam: What do you think's going to happen in an hour? Everything's going to kick off in an hour?
Sam: Wouldn't you hate to miss it by 15 minutes?
Laura: The pulse has gotten stronger since we've been here. I don't know if that pulse means it's about to go, or if the pulse means that it's five minutes in.
Sam: This guy was about to leave his house to go walk over there for the final part of the ritual.
Marisha: Or he was trying to bail before the final part of the ritual.
Liam: Where's your pet? Let's go find some shit out.
Marisha: He had rations! No one takes rations!
Laura: He was handing out weapons.
Taliesin: It was like Carpentry of the Damned sort of thing.
Marisha: What if the giant orb has to reach the crystals?
Taliesin: It might, but it might just do the (buzzing, exploding).
Laura: Technical terms.
Marisha: Yeah, the (buzzing, exploding).
Taliesin: It's magic, it's the best I've got.
Travis: Who's going up?
Sam: Me and Vax.
Travis: Just you two, okay.
Ashley: How's everybody doing right now?
Taliesin: I'm a little rough.
Marisha: I'm a little rough.
Taliesin: I could use 20 points.
Laura: Yeah, I could use 20 points.
Ashley: Let's do a little Mass Cure Wounds situation.
Marisha: Nice.
Travis: Do it!
Sam: But do it with a flair! (laughter)
Ashley: Oh, fudge.
Laura: What? Oh that's a one, not seven, isn't it?
Ashley: 13.
Laura: That's fine, that's fine!
Taliesin: We're taking a short rest; I can add my--
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest?
Laura: Well, while they fly up, is it enough time for the people staying in the house to heal a bit?
Matt: You guys could take a short rest during that time, if you want to do a full scoping. By the time you come back, that spell's about to fade.
Sam: I mean, yeah, we're going to go as fast as we can.
Matt: So those that are traveling can't take a short rest.
Travis: And if that fades, he's fully aware that he was dominated, right?
Matt: Well. You don't know.
Travis: Okay. Especially me.
Matt: Yeah, you especially don't know.
Liam: Time's a-wasting, Scanlan, let's go.
Sam: Let's go. Mr. Mistoffelees!
Matt: As you open the door, there, just landing (landing) (gloom stalker croaking). You guys climb onto its back?
Sam: Yes, we do!
Matt: You climb onto its back. Touching this creature is like touching the inside of a freezer. Even with gauntleted hands, you have to wrap some of your cloth around to not give yourself frostbite over a period of time. Even resting on it, especially with your leather armors, it chills you to the bone. As you take up, and even just ten, 15 minutes into (wings flapping) up into the air, gathering as to whether you'll be noticed or spotted by this, you can feel it beginning to chill you, your teeth are beginning to chatter from being in that proximity of the freezing cold creature. It's strange, as you touch it, it feels less like fur and flesh and more like you're grabbing onto a very, very thick sackcloth. Like, it tugs and pulls and it feels almost like the scruff of a cat or dog's neck, but it has a clothy texture, and as you grab it, you can feel the cold wisps of shadow and darkness obscure your hands. You feel like you're plunging your arms into it, but you find purchase within that shadow and hold on.
Sam: We'll need to spoon for warmth.
Liam: I nestle in behind Scanlan.
Sam: I gladly accept.
Liam: Let's ride.
Travis: Let's ride?! (laughing)
Matt: All right, so, as you guys take up into the sky, and you guys are taking your short rest, we're going to take a quick break on our end as well. Use the restroom, get a snack.
Marisha: We're taking a break?
Matt: We're taking a break here because it is 8:30. We are going to do another giveaway at the break here, a Wyrmwood giveaway. A fantastic flamebox elder hero vault, which is some of the prettiest wood that they make.
Liam: Maybe the prettiest Wyrmwood box ever.
Laura: How come we didn't ever see those before; is that a new wood?
Matt: I don't know. But it's cool!
Laura: I want it!
Matt: Hero vault for whoever the lucky winner is. To be a part of that drawing, rush over to Twitch chat. Tonight's password is 'secrets,' plural. S-E-C-R-E-T-S. So, when you're prompted, enter the word 'secrets' in Twitch chat to be part of this giveaway and we'll come back and announce who it is after the break. We'll see you guys here in a few minutes. [break] (laughter)
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role.
Ashley: My timing is bad. (laughter)
Matt: We missed you, too, guys.
Travis: Oh my god.
Ashley: I forget, and then I remember to do it, and then we're already on the air.
Matt: Indeed, we are. Welcome back, everybody. First off, our winner of the hero case from our friends at Wyrmwood is Rory1177. Rory1177, you are the winner for tonight. Congratulations. Denobo will contact you and get your information and have that shipped off to you asap, so congratulations. All right, so as the rest of you are taking a short rest, the two of you are making your way, as stealthily as you can, on the back of a gloom stalker as it encircles the exterior of the Castle Entropis. First off, I would like you both to make a stealth check.
Liam: I squeeze the gnome tighter.
Laura: Oh god. I think you're out of range, so you don't get the plus ten anymore.
Liam: That's okayish.
Sam: 21.
Taliesin: You have advantage, though, on everything.
Sam: He's fine.
Liam: 34. A low 34.
Matt: Okay, so you guys begin to circle the exterior of the tower, making a wide spiral along its exterior. You make your way up. It's hard to gauge the full height of this tower, but it's at least six or seven stories tall, if not taller. I want you both to make perception checks, please.
Liam: Now that we're closer, I'm looking for windows that she might not have been close enough to see. Doors, holes, anything.
Matt: Perception check.
Liam: Yes, sir.
Sam: Natural one! I'm under his body.
Matt: He's curled up within Vax.
Liam: Hey!
Matt: Not even a top or bottom circumstance. You're just within.
Liam: It really just depends on the day. 26.
Matt: 26. Okay. No windows. It is a solid tower, completely around as you cycle around. As you get towards the top of it, you notice the three curved fingerlike spires that curl up at the top and the pulsing of the energy. You watch as these very faint tendrils of magical energy that you've tuned in to be able to see better, now that you know what to look for, are all-- from this height, you can see the long strands are undulating and shifting, almost like the very winds of the land are causing them to rotate. You can see the variations in their form, but they're all still merging and entwining at the very top of Entropis. You see nothing. You can see what appear to be a cluster of about 30 or so figures all gathered along the top of this. You can see what appear to be three glowing spheres in a triangular pattern around this that are accepting the tether of the magical energy, and then suffusing what appears to be a small altar of some kind in the very center of the top of this tower.
Liam: Mother bitch.
Matt: You've been circling here for about 15 to 20 minutes or so, and the energy (explosion noise) untethers and unfurls. There's a shockwave of warmth that cascades outward from the top of the tower. Both of you feel it pass through you, and that freezing cold that you've been trying desperately to hold at bay as you're clutching onto the back of this gloom stalker, this heat wave moves past. The gloom stalker (squawks) instinctually pulls back, and you can see for a second it drops, and you feel your stomach bottom out as it loses about 20 feet of elevation before catching itself again. And you watch as any of the others that are currently cycling around the stratosphere over the city of Thar Amphala also are taken off guard by the sudden burst of energy. As you glance over, you can see the tethers that connect have all fallen and faded. (music changes)
Sam: (quietly) How does he do that? How did you do that?
Matt: You also watch as about 25 or so of these figures at the top all collapse at once.
Liam: But some are left.
Matt: There are some left. You watch and very faintly, you can see on that altar in the center, there is a small bead of pure, vibrant, bright white light. You watch as a robed figure that previously was held in the shadows emerge. You're too far away to make any more details than that.
Liam: A lot of motherfuckers just died on the top of that tower. You felt that?
Sam: What do we do? Is that the end of the ritual?
Liam: How much time left on that hour, buddy?
Sam: Enough to get back to our friends, probably.
Liam: We've got to go.
Sam: Should we attack now? Just the two of us?
Liam: No, we should not do that.
Sam: We could.
Liam: We could.
Sam: Between you and me, we're the most powerful ones in the group.
Liam: I just don't feel like freeballing it right now, and I'd really like the group.
Sam: I know, but will you at least confirm that yes, we are the most powerful?
Liam: Clearly. We are the most, as the kids say, OP. Let's get back to the group.
Sam: All right. Hold me tight. Mr. Mistoffeles, back down.
Matt: It goes into a rapid dive, making its way back towards where you left the rest of your party. The rest of you, you can go ahead and regain your short rest. You get your Wild Shape back. You can spend any hit dice to heal up if you'd like. If you haven't already.
Laura: I already did it.
Matt: Okay, good. I also need all of you to roll a wisdom saving throw, please.
Sam: Everybody?
Matt: Everybody who was on a short rest.
Laura: If we had had a Feast, we'd have advantage on this.
Marisha: We would.
Matt: All right, so.
Taliesin: 14.
Marisha: 30.
Laura: 24.
Ashley: Just to make sure  I used Gnome Cunning, because I get advantage on wisdom.
Matt: It's not a "magical" effect.
Ashley: Okay. So then I'll take my first roll, which was two. And then I will add my wisdom saving throw number, which is ten, so I have 12.
Travis: 19.
Sam: I want you to explain every roll.
Matt: In the rest you take, the Shadowfell does not seem to have any adverse effect on your presence.
Taliesin: However...
Matt: There's no "however." You complete your rest fine. You guys all gather your stuff, you take a breath and prepare for the next leg of your venture as the door to your building slams open, Scanlan and Vax arriving, just leaping off the back of the gloom stalker that they had under their control. Who is also about to lose its...
Taliesin: How much longer do they have?
Sam: Fly away!
Taliesin: Attack the tower. Tell it to attack the tower.
Sam: Really? It's going to forget halfway there.
Taliesin: Maybe we can mess one person up.
Sam: Fly away! Just fly away!
Ashley: On the rest, could I have worked a little bit more on enchanting the silver bullets?
Matt: You can spend a little more time on it. It'll take a few days of getting that to happen.
Ashley: I just keep working on it.
Laura: Did we feel that (whoosh) within the building?
Matt: You didn't. You may have heard something strange, but it didn't really catch your attention. You guys spent your time resting on the inside of the building.
Laura: What'd you see?
Liam: Saw a lot of fucking people just die on the top of that tower. I can't guarantee it, but I think it's a safe bet that your girl Delilah is up there.
Laura: That's where I figured she'd be.
Sam: It seems they've completed at least some part of the ritual.
Liam: Yeah, there was some sort of massive pulse of energy, 20-something hooded figures just dropped dead on the spot. A wave of some shit blasted through us.
Laura: Can I run out and look at the tower and see if the orb looks different?
Marisha: I join Vex.
Matt: You guys rush out and peek outside of the doorway towards the top of Entropis. You see that the glowing pulse is gone. The energy tethers from the siphons are gone.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: I look around. Are we still in the Shadowfell?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: That's not great. 18.
Matt: That's enough. Yeah, you're still in the Shadowfell. (sounds of relief)
Travis: Motherfucking Mercer. That intonation.
Taliesin: If you rolled low enough, he'd be like, "You don't know." Seattle! You've taken us to Seattle!
Laura: Well, we should fucking get up there, then, huh?
Sam: Should we go straight up the tower?
Liam: What else are we doing here?
Sam: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the base.
Sam: But we're going to fight an aerial battle against super-magical things.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: We're weighing risk here. What do we think would happen if we spent an hour having that Feast right now?
Travis: Actually, that's true. Nothing's going to change at this point.
Sam: Maybe.
Marisha: I mean, maybe we should return to something like sabotaging the machine, or... burning the city. Oh god, Vex is rubbing off on me.
Laura: Did you see Delilah up there?
Liam: No. There was a ringleader, but we were too far out.
Laura: And the ringleader was still standing?
Liam: Yeah.
Ashley: How many people were still standing?
Matt: That would have been three that you noticed.
Liam: Precisely three. (laughter)
Ashley: Lots of them died in the blast?
Sam: Yeah, so it's not even going to be a tough fight. We'll just take down three people and be done, right?
Laura: So easy.
Taliesin: The less people we're fighting, the worse it is.
Marisha: Agreed.
Ashley: It won't just be three.
Taliesin: It might be four.
Sam: It'll be... less than three?
Laura: Even one with that fucking wall she had last time, we're fucked.
Marisha: How far did the blast go that you saw?
Liam: We were 100 yards out or something?
Matt: Yeah, you were probably about 300 feet out.
Laura: We didn't do any research on that wall, did we? That spell? Did anybody do any research on that spell that we saw her do? Down in the ziggurat?
Taliesin: We kind of figured out what it was. It was a modified version of a spell we've seen before.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. It seemed to be prismatic. You've seen Prismatic Spray. It's a prismatic spell in nature but you didn't really research any means of defeating it or bypassing it.
Travis: Do you still have that Earthquake spell?
Marisha: I believe me and Pike both do, yes.
Travis: We couldn't, like, earthquake the tower to the ground. Could we?
Marisha: Between me, you, and Pike? We can take this tower down.
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: I just don't know about us going to the top, if we could maybe bring it--
Taliesin: Oh, if we could maybe bring the top down here?
Sam: That's a good idea, if you can really do it.
Travis: I just don't know how big around it is. It might be fucking huge.
Taliesin: How big around is the tower?
Matt: At the very base--
Taliesin: He's looking at the tower.
Matt: -- it's about 170, 180 feet in diameter.
Marisha: Hang on, 180 feet in diameter? Hang on. Pike and I check our spellbooks real quick.
Taliesin: Can I do a little engineering? If I were going to punch at it...
Liam: Also, the idea that we're going to sneak into that tower is farfetched.
Sam: No, we either have to fly up to the top or bring it down to us, right?
Laura: I like the idea of bringing it down.
Liam: Even if it fails, the fight will still come to-- Either we bring the fight to them, or we rip down the tower and bring the fight to us.
Marisha: For up to a minute and a hundred foot radius, centered at a point...
Matt: It deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in the area when you cast the spell. If it drops to zero hit points, it collapses and potentially damages nearby creatures. So the question is, do you think that'll be enough to drop a solid obsidian tower?
Laura: It's a tough call. Twice in a row?
Marisha: But, I mean, two Earthquake spells and Grog.
Laura: I have a siege arrow.
Marisha: I will point out this will be burning mine and Pike's 8th-level spell, but it might be worth it.
Sam: It feels like it's a 3.2 earthquake, we need a 6.2 earthquake.
Travis: That's true, we do. Let's be honest. We really do need a massive shake.
Laura: What if we weaken the outside and then hit with the earthquake?
Marisha: I can tunnel out underneath it.
Taliesin: I think whatever was going on up there is gone. I think it's happened.
Laura: Well, Delilah's still up there, so if she falls at least she takes some damage.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Liam: I'm just going to throw my vote in the ring here, that I think we should take the time for the Feast. You know, we're not killing piles of rats in the sewers, here. This is serious.
Sam: When last time we fought Delilah, were any of us scared of her?
Taliesin: She's not what I'm afraid of.
Laura: Wisdom saving throws are major. She could take control of us.
Travis: I'm not against that, but I think one person should stay out of the Feast and keep an eye in case they leave in the hour that we're feasting.
Sam: Well, if someone's going to stay out of the Feast, it should be the guy who already has advantage on everything.
Travis: Oh, that too, yeah. I just can't get afraid, that's all I was going to say.
Laura: Yeah, but you can be taken control of with your brain, Grog.
Travis: That's assuming a lot.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Ashley: Shit.
Travis: Or we just go get it. We just go after it and go get it.
Sam: I'm against the Feast. I think we should just run in.
Laura: I just don't feel like there's time, honestly.
Sam: Also, I'm vegan, I don't know if I could eat everything at the feast.
Liam: It is largely GoFiBePo?
Sam: GoFiBePo? Why didn't you just name it a Poobah Platter?
Laura: Oh, that would have been way easier.
Marisha: How far are we from the tower in this little house?
Matt: In this house, you're a little over a half mile away from it.
Taliesin: It's a ten-minute walk.
Matt: So this house is just outside of the perimeter wall of the inner cloister.
Marisha: You guys could do the Feast and some of us can help tunnel out the ground during that hour.
Taliesin: I don't know. I don't think we're going to bring it down.
Travis: I don't know if we're going to bring it down. It was a cool idea, but I don't know if we're going to do it. We're no white ancient dragon.
Ashley: What's it made of? Obsidian?
Matt: You haven't been close enough to really tell, but it looks to be made of a very thick, dark obsidian or onyx-like material.
Liam: It's also unsettling as fuck, right?
Laura: Oh, it's probably magically protected.
Liam: Probably.
Taliesin: It may just hover there if we knock this.
Laura: That is very true.
Taliesin: It may be keeping the ground up as opposed to being sitting on the ground at that point.
Marisha: So we're going to try to fly up?
Taliesin: Or walk up through the inside.
Travis: Raise your hand if you want a Heroes' Feast.
Liam: For you all, yes.
Travis: Four?
Sam: Is that a raise or not?
Travis: Are you scratching your ear or are you raising your hand?
Taliesin: Yes, damn it.
Sam: Wait, so, are we four?
Ashley: I'm just nervous. I know we don't have time, but what if this is one of those decisions where later we're like "We should have fucking done a Heroes' Feast"?
Travis: Well, let's do it.
Ashley: I don't know, though, I don't know if we have the time. This is hard.
Travis: Well, the transaction upstairs has already happened, whether they get away or not.
Marisha: I have a feeling we're going to be down here a while.
Laura: Maybe we can prepare the Feast, keep an eye out. If we have to ditch out on the Feast early, then we do.
Marisha: Keyleth looks out the window again. Are people panicked, are people running around? Is there a rabble in the street?
Matt: There's no technical window in this building. There's the door.
Travis: She just pushes her head against the wall.
Matt: So you look out the door and glance through. You do notice, there's no panic, but you do see a number of-- and this is interesting-- you glance out, and you don't see any undead wandering the streets of the inner cloister. At least, not like the outer area was. You do see-- make a perception check, actually.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! 30!
Matt: You see, throughout the street, which, the street from here gets about halfway to the tower before it hits a building and curves around. You see maybe 35 or 40 total people in matching or close cultist robes or similar colors, all making their way towards the tower.
Taliesin: They're dressed for an occasion. Fuck it. Just go.
Laura: We got to go. 35 to 40 people? Let's kill 'em all on the way up.
Marisha: Man, you're frosty today. You're just--
Laura: They're trying to come over into our territory. I don't like it. They're all assholes.
Travis: Shall we go in?
Marisha: Well, how are we going to go in, though? Just flying up?
Taliesin: We have one broom, we don't have two brooms anymore. We got a carpet, and we got wings.
Laura: And a couple people with wings. Oh god, the creepy music is starting. We gotta go, y'all.
Liam: Beeline to the tower.
Marisha: And then what? And then what, though? Once we get there? Play it by ear?
Taliesin: Throw everything off the top. Break everything. Smash everything.
Laura: It's Delilah. She's going to destroy us. Do we have any way to neutralize her magic?
Travis: Well, you could turn into a... no.
Marisha: I can't. I gave Vax Foresight. I cannot turn into a beholder today.
Sam: I can.
Taliesin: You can?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Do you have Shapechange?
Sam: Something like it. (gasping)
Taliesin: All right, this is almost a plan. Let's do this.
Travis: It's more than we normally have.
Taliesin: It's far more.
Laura: Are there a lot of gloom stalkers around?
Matt: You can tell with the loss of magical energy that they've been tossed askew a bit. Their patterns of circling and being intent, they're a little more scattered a bit, but there are still maybe a few dozen that look over the inner cloister.
Taliesin: Let's make our way to the tower and maybe head up through the tower. We don't have to necessarily fly up to the top.
Laura: Wait a minute. Did the orb at the top turn the same way that the orbs in the ziggurat turn?
Matt: There were faint orbs that were taking the energy and focusing it towards that center altar, and when everything faded after the shock wave, what you saw looked like the tiniest star. It was just a speck of extremely bright light that to look directly at it hurt.
Travis: I don't know! I don't! Just go get it.
Marisha: I'm honestly still kind of into the earthquake idea. Bringing down the tower. I'm not going to lie.
Sam: That's not going to work!
Marisha: How do you know?
Sam: You said 50 points of damage?
Taliesin: I can take 50 points of damage. I can take two earthquakes, personally.
Sam: I mean, just from a metagaming scenario, that's not even-- that can't even hurt--
Marisha: No, no, no. The tremor deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in your area when you cast the spell, and at the start of each of your turns until the spell ends, and the spell lasts a minute.
Sam: So you get ten 50s.
Marisha: Ten of those. Ten 50s.
Laura: Oh, and then times two.
Marisha: With Pike and I.
Sam: So that's 1000 points. Over a minute. That's better than I thought.
Liam: Is it concentration?
Marisha: It's concentration for up to a minute, and it has a 500-foot range, and a 100-foot radius. So Pike and I could split, half and half of the tower.
Travis: It's pretty fucking Hollywood. I kind of like it.
Taliesin: All right! All right, let's do it.
Marisha: I feel like if we go right up to the top of the tower, it's like walking into the danger.
Taliesin: Let's bring the tower down to us.
Marisha: This is insane!
Liam: And you can still fuck shit up while you got that earthquake going, right?
Marisha: Well, how do you mean?
Laura: Oh, yeah, if you have that spell going, you can do other things in case things attack us?
Liam: Are you just doing Earthquake the whole time, or are you just standing there staring at the ground?
Marisha: It's my concentration, so I can keep it going and do an instant reaction spell.
Matt: Do other things, you can't do another concentration spell.
Liam: But you're not lightning anybody's ass, not doing anything like that. You're focusing on the tower.
Marisha: I mean, I can throw a Fireball and keep it going, yeah.
Liam: That's really big. All right.
Taliesin: I say the movers and shakers get the cloaks. Let's head out.
Laura: Get up as close as we can to support Pike and Keyleth.
Taliesin: And we keep them safe. We are playing defense.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: God, I hope this works.
Taliesin: God, I hope this works, too.
Marisha: I don't know if this is going to work!
Laura: This is stupid as fuck!
Taliesin: We're distance. Anybody gets near them, we take them out.
Marisha: Grog, can you at the right moment just do a big-- see if you can topple it over?
Travis: I can try and do whatever you want. I can run around and punch a bunch of holes in it, whatever.
Taliesin: We're going to focus everything on one side of the tower, we're going to try and bring it down in a direction. Here we go.
Laura: Yes, focus it on one side of the tower. Both on the same side.
Taliesin: Like a tree. Let's do this. This is a terrible plan. All right. LAURA Just trying to gauge Matt.
Marisha: I know! Matt's stone cold!
Taliesin: Matt's thinking about all the other people he could be playing D&D with right now. (laughing)
Taliesin: He's imagining a whole other set of faces here.
Liam: All right, let's teleport inside that dragon. Come on.
Matt: Yeah, what's the plan, guys?
Liam: That's the plan.
Laura: We're going to get close enough so that they can do their 500 feet distance. But keep a distance to the tower.
Marisha: And if we can be hidden while we're doing this, instead of being open. We have a 500-foot range here. We've got a dope-ass range.
Taliesin: Keyleth's got a cloak. Pike's got a cloak.
Travis: I'm huge.
Taliesin: He's huge.
Laura: We're going to try to get in a building that's closer to the tower.
Matt: Okay. Seeming lasts for eight hours, so you're still under the guise of that illusion.
Sam: Although we don't--
Laura: -- need that anymore.
Taliesin: Well, we can look like cultists.
Sam: Keyleth, you said that there's no other undead around here, right? Maybe we shouldn't look like undead, then.
Taliesin: Can you shift what we look like without changing it?
Sam: I don't think I can shift it. No, you can't. That's a one-time thing.
Laura: Maybe just drop it and we'll be cultists.
Marisha: How many robes did we swipe?
Sam: We've got the one from the guy whose head we just crushed.
Matt: You would have four cloaks, because there's two you got from the outside at the ritual, and there's the one from the guy you killed when you got here. Well, technically, there was the two that you killed when you got there, but you didn't say you grabbed those. Oh, you did, you grabbed them off. So that's two, five, six. You have six cloaks.
Laura: Yeah, and then the one, the guy that we just killed in front of the --
Matt: That was included.
Sam: Me and Pike, she could be on my shoulders and we could share one cloak.
Laura: Yeah! That's good!
Travis: I have that Cloak of Smashing that Percy gave me.
Marisha: Totally 'Little Rascals' it! Oh, I love it!
Laura: Yeah, we'll just robe it up.
Matt: You guys all throw on the--
Ashley: I almost feel like it should be the other way around.
Sam: Oh, it absolutely should. (laughter)
Matt: Six cloaks, seven players. You guys are straight-up doing-- I am so proud of everything that has just happened. (laughter)
Sam: To make it look like our arms can reach the ends of the cloak-- are they sleeved cloaks?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to hold a flute and my sword. (laughing)
Liam: Mythcarver! You used Mythcarver to pull a Little Rascals!
Matt: "There will be no survivors!"
Taliesin: "The dread Pirate Roberts is here for your souls!"
Liam: Hey guys, it's the third time Scanlan has used Mythcarver! (laughter)
Marisha: That's a vestige right there!
Taliesin: It's gone from exalted to shamed.
Matt: It retracts into a dagger now.
Taliesin: Never happens. This never happens.
Matt: All right. In a hip montage, you pull out the various cloaks, assemble your materials, getting ready.
Taliesin: We are a bunch of assholes.
Matt: Scanlan hops on top of Pike, the cloak is placed over you. You get your sleeves ready, and you all walk out into the cold air of the Shadowfell, making your way towards the center of the city.
Marisha: Be cool. Be cool.
Liam: I'm also going to say, some time in the last several hours, I don't remember what the armor is set to, to necrotic.
Matt: I think you may have said that before you went in, just in case. I assumed that was the case.
Laura: I think that was already there, yeah.
Taliesin: And remember, if anyone looks at you, close one eye. Just be winking. Always be winking. Left eye.
Laura: Does everybody have their arms, that we've run into so far? Or are they missing an arm, too? An eye and an arm or just an eye?
Matt: It varies. Not everyone seems to be missing a hand, but most of them are missing an eye.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: You all look like my sister.
Marisha: You need to get your eyes checked, then. Your depth perception may be off.
Sam: All right, we go!
Matt: All right. You guys make your way up the street, following behind the few stragglers that you see trying to catch up with the rest of the groups of people that have filtered out of the buildings and made their way towards the center. You make your way through some of the side roads, following around, and you can see now that the closer you get to the city, the more the structures, the buildings here, are built in a spiral. The roads don't intersect at spokes, they all gradually curve in to the tower. If you're looking at it overhead, it looks like this large spiral into the tower, like a pinwheel. You follow the curvature of the road, which prevents you from seeing the end point, and as you begin to get close to some of the clusters of people that are walking with a brisk walk, but still walking towards the tower, you fall back a little bit to not draw any attention. As you're making your way there, you watch as two individuals hurry up that were a little bit behind you, and rush up to the side and are walking in pace. They glance over.
Marisha: Hoods forward.
Matt: One of them, who appears to be a younger man, probably 18, 19 or so, who's got this little patch of reddish brown chin fuzz and looks a little malnourished. He still has both eyes. He rushes up real fast, his hood pulling back a little bit, and he's looking around, excited but also with trepidation. "So it's happening, huh? It's really happening!"
Laura: I guess so.
Liam: It's fucking wild.
Laura: So exciting.
Sam: I'm so excited to be here!
Laura: Oh, don't.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Keep your mouth shut! Just keep your mouth shut!
Marisha: Just nod and smile.
Sam: 24.
Matt: He looks at you and goes, "Oh! I didn't know the Whispered One takes the special ones, too!"
Travis: Yep! Sure does!
Taliesin: What are you going to do after?
Matt: "I don't know."
Taliesin: Surely you've thought.
Matt: "I'm pretty low on the totem pole here. I'm just excited to be on the right side of history."
Laura: Ditto.
Liam: Fuck the normies.
Matt: "All right." And he rushes up past you guys to try and catch up.
Sam: So awkward.
Laura: I think he bought it. I think we played it really cool there, guys.
Marisha: I'm really bad at holding my eye shut for this long.
Taliesin: So are we close enough now that we can start this?
Matt: Not yet. You're about maybe 1,000 feet or so away.
Taliesin: I'm going to see if there's any structures that are within distance so that once they set up and start, I can get to them. Maybe we can perch.
Marisha: We only need to be so far out.
Taliesin: We can cover you from a roof.
Matt: Perception check, Percival.
Liam: Also wondering how we're doing in the gloom stalker department?
Matt: No one's seen you, currently. It seems that whatever piercing vision they have, it does not seem to pierce robes.
Laura: I want to keep an eye out for buildings, too.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay. Then you as well make a perception check.
Taliesin: Please.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. Okay. You glance about, and there are a lot of buildings here with vantage points. They're all similar heights. There are a few that are outliers, but most of them are one and a half to two stories, like a one story with an attic or an attic space, like a half-story. Or two stories. You do check a few that are third-story, and a lot of them are almost in steeple-like spires at the top. You start to notice there is a theme. A lot of the buildings closer to the tower are built in a similar theme as the tower itself. You begin to see the edges of the roofs curve up into their own spikes, and the further in you go, the more dangerous and unwelcoming the deeper inner cloister of Thar Amphala is to witness. You can see now certain people are climbing onto the roofs. They're getting up there, almost like they're preparing for some sort of a festival or a fireworks show.
Marisha: Like the Fourth of fucking July.
Laura: The aliens are coming and we're welcoming them.
Travis: Well, they're not wrong.
Matt: You notice, Vex... There's been no change in daylight or nightlight here. It's been this constant deep, dark gray gloom that hangs over the Shadowfell, unchanging, unshifting. There's a creeping brightness on the horizon that you feel rising.
Laura: We're getting ready to teleport.
Matt: And you watch as that creeping brightness forms a dome over your space, and then comes to a close over the top of the tower, and where once there was this gloomy skyscape, you now see what appears to be a brighter, clouded sky. The temperature grows a little colder, and you begin to see snowfall. Gentle snow begins to fall, and you watch as some of the cultists surrounding start reaching up and catching it in their hands.
Taliesin: Now, now!
Sam: We've still got to attack.
Marisha: It's totally taken us to Whitestone.
Sam: It's okay, we can still kill everybody.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Laura: We're in the north. There's a lot of places that snow. It could be Draconia. There's a lot of places that snow.
Liam: But it's Delilah Briarwood.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You have no direct idea of where you are, but based on the weather that you left Whitestone in not too long ago, this isn't Whitestone or near Whitestone. The weather patterns are a little more classic snow.
Laura: Is it winter in Wildemount right now?
Matt: It's the tail end of winter in a few places.
Liam: Tower still needs to come down.
Sam: Let's go. Let's move. Let's attack. Are we within 500 feet?
Matt: You guys are about now within 500 feet.
Laura: Fucking get into the building that we can, and then start it.
Marisha: Pike and I huddle together and try and join forces.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Matt: As you guys are holding hands, a voice begins to ring out. Omnipresent. Directionless, like it's being positioned directly into the minds of each of you from wherever it stands. It's an unfamiliar voice. The words creep and curl in, like they've always been resting, and now is the moment is for them to reveal themselves. "I would ask you to listen before you make a fool of yourselves. I've watched you since you stepped into my domain, and I'm not going to lie, it's been entertaining. I admire your gumption. It reminds me of others who have tried what you are trying. But they're dead now, so I leave the choice to you. You can either walk away, or you can join me, or you will die, and join me anyway."
Laura: Eff that shit. Just do it.
Liam: No one walks away.
Marisha: People don't tell us to stop if they're not afraid of what we're doing.
Taliesin: To the end.
Laura: To the end.
Sam: To the end.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just pretend that's not really happening.
Laura: Do it.
Marisha: I love you all. We do it, above the screaming, howling Horror Nights sound effects.
Taliesin: I pull Silence.
Matt: All right. As you guys clasp hands, and begin the intricate incantation for the Earthquake spell, you can hear the cheers of people on the rooftops. They're standing up now, and they're all shouting, "Yes! Yes, I hear you!" You get the sense that perhaps you weren't the only ones that have been spoken to, although the conversations may differ from individual to individual. As you guys complete your incantation, you watch as the dust begins to rise around the base. You see Entropis begin to quiver back and forth, and you watch as everyone begins to rush to the edge of the rooftops, then rush into the streets to look up, their hands raised to the sky, not sure what this means, but basking in whatever glory this next sign or omen is to be. You watch as a loud, shattering crack sound hits, and you watch as one large, snaking, carving line begins to work its way up one side of the tower. Up another. And the collective gasp of hundreds of voices across the city seem to echo, (gasps). You watch as one side buckles, and the tower begins to slowly (rumble) to the ground.
Sam: Is it falling towards us?
Matt: It's falling not towards you.
Ashley: We thought of that.
Matt: But not the entire tower.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: You glance up and watch as the very apex, the three-clawed top of the tower, is just there, in the sky, held aloft, unmoving, as the rest of the tower seems to have (rumble) broken away, and as it falls, this slow, terrifying collapse, you hear the rumbling of broken stone slamming into earth as clouds of smoke, dust, and dead earth are kicked up from the impact of this falling tower, completely enswirling the center of the city with debris and darkness. You watch as cultists go running now, their faces filled with fear and confusion at what this suddenly means, what's happening. As the dust washes past you, it gives this haze over the sky, and slowly comes to fade. You all, taking in what's happening, watch as that one apex of the spire slowly makes its way down to the surface of wherever you are on top of the rubble that once stood as Entropis.
Marisha: It kind of worked.
Sam: I mean, it wasn't bad.
Marisha: It brought it down. Did anyone of significance die in the process?
Matt: You can only assume.
Laura: Can we see who it is?
Matt: You're too far away. You're 500 feet away from this.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: Broom.
Travis: We're going up to it or waiting till it comes down all the way?
Sam: Oh, I mean, it's landing, right?
Matt: It's landed. It settled itself. It's kind of cocked to one side. For it to land in the rubble, it's not a perfect platform, it (rumble) and comes to rest at a very faint angle among the ruined, broken, jagged obsidian pile. It's a thousand million flecked arrowheads all jumbled in this broken glass-like landscape of destroyed tower, and there, the very zenith of this once-grand structure sits resting, waiting.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Sam: Do we have an escape plan?
Travis: Kill everything.
Marisha: I can Plane Shift us if things get really bad, but I kind of think we're already on our plane.
Laura: This sounds like we're all going to die!
Sam: Sure does.
Ashley: All right, guys, we're going to do this. We're going to do this.
Liam: Start walking.
Taliesin: The minute I grab onto your broom, you can't hear anything, so I'm just going to ride it down to the ground and then let go.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Well, I'm done playing, so I'm going to take the Titan Stone Knuckles and smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself.
Matt: Your cloak tears around your body, Incredible Hulk style as your form ruins what remains of the black, sheared fabric that once, even by the stretch of the imagination, pseudo-hid you, now...
Travis: A bib remains.
Matt: Exactly. It's almost like one of those Chippendale neckpieces. What you see is a number of cultists that were running away from the tower stop and see this, and then, almost instinctually, go to defend. Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Should've raged. That's not terrible. 24.
Matt: And go scattering in other directions. You see some are rushing towards the tower to see what happened, to see if anyone's okay. There are a lot of cultists that were crushed, you imagine, on that side of the city, especially since they were clustering at the base for whatever this was. But many more are still out in the streets as you guys walk (footsteps), making your way towards the central tower.
Laura: I take off the robes. Get ready. Slow motion walk towards the tower.
Matt: You make your way down the ruined city streets of Thar Amphala. Amongst the snowfall that's now beginning to gather on the tops of your heads and your shoulders and your wings, and along the sides of the street that hadn't seen snowfall, probably ever. You make your way past the final boundary buildings, the cultists just letting you pass, looks of fear, looks of excitement, looks of knowing, looks of understanding that you probably walk to your deaths and I want to watch this happen. You begin to step over the rubble, your footfalls finding the grinding, high-pitched cracks of broken glass-like obsidian beneath your feet. There you look up, and can see about 25 or 30 feet of the tower top is resting at an angle. You can't see what's up on top of it. No windows. How do you wish to proceed?
Liam: We're not sneaking up on shit.
Laura: Well, no. They know we're here.
Travis: Circle? Flank? All together? Which one?
Taliesin: Powerhouses together. Distance fighters keep their distance. I'll take the carpet if it's available.
Laura: Surround the tower, climb up each side?
Travis: I would.
Taliesin: I'm going to grab the carpet. Anybody who wants a lift up, feel free.
Travis: I will take that ride.
Laura: I'll broom it.
Ashley: I'll hop up on the carpet.
Taliesin: Carpet's full.
Matt: As you guys are getting yourselves prepared, that voice returns to you, echoing through your minds once again. "I am genuinely impressed. I'm excited. And I would like for you to remain to watch my ascension, but far be it for me to rob anyone of a fine death, so come. Come, and be the next sacrifice for the new age."
Laura: You're a dipshit!
Travis: Eloquence personified.
Matt: So, via broom...
Sam: We have to fly to get up to it?
Laura: It's 35 feet up, so.
Marisha: To the top of the tower?
Travis: Platform, whatever you want to call it.
Liam: I'm going to shoot up and past by quite a bit.
Marisha: Can I hop on a carpet or broom?
Laura: You can hop on my broom.
Taliesin: I was about to say, carpet's a bit full.
Marisha: I'll hop on the broom with Vex.
Sam: I need a ride as well.
Taliesin: Once I'm up, I'm going to scatter.
Sam: Do you want me to be a beholder? Or a dragon?
Marisha: Beholder has the anti-magic cone eye situation. Just wait and see.
Sam: Wait and see? Figured I should do it now.
Taliesin: How long can you maintain a beholder?
Marisha: How long does it last to cast?
Sam: It's instantaneous.
Taliesin: Oh, then wait until the moment that it's necessary.
Sam: But he could Counterspell it unless I do it now.
Laura: I don't know if he's actually here yet.
Matt: Help me put this down right... There.
Ashley: That's awesome.
Laura: I feel like whenever we come across a map, I feel like we walked into his hand, exactly where he wanted us.
Travis: Let's also talk about the fact that it's been years since we've been this close to a map.
Matt: This is also true.
Taliesin: That is true.
Matt: Please. Indulge me where you're coming in from. And these resemble the three curved spires.
Travis: Those ideally go like that above it, right?
Matt: Yeah, they curve upward and stop about there.
Taliesin: So they're not platform-y.
Matt: No. They come to a point.
Taliesin: I'm hiding behind this glowing spire. I'm going to take some cover behind.
Matt: You rush. We're looking for landing placement, here. This'll come into play, here. Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'll go right there.
Matt: Right there.
Laura: Me and Keyleth-- do you want to land over here?
Marisha: That's fine. Yeah, I follow your lead.
Laura: As soon as I land, I bamf Trinket out.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I'm going to say that I'm about 80 feet in the air, just off-center. Towards Vex and Keyleth, but just off-center.
Laura: Keep a distance, don't be in a line with us.
Liam: I'm going to say I'm there, straight up.
Matt: There you are, Vax, right there.
Travis: The minis look so cool!
Taliesin: I haven't seen them in so long.
Travis: I know, we've been so far away!
Taliesin: Who's left? Pike?
Matt: Pike and Scanlan. Because you took the carpet, you're going to have to be near Grog for where you guys land. Going to be the circumstance there. Percy, you just run up the side to get there?
Taliesin: No, I was on the carpet and hopped and left them because they had to go pick up.
Matt: If that's the case, then I'll say that you're landing.
Taliesin: No, they had to go get Scanlan--
Matt: Oh, you had to go get Scanlan?
Taliesin: It's 35 feet.
Matt: If you guys had leave Scanlan behind, that's a whole different thing.
Sam: No, I think I'm going to just go ahead and be a beholder and fly in there myself.
Taliesin: Okay, that'll work.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Wow! Okay! All right! YOLO, why the fuck not?
Taliesin: If you'd be so kind, throw me here, then.
Liam: Someday, we could have a game with two beholders on our side.
Marisha: It's true! But not today.
Matt: That's Scanlan. (laughter)
Taliesin: I like that you found a goofy-looking beholder. (goofy voice) Hi!
Ashley: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: Hey, you guys!
Matt: As you guys arrive, the floor is just surrounded in bodies. Cultists of very ornate robes. Mostly you've seen peon-based: black splatters of sackcloth, what was available.
Laura: They've been peed on?!
Matt: No. these are well-adorned and appear to have been very well-regarded within the Remnants. You also see, on this side, what appears to be-- sorry, on this side would be Delilah Briarwood.
Laura: Bitchface Briarwood.
Marisha: Bitchface Briarwood!
Matt: On this side, you see what appears to be a black, armored, massive, not quite goliath-sized, but a thick, dark black knight of jagged dark metal armor, what appears to be a longsword that emanates this dark energy, and floating above--
Taliesin: Oh, balls.
Laura: Oh no, what's flying?
Ashley: Put it away.
Laura: No, I don't need it!
Liam: Those are my platforms, I can take them back anytime I want!
Laura: Oh no! What is that?
Matt: You see a man, though the flesh is pulled tight against a skeletal frame. You see long, red and purple and black robes that are tattered and drift below the breeze and cold gently blowing by. You see a field of crackling energy just bursting around the outskirts of his form. You see one hand is out, in a welcoming position, while the empty wrist that once contained a hand is now open on the other side. You see the bald, hairless head, which is covered in spots and tugged open, bits of flesh that have curled away from rotten decay. You see the cheeks sunken in where the skeletal teeth are now emblazoned in a terrible grin. You see the right eye, and the gaping hole where a bright green, bursting, flaming vacuous void where an eye once was now drifts off a trail behind it. You see there, reborn before you, the Whispered One, the Undying King. Vecna himself.
Travis: Oh god, we're in it!
Taliesin: I don't like it being this close.
Sam: We'll probably all die.
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative. (screaming)
Travis: No!
Sam: Matthew Mercer, may I borrow your Monster Manual so I know what I am?
Matt: Marisha actually has a page for it, if you want that.
Marisha: I do have a page. Do you want my beholder page?
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: That's terrible.
Marisha: That's terrible for me, too.
Laura: My teeth hurt.
Matt: My teeth hurt?!
Taliesin: That's terrible. I'm not okay with that roll.
Marisha: Oh, give me that back page. Sorry.
Taliesin: Back page.
Sam: It doesn't say what his initiative is.
Taliesin: You have to roll. It's a dex modifier plus a d20 if you don't have initiative?
Matt: What's that?
Taliesin: Your initiative is normal.
Matt: Your initiative is whatever the creature's initiative is, which is its dex modifier.
Sam: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: Plus a d20.
Sam: 11.
Liam: When was the last time we went to bed?
Laura: I mean, it's a normal amount of time.
Liam: No, I mean, like, right before coming? I can't remember the last time we had a full rest.
Matt: A full rest would have been maybe four or five hours ago.
Liam: Okay. I think I have all my Lucks. That's why I'm asking.
Taliesin: I don't think you've burned since we've come through.
Liam: Not 100% sure.
Marisha: I also gave you advantage on everything.
Liam: I know it! Girl!
Marisha: I think you didn't use anything.
Matt: Initiative order. 25 to 20?
Travis: 20. Shit.
Matt: Fuck, guys. Guys.
Travis: Me?! Okay.
Laura: I have no plan!
Ashley: We're fully Leeroy Jenkins-ing.
Laura: Fully. Leeroy Jenkins!
Matt: Grog, what's your dex?
Travis: My dexterity? 15.
Matt: Okay. Technically, you rolled the same initiative as the death knight, so he'll go right after you.
Travis: Okay. The death knight, by the way, is what Colonel Arnold Fuck is.
Matt: 20 to 15.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 18.
Ashley: 17.
Laura: Ooh, nice!
Matt: You had 18, 17.
Liam: 16. Sylas, broomstick-up-his-ass, death knight Briarwood.
Sam: 11.
Taliesin: 13.
Laura: This first round is definitely a surprise attack on them, right?
Matt: Oh yeah! Totally!
Marisha: Seven.
Taliesin: They did not see this shit coming. At all.
Matt: All righty. So.
Marisha: I had so much hope when we took down their tower. It went away very quickly.
Taliesin: It did, but I think that probably made a lot of cultists go away.
Liam: Guys, we've got to start the new campaign sometime.
Matt: Okay. Beginning of the round.
Marisha: We all die.
Taliesin: I cast Game Over. 20th-level spell.
Matt: So many options. (groaning)
Taliesin: Fuck you.
Liam: We're going to die. Yep!
Travis: Obviously, we're not at the top of the round.
Matt: Okay, so. Vecna, as he stands there, seeing the beholder arrive over the edge, seeing the paladin in the sky, seeing the rest of these individuals cluster in, goes, "Very well. I wanted to talk more. Please, sit." I need Scanlan, Vax, Grog, Keyleth, and Vex to all make wisdom saving throws, please.
Travis: Fuck!
Marisha: Ugh, should have done that fucking Feast!
Laura: We knew we were going to say it.
Sam: Shit, I'm gonna lose my fucking 9th-level spell.
Ashley: Not necessarily!
Marisha: 13.
Travis: Oh fuck, yeah. A natural 19.
Laura: I have a feeling I have to roll really high against fucking Vecna!
Taliesin: Do you have a Luck?
Laura: Oh yeah, Tary had Luck, not Scanlan.
Sam: Neither have Luck. I'm a beholder.
Taliesin: No, you have all of your other stuff.
Sam: Are you sure about that?
Marisha: Is it like Shapechange?
Sam: This is True Polymorph. I am this creature.
Marisha: Oh, it's True Polymorph.
Matt: He is that creature.
Liam: That's hot.
Sam: Except it's not, because I'm about to not be anymore.
Laura: Because he's going to cancel it.
Matt: So.
Sam: 18.
Liam: God damn it.
Travis: Oh, Jesus.
Marisha: 27.
Matt: You resist.
Liam: 18.
Laura: Oh god, you have to roll so high in order to resist.
Sam: Even with advantage? Oh, fuck.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: They roll disadvantage against you, too.
Taliesin: Oh, you didn't say me.
Laura: You skipped me. And I rolled a 20.
Marisha: You rolled a 20?
Matt: You feel the force of his magical prowess coalesce like a cold vise on your brain, and your body seizes, holding taut. And you're all held. You fall straight down 80 feet.
Marisha: Oh, no.
Travis: (nervous laughter) Oh, fuck! Oh man!
Marisha: None of us can do anything to help him?
Laura: We slow-motion walked into our own death.
Travis: Oh, shit!
Sam: Is Pike out?
Matt: Take 32 points of bludgeoning damage, Vax. And you are-- Oh god!
Laura: Walls brought down.
Matt: Prone, there.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: The rest of you are also held.
Travis: Is this charmed or frightened?
Matt: No.
Travis: Okay, it's not.
Laura: What does being held mean?
Liam: It's paralysis.
Taliesin: Until we save, or until his concentration is broken, I assume.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: And rage would have no effect on this?
Matt: Nope!
Travis: Fucking shit.
Matt: And he's going to go ahead and shift up about 20 more feet and kind of glance over the battlefield a bit.
Sam: He's a god! He's a golden god!
Travis: He actually is one. And he won't jump off a 1000-foot cliff.
Matt: (chuckles) Apparently. All right.
Laura: T minus ten minutes until he turns into a goldfish.
Marisha: We can only be so hopeful.
Laura: That's plenty of time for us to die.
Matt: That ends his turn. Delilah's now going to go.
Travis: Oh, good!
Laura: Oh, good!
Travis: Wow, what a way to lead off the round!
Sam: My anti-magic cone is not in effect, I assume?
Taliesin: Actually, isn't it just naturally wherever they're looking?
Matt: It's wherever you're facing, but he hasn't had a turn to go yet, he basically just arrived.
Taliesin: Oh, okay.
Matt: So it would be kind of in this path here, wherever you would have come in in this regard. So it would be this direction.
Liam: It's a big fuckin' headlamp.
Sam: (laughs) Just frozen there. I really want to swallow and I can't close--
Taliesin: I was under the impression that the eyeball was passive.
Matt: I'm checking right now, actually.
Sam: Well, you have to choose. At the start of each turn--
Matt: At the start of its turn, which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active.
Sam: I haven't had a turn.
Marisha: And if it's active?
Taliesin: You're holding your action for being able to move.
Matt: Anyway.
Travis: Hey, so... (laughs)
Sam: We got this, guys. How many of us are still able to move?
Matt: Three of you.
Sam: Hey! Okay!
Travis: Looking up! Things are looking up. He has 12 hit points, by the way.
Marisha: Being held. What's the deal with that?
Matt: You're paralyzed. Which means you are incapacitated, you automatically fail strength and dexterity saving throws, attack rolls against you have advantage, and any creature that hits you within five feet, it's a critical hit.
Travis: Basically worst scenario possible. That's all you had to say: worst scenario possible.
Taliesin: It could be worse, but it would take math. This is bad.
Sam: Pike's going to solve everything.
Ashley: Oh, yeah.
Sam: Yeah, she can get us out of this.
Liam: Flipping those pages.
Travis: Remember this look, boys and girls. On Matt's face. As the chef carefully picks the menu of our-- Yes.
Laura: Of our destruction? Of our doom?
Taliesin: He has been grooming us and fattening us up for two years.
Matt: Delilah is going to move.
Sam: Oh no, lair action, she explodes. (laughter)
Matt: And is going to step over Vax's body on the ground.
Marisha: Oh, bitch! You better back off, bitch!
Laura: Hope you're wearing underwear, bitch, because he just looked up your skirt!
Matt: And looks at you.
Laura: (small voice) Me?
Matt: It's been a while, my dear. (yelling)
Laura: No! Why would you do this?! How you do dis Matt?!
Matt: Yep, so make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: No!
Matt: You're held, but you still make a constitution roll.
Marisha: Come on...
Ashley: Matt, how do you do this?!
Travis: Come on.
Marisha: Not again.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: No way!
Liam: And I said, biiiiitch.
Matt: So you take half as much damage, which is good.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Laura: Oh, I'm really glad we healed.
Liam: Vax on the ground just starts going (unintelligible yells).
Matt: All right, so instead of 61 points of necrotic damage, you take 30 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: I'm shaking, guys.
Taliesin: Leroy!
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: Got to squeeze my spiky dice to wake up.
Laura: Ow, ow.
Matt: You okay?
Laura: (whimpering) I'm good.
Travis: Blood pressure's a thing right now.
Matt: That'll end her turn. Grog.
Liam: Holy shit, Grog.
Matt: Your turn happens at the same time the lair action happens.
Travis: And the Death Knight, right?
Matt: And the Death Knight. He's going to go directly after you. You guys going on the same turn, I gave you a little bit.
Taliesin: Oh man, I am not-- This does not feel good.
Travis: Oh, shit! Oh!
Matt: You watch as the bodies on the ground quiver (sound of bones cracking) And begin to rise up around you.
Sam: No, forget them! Fix us! Forget them, they're nothing. Fix us.
Laura: They could just attack us until we die.
Sam: Fix. Us. They're tiny.
Taliesin: I have a plan. I have a plan.
Sam: Fix us.
Travis: What, you're going to pledge your fealty to the fucking--
Sam: Some sort of-- I don't know, can you restore... Restoration?
Laura: Do you have mass Restoration?
Ashley: No!
Marisha: That's not a spell, you guys!
Ashley: I'm useless!
Marisha: I don't know if Pike can fix this!
Laura: I don't think she can fix it.
Ashley: Let's use it! Let's just make it, Matt, you can put that in your new campaign book. Mass Restoration.
Laura: Mass Anti-hold.
Matt: And this will be there. So they all rise up out of the ground, these basic skeletons, and they all get one attack. So against Percy, this one moves in. Rolls a natural one, misses entirely. One of them's going to strike at the beholder that's up in the air; that's going to be a 15, what's your armor class?
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18. Just ricochets off the armor. There's one here that's going to go toward Pike. And you're not held, right? You resisted it. So it's going to go ahead and make a strike on you; that's another 15. Just hits your armor and scrapes off, no effect. This one's going to rush forward, two against Vax on the ground. It has advantage. That's a 19.
Liam: To do what?
Matt: To attack you.
Liam: All right, so I'm at disadvantage, but I have advantage, so it would be one straight roll?
Matt: No, it has advantage against you because you're paralyzed, so yeah, it would be one straight roll. The first roll was 19.
Liam: Oh, so no.
Matt: No. Your armor class is 21 naturally?
Liam: It is 21 when the daggers are out, and my daggers are in my hands. I mean, I don't know, this is kinda loosey-goosey. All right, then I'm at 20.
Matt: Yeah, so it still misses you. The other one, no, misses. Both of them just miss you. The effect of the 9th-level spell is just enough of a vibration that the attacks are being-- You're moving just, (grunts) ever so faintly out of the way.
Liam: Familiar.
Matt: One attacking Keyleth. That is a 24.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you suffer eight points of slashing damage. And then Vex, that is a 12 to hit? And a 20 to hit. Neither hit? So as they're striking you, they're hitting the armor, it's just not cutting through. They can't seem to get through it. So that worked out okay in your favor.
Laura: Thanks, dragon armor!
Matt: Grog? You're paralyzed.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Matt: I believe you make another saving throw at the end of your turn to try and shrug off the effect.
Travis: Can I go into a paralyzed rage?
Matt: Nope. But make a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: God, we've got to roll like a 27 in order to break it!
Travis: 12.
Matt: Nope. You're still locked in place, unable to move.
Sam: I will never be able to break it.
Laura: A 20 didn't break it, so yeah.
Sam: Yeah, there's no way.
Matt: A natural 20 would break it.
Laura: A natural 20.
Marisha: A natural 20 would break it, that's the only thing?
Travis: I have a modifier of zero, so.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Gotta fucking attack that bitch.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: Actually, you know what? No. He's gonna stay back there and move this way to get out of the way.
Liam: Fuck you, Sylas.
Matt: As the Death Knight kinda steps over to the side, you watch as this small sphere of darkness begins to (crackling sound) into his hand, and then throws it with an arc, in a 20-foot radius centered on a point that it chooses.
Sam: That's rough stuff.
Travis: You're a beholder, do you get legendary actions and resistances and shit?
Sam: I don't think-- I don't know.
Matt: It's legendary resistances, not actions.
Sam: What's a legendary resistance?
Matt: You get to reroll-- Unless it doesn't have it.
Sam: This doesn't.
Matt: No, the beholder does not. It's not that powerful. All right, I need Pike, Grog--it's a dexterity saving throw. So Grog and Scanlan automatically fail. Percival and Pike, I need you both to make dexterity saving throws, please.
Ashley: Okay. Oh, fuck.
Taliesin: Yeah. 20.
Ashley: (brightly) Six!
Laura: Wait! Oh, I thought that was ten.
Taliesin: I have advantage also, against--
Matt: Right. You take a total of 35 points of fire and necrotic damage. You take 35 points of necrotic damage, and because you're resistant to fire, you only take 17 points of fire damage. 35 points.
Ashley: Did you say 17, Matt?
Matt: 17, yes.
Matt: Scanlan? And Grog. You both take-- Actually no, since you have resistance to fire-- Which actually, your form is, I should give you the large form.
Sam: I added wrong. Wait, wait! Stop everything.
Matt: Yes? What're you stoppin'?
Sam: I added wrong. My saving throw was a 23.
Matt: Was a 23?
Laura: On being held?
Matt: On being held? Still fails.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Yeah, you did a 24, right?
Marisha: I rolled like a 27.
Laura: She rolled a 27.
Travis: 27, yeah. We gotta go!
Laura: There's nowhere-- We're gonna die.
Sam: So what did I just get hit with? 70 points or something?
Matt: You took 70 points of fire and necrotic damage.
Sam: Awesome.
Taliesin: Do you have resistance to any of that?
Matt: Not as a beholder, no. Okay, that ends the Death Knight's turn.
Travis: I mean, he's just dunking on us.
Taliesin: Well, they're top-loading. They're top-loading.
Matt: Vex. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Crotch in face.
Matt: That's cocked, roll again.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Nope, still locked in place.
Travis: Oh, for the wisdom save?
Matt: Pike.
Ashley: Okay. All right, I'm going to touch Grog and cast Lesser Restoration.
Matt: Okay, which cures...?
Ashley: Paralysis.
Matt: Then, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So I've just got to run around.
Matt: Grog, you are cured of paralysis.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Do that a lot.
Matt: You feel your form freed of the effect of the spell. Do you want to move?
Ashley: How many undead are there?
Matt: There are one, two, three, four, five over there.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You already used your action to cast a spell, so.
Ashley: Yeah. So, as my bonus action, I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Which will just add two to your AC.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you!
Matt: What level is Shield of Faith?
Ashley: First level.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So there you go. Just mark that for yourself.
Taliesin: Oh, it's on!
Matt: All righty. Do you want to move, or are you going to stay where you are, Pike?
Taliesin: You've got a Death Knight, if you're feeling frisky.
Travis: Do you want to move or stay where you are?
Ashley: Okay. Sorry. I'm going to hide behind the beholder.
Matt: Okay, so you move around Grog and get right about there. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to attempt to roll a natural 20.
Marisha: You have advantage on everything.
Liam: I know.
Marisha: That's good. That's okay.
Liam: It's not a natural 20, though, which is what it's going to take. I'm going to use Luck.
Marisha: Oh my god, you rolled a 19.
Liam: 18 and a 19.
Sam: Plus anything?
Liam: Plus two. Gets me to 21. I need a natural 20. Luck. No. Okay.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vax. Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot against the wall towards myself as far as a reasonable amount of movement will take me because I don't like clumping. I'm going to take aim at the asshole in the sky, and let's do a couple of things. I'm going to take Bad News out, and just to keep everything reasonable, I'm going to burn a point for dead-eye, and I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot on him.
Matt: Okay, so minus five to the attack roll.
Taliesin: Minus five to the attack. That's a crit! That's a crit.
Matt: You rolled a 19, yeah, which you have now at level 18.
Taliesin: At level 18, that's a crit.
Matt: This is with which gun?
Taliesin: This is with Bad News, so that's going to be 2d12. That's going to be 4d12 plus six.
Matt: This is Bad News, you said?
Taliesin: Bad News. I don't know if this also doubles-- I don't think it does-- but I'm pouring all of Cabal's Ruin into this shit, too.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the Cabal's Ruin damage. The actual hit from Bad News does nothing.
Taliesin: Oh, really?
Matt: The non-enchanted attack from Bad News hits and dissipates across his form. It's not half damage. Nothing. This is Vecna. Cabal's Ruin is considered magical damage, so that will go through.
Marisha: Was that the one you critted on?
Taliesin: Yeah, I burned a crit.
Matt: You gained the grit back, though.
Taliesin: The grit's not burned, so that's nice. These don't double, do they?
Matt: No. Wait, technically, they would. Technically, they do, because it is a crit. All dice double, yeah.
Ashley: Get him!
Taliesin: Does my other rule also apply to this? Does this add to bleed damage now? Maybe not.
Matt: I don't think so, because it's an outside effect.
Taliesin: It's an outside factor. That's fine. I'm with you.
Matt: No, you know what? It would because just like any other critical effect, yes, it would.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: It would.
Taliesin: (counting) 32. That's 32.
Marisha: Did you count that one?
Taliesin: 36 points of damage, times two.
Laura: 72.
Matt: 72.
Taliesin: 72 points of electrical damage, and then he's also going to get a bleed of 31. No, he's going to get a bleed of 15.
Matt: He will get 15 because he's resistant to lightning, so he takes half of that next time.
Taliesin: But he still has to roll concentration.
Matt: Yeah, for 36.
Taliesin: I'll take it, and goodbye, Cabal. I'll gain more when he hits me with some magic shit.
Sam: Oh boy.
Laura: It's such an anti-climactic fight because none of us can do anything.
Matt: That would be 18 as half that. DC is 18 to maintain concentration. Yeah, he saves.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it!
Matt: Barely. By one.
Travis: By one?
Matt: By one.
Laura: On concentration?
Taliesin: Damn it. I was debating whether or not to hit him with Hex, and now I'm so sad I didn't. Oh, well. That's okay. I'm reloading, and I'm going to take another Bad News shot at Delilah. Where is she?
Matt: She's over here.
Taliesin: What is she doing?
Matt: She just stepped over Vax's paralyzed body and threw a Finger of Death at Vex.
Taliesin: Okay. Let's burn that little bit of Animus again and burn that grit point again for advantage. Let's hit her with Bad News. Actually, I'll cast... Hex on her, as well, just for fun.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And give her constitution disadvantage. Actually, let's give her, just in case she gets grappled-- let's make it constitution disadvantage. Fuck it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And then I've got bonus, and I'm doing sharpshooter again. Thank god I did because that was a terrible shot. That's 14.
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you go to fire--
Ashley: Do we know what would hit?
Taliesin: We don't.
Ashley: War God's Blessing to add ten?
Matt: Gives a plus ten?
Taliesin: Oh, that would definitely hit, I'd imagine.
Matt: You use War God's Blessing as a reaction onto Percy. As you go to fire, you feel the presence of Sarenrae coalesce around the blade, and you hear a little whisper over your shoulder say, "There." And all of a sudden, clarity comes into frame and (gunshot) you fire Bad News towards Delilah. Go ahead and roll damage on that. She's not even going to spend a Shield on that. It's way over her AC.
Taliesin: Not bad. That's (counting) 20 points of piercing damage and five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: (gunshot) It blasts, and you see the robe tear open on one side. She's like (cries out, breathes heavily).
Taliesin: That's my roll.
Matt: You glance over with the scope and see as she turns and looks at you. You can see, what you didn't see earlier, is one normal eye she has and one yellowish-green eye with a cat-slit pupil.
Taliesin: Shit.
Laura: What does that even mean?
Taliesin: Vecna's been busy. Okay. This is going to get interesting.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Percy.
Taliesin: That's all I can do.
Matt: Scanlan, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I can't move my eyes or anything or turn on my anti-magic?
Matt: As far as the ray that you have, the eye perspective, you're hitting right there, so you're just out of range to get rid of the paralysis from Vex and off Vax. If you manage to break from this somehow and you rotate, the spell would have no effect while it's on them.
Marisha: They're broken from it by being in his gaze? Am I in his gaze?
Matt: No, you are not.
Marisha: So I can still cast spells. But if I move into his gaze, I cannot.
Matt: Correct. Or if you shoot something through the cone, it will dissipate.
Marisha: If I shoot up at Vecna, will it go through the cone?
Matt: Yeah, probably. You're just outside of it.
Marisha: I will not go through the cone?
Matt: Probably. You can angle it that way, yeah. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: It is now my turn.
Matt: Also, I need you to make a concentration check.
Sam: Oh, my spell.
Matt: Yeah, transformation.
Sam: I get advantage as a gnome.
Matt: You do. How much damage did you take on that one, total, from the blast? From the blast that you took on that.
Sam: 70 points.
Matt: You have to beat a 35.
Sam: Okay. As a wisdom?
Matt: That would have been concentration. Constitution saving throw.
Sam: Constitution saving throw.
Matt: In theory, Scanlan, before it came to your turn, you dropped your beholder form.
Sam: Oh! I'm no longer paralyzed.
Matt: The spell maintains itself.
Sam: No! But I'm a different guy!
Matt: It's your mind it affects.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: Any spell still carries over the effects on you. You can't wild shape and--
Marisha: He lost concentration?
Matt: He lost concentration on his big spell, yeah.
Sam: Hey, guys.
Laura: Hey, Scanlan!
Matt: I'll let you remake that saving throw with your constitution. Sorry, your wisdom. With Scanlan's wisdom.
Sam: Okay, do I get advantage because of magic?
Matt: Yes, because it is magic.
Sam: And can I inspire myself?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Sam: All right. I will inspire myself. 24.
Matt: 24 is just enough. (relieved laughter)
Matt: You shrug off the paralysis at the end of your turn. You're now free to move.
Sam: Just move. I can't act, right?
Matt: No, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Is he 60 feet away from me? Is he within range?
Matt: Who?
Marisha: Should I handle Delilah, or should I handle him?
Travis: What're you doing? Which one do you want?
Sam: I can move now, or just in general?
Matt: No, next turn you'll be able to move.
Marisha: Is he within 60 feet of me? Vecna.
Matt: You're not sure. You'd have to eyeball it.
Marisha: (counting) He's exactly 60 feet in the air. I have to get directly under his butthole. Can I get directly under his butthole?
Matt: You can move through Trinket. You'll get two attacks of opportunity from two skeletons.
Marisha: Jesus, balls.
Liam: Jesus balls.
Matt: You'd have to leapfrog over Trinket to get there, but you can do it.
Marisha: What about Delilah. Where is she?
Matt: Delilah's over here. She and two skeletons right now are lording over the paralyzed Vax on the ground.
Marisha: If I move at all, I'm going to take opportunity from skeletons.
Matt: Yep. They don't do a whole lot of damage, but damage adds up.
Marisha: Jesus. Okay, I am going to head to Delilah. I can move up to her, correct?
Matt: You're going to move straight up to her?
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: You can, yeah. Both skeletons get attacks of opportunity on you. That's a nine and a 12. They both hit you, but the mantle writhes out in front of you. You watch as various leaves unfurl almost like a cat's fur on the back of its neck, and it deflects the blows from the skeletons as you rush past.
Marisha: I can give her disadvantage on constitution checks, and whenever she takes damage, she's stunned, or should I do the confusion thing?
Taliesin: Either one. They're both good. Go for the first one. Pick one.
Marisha: I'm turning into Ashley Johnson. Okay.
Ashley: Okay!
Marisha: I'm going to go up to Delilah. (pants) Cotton mouth. Oh boy. Yeah. Okay, I'm going to go up to her and be like, experience what you've been putting all of us through. And I'm going to touch her and I'm going to try and cast Contagion on her with Mind Fire?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Mind Fire!
Liam: Sounds good.
Taliesin: Hit her with a mind bullet.
Travis: Mind bullets!
Taliesin: That's telekinesis, Kyle!
Marisha: That's telekinesis, Kyle!
Travis: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Taliesin: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Marisha: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Matt: Make a melee spell attack.
Marisha: I have a bonus to my spell attacks.
Laura: You've got this!
Marisha: It's cocked. That's even worse. Not great. 18?
Matt: 18 is exactly what you needed. That's her armor class.
Liam: (singing) We'll fucking lead as two kings!
Travis: (laughing) Tenacious D for the rest of this fight, please.
Matt: She now is affected by Mind Fire.
Marisha: Her mind becomes feverish, and she has disadvantage on intelligence checks and intelligence saving throws, and she becomes confused.
Sam: What does that mean? What does confused mean?
Marisha: For seven days.
Liam: It sounds like she can't cast spells too well.
Marisha: Hopefully.
Matt: She's now considered confused. She's under the effects of the Confusion spell for as long as it lasts.
Taliesin: That's me under the effects of being confused about the Confusion spell.
Matt: Does that end your turn, Keyleth?
Taliesin: What do you have for a bonus?
Marisha: I don't have a lot for a bonus. I can go into an elemental form.
Travis: If we attack her, is that going to drop the confusion?
Taliesin: Yeah, can we attack her?
Marisha: No, it just lasts for seven days.
Matt: It lasts for seven days if she fails the saves. She has three saves in a row, and if she succeeds, it goes away. If she fails, it lasts for seven days.
Marisha: Okay. She has to make constitution saving throws. But she's under the effects right now, correct? We've been through this before, haven't we?
Laura: Oh, yeah. This is one of the ones we tried a long time ago.
Marisha: It says after failing three of these saving throws, the disease effects last for the duration, so that would make me assume that she has it at least for three rounds.
Matt: We had this discussion before, because in the ability, it has Slimy Doom, which whenever it takes damage, it becomes stunned, which is the most broken--
Marisha: I almost did that.
Matt: I know, but I think the DND ruling, technically, they have to fail three saves before it affects them.
Marisha: But it's a 5th-level fucking spell. That's a lot!
Matt: I know.
Marisha: That's lame. Three rounds for a 5th-level spell?
Matt: Look. I'll say this. I'll let Mind Fire work on her for now.
Marisha: Oh, he doesn't look happy. I feel like I just pissed off the DM.
Matt: No, you didn't piss off the DM. This spell has a lot of contention in the community, but the official DND ruling was it doesn't affect until they fail all three rolls, but as it's written, it doesn't say that. It says they're afflicted on being hit, so I'm letting it go through because you didn't choose the cheesy-ass stun-lock broken spell.
Marisha: It does say that after succeeding on three of these, the creature recovers from the disease, so they were already affected.
Matt: Which is what I'm saying. This is between what's written in the spell and the arguments that people have made with DND on Twitter, and they clarified that's not how it works. It's a mis-type. It wasn't clear. I'm letting it work. Be happy with the book.
Laura: Stop making eye contact. Look down!
Matt: At the end of your turn, Vecna's going to use some legendary actions to cast a spell. (groaning)
Travis: How about you just say he did, and don't?
Ashley: Yeah. Let's not and say we did.
Liam: He could just evil monologue a little bit, tell us his plan?
Laura: He's really good at evil monologuing.
Taliesin: We were talking about how much you wanted a monologue. I really feel like this is the moment.
Matt: He's going to cast a 7th-level Fireball right there.
Travis: 7th-level Fireball?
Taliesin: That's the end of Vax.
Travis: We've got to go.
Matt: I need Keyleth, Vax-- you don't auto-save, yeah.
Liam: Good night.
Travis: Maybe the Raven Queen will use you or something.
Liam: I can't. It's an automatic fail because I'm paralyzed.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's actually good. He'll lose the paralysis because he'll be in a coma. We'll just wake you back up and you'll be fine. It's actually kind of good.
Matt: Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please. The skeletons are obliterated.
Marisha: That's a natural one.
Travis: Are you serious?! Are you serious?
Taliesin: I'm looking at it.
Matt: That's a surprisingly shitty roll. 38 points of fire damage to Vax. 38.
Travis: On a 7th-level Fireball?
Matt: I know. I rolled really shitty.
Marisha: 38?
Matt: 38 to you, as well. 38 to Vex. And 38 to Trinket.
Taliesin: That's a small-- that's a dire armadillo. That's okay.
Laura: 38 to Trinket?
Travis: Did Delilah take all that damage, too?
Matt: Delilah? Yeah, she did. She can't save against his shit. She takes it and (grunts).
Liam: She probably kind of likes it.
Laura: She's like, ooh.
Taliesin: Burn. Sick burn.
Matt: It made sense for the circumstance. She's up for the sacrifice. All righty, that ends Keyleth's turn. Top of the round. Now it's Vecna's go.
Travis: I thought that was Vecna's go.
Laura: That was his legendary.
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: I like that you have an enlarged figure Grog. That's cool.
Travis: I thought you were complimenting the DM. I was like, yeah, keep it up.
Laura: I like that you made an enlarged figure for Grog.
Sam: I'll kill you last.
Laura: Oh my god, this map is so pretty. (laughter)
Sam: What is that thing in the middle of the field?
Matt: This is the altar.
Laura: Whatever it is, it's really cool.
Ashley: Can we see what's in it?
Matt: You'd have to go check it out, if there was anything.
Marisha: Is he moving towards the altar?
Matt: He's shifting in the center and looking down for a bit. He goes, "Well, sleep."
Taliesin: Can he do that with concentration?
Matt: This is not a concentration spell.
Laura: Magic can't put me to sleep.
Matt: He casts Power Word Kill.
Sam: Oh. Well, that's different.
Liam: Where did Sleep go?
Matt: That's just what he said.
Sam: He meant metaphorical. He meant death.
Matt: You utter a word of power that can compel one creature you see within range to die instantly. If the creature you chose has 100 hit points or fewer, it dies. How many hit points do you have?
Laura: I'm dead. Insta-full death?
Matt: Insta-full death.
Marisha: No saving from it?
Matt: No.
Ashley: Wait, what?
Taliesin: What?
Sam: Perma-death?
Matt: No death saving throws. You watch as the life suddenly fades from Vex's eyes, and she falls to the ground.
Liam: Vax is watching, frozen.
Travis: Oh my god.
Laura: Hey, don't compliment the map, you guys. Matt really doesn't like it.
Matt: I'm sorry. It's now Delilah's turn.
Taliesin: This is not going well.
Sam: Maybe we should leave.
Travis: Plane Shift?
Matt: She turns and looks at you, Keyleth, and goes--
Sam: Is this Delilah?
Matt: This is Delilah. "You took him from me. Now I'm going to take him from you." She points down.
Sam: I thought she was confused.
Matt: I have to check what she does now. This may make the change.
Liam: Well, we weren't technically dating when we killed her, so I'm not really sure if she'd know.
Matt: I get to roll a d10.
Marisha: Let's hope he doesn't roll a nine or a ten, y'all.
Matt: A ten.
Marisha: You are fucking lying to me! (groans)
Matt: It's right there.
Travis: Yeah, I see it.
Taliesin: Oh shit. Wow, you really went down.
Matt: I'm sorry. I'm rolling really well. I'm sorry, guys.
Liam: Yeah, but that Fireball was super low.
Matt: All right, so do I have to roll for an attack on this? Creature has to make a dexterity saving throw. Hold on.
Taliesin: I don't know what to do.
Matt: That's 76 points of damage from the Disintegrate spell.
Liam: Halved from the Deathwalker's Ward. It's set to necromantic.
Matt: It's force damage. Disintegrate's force damage.
Liam: Oh. Well, then I'm down.
Marisha: No, that means he's disintegrated.
Matt: You watch as Vax's form (fluttering noise) turns to dust.
Sam: Wait, what?
Matt: Leaving the armor of the Raven Queen empty on the ground, the daggers (clattering).
Laura: No body left?
Marisha: There's no recovering from that, dude.
Laura: Bro. We're gone.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: What's happening?
Laura: I thought this campaign was going to last longer than this.
Liam: I said this was the last episode, and I meant it.
Taliesin: You are a terrible person. Oh no.
Sam: With Foresight? Oh, because you're paralyzed. Oh fuck.
Marisha: She doesn't have to roll against that?
Matt: It's a dexterity saving throw, but he's still paralyzed.
Marisha: He doesn't get advantage?
Matt: You automatically fail dex saving throws when you're paralyzed.
Taliesin: You can't dex out of something if you can't move.
Travis: If I throw you over to her, can you Revivify?
Sam: I'm too far to do anything, right?
Matt: At the moment?
Sam: It has to be within 60 feet.
Matt: From Delilah? She's within 40 feet of you.
Sam: Can I retroactively Counterspell? (laughs)
Matt: Yeah. I'll let you do it. You have your ability back, so I'll let you try for it.
Marisha: Wait, with the Disintegrate? Go, Scanlan, go!
Travis: Do you have to roll for this?
Sam: I think I have to roll for this.
Matt: You roll and add your charisma modifier.
Sam: No. Charisma modifier? It's just an 11.
Matt: Plus two, because you get plus two bonus, so 13.
Sam: I can't add anything else.
Laura: Can you inspire yourself?
Taliesin: Can you inspire yourself?
Marisha: Can you inspire yourself?
Sam: Not on a reaction, I don't think.
Marisha: But you're a war bard, right?
Matt: He's not a war bard. He's a lore bard.
Marisha: War caster.
Taliesin: Oh man, this does not feel good.
Sam: Doesn't feel good.
Taliesin: It does not feel good.
Matt: Peerless skill. When you make an ability check. It's an ability check, technically.
Sam: What's that mean?
Matt: That means you can spend another bardic inspiration to it because you're at a 13.
Sam: (nervous laughter) It's cocked. It would have been 11. Four.
Matt: It's a 17? The spell is a 6th-level spell. The DC is 16.
Taliesin: Oh god!
Laura: You're not disintegrated?
Travis: Are you serious?
Sam: Matt is a gentle god.
Matt: In this flash of vision, Keyleth, you see this happen, and then the bit of inspiration from the Raven Queen that's been trying to push through whatever is keeping her vision at bay here. Your vision flashes back, and then you see Vax on the ground, the extended finger of Delilah as the green energy begins to spiral up from her finger, and Scanlan in the back just says?
Sam: Oh. Hey, you know what the problem is with your face? I can see it! (laughter)
Matt: Delilah goes, "What?" and the spell (fluttering noise) dissipates. (sighs)
Marisha: That was a 6th-level spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Does she have any more of those?
Laura: We don't know.
Marisha: Because I only have two.
Matt: That being the case, Delilah is going to go ahead and go. You do get an attack of opportunity on her, Keyleth.
Marisha: Just straight melee?
Matt: Straight melee.
Taliesin: Hit her with a stick.
Marisha: My dice suck.
Laura: You've rolled shit on that dice every time tonight.
Marisha: It's not good. 13.
Matt: 13? No, that misses, unfortunately.
Marisha: Fuck it.
Matt: Okay. Grog, it's your turn now.
Travis: Sure. Can I use my-- are we doing this?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Can I use my action to pick up my buddy Pike, and I'm going to try and throw her as far as I can towards where Vex's body is laying.
Matt: Okay, so you're going to pick her up and move?
Travis: There's no difference, right?
Matt: You can pick her up and move and then throw her to give her the most distance, but you can only move half your speed as you're carrying her. It's essentially an agreed-upon grapple. You'd be able to move 25 feet with her.
Travis: Versus picking her up and throwing her for an athletics check, or something?
Matt: You can, but I don't know how far you'll throw her that way. It's up to you. You can stay where you are, if you'd like to.
Ashley: I'll make it.
Travis: You think so?
Ashley: Yeah. I can make it to her.
Liam: The initiative is Grog, Pike, Vax right now.
Travis: I should just go unload?
Ashley: Yeah, do your thing.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: You are raging.
Travis: Can I use my full speed to head towards Delilah?
Matt: (counting) That's as far as you can get right there.
Travis: With my bonus action, can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping to leap horizontally 20 feet? I want to get within melee.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Travis: That's a million. 25.
Matt: (impact) You land right in front of her. She watches you as you (footsteps) run around the side, leap, (impact) right in front of her, this giant, hulking form of muscle.
Travis: Yeah. Reckless, great weapon master.
Taliesin: Turn her to fucking paste.
Matt: You have two attacks.
Travis: Yeah, two attacks.
Marisha: Why am I light-headed?
Travis: Everything's going wrong.
Taliesin: Well, that, and those drinks were really inappropriate.
Travis: 28?
Matt: 28? Yeah, that hits.
Travis: 19. 29. 35, and four because I'm enlarged. 35, total on the first one. And the second one, 19. Should have taken that other thing. That would have been a crit. Minus five. 27?
Matt: 27 does hit, yes.
Travis: Boy, she's got a high AC, doesn't she? 10, 24, 34, three points of necrotic for 37. That's a d8. That's the wrong one. 36 points of damage.
Matt: As you rush forward and cleave into her with hit after hit on the axe, you watch as her imposing form is battered around and slashed apart, and as you finish and withdraw the axe from the two strikes, you see her already clutching her stomach. (panting)
Travis: An action surge is a bonus action, right?
Matt: No. Just an action surge.
Taliesin: You can just do it.
Travis: Should we empty the tank?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: I'll use the action surge.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: Is that three more attacks?
Matt: Two more.
Travis: Reckless, great weapon, all the shit. Goddamn, that was two 19s in a row. If I'd picked that other thing, they would have been criticals. 28.
Matt: 28 hits, definitely.
Travis: 17, 27, 29. That's a fucking d8 again. 31.
Matt: 31?
Travis: 31 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. Second attack?
Travis: 27.
Matt: Jesus. Yes, that hits.
Travis: I'm a monstrous thing. That's a 12, 26, 36, 38, 40, including the enlarged and the necrotic.
Matt: You slam her with the two extra attacks, knocking her back. As the two additional axe blows slice across the front of her chest, one gets her on the side of her chin. You can see, you've carved the cheek open and broken teeth, and now when she looks back to you, you can see all of her back molars and teeth now, this horrible Joker grin on one side of her face as the blood leaks out. You can see the one gleaming greenish-yellow glowing eye flares open at you. She (spits).
Travis: Don't stop smiling on my account.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog... All right, so ghostly claws begin to spring up from the ground in a 20-foot radius.
Travis: Did you say claws?
Matt: Claws, yes.
Sam: Ghostly claws.
Matt: Right there. I need-- Vax fails. I need Keyleth and Grog and Trinket to all make dexterity saving throws. Sorry, strength saving throws.
Laura: He can't do anything.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Taliesin: Trinket can.
Laura: Trinket can't still attack if I'm not alive.
Matt: I'll let you. I'll let you, in the purposes of you being dead, Trinket is going to act on his own to defend you.
Laura: He rolled a seven.
Taliesin: He's about to be in a pocket dimension really quick.
Laura: Yeah, he might go into the pocket dimension.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22. You take five points of necrotic damage, and are not grappled. You take ten points of necrotic damage, reduced to half, five, because of your armor, and you are grappled and paralyzed. Keyleth?
Marisha: 22.
Matt: 22. You take five points of necrotic damage.
Laura: And Trinket takes how much necrotic damage?
Matt: Ten, and is grappled. Trinket's speed is zero. All right. Welcome to the God Wars, guys.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Marisha: Why didn't we Heroes' Feast?
Laura: It wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Let's get a god in here. Light or dark meat. I don't care. One or the other. Get one of those ladies in here!
Matt: (heavy footfalls) With these heavy, armored footfalls as it walks, with its fingers forward, it begins carving this sigil in the air. Grabs it and turns it, and as it turns, you watch the same sigil runes appear around Grog and begin to spiral around you. Make a charisma saving throw, please.
Travis: Fuck, balls. Hey, y'all, plus one. Don't worry. Four.
Matt: Grog, you vanish. (groaning)
Matt: Banished from this realm of existence.
Travis: No!
Matt: You appear on the ground in the Shadowfell, in the gaping crater where Thar Amphala once stood. You look around, up to the familiar cloudy, dark sky, and are alone.
Travis: Wait. Y'all aren't in the Shadowfell anymore?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Oh, right. Snow's falling.
Laura: Wildemount, or some shit.
Travis: Without a perception check, is anybody around, or is it just me?
Matt: Nobody's around you, although you do look up and see maybe a dozen or so of the gloom stalkers, swirling up ahead. They haven't noticed you yet.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Sam: You've been banished to another dimension. You can punch your way out of it.
Travis: You know what? I only have one thought.
Marisha: Oh no. He's going to turn to the cards, y'all. He's going to turn to those cards.
Travis: We've got this.
Matt: Keyleth, perception check.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: Ugh! Okay. That's good. 14 plus 13, so 27.
Matt: You do notice, the armored death knight still has a hand out after Grog's banishing.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Okay, that's good!
Matt: This doesn't appear to be Plane Shift.
Marisha: So if I kill him, he'll come back? Or if I kill him, Grog won't ever come back? What does that mean?!
Taliesin: We'll find out. We'll just lay waste to shit until it stops happening. We're going to keep doing terrible shit until terrible shit stops happening.
Liam: Pickle time.
Travis: This is the worst grin you've ever given us. It's so great.
Matt: We are at the end of the death knight's turn. Vecna's going to use two legendary actions to cast another spell.
Ashley: This feels like when we played in Liam's one-shot when we got on the beach.
Liam: I was just about to say, this is revenge for Demogorgon!
Taliesin: This is very much the beach, isn't it?
Matt: Vecna's going to shift further back on the field to there.
Marisha: Is he always going to fucking fly?
Matt: Why wouldn't he?
Taliesin: Feet are passe.
Matt: As he glides over, he looks down and sees the mess that Delilah's currently in. Looks around and sees the options and says, "Well, I hate to see work unfinished."
Sam: Again?
Liam: Disintegrate?
Matt: Disintegrate again.
Sam: This is the same round, right?
Matt: This is the next round.
Sam: Can I try--
Matt: He moved out of your range.
Sam: Great.
Marisha: No!
Matt: Now you see as a green ray fires down from the Whispered One above, and within an instant--
Marisha: Wait, can I bonus action him? Can I use my bonus action?
Matt: Not on your turn.
Taliesin: I've got nothing.
Matt: You turn to dust within the armor. Where once Vax stood, the vision you saw flash you thought might have been a warning, instead it was an omen. You look down and see the raven wings turn to ash, and now there is the empty armor of the Raven Queen, the daggers clattering to the stone.
Travis: Oh man. What the fuck?
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: I can't do what I was going to do. Fuck.
Sam: Laura.
Ashley: Okay. Sorry. Hold on.
Sam: She can't reach you?
Ashley: Nope.
Sam: I can bring you to her.
Matt: You could hold your action and he could bamf you over.
Ashley: When are you up?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: Do whatever you want.
Sam: You have to touch her?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: If you wanted to do something like that, you'd have to begin casting it and hold your action for him to take his turn, and then you could take her there.
Ashley: Wait, who's up?
Matt: It's you, Percy, then Scanlan.
Ashley: Okay, so Percy's next, and then it's Scanlan.
Sam: If we don't die in those two turns, yes.
Ashley: Okay. Oh my god, I'm shaking so bad. I will start casting Revivify, and I will hold my turn until Scanlan bamfs us.
Sam: I'm going to be a total dick and not do that.
Ashley: There's no one in between us?
Sam: No, we're next to each other.
Ashley: I mean, no one in between us, like the bad guys.
Sam: Well, they can go whenever they want.
Matt: Delilah already took her turn. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, it's my turn. Where's Percy?
Matt: Sorry. Percy, you're up next.
Taliesin: I'm going to unload a few rounds of Animus into Delilah, since she's still standing. She's still standing?
Matt: She's still standing.
Taliesin: All right. Let's drop a point of grit, and let's get some advantage on this for Animus shot number one. Come on, crit. Not a crit, but still pretty decent. That's a 28 to hit?
Matt: 28 to hit? That will hit.
Taliesin: That's not the full damage. Let's do this, plus let's do that. That's 12 points of piercing damage, five points of psychic damage, and four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Okay. Necrotic damage doesn't do anything, unfortunately.
Taliesin: I know. I'll keep that off, then, for now.
Matt: Okay. She's looking really hurt.
Taliesin: All right, let's take another shot. Same thing, burning a grit because fuck it. And let's make this one-- these are not the right dice to roll. I'm really nervous. Let's make this one a sharpshooter to see if we can pour a little more pain. Natural 20. That's a crit. Let's get that grit back.
Marisha: Kill her!
Taliesin: I've got to use my pen! Don't shake me! I shake so much on my own! That's 2d10 plus 2d6 psychic, so that's four points of psychic damage. That was a terrible roll. And 24 points of damage.
Marisha: Is that doubled?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's doubled. It was terrible.
Matt: How do you want to do this on Delilah?
Taliesin: (sighs) I take my second shot. I call, Delilah? Even if we die, it's fucking worth it. And I take it right in her good eye. I want me to be the last thing she sees.
Matt: As she turns around, you watch that side of her face explode, and she falls back, the force of it knocking her off her feet. She (impact noise) scatters across the stonework. You glance over, and you can see her looking face-up, and the little green eye in the socket turns and looks towards you.
Sam: Wait, it's still working?
Matt: The eye turned and looked at you from within the socket.
Taliesin: But it's down.
Sam: There's a creature inside of her.
Taliesin: Off. (sighs) For my third shot, Mr. Armor. And I get another grit back because she's dead. Armor. I'm taking-- what's he holding?
Matt: He currently has a longsword in one hand. That's all he's currently holding.
Taliesin: He's holding a longsword? Let's get rid of that longsword. I'm going to hit him and make him drop that longsword.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm burning a grit to make him drop it. I know, this is a lot. I'm taking my third shot with Animus, and this is going to be a sharpshooter shot, and that's not a crit, but that's pretty good. That's 29 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: All right, so this is 1d10 plus 1d6. That's terrible. That's 20 points of damage, two points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or he drops his sword. DC 20.
Matt: He gets a 20 exactly. 15 plus five. But he did take the damage, so he has to make a concentration, which he makes. DC 11, because it's half the damage.
Taliesin: Concentration? Oh, for that. That's fine. Just because we're at that point where I'm panicking, let's burn an action surge. Boom. Three more shots on the asshole.
Marisha: Are you shooting at Vecna?
Taliesin: No, Vecna I'm not shooting because he's laughing off my bullets.
Matt: Most of the impact deflects off the plate.
Marisha: You're shooting at the death knight?
Taliesin: I'm shooting at the death knight, so now I'm going to do a grit shot. I'm going to burn for dead-eye sharpshooter. That's 27?
Matt: 27? Okay, that hits.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh my fucking god! 20 points of damage, plus one point of psychic damage.
Sam: You're fine. You're good.
Taliesin: Burning another--
Sam: It's the last thing.
Taliesin: I've got more. I've got three more. I keep killing things. That's 17 to hit?
Matt: 17. You watch as he's concentrating on that one spell, and as the one shot hits him, the second one, he puts his arm up and seems to deflect it with his hand.
Taliesin: Did he make a constitution save against the last one?
Matt: Yes, he did.
Taliesin: Okay. This is my last shot. I'm burning another grit, and natural 20. Okay, so that's going to be-- come on. That's better!
Matt: I forgot to mention. Vecna took extra damage from your crit earlier.
Taliesin: Yes, he did. He took 15 points of extra damage, halved. 18, 21, 22, 23, 30 points of damage, plus five psychic damage, and he's going to take 15 points of damage, plus three psychic damage next round.
Matt: That was a 16 and a one, so with his constitution bonus, he saves. He maintains concentration.
Taliesin: Oh my fucking god!
Matt: It's hard to break. He was designed for that.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action to reload, and that's my fucking turn.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That was a long turn.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: You did good.
Matt: All right. End of Percy's turn. Scanlan.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Percy, do you want to move on your turn?
Taliesin: No. There's nowhere. I'm as far away from everybody as I can currently be. There's nowhere else.
Matt: I'm letting you know, as it currently stands. Delilah's down.
Taliesin: Delilah's down.
Matt: And two figures that look pretty much untouched. Scanlan?
Marisha: What are you trying to say?
Matt: I'm saying, be mindful of your choices.
Taliesin: You know what? I'm going to start making a beeline straight for Keyleth. Fuck it. I'm going to see if I can get some cover behind--
Marisha: Are we going to bail? What do we do?
Taliesin: I'm fucking bailing.
Matt: That's up to you. You do have one of them down, and you have two--
Travis: If you can bail--
Marisha: But Grog.
Taliesin: We can get Grog back. We've just got to get everybody up.
Travis: You don't even know where I am.
Liam: You can find him.
Marisha: What about you?
Liam: I'm gone. There's no finding me. I'm gone.
Taliesin: We're picking up armor.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: I grab Pikey-poo and Dimension Door straight to Vex's beautiful dead body.
Travis: Like a dead Juliet.
Sam: I will inspire Pike. I don't know if that helps whatever ritual you're about to do, but maybe.
Travis: Revivify.
Taliesin: Revivify.
Ashley: What do you get if you're inspired?
Matt: You get a d12 that you can spend on something. Which, as you release Revivify, you reach down and grab the cold, lifeless hand of Vex. I need you to roll a wisdom check.
Sam: With inspiration.
Matt: Should she need it.
Ashley: And don't I get gnome cunning, so I have advantage on it?
Matt: No. It's not a saving throw. It's just a check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Taliesin: We will grab everything we fucking can.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah. Your breath comes in.
Ashley: Hi.
Laura: Pike. Are they dead?
Ashley: No.
Matt: You look over to your side, and you see Delilah on the ground, her head scattered and exploded on the ground, the one yellowish-green eye still moving around and taking in the scenery. You glance up, and you see Vecna still lording over, a big smile on his face. You see the other armored knight walking around, the plated black helmet guarding any expression except for these glowing red dots, the eyes that peer through.
Sam: I'm using any movement I have to pick up the dust of my fallen friend, if there is any dust.
Matt: There's the dust and his equipment. Those are the two things that are left.
Sam: Pick up whatever I can.
Marisha: Scoop him into a little vial.
Liam: (vacuuming noises) (laughter)
Sam: (fake sneeze) Oh no!
Taliesin: This is no time for allergies. Fuck!
Matt: All right, so you get your hands up in the armor and some dust and you gather it in your hand. There's Scanlan. There's you. There's Vex, Pike.
Marisha: So we're all together?
Matt: Well, Percy's there and Grog is somewhere.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: I got as far as I could.
Sam: I'm done. That's all I can do.
Ashley: So bonus action.
Sam: I don't know if you can do a bonus action.
Ashley: Can I do a bonus action?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: You need healing like a mother. Don't shrug at me.
Sam: She's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Healing Word on Vex.
Matt: Level two?
Ashley: Level four.
Matt: Because you've already cast Revivify.
Ashley: Level two.
Matt: So 2d4 plus your wisdom modifier, I think.
Sam: I'm already rolling Vax.
Laura: You're mixing him with your suude?
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: Ten hit points.
Sam: Tuck it behind my ear for later.
Taliesin: It doesn't matter anymore.
Laura: I haven't seen Vax yet. I haven't seen what happened.
Ashley: Can I move?
Matt: No, because you already took your turn.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: So that ends your turn? Scanlan, you moved up there and you grabbed the stuff. That's your turn. Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh god. Okay. Are we trying to get to me so I can get us all out?
Sam: Yeah, but it's going to take another turn.
Laura: For Percy to get there.
Marisha: But everyone's coming this way, right? Everyone's coming this way? Then I'm going to-- fucking hell. How does Fire Storm work? I know it's ten ten-foot cubes. Does it have to be on the ground, or can I hit him up there? Can I rain-- "justice rains from above!" Can I do that?
Taliesin: I haven't touched that game in so long.
Matt: You can arrange as you wish. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. Yeah, you can. Choose a location you see within range, so I don't see why you couldn't. You can create a lava fall, essentially.
Taliesin: You'd have to pick one of the two of them to hit.
Matt: You pick one, and then you create a bunch of cubes that chain off it.
Taliesin: You can hit them both.
Marisha: But I'm not going to be able to hit the death knight and Vecna?
Matt: Probably not. Not without hitting Scanlan or yourself in the process.
Marisha: What if I got out of the way. Could I?
Matt: We can try it.
Marisha: I'm going to do a bonus action and I'm going to go air elemental. Full-on, wrath of my people and my hometown, and I'm going to levitate in a cool tornado-y thing.
Matt: Are there any material components for Fire Storm? No, there is not. You can cast that in your form. You levitate up. We'll say right there.
Taliesin: There's a lot of dead bodies on the ground, man.
Matt: I know. This is rough, man. We'll say there.
Marisha: That's high, but that's okay.
Matt: How high did you want it?
Marisha: In between, but don't worry about it. I'm going to right onto Vecna and try and swarm it down towards the death knight.
Matt: How many cubes is it?
Marisha: Ten ten-foot cubes.
Matt: That's ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Just barely get him. Just barely.
Taliesin: That will do.
Matt: Hold on.
Marisha: What do you mean, hold on?
Travis: There are some legendary things that I think might be happening.
Taliesin: I get that vibe.
Matt: Not legendary. As you swarm up and begin to formulate the spell, Vecna looks at at you, and you can see with the vacant space where the hand is, there's almost an arcane flash of a hand that goes, (clicks tongue). He's going to attempt to Counterspell you.
Taliesin: Roll a one!
Marisha: What does he have to roll? Under my DC?
Matt: It has to beat your DC. No, sorry. The level of the spell, which would be 17. Which succeeds. He rolled a 14 plus ten, so 24. As you formulate the spell, you watch as the flames sputter out.
Laura: Can you come back down to the ground?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll try and levitate down a bit.
Matt: You were about there, and with your flying speed, you can land back down on the ground if you want. Sorry. Is that your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: I guess so.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What does it look like when you're looking out at all of us and we're so sad?
Matt: It feels awful.
Travis: I love it!
Taliesin: You're a liar. You're a lying liar.
Matt: It legitimately feels awful, but we were building to this for a long time. I've got to play it.
Travis: There's a god floating in the air.
Matt: Not a god yet.
Travis: Not a god yet.
Matt: That you know of.
Laura: He'll be a god in our next damn campaign when we're all dead.
Matt: He's going to use his last legendary action at the end of Keyleth's turn to cast a cantrip at you, Vex, as you just got back to consciousness. He's going to reach out with a Flame Bolt.
Laura: It's because I called him a dipshit when he was talking earlier.
Travis: You did blurt that out.
Matt: You did. You did taunt him.
Laura: He is a dipshit. Before he does his cantrip, I'm going to go, you can go ahead and live forever, but you'll still be fucking ugly the whole damn time! (laughter)
Matt: Disadvantage because you're prone on the ground and it's a ranged attack. That is a two plus 16. That is an 18.
Laura: To my armor class? He doesn't hit.
Matt: I rolled a natural 20 and a two, by the way, so if you weren't prone?
Taliesin: He would have--
Laura: Destroyed me.
Travis: You would be dust.
Matt: As he points down with his still-missing hand, releases this bolt and you see this flare up in the air and rush towards you, and you roll out of the way and it (impact noise) slams into the stone below you. You hear it crack and break the area where your head once was. Now it's Vecna's turn.
Travis: Now. (laughs) Now?
Ashley: That wasn't his turn?
Matt: That was a legendary action.
Ashley: That was a legendary action? That's right. I don't want any of it!
Taliesin: None of us want this.
Travis: I don't want it! I don't like it!
Ashley: I don't even want to play.
Travis: Taryon's back in Whitestone having a fucking ball.
Taliesin: Taryon's sitting with a cup of tea.
Sam: No, Taryon's on the floor, weeping, holding his necklace.
All: Oh!
Ashley: He doesn't know who it is.
Taliesin: We've got one way down. We are all having the thumpa-thumpa right now.
Laura: It's red. All flashing red.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Why did you say okay that way?
Sam: Liam can be Taryon now! (laughs)
Taliesin: You're terrible.
Sam: No! It's an established character we already have artwork for. Why let it go to waste? He's done prissy boys before.
Travis: Look at Matt's face.
Matt: Vecna's going to lean down, seeing that you just brought life back to Vex--
Travis: Don't you do it!
Laura: Matthew, don't do it!
Matt: "Join your friend."
All: No!
Sam: I will 6th-level Counterspell. (cheering)
Travis: We will not go quietly into the night!
Sam: I will sing at him, (singing) Counterspell, baby don't hurt me. Don't hurt me no more. Counterspell!
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20.
Matt: It's a 7th-level Finger of Death.
Laura: Is that a natural 20?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Scanlan! No!
Travis: What is this up and down cardiac arrrest game?
Matt: Natural one?
Taliesin: Stop rolling that die.
Laura: And you're below 100?
Travis: It really is a one?
Taliesin: It really was a one.
Sam: I can add things to it, right?
Taliesin: No, you can't.
Matt: 7d8. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Ashley: I make a constitution saving throw? Okay.
Sam: You're still inspired.
Laura: You're inspired!
Ashley: "You're spired!"
Laura: Inspired. Use it!
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: It's a d10, right?
Sam: d12 on top of that.
Matt: What did you roll?
Ashley: 13.
Liam: Plus the inspiration.
Ashley: No, just the 13. Plus-- 19?
Matt: No. You take 67 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: It wasn't Power Word Kill, it was Finger of Death?
Matt: No, he'd already used his Power Word Kill. Remember, he's not a god yet.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Just the one. Just the one Power Word Kill.
Travis: The fact that he's not a god gives me diarrhea feelings.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, and he's going to move back a bit, frustrated at the--
Sam: At everything.
Matt: At your attempts to Counterspell. Actually, no. He laughed at that. "Nice try."
Sam: It wasn't my best performance.
Matt: All right, that's going to end his turn. Delilah's out. Grog.
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Travis: Cool. Right. Pass Without a Trace is still going, right?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: That's a one.
Taliesin: Hello?
Matt: As you're there, Grog, you hear (screeching). A cloud of screeches, as about nine of these gloom stalkers all start (whoosh) going into a dive towards you.
Sam: Maybe one of them is our friend Mr. Mistoffelees.
Marisha: Mr. Mistoffelees, come back!
Travis: Am I going to do anything? How far away is the nearest structure?
Matt: Nothing. It's a crater. You're where the city used to be. You have at least a mile to each side of nothing but crater.
Taliesin: Fuck!
Ashley: He's all by his lonesome!
Taliesin: One more round.
Sam: He doesn't know.
Marisha: He could be stuck there forever!
Taliesin: There's nothing we can do right now.
Travis: I'm going to go into a frenzied rage, and I'm going to use my second wind to heal 1d10 plus my fighter level. Three, six. Six points, yay.
Taliesin: How close to you do we have to be?
Marisha: We have to be touching.
Sam: And you have to not be wind.
Marisha: I can be wind now.
Travis: I don't have any fighter things, so that's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. Okay. Ending your turn. Dark energy suffuses the landscape in the area. Actually, no. I'm not going to use that one because nobody has necrotic resistance right now. More undead are going to pop up. Let's see how many. That's actually a shitty roll. Four undead pop up.
Taliesin: They're bullshit. We don't care.
Matt: All righty. That's going to be an attack on you. It has advantage because you're prone and it's in melee. That's a 17. Still doesn't hit. High armor. You're ducking out of the way. The skeleton is (tink) hitting the ground. It's also attacking at you, Pike. That's cocked. Natural one. It goes to strike you, and it doesn't even hit you. The holy symbol of Sarenrae flares, and it (raspy cry) pulls away from the blast of vibrant, radiant energy. There's going to be one attacking you, Scanlan. That is a 20 to hit?
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: All right. You take eight points of slashing damage. And attacking you, Percival, that's another 20.
Taliesin: That is my armor class.
Matt: It hits you. You take 11 points of slashing damage as it cuts through you.
Taliesin: I don't even acknowledge its existence. I am definitely not amused.
Marisha: What was the name of that one city, you guys?
Taliesin: Where is your dad from?
Marisha: Syngorn. Is Syngorn still in the Feywild?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Marisha: Where did we go? What city in the Feywild did we go to?
Laura: We can go to the pond.
Travis: The death knight.
Matt: Steps forward, seeing Scanlan attempt to shrug off all these spells, comes rushing forward, and you watch as its blade begins to empower this dark, black shadow, similar to the gloom stalkers you've seen before. As he brings the sword and arcs it down with tremendous might, you hear the crack of thunder as this Staggering Smite slams into you, or tries to, at least.
Sam: That sounds bad.
Taliesin: That's bad. Do you have a reaction?
Sam: I used it already.
Matt: Shitty roll. 16 to hit?
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I think I'm not attuned-- yeah.
Matt: You take ten points of slashing damage, plus 17 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: And as part of the Staggering Smite, you also take 14 points of psychic damage, and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Against magic? That's better. 17.
Matt: 17? His spell DC is 18, unfortunately. On a failed save, you have a disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and you can't take reactions until the end of your next turn, so you can't Counterspell.
Taliesin: Scanlan's getting whaled on.
Sam: Disadvantage on all attack rolls?
Matt: Oh, but that's a concentration spell, so he's not going to maintain the concentration. You take the damage, and he lets it go. You don't have a disadvantage. Otherwise, he would lose other bits of concentration.
Laura: Other bits of concentration.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to Vex. Your turn.
Laura: (laughing) I get to go?
Matt: Yeah. Sorry!
Sam: You're alive.
Matt: Sorry, guys. You walked into the lion's den.
Laura: Oh yeah, we did.
Liam: I never did a single thing in this fight.
Laura: I know. This is the first thing I've done. I stand up.
Taliesin: If we're smart--
Marisha: I can bring you back.
Taliesin: I'm heading towards where you are. I'm heading towards the deceased body of Delilah.
Laura: I'm going to, as a bonus action, down my biggest healing potion, which is one greater healing potion.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: There's also a superior healing potion lying on the ground amongst all my shit.
Laura: No. It's in your armor.
Matt: Greater is 4d4 plus four.
Sam: Okay, it's something.
Laura: 13 plus four is 17 healing points, and I'm going to move closer to Keyleth.
Taliesin: She can move to us. Never mind.
Marisha: We have to all be holding hands, y'all.
Laura: Can I put myself in between Percy and Keyleth so I can reach my hand out?
Taliesin: I'm going to be making a beeline for everybody else. Everybody's in that big clump.
Laura: We're all in a clump, so we can still touch? I don't need to move anywhere in order to be able to touch her?
Taliesin: You'll be able to move before you cast Plane Shift, right?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: So as long as we're all touching, she can get to us. We just need to clump, and I move last, so I'm fine. Is that right? Yeah, I move last.
Matt: Keyleth moves last. Keyleth and Scanlan.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot at the death knight.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: With my 21?
Matt: 21 actually hits.
Laura: With my Blazing Bowstring, and I want to make it a bramble shot.
Travis: Hit him hard.
Laura: Is anybody standing next to him?
Matt: Scanlan and Keyleth.
Laura: Sweet.
Marisha: Feel free to hit me. I don't care. I can't be grappled.
Taliesin: Doesn't matter. She just gets extra points--
Marisha: Oh, he's flanked.
Laura: 23 plus eight is 31, right? 33 plus 1d6 lightning damage. 39, and then 3d6 sneak attack. 11 additional, so that's--
Travis: 50.
Laura: Oh, and the Blazing Bowstring. Six additional from that.
Matt: 56 points of damage from one shot. That is a 23 on his strength save, so as the arrow hits, you see the burst of flame. It pierces the armor, and you see the brambles extend and tear around him. He looks up at you and you watch as flames (fire noises) burn out of the armor. The arrow burns away, and the brambles ignite and fafll to ash around him.
Laura: Not surprising. What about his concentration?
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: That's going to be... half of 56? Oh man, he's going to have to roll really high.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: No!
Matt: Hold on. Half of 56 is--
Sam: 28.
Matt: 28. No, he rolled a 19 plus five. (cheering)
Matt: As the flames ignite and burn around, the impact still causes him to lose the spell, and you watch as a vacuum fills, and Grog, just as you see this barrage of gloom stalkers, ready to grab and tear you apart, you (poof) out and then (whoosh) appear in that space where you once were.
Travis: Huh?
Ashley: Grog! You're back!
Marisha: Grog, we've got to get out!
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: No, I get to attack him again.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: We're in a nice little clump, aren't we?
Laura: That one definitely hits. This is way less damage. 20 damage on the second one.
Matt: All righty. You can sense there's shadow and smoke pouring out from under the armor as the frustration of lost concentration is there. The second arrow hits the shoulder. Staring straight at you, angrily.
Laura: Keyleth, get us out of here?
Marisha: Hold hands.
Taliesin: I think we're all in physical contact, at this point, except for me.
Matt: That ends Vex's turn?
Laura: Where's Vax?
Taliesin: Well...
Marisha: We'll talk later!
Taliesin: Working on it. Do you have all of his stuff?
Sam: As much as I can carry.
Matt: Armor, daggers. Roll an investigation check.
Marisha: Dust?
Liam: Boots, his voice says from beyond the grave.
Sam: 30.
Matt: You rustled through the dust when you went through and spent the turn grabbing what you can. You get most of his important magical items.
Marisha: And dust.
Matt: And a little bit of dust.
Sam: Those boots are gone!
Taliesin: Next time we fight Vecna, he's going to be wearing some very nice boots.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I'm kidding.
Liam: He'll be Finger of Deathing me double-time.
Ashley: Are we trying to get out of here? What are we doing?
Taliesin: We are trying to get out of here.
Ashley: But then what?! We still have to fight him!
Laura: Yeah, but then we'll be able to recover a little bit and figure out what we're doing.
Taliesin: We're going to die here.
Ashley: Okay, I'll run to-- sorry, I'm stuttering. Keyleth's doing it?
Taliesin: As long as we're all touching, it doesn't matter where Keyleth is, but Turn Undead would help, maybe?
Laura: Or heal us.
Taliesin: Healing or Turn Undead.
Ashley: When's your turn up?
Taliesin: I'm coming up, right?
Laura: And you're holding your action, Keyleth?
Matt: Yes, after Pike's turn.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to do Mass Cure Wounds at 6th level. Let's see.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the ring of counting. This is actually proving to be invaluable.
Marisha: It's very handy.
Laura: What? What did you just think of?
Travis: Nothing.
Taliesin: Later. We need a bigger boat.
Ashley: Fuck, this is a bad roll.
Sam: Is this a new round since my last Counterspell?
Matt: What was the last one you countered and failed? That was on Vecna's turn, so when it comes back to your turn, it will be.
Taliesin: Not yet.
Ashley: 26 points. I rolled so badly.
Laura: 26 is great.
Ashley: And then... am I able to also, at this point, see if I can channel divinity?
Matt: It's an action to do that.
Ashley: It's not like she's going to show up. Okay. Sorry. I'm so hot.
Sam: That's what I say to myself every morning.
Liam: Your extensions look good, but I feel like that is...
Ashley: Okay. I'm just hanging out.
Matt: Okay. That's Pike's turn.
Marisha: Are we all holding hands? Are we all in position?
Sam: Wait, did you just cure our wounds?
Taliesin: Yeah, we just got 26 points back.
Ashley: Wait. Can I do a Mass Healing Word as my bonus action?
Matt: What level? No, because you already did a higher-level. You can't do that, unfortunately.
Sam: You can do it to one person.
Ashley: I'll do one person. Who's closest to me?
Taliesin: She's probably at the bottom.
Ashley: Where are you at? Oh yeah, you're nothing. Let me do the Healing Word.
Laura: You're nothing! You're nobody!
Travis: You'll never mean nothing in this world!
Matt: At the end of your turn, Pike, Vecna's going to go ahead and cast-- you hear the voice enter your mind once more, Pike. "Don't worry. If you love her that much, I'll send her to you." Make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh no, dexterity.
Matt: Let me see if it's dexterity or constitution. Let me check real fast.
Laura: What's he doing?
Sam: He's trying to hurt our Pikey.
Matt: That is a dexterity. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Ashley: 16.
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: I knew it was too low.
Matt: All right. You take 78 points of force damage.
Ashley: How much?
Matt: 78.
Ashley: 78. Okay. That is okay. I'm unconscious--
Matt: However, if it brings you to zero, it turns you to dust.
Laura: But her armor!
Matt: But the armor.
Travis: Oh!
Sam: It never got her to zero.
Matt: As soon as you hit zero, the armor flickers in, and the divine--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Which also means that all the fucking skeletons take damage!
Matt: Yep. As the ray hits you and you feel your flesh begin to dissipate, the blessing of Pelor and the guidance of Sarenrae flicker into you, and you watch as light and flames (explosion noise) burst out of her like a Doctor regenerating. As the fire consumes the area, roll your damage for your armor. Thank you for reminding me of that.
Travis: Plate of the Dawnmartyr, you guys.
Taliesin: I was about to say, I know the stats of the Dawnmartyr really well right now, for reasons.
Travis: They take 6d6 fire damage.
Laura: 6d6 fire damage!
Travis: The ones within melee.
Matt: To all hostile creatures, correct?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Not all creatures?
Laura: All hostile.
Matt: That's a very important distinction.
Laura: That was terrible!
Ashley: 14. You know what? It's fine. I'm alive.
Matt: Okay, so as the flames burn out, you watch as the skeletons that catch flame, their bone burning to black, but they're still standing. Okay. That brings us to Percy.
Ashley: Nothing is going well!
Taliesin: Are we a reasonable chain?
Laura: Yeah, we're just waiting on you to make the touch.
Taliesin: There's nobody breaking the chain? I'm going to move six points in the direction of Delilah because I'm going to bring her with me because I don't want that dead body there. Do I make it in six moves? And while I'm running, just for fucking fun, I'm going to take three shots at that armor, and I'm going to push him the fuck back, if that's okay. I'm going to push that knight back. I'm going to try and do a force push.
Laura: And you're saving your action until we're all touching?
Taliesin: Yeah. It's about to be. We're all touching. Let's get rid of that fucker.
Marisha: We are getting out of here, right?
Taliesin: We're getting the fuck out of here.
Laura: Oh, I thought you were saving your action.
Marisha: I rolled a really fucking shitty initiative.
Taliesin: That's a 27 to hit? The knight.
Matt: That hits, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, and that's a torso push. I'm only going to take the one shot. I don't even care anymore; I'm just pushing him away.
Matt: He's pushed ten feet?
Taliesin: He's pushed ten feet back from my position.
Matt: Does he make a save for that?
Taliesin: There's no save for that, and then he takes a disturbingly sad nine points of damage, plus six points psychic damage. But he's ten feet back. We're all touching. I'm going to save the rest of my attack for anybody who tries to get in the way of this shit. If anybody interrupts us, I've got two more shots ready to go. Also burning a heal for fun, as well.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will Lightning Bolt at level four the armor knight guy.
Taliesin: I'm also holding onto Delilah.
Sam: He's behind me, so I'll do it from my ass. (laughter)
Liam: I love you so much.
Sam: I'll lift up my leg a little bit. Squeeze it out.
Liam: Like a dog at a fire hydrant.
Sam: It's 8d6, but at level four it's 9d6, I think?
Matt: Level four, it's 9d6, yeah. He did not make his save. He rolled a nine plus six. 15.
Taliesin: Yay! I'm not quite at full.
Matt: He has advantage on his saves against magical effects and spells. He rolled worse.
Sam: 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage. The bolt (lightning noise) through him at the same time he's blasted back by Percy's hit and skids. You see the smoke rise up. Like the Terminator, he keeps moving forward.
Sam: I'll use my movement to gather whatever bits of Vax I can still see.
Taliesin: Put your hands in it.
Sam: And get into "posish."
Taliesin: We're ready to burn.
Sam: I will bonus action Healing Word Pikey-poo, which is for me-- what is Healing Word? It's 2d4 plus six?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: At the end of Scanlan's turn--
Taliesin: Fuck no!
Travis: Let's just have a conversation about this. We're adults.
Laura: What is this game, Matthew? Don't do it!
Matt: He is going to take a shot at Pike with a Firebolt cantrip.
Taliesin: You have a reaction.
Sam: I do, but I want to save it.
Ashley: Bob and weave. I can bob and weave.
Taliesin: There's no save. This is it.
Sam: Do people have to be alive to get out of here?
Matt: That is a 21. What's your armor class?
Ashley: 23.
Travis: It doesn't even hit!
Liam: Eat a dick!
Ashley: Eat a bag of dicks!
Travis: At level five?
Matt: I rolled a five. It's a cantrip. It fires the bolt towards you; you're barely holding on. As you turn around, the flame hits you, but your armor absorbs it. No impact. Okay.
Laura: I need Taco Bell right now in my life!
Ashley: I know. I want Taco Bell so bad. We might have cheats tonight.
Matt: That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Keyleth?
Marisha: Are we all here?
Taliesin: We're all here.
Marisha: We're all sure about this? We're out? 100%?
Taliesin: We're dying.
Travis: No, let's stay and fight.
Marisha: We're on this plane, right?
Travis: Yeah, we're on the material plane.
Marisha: Then we're going to the Feywild! And we all hold hands--
Matt: Are you turning back to your form, then?
Marisha: Yes, I drop form and I pull out my tuning fork and my flowers, and I think deep about the Gilded Run and the Shademirk Bog and the beautiful pond that we appeared around, that we know there's a portal right near it. That's what I think about strongly, and I say, everyone think about the pretty ponds!
Liam: Feywild Spring Break, motherfuckers!
Marisha: Spring Break 2017, Feywild!
Taliesin: Roll. You're a good man.
Matt: Vecna's going to attempt to Counterspell.
Sam: Yep. 7th-level Counterspell against him. (laughter)
Travis: I knew that's what you were waiting for!
Matt: That was some old-school Magic  The Gathering shit, right there.
Liam: Do it, Scanlan. Do it.
Ashley: You just pulled out the wild Uno card. (laughter)
Taliesin: We're not happy yet.
Matt: So 7th-level Counterspell. Yeah, you don't have to roll. (cheering)
Matt: Yeah. Let me check real fast. I need to confirm this real fast.
Laura: Scanlan's back.
Liam: Shorthalt's back.
Travis: "I'd rather not use it."
Matt: Yeah, no. The only spell he even had left to Counterspell was 7th level. Yeah, (poof).
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: As the glyph of shattering begins to coalesce around his fingers in one hand and the wrist on the other, you strike up a Counterspell of your own.
Sam: Sure. I will say to him, this time-- I've got nothing left. I will sing to him, (singing) I'm beautiful. I'm beautiful, it's true. You saw my face in a crowded place, and you didn't know what to do because I just took a shit on you.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: The last thing you hear as the spell begins to take effect is the whispered voice of Vecna throughout all of your heads say, "What?" (laughter)
Matt: Before (spell noise) you are all yanked through a familiar tunnel of darkness and then thrust out into the center of a clustered, dense forest in the Feywild.
Sam: Oh god. Have I been there? Wait, was that me? Yes. Okay.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I would have taken us home, but we were already there, and I had to go somewhere else.
Laura: Where's Vax?
Matt: And that's where we're going to end. (groaning)
Liam: (fake crying) You sadistic motherfucker! You cut it right there?! I was okay until right then!
Taliesin: That's not nice.
Matt: I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: Nothing feels good.
Liam: I was okay until right then!
Ashley: Let's do one more hour.
Travis: That was amazing. That was brutal. We didn't have a fucking chance.
Taliesin: No, there was not a fucking prayer.
Liam: What else were we going to do? Set up an Orange Julius stand by that tower? Of course we were going to go into that tower.
Travis: Of course! But we didn't know how fucked we were until we got up there. We had to go.
Marisha: I thought that we were pretty badass when we took the tower down, and we were not.
Ashley: No.
Marisha: I can get you back, man. I can get you fucking back!
Sam: Can you? Without a body?
Matt: We're going to have some discussions.
Sam: Without a body?
Marisha: But True Resurrection says I can.
Matt: Marisha. We'll have some discussions. Anyway. Thank you guys so much for watching. Thanks for kicking in for a taste of the final arc. Holy shit.
Taliesin: You know what, I'm grateful that we're not--
Matt: Oh man. There was part of me, where either they were going to end up waiting-- if that didn't break concentration, they were either going to wait for you and probably lose a lot more, possibly Keyleth once she realized what was going on. Or left without you. You would have come back.
Laura: And we would have been gone.
Travis: And I would have to have won the game all by myself.
Sam: Which you've already done.
Travis: Or I would have taken the Deck and been like--
Liam: Number one lesson. The one takeaway tonight. The one takeaway is just how OP Vax'ildan is. (laughter)
Matt: This is true.
Laura: If he can't move, he's fucked.
Travis: Boots no longer.
Marisha: I can't believe I fucking dumped my 9th-level spell in you, and then you got tied down. It made zero fucking difference.
Liam: You did great.
Marisha: We both wasted our fucking 9th-level spells.
Sam: They're hard to use. We've got to learn to use them better.
Liam: You've got one chance to do something fucking amazing.
Laura: Vecna is out and ready to fucking destroy.
Matt: We'll pick up on this next week.
Sam: Wow. I'm shaking.
Matt: Me, too. All right, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night. We'll see you soon, and is it Thursday yet?
Travis: Nope! It's Thursday right now!
Liam: Last Thursday.
Matt: Good night, guys. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. I think we're recording, because my camera light's not on, but nevertheless, welcome. (laughs)
Travis: We're totally recording.
Matt: I'm pretty sure we are. Anyway guys, welcome, we have a fantastic guest who will be joining us later this evening, but before we get to that we have announcements to go over real fast. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by a new sponsor, a fantastic group called Quidd! If you want to talk about that first?
Sam: Hi, guys. Vacation Sam here. Quidd is our sponsor tonight, a fantastic new sticker app for your phone. You can check it out at bitly, that's bit.ly/crquidd. I didn't know much about the company, but Quidd sounded vaguely British, so little-known fact about me, I have access to the BBC archives at home, so I did some snooping and sure enough, I found a World War II newsreel transcript that talked about Quidd, so I thought I would do a dramatic reading of it for you right now.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: News from the front! This is Nigel J. Creamhutch reporting from BBC London. March 23, 1944 may be a turning point in WWII as PM Churchill announces a new weapon in the fight against those devilish Nazis. They're calling it Quidd, a new app where you can collect stickers, cards and Funko figures on your telephone device. Our lads on the frontlines are already using it! We spoke with Lieutenant Neville Bingham of the Royal Navy. Right, yeah, Quidd's this free app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play, and it's helping us drive Hitler back to Berlin. But it's not just our Tommies. The Reds have discovered Quidd as well! We spoke with tank commander Ivan Bashenko. With Quidd, Russian army is strongest in world. Morale better now with thousands of stickers to collect that can be used like emojis in messages to your friends. Stalingrad will not fall with these cute stickers! Why, they're even using Quidd across the pond! We spoke with American sergeant John Smith, an American Doughboy. I'm John, an American. We American GIs love to collect stickers from brands like Rick and Morty, Bob's Burgers, Family Guy, Breaking Bad, Star Trek, and newly announced Game of Thrones. Take that, Emperor Hirohito! Well, there you have it, ladies and gents. Your British Armed Forces and our allies will defeat the Nazis and win the Second Great War if you go to bit.ly/crquidd and check out Quidd. Good night, good luck, and god save the queen, pip pip! (cheering)
Travis: I'm so glad that's available on the BBC.
Sam: Yeah, it was a weird transcript. I would have shown the newsreel, but it was just a transcript.
Matt: Fair enough. Well, thank you for the update on that, and thank you, Quidd for sponsoring tonight's episode. Really appreciate it.
Liam: Did they win the war?
Sam: Find out next time! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, let's see. Do you have any merch updates at all, Laura?
Laura: There's stuff in the store!
Matt: There you go. Perfect. Good, I like it, thank you. The Green Ronin Campaign Guide. Pre-orders go up on Monday, guys!
All: What!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Yes, and if you get the book and the pdf, I think the pdf is available immediately, so some of you will have access to actually read the book on Monday.
Laura: Are you so nervous, Matt?
Matt: I'm so nervous. (laughs nervously)
Taliesin: People can actually, in real time, call us when we're wrong on our own stuff.
Travis: What do you mean, finally? They do that every week.
Marisha: Finally? Although you are Taliesin Jaffe.
Taliesin: This is a level of pain I've only dreamed of; I'm very excited.
Liam: Hey. We're so proud of you.
Travis: Yeah, nice job with the words and stuff.
Sam: Hold on though, we haven't read it yet. What if it's terribly written, by a child?
Laura: We'll find out he used crayon. It's all written in marker.
Matt: Probably. Do you know how hard it is to get crayon printed these days?
Marisha: Only if the writers' room dropped the ball.
Matt: Well, I hope you guys enjoy it, so look forward to that. The podcast is now episodes 11 through 20, right? Up on the Apple Store. So you can go ahead and download those, which are awesome.
Marisha: Yep, Apple and Google Play.
Matt: Yes. And those are the ones. Of course we'll have Talks Machina next Tuesday at 7:00pm about this episode tonight, here on Twitch and Alpha, 7:00pm Pacific, with our fantastic host Brian Foster, so you can check that out. Wednesday Club next week for you?
Taliesin: Wednesday Club, we're talking about Comic Con, because Comic Con is coming up, and we're going to try and give you a first-timer's guide to Comic Con: If you've never been to one, what to expect, what to do for fun, and all sorts of things that you could see or do in San Diego. Other than us. Thank you, I was very proud of last night.
Matt: We're not having a show next week, we're going to be at Comic Con. Yeah, we have a week off. So we'll miss you guys next week, but we do have our Critical Role panel on Saturday at Comic Con, it's at 10:30am in Room 6...
Travis: BC... E.
Matt: It's a nice big room. You guys should come, we're going to have silly questions, Q and A, conversations, stories and a lot of funness and some cool surprises!
Sam: Prizes?
Taliesin: Prizes?
Matt: Surprises!
Marisha: Oh yeah, we have some announcements.
Matt: So hopefully you guys can make it at San Diego Comic Con. If you're going to be there we'd love to see you. And last but not least, Sagas of Sundry: Dread. The third episode went up today.
Matt: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Marisha: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Matt: I'm going to marry you. (laughter)
Matt: What's that? Oh that's right, and at GenCon next month we have our live show, we mentioned it last week. Tickets are still on sale for the general admission. We're looking forward to having you guys there, it's Friday evening.
Travis: Yeah, it's Friday evening, 7 30. In fact, we got an even bigger theatre this year. The last theatre had 1,500 seats, we're like, oh, we'll never get that many people, and it went (explosion sound). It filled up, so we got a 2,500 seat theatre. It's massive, it's a huge party, if you didn't join us last year, you want to come to this mayhem. It's so much fun. You don't need passes to GenCon, by the way, you don't have to have a badge or anything for that, it's a standalone thing. There are definitely tickets still available, it's going to be super fun.
Sam: I feel like with that many people we should have beach balls in the audience, and they can do the wave.
Matt: Inflatable d20s to throw out there...
Marisha: (gasps) You can get them. They're on ThinkGeek I think.
Matt: This is a terrible idea.
Travis: It's a great idea!
Matt: Anyway, without further ado, I think that concludes our announcements, and as such, let us dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So where we left off last time. Vox Machina, having finally encountered the Undying King, returned in physical form in the Shadowfell, did battle and fled, quite unprepared for that venture, and gathered some tidbits of information about what Vecna's plans may be. Upon returning and discovering that your disintegrated Vax has returned through some deal he made with his patron the Raven Queen after disintegrating, you decided to go ahead and try and gather more information about this and beseech some of the higher powers within Exandria. Pike talked to Sarenrae and was given the invitation to come visit her in Elysium on the Island of Renewal, and upon gathering your materials and causing a mess in Vasselheim, you got together and went to meet this fantastic Everlight. On her island, you spoke with her. She gathered some information from you, as Vecna seemed to be blocking at least the influence and vision from a lot of the deities, and then gave her blessing unto Pike, transferring you over to one of the other gods that lives among the Blessed Fields of Elysium: Pelor, the Dawnfather. You then walked through the orchards that led to the Fortress of the Sun where he resides, spoke with some of the guardians there, and were led into the center of the citadel, where you met, in the central throne room under the Zenith Tower, Pelor himself. Upon exchanging information, you spoke of your need to gather the favor of certain gods in the battles to come, and were given a challenge. To step up to plate: Vex'ahlia. You accepted the challenge and racing to the top of the tower, the zenith, before the fires could be extinguished in the brazier that awaited you, you threw yourself into the fire, and upon the party speaking on what it was that made Vex'ahlia such an important member of not just your team, but your family, and gave you strength, she was imbued with a blessing of the Dawnfather himself. After which, we left off as you exited the front of the Fortress of the Sun, stepped into the central glade that marks the center of the seemingly endless orchards that surround this region, and Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Travis: Eat all of the fruit.
Laura: No.
Travis: It was really good. It was just fruit, by the way. Like I said.
Sam: We're still in heaven right now?
Laura: We're still in Elysium.
Taliesin: It's not quite heaven.
Travis: Are there any other gods here that we should curry favor with? For? Of?
Laura: Are there any more gods here? Not that we know of.
Sam: We forgot to ask.
Travis: Did we?
Laura: Yeah. I don't think Ioun is here.
Matt: You're looking at the series of the Sun Tree cousins, one of which you've met, scattered amongst this glade surrounding the central citadel.
Marisha: What a douche.
Sam: No other people? Guards? Nothing.
Matt: You have the guards behind you, the large planetar and deva entities that stand there, armored in their golden plate, after ushering you out, are standing guard.
Laura: Maybe we can ask them.
Sam: Sure. I'll go up to one and say, hello there, big fellow.
Matt: Standing a full ten feet taller than you, practically, the wings slightly bent, the large planar entity kneels down. "Hello."
Sam: Hello. Vacation Scanlan here. Couple questions. By the way, was he one of the ones who fought in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh. Do they all look alike? 17 plus one.
Matt: Hard to tell. You didn't pay a lot of attention.
Sam: Okay. Hey, just wondering, a few questions. A: How does one get out of here? Is there a door to another plane?
Matt: "I imagine the same way you came in."
Sam: A god brought us here. All right, cool. Number two: Are there any other like your Dawnfather around here? Any other gods in the area?
Matt: "Across Elysium, there are two deities that call it home: the Dawnfather and the Everlight."
Sam: So we covered our bases. Out of curiosity What are you called?
Matt: He looks very closely, and you get sense that part of its nature is scanning through you; it's getting a sense and a read of you as an individual, and it says, "No one you need to worry about." Stands up and then takes two steps back (heavy footfalls) into place and looks straight ahead.
Marisha: Scanlan, you should remember that line, that's a good one.
Sam: Yeah. I already forgot it. I'm too intimidated. Was it no one or something? I don't know. Well, good speaking to you.
Matt: Still looks out. Doesn't respond.
Sam: Well, how do we get out of here? Can she take us home?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: She does on the daily.
Sam: I know, but I don't know. They talked about some sort of a gate that keeps the gods out and the bad gods in.
Matt: To remind you of what happened last time. There was talking about possibly... or at least there was the Trammel, the Prime Trammels that were used previously to seal the Chained Oblivion, Tharizdun, and that the orchestrator, the designer of those was Ioun, the Knowing Goddess. Ioun, however, has sealed herself away, being a wounded god, long recovering, and the only information that Pelor has of where she hid herself, the key, essentially, is not an object but a person. You're seeking an individual, of which you were given a solar light map of a single small home in a forest ravine not far from a place that you've noticed was near the Pools of Wittebak, which is in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: Yeah, but there was also a mention of some Divine Gate that keeps people from--
Matt: Well, the Divine Gate is a known existing entity. It's essentially a large gate that prevents the gods from returning to the Prime Material Plane.
Liam: It's like a metaphysical screen door that keeps flies out.
Laura: So the gods can't get in and out.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Marisha: Yeah, the Prime Trammel. Which we now have to get--
Laura: We have to get near the the Cliffkeep Range, near the Pools of Wittebak, is where we need to go.
Marisha: And the Cliffkeep is not too far from Whitestone?
Matt: Cliffkeep Mountains go across a lot of the northern side of Tal'Dorei, from what you're familiar with. Like, we're talking Kraghammer to Gatshadow to the Jorenn Village. There's a lot of things. It's like a big horizontal mountain range that caps the top part of the continent.
Marisha: Do I recognize the city that I can get us to that's close?
Matt: Fort Daxio or Kraghammer.
Sam: Haven't been to Kraghammer for a while, although Daxio might be worth a check.
Taliesin: What's closest to the pools?
Matt: Probably Terrah or the Pools of Wittebak. Those are the two that are closest.
Laura: What is Terrah?
Marisha: My home.
Matt: Terrah's not your home.
Marisha: Sorry. Sorry, Terrah is the Earth Ashari.
Sam: My other home, summer home.
Matt: The home away from home.
Liam: Can you also remind me where my Vecdar made me feel Vecna-- where on the Prime Material Plane?
Matt: Yes. Oh, where?
Liam: Yeah, we talked about it, but I can't remember.
Matt: You did, yes. It seemed to be hundreds of miles northwest of Vasselheim. You didn't sense any movement, but you knew the general direction and distance.
Liam: And that was yesterday.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Teacher?
Matt: Yes, Laura?
Laura: I was excited the last game and somehow have misplaced my Pelor champion piece of paper.
Liam: Oh, she doesn't get to have it now. That's how that works.
Laura: I don't know how it happened! It's not with my stuffs.
Matt: That's okay, I remember what it does, and if you decide to use it--
Laura: You'll tell me? Okay.
Matt: I won't tell you. You tell me you want to use it.
Laura: Oh shit, okay. I'm sorry. I had it, and it's not here.
Taliesin: It's weird how he's so nice and yet it still feels like you are in so much trouble.
Laura: I'm in a lot of trouble, you guys.
Liam: He's calm, but indifferent. Like the Dawnfather.
Matt: All right, so what would you like to do?
Travis: Yeah, what would we like to do?
Marisha: Should we go to Terrah? Check in with them, I guess, while we're there?
Taliesin: Seems prudent.
Marisha: And talk to Pa'tice.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. We ready to go?
Taliesin: I'm very ready to go. This is lovely and everything, but I've had my fill.
Marisha: I will burn my 8th-level spell slot to Plane Shift us to Terrah.
Matt: To Terrah, all righty.
Marisha: Mind the gap.
Taliesin: What gap?
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Travis: No effects from eating that fruit, right?
Matt: No, you didn't sense any effects from that fruit, at the moment.
Travis: Didn't remove a curse or anything?
Matt: No, you didn't. Nothing really caught you up to speed, in that.
Laura: Are we by those fruit trees again?
Matt: There are no fruit-bearing trees directly near you. The Sun Trees are around you. Further in they do, yes. All righty. Bringing up my notes on Terrah, since that's where you're going.
Marisha: Yeah, I should probably--
Laura: I'm so confused about the order of things. If we go to Ioun, and we don't have everything we need for this Prime Trammel, are we fucked? I know we need godly power in order to imbue them, right? Or something?
Liam: Either here or soon we need to sit and work this out.
Sam: What do we need to bring into the trammel?
Laura: Well, Pelor gave me this. Snap, snap, snap, zip. This. It's a stone and it's supposed to be strong enough to--
Liam: Power the trammel?
Laura: Part of it? Not all of it.
Marisha: We need to collect more, though, right? We have to get like eight or something.
Sam: Wait, it said that?
Matt: You weren't given any indication as to how many you needed.
Laura: But it did seem like this is not enough.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, Ioun was healing for eight centuries. That's where I got that number. Sorry.
Travis: I could do it, too. Five. Five stones of power.
Matt: All right, so as you complete your spell, Keyleth, you step through the base of the nearest tree, possibly the same one you spoke with earlier if you want to be a dick about it.
Marisha: Oh yeah! Let's walk through that asshole. That sounds worse for us. But fuck it.
Matt: All right, you aggressively stampede through the center of this one tree and emerge on the other side from one of the surrounding trees on the Terrah village. There are a number of these pseudo-petrified or dried-out large-trunk trees that seem to have slowly died off from the heavy tectonic shifts and small quakes that happen in this area, that have made a lot of the land unable to support large forms of plant life, or at least the trees that used to exist here. So you step out and emerge from the exterior of the village as it domes down into this small crater that you recall seeing before, where most of the village inhabits the central portion, and the village is there before you.
Marisha: What were the shard things called again?
Matt: The shard things?
Marisha: The things we need to collect?
Matt: There wasn't really a name for them more than they're small pieces of essence of the deity.
Marisha: So we need pieces of god.
Liam: Does the little seed of light given to my sister look anything like the little seed that Scanlan and Vax saw from riding the shadow creature in the sky?
Matt: No. In a sense that it's a small source of power of some kind, but what you saw there was maybe about that large on the platform. What she has is bead size.
Laura: Is it this size? Or this size?
Matt: Comparable to each. So you stand outside of Terrah. What are you doing?
Sam: What time of day is it? How tired are we?
Matt: Based on when you left, it would still be probably-- well, you were over in Vasselheim, which means it's getting dark, actually. I'd say with the way the sun has passed through the sky now, you've just gotten past dusk. There's still light in the sky, but it's going from oranges to purples to dark blues on the horizon, and you can see hints of firelight, torchlight and candlelight from within the actual city below.
Sam: Well, what are we going to need on this trip? Maybe we should get whatever supplies we need. Is it far? Are we going to become gas?
Travis: Are we going underground?
Marisha: Oh, to Terrah?
Sam: No, we'e in Terrah. But the next day, we're going to the--
Taliesin: To the pools.
Marisha: Do we want to stay the night here, then? I can't mist us right now. I'm tapped out. Camp here.
Laura: Vax? Can you sense Vecna? Is he still in the same place?
Liam: I can sense him?
Matt: You can sense him. He is, from your current location, thousands of miles from you.
Laura: Oh, hard to tell, then?
Liam: He's still really shitty, though.
Matt: Yeah, very heavy west-northwest direction from you, currently.
Sam: Well, sleep? Do we need to get any intel on where these pools are? Do we need anything?
Laura: We should maybe talk to the people of Terrah? It's not that late.
Marisha: Yeah, let's go. They have a spare room for us.
Travis: Are you the leader of all the people?
Marisha: I'm the leader of the Air Ashari and the Voice of the Tempest.
Travis: Is that a yes or a no? You don't have to fucking brag.
Marisha: No, there's four of us, and I'm one of the four.
Sam: Do you know the one who lives here?
Marisha: I do.
Sam: Then let's go see him or her. Or they.
Marisha: No, we can just go, like I was saying five minutes ago. Let's just go.
Matt: All right. So as you walk down into the village, a number of the guardians step out quickly, seeing an approaching party, however, recognizing Keyleth and her station immediately, turn into an escort that leads you to the center portion of the village.
Marisha: I request Pa'tice.
Matt: Quickly enough, they go and retrieve Pa'tice. You see the elderly form of the leader you've met before step out, the graying hair, the weathered dark skin tones, the long greens and brown leathers that drape off, showing hints of the knees and lower feet, the large walking staff that he carries at his side as he approaches and the headdress that seems to be a combination of thick twines and shale shards that have been woven in, steps forward. "Keyleth. An unexpected visit, most definitely."
Marisha: Kaitiaki.
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Pa'tice, I am so sorry for the late intrusion. We've just gotten back from the plane of Elysium, so we're a little tired. Yeah, we're fighting a god right now, well, more of like a demi-god, so have you heard of Vecna? Sorry, I'm probably getting ahead of myself. Do you have any food? Let's talk over dinner.
Matt: "We have food, yes. You are guests of Terrah. Please, we will provide whatever you require. Come, provide them a meal!" And he puts his hand out and they run off quickly.
Taliesin: I like that people just feed us. We show up, and there's food.
Sam: You've been used to that your whole life.
Taliesin: Not at home.
Sam: I have to sing for dinner. You just say--
Taliesin: Have you ever tried not singing for dinner?
Sam: Maybe I'll get more food.
Taliesin: You might!
Liam: You did have one year-ish where you were on the skids. You did your Prince and the Pauper bit for a little bit.
Taliesin: It's a big vague, but yes. I was on a boat for quite a while.
Travis: Oh my god, can we eat food? (laughter)
Matt: And quick as that, you guys make your way down. It's a modest meal, but it's a meal nonetheless. Mostly hunted creatures of the local mountainside, some dried beets and root.
Marisha: We always try to source locally.
Taliesin: Charmingly provincial.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Keyleth, perhaps you should let your people know that the world is in danger.
Marisha: So the world's in danger, as she said--
Sam: The waiter is like, what?
Liam: Runs out the door.
Marisha: Aw shit! I just induced panic.
Matt: Pa'tice, who's sat down with you, says quickly, "We have been made aware via the other Ashari that there is some danger possibly coming. We are awaiting word of what to do other than keep ourselves in a defensive position. We have to guard the rift, of course. But should there be a call to action, we'll do what we can. I'm unfamiliar with this Vecna, but whatever you plan, please be careful."
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. More than anything, I think I would want you all to be relief for the surrounding area and surrounding villages if anything disastrous were to happen. I know you have to guard the rift and that is insanely important and especially right now with someone like Vecna who could potentially abuse that. But if anything were to happen, I don't know if you could house extra people during a disaster.
Matt: "We are quite good at assembling makeshift and temporary lodging. The rock is our friend, if you will."
Marisha: Yeah, that's more, I think, what we would need.
Matt: "Of course, of course! Not a worry."
Marisha: Currently, Vecna is just north of Vasselheim, close to Pyrah.
Matt: "Have you asked Pyrah for aid, as well?"
Marisha: They've also been put on alert, but we have not personally been there yet since this has happened.
Matt: "Well. Good. They're closer. But we're happy to help if we can."
Marisha: Yeah. Thank you.
Laura: Things are happening very quickly. We just happened here first.
Matt: "We're happy to help. Where are you off to?"
Sam: The Pools of Wittebak.
Matt: "What brings you towards the Pools of Wittebak?"
Sam: You know this place?
Matt: "It is a series of poisoned wells and hulking, stupid giants."
Sam: Hulking, stupid giants?
Laura: Giants? At the pools?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: I thought it was something about gnomes there.
Matt: "It was once."
Sam: They grew. (laughter)
Laura: Is that something you can do, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't know. (laughs)
Matt: "They're geothermic large puddles across the mountainside. Various minerals being lifted up from the deep waters beneath the mountain. Heated, bubbling, boiling, steaming. But the giants moved in hundreds of years ago, stomped around, and ended up filling the entire subterranean gnomish city of Wittebak with fumes and poison. Killed most of them, and the rest fled to Kraghammer."
Liam: Do you all ever broach the area or do you just stay clear of it?
Matt: "Best to avoid, we have our own business to deal with. And it's 100 miles from here. It's not much of an issue."
Taliesin: And the pools are naturally poisonous?
Matt: "Well, some are toxic, some are not, but since the giants moved in and ruptured some of the natural formations, some of them have grown toxic or acidic, yes."
Marisha: Do you know if people still try to live there? We're looking for someone.
Matt: "If they are, they're foolish."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's our kind of people.
Laura: Maybe the person we're looking for is a giant.
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: Do you know what type of giant? We've seen a few types of giants. Do you know their make and model?
Matt: "The dumbest. Hill giants."
Laura: Hill giants.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Easy to outsmart, difficult to outrun. They'll eat anything, even small little gnomes."
Laura: Seems like they ate a lot of them.
Sam: (laughing) I guess so.
Laura: Pasty, I have a question. Do you know anything about Ioun?
Matt: "I know of the name."
Laura: But not much.
Matt: "We're not the most devoted people."
Laura: I know.
Marisha: I saw that. (laughter)
Matt: "I can't imagine I'd have any information you wouldn't."
Laura: Okay. Just checking.
Matt: "My apologies."
Laura: This food is really good.
Matt: "Yes! Enjoy your meal!" And he gets up and walks away.
Taliesin: He was so officious.
Laura: I thought we were walking into a fucking lake with gnomes living there. I didn't realize we were going to fight giants.
Travis: This got so much better all of a sudden.
Taliesin: If it were easy, it really wouldn't be us, would it?
Marisha: So the question is, is there actually someone of some minor intelligence living there that is this magical key, or did that person get eaten by a giant?
Taliesin: I cannot believe I'm about to say this. I'm inclined to believe the god. They're in the position where trying to trick us out of leaving is not necessary. They could've just told us to leave and be done with it. That information just wouldn't suit them, I don't think.
Marisha: I'm not saying it's bad information, I'm just wondering who the key is.
Laura: It's possible the key is now inside of a giant's stomach. In which case, it still would be inside of someone. Just a different someone.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe they're still living inside. Maybe it's like a Moby Dick situation.
Matt: You do recall the map that was shown to you by the Dawnfather Pelor. It was adjacent to the pools, not actually in the Pools of Wittebak. It was within a forest, and was a home.
Laura: Oh! I remember it now! It was a home inside. Oh, I drew a little map of it. Yep, that's it. Yes, it's adjacent to the pools, but there's a home in a forest. Did you like it? That's what my map was.
Marisha: Can we theoretically just mist over everywhere?
Laura: I mean and look out for a home in the forest? We'll have to fly pretty low. I'm assuming the home is going to be covered by treetop.
Travis: We never travel traditionally anymore. I'm just saying, I miss the romantic aspects of traveling the countryside. It's like fast forward, immediate gratification, fucking you know.
Sam: The Dawnfather said we must hurry or else the world will end.
Laura: It's very far. We could Misty Step to the forest and then walk in the forest?
Travis: Why are you fucking talking to me like I'm a child?
Laura: No reason, darling.
Travis: Okay. That would-- okay. (laughter)
Liam: Once this is all done, Grog, you and I will go on a long trek together.
Travis: Yeah? Yeah. I dig that.
Laura: Don't be dark and creepy and make it sound like you're being nice. I know you're being dark and creepy right now.
Travis: Oh, hey. Don't get after my camping partner like that, all right? Shit. Chill.
Liam: Can't predict this one.
Travis: No marshmallows for this witch.
Marisha: It is a little weird to be making promises, though.
Taliesin: Well, on that chipper little side note, I think we should turn in for the evening.
Sam: Yes, do we have lodging?
Matt: Lodging is provided for you. They have a number of various guest tents and small buildings that provide you with space. Not the highest of quality of places you've slept in, probably, and if you wanted to provide your mansion instead, you're welcome to, but ample food, quiet sleep. It's a comfortable evening's rest. You all find yourselves through the evening. As you sleep, and having this being the first time many of you have slept in Terrah, it takes you a while. There is just a general low hum or vibration to the ground that you sleep on. You get the sense it's probably proximity to the Rift, but there is this slow, perpetual (rumbling). It's like a weird, low rumble. Like a heavy bass sound that never seems to dissipate that you hadn't noticed until you were trying to quietly sleep. But it's not off-putting and within ten or 15 minutes, it actually almost helps to lull you to rest. You all come to in the morning, gather your supplies, and are preparing for the next leg of your journey. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Could I attune, either before I go to sleep or when I wake up, to the Dwarven Thrower instead of the Bloodaxe?
Matt: You may. All right. Any other attunements, anyone wishes to--
Liam: I'll set the Deathwalker's Ward to acid.
Matt: All right, to acid. Boom.
Laura: Before everyone else gets up, can I go find where Vax is sleeping?
Matt: You may.
Laura: This is a tent. What do I do? Do I knock? Do I shake it? I'm not sure. Scratch?
Matt: They're lodging made from large pieces of shale and rock, jammed into a somewhat triangular pattern to form an earth yurt, if you will.
Laura: Oi. Vax. Are you naked?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Put some clothes on, then. Jesus. Keyleth, sorry.
Marisha: Keyleth opens the shamble door first with a little earth movement. I'm dressed. Yeah. I'm not like that.
Laura: You don't sleep naked?
Marisha: I'm going to go get coffee.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth darts off in the distance and the two of you are left within the tent.
Laura: Are you decent?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: I'm coming in.
Liam: I'm still naked.
Laura: Ugh, come on! So fucking weird. (groans) I turn my back to him.
Liam: I start putting on the rest of my armor.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Can I ask you a question? Well, I'm going to.
Liam: Of course you can.
Laura: I look down at my feet. Why didn't you ever try to take these back?
Liam: Well, they're going to be yours, anyway.
Laura: Oh, Jesus. You know, the only reason I do things is that I take great joy in irritating you. If you don't show irritation, it makes it not worth it. (sighs) Can I turn around now? I'm turning around.
Liam: I am covered.
Laura: Good. Why are you so calm? You're so calm and confident now. It's weird.
Liam: I mean, I'm on bonus time.
Laura: Is he still cold?
Matt: His skin is colder than a warm body, yes.
Liam: But I'm not Bobby Drake, right?
Laura: What's his heartbeat like?
Matt: (very slow heartbeat)
Laura: (groans) Jeez!
Taliesin: Wow, way to hang onto that one, Matt.
Liam: But look. (slashing noise) I mean, look.
Laura: Is there blood?
Matt: Yeah, he bleeds, and it's a pretty open wound. You watch as the wound slowly seals itself up.
Laura: (gasping) No fucking way!
Liam: Oh, I didn't know it did that. (laughter)
Laura: That's really cool.
Liam: Thank you!
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I don't know, this is the dumbest conversation. This is bonus time. I shouldn't be here. It was the long sleep or come back and help.
Laura: So she gave you the option and then you came back and now you're what? Super? Super half-elf?
Liam: Well, I'm just following through on a promise made.
Laura: And we defeat Vecna and you're done, you're gone. That's it? Instant? Is it like we kill him and you're gone that second or is it like we kill him and you're here for another week or until the Raven Queen realizes that you're still here?
Liam: There isn't really a handbook.
Laura: She didn't tell you?
Liam: When Vecna is destroyed, she will call me back to where I would be right now. I expect everyone-- Keyleth and I have barely spoken-- I expect everyone to be sad, but I wish you wouldn't be so sad, not exorbitantly so, because I--
Laura: Exorbitant? That's a good word.
Liam: I read. Not as much as some, but I read. This is the path that I have chosen for myself and I did it based out of desperation, at first. But everyone dies.
Laura: I know.
Liam: And I think our group has become a little spoiled. We're not your ordinary group of idiots. We have blessings.
Laura: We're blessed idiots.
Liam: Blessed idiots, yes, and I know that we've gotten used to feeling like we can overcome losing anyone, but your average farmer or seamstress doesn't come back. And everybody dies, and all that matters is what you do with what you have, and I have done a lot, and I've taken great pride watching all that you have done. And I have good friends and I have fallen in love. More than most, I've had.
Laura: Yeah. After you die, do you stand by her side?
Liam: That I don't really know. I imagine she'll keep me close.
Laura: Do you like her now?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: She's necessary and she's of use, and I like that.
Laura: She brought you back to us for a while. I like her, too. Anyway, do you want the fucking boots back? Fuck! Yeah, sure, yes, fine, that's fine. I wanted to give them back, so there you go. I'm glad you asked for them back.
Liam: I don't have a lot of time. They really are my favorite thing.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Physical thing.
Laura: Just make sure you write it down somewhere that after you go back to the Raven Queen that your sister is your favorite in the universe.
Liam: Dear, every stitch on my body is yours when I am gone.
Laura: I don't want every stitch. None of it's worth you leaving.
Liam: I slide my feet into the shoes and I wiggle my toes around. Oh, I'm sorry. I also have a confession to make.
Laura: What?
Liam: I don't exactly have your shoes anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: I think that I left them in the Feywild.
Laura: The Feywild?
Liam: Yeah, I think I dropped them into a bog. They didn't fit me.
Laura: You are a motherfucker. You couldn't have just put them in the Bag of Holding?
Liam: I'm still me.
Laura: Great, wonderful. I like being barefoot.
Liam: You have very cute, small feet that fit in the boots that you gave me that did not fit my feet.
Laura: That's great.
Liam: There's probably shoes here.
Laura: Probably. All right.
Liam: I pull out her shoes and I put them down.
Laura: Well, at least there's that!
Matt: Got your shoes back. Keyleth returns with some coffee. The rest of you come to consciousness, and the morning sun is now blaring down over the Cliffkeep. It's a strangely clear sky for the north. While a lot of it is relatively cold usually, you're used to seeing the snow- capped mountaintops-- oh, you found it! There you go.
Taliesin: It was with you the whole time.
Liam: Must have been inside your shoes.
Laura: Oh my gosh! I put it in the safe place and I didn't realize it!
Travis: Thank you, chat.
Laura: Did they really know where I put it?
Travis: Yeah, they know where your shit is.
Sam: The chat knew where you put your stuff?
Travis: "It's in the page in front of your blue divider."
Sam: No way!
Laura: Wow, thank you. Thank you, guys!
Liam: How many fingers am I holding up?
Matt: So bringing it back in, guys.
Sam: Yes, we have a guest.
Matt: Yes. At some point. So what do you guys want to do?
Sam: Set off! For the Pools of Hatabah! (laughter)
Taliesin: For the forest near the Pools of--
Sam: The adjacent to the Pools of Hatafah.
Travis: We didn't want to bring any extra muscle with us, do we, from these peeps? Oh wait, we're misting a long ways away. Never mind. Sorry. Forget it.
Liam: Grog, you are our extra muscle.
Travis: See! High five! Up top.
Liam: I'm not dead.
Travis: His hand's cold.
Matt: So you're traversing via your Wind Walk?
Marisha: I guess. Are we wind walking there?
Laura: (mispronouncing) Wind.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Wind walk? Wind walking.
Liam: (mispronouncing) Wil Wheaton!
Sam: Hey, before we leave, real quick  Kiki.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Can you send messages or anything?
Marisha: No, man. We have been through this with our entire group so many times.
Sam: It's just you're so powerful.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: What do you need?
Sam: I would send a letter, but it'll take weeks. So forget it. We'll be somewhere close to somewhere with magic soon.
Marisha: We can leave it in the hands of the Ashari, see if they can find somebody.
Sam: You trust these folks?
Marisha: Yeah. They're all right.
Taliesin: They're not the worst.
Marisha: They're not the worst.
Sam: All right, I'll scribble a little note and say-- well, no, there's no way they can get it to-- it's too far! It's too far!
Taliesin: I was really excited to see your face when you handed it to them and they're like, what are we supposed to do with this?
Sam: Here, I'll show you, Grog.
Travis: Write it out, bitch!
Sam: I write, a sphincter says what.
Travis: A. As. Good message. That's a big word at the front.
Laura: You could have gotten the last one, though.
Travis: What!
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Pike taps you on the shoulder and is like, "I'll teach you that later."
Taliesin: Thank you for the Ashley Johnson simulator. That was weirdly comforting.
Matt: Curse you, Blindspot!
Travis: Yeah! Are we misting?
Sam: Yeah, let's do it.
Laura: Should we eat a feast first, or should we save that?
Taliesin: Let's save that.
Laura: Okay. I don't know what we're going to find!
Matt: That's up to you guys. So preparations being done, you gather your materials, Keyleth completes the Wind Walk spell and you all feel yourselves grow slightly lighter on your toes. You concentrate. Over the minute transformation, you turn into your mist forms and take off in what direction?
Marisha: Towards the Falafel Pools!
Sam: We wrote it down.
Taliesin: Falafel pool is actually really tasty.
Travis: Pools of Wittebak.
Laura: Yeah! Towards the mountains!
Sam: He said "which direction?" He did not say "Where are you going?" He said "which direction?"
Laura: We got to look at our map.
Marisha: We have it on the map!
Laura: We have a map!
Matt: Okay! Well, you have Terrah locked down. The Pools of Wittebak would not be on your specific map that you acquired earlier. You can ask around within Terrah within a brief time and figure it out. Somewhere between 100 and 120 miles, and he points in a specific direction. You mark the sun's traveling and where certain landmarks are.
Marisha: I quickly do the math of how fast I can travel and be like okay, it shouldn't take long.
Matt: It's an eastward direction from where you are.
Taliesin: You did actually, legitimately point east, too, which makes that even better.
Matt: That's weird.
Taliesin: Yeah, that is weird.
Matt: I'm putting points in my nature skill. Or survival, I guess. Anyway, too many editions in my head. (laughs) As you all take off into the morning sky, you begin to rocket over, and you're hitting jets of wind that are beginning to find their way over the mountain ranges, and you get blown a little off-course, but you maintain concentration as best you can in that direction. Who is leading this venture?
Sam: I've been there. No, I knew of it, right?
Matt: You knew of it, yeah.
Sam: But I don't know exactly where.
Laura: After listening to everybody, I'll lead the way. That way, I can keep an eye out for the forest next, too, and the house and all the things we're looking for. I got a good look at the map that Pelor held up in front of us, as well.
Matt: Right. Okay, cool. I need you to go ahead and make a survival check. Actually, for this, I'm gonna say-- yeah, because it would be tracking in the wilderness. So survival.
Laura: Survival? Great. Any advantage on that?
Sam: Wilderness is your favored terrain.
Matt: It's mountains, technically.
Laura: That's also my favored.
Matt: Then yeah, roll again.
Travis: Because that was a one.
Laura: Oh! So much better. 28.
Matt: Okay, that'll do it. Your speed is tremendous when in this form, so what would have been an extended trek on foot over a series of days, it takes you mere hours to eventually get to a point where you crest one heavy peak. On the opposite side, you can see down the cliffside, the edge reaches a slight precipice, and there you can see what looks to be for a mile or so a cluster of dozens and dozens of pools of water of different sizes, all jammed together in a geothermic cluster, where you can see bright greens that move to a deep orange-maroon at the edges from the various mineral deposits that have collected over hundreds and hundreds of years. You can see large columns of smoke and steam of different chemical colors rising out of various large pools, and at a glance down, you can see a number of shapes: a number of hulking, humanoid shapes; somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 or so scattered at different pools, moving in small clusters or gangs. Some of them are jumping in, cannonballing and swimming through the actual pools. Some of them are lounging around and lying. Some of them appear to be returning, dragging things from the nearby forest on the eastern side of the bank.
Marisha: This is a vacation spot. What's that water park nearby?
Laura: Wet 'N' Wild?
Matt: Essentially, for a few hundred years, you get the sense that the Pools of Wittebak have been a hill giant water park. You can see these large mounds of mud and scrap wood and things that have been built into these large hill giant domiciles onto the side of the mountain not far from the pools. It's become a definite hill giant wandering zone. So do you guys continue over the pools, down towards the nearby forest ridge?
Laura: Yeah, past the pools.
Matt: All righty. You come to the forest ridge, and you can see it's not thick forest. The ravine comes down off the precipice where the pools are. You get a few hundred-- I'd say, actually more than that. A thousand or more feet away from that precipice before plants even begin to grow. It looks like whatever toxic chemicals have burbled up in some of these pools have made a lot of the ground there unable to give any forest life or sustain any large trees. As soon as the forest begins, it's a dense little pocket, maybe a mile and a half, two miles across. That's what you've got. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Oh man. I should try to track any footprints in there and see if there's something around the edges, maybe, that lead back to-- shit, I don't fucking know. It's only a couple of miles.
Matt: If you guys begin to do a loop-over, who's doing a quick pass over the patch of forest? All right, make a perception check.
Laura: It's the forest. Do I get advantage on that one? Perception? What is that, 21? 21.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: Okay. Glancing over, you don't see any major glades or clearings. There doesn't appear to be any sign of bastions of civilization or any sort of logging going on. There's no areas where trees have been cut or cleared. It's a featureless forest top, from what you can see.
Laura: Can we fly down lower to where we're in between the trees?
Matt: You can go down into the forest, if you'd like. All right, who's going into the forest, then?
Marisha: I'll go.
Laura: I'll go. All of us?
Matt: So with Pike following suit, you guys all swoop down through the boughs of the trees and into the center of the forest itself. Within there, it's not a super thick canopy; it's not as heavy as the Feywild or some of the recent forests that cluster around Vasselheim. There are breaks in the canopy where you can see the sunbeams come through from the morning sun that's rising up higher and higher in the sky as you've traveled. The mist has burned away in this area, so it's a nice, warm forest. Glancing about, there is a lot of life in here. You can see signs of squirrels. You rush by what was a family of wolverine-like creatures that are rustling by. As soon as the wind scoots in and your mist forms come rocketing past, they all scatter and run off into the shadows. There's a lot of forest ground here to cover. For you to really super track with advantage, you'd have to go into human form. I'd give you a regular roll if you want to try and track in your mist form.
Laura: Not so much tracking right now, just a loose passover as we're going, looking for any kind of hunting traps or trails, signs of life of things that have been traversed a lot.
Matt: I'd say make an investigation check.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27. Begin coasting through tree after tree through small, tiny bits of clearing that immediately come into large clusters of trunks and knotted branches that all merge and cluster at different intersections. After about 20 or so minutes of this, trying to do a large spiral around the forest inward, out of the corner of your eye, Vex'ahlia, you glance over and see a quick glimpse of something that appears to be more structured. You look back and rush over and there you see amongst the trees what appears to be a humble-looking two-story home. You see a small balcony built on the second floor that goes over one of the larger rooms in the bottom floor. It's not huge, by any means, and is hidden by a lot of the local brush and trees there. Can't get a lot more detail at this distance, though.
Laura: Okay. We land. I land.
Marisha: I follow.
Laura: And behind a tree, I'm going to take form.
Matt: You take your form? Okay. So all of you land and follow Vex?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: You all take a minute to go back to your physical forms. You glance over, and there it is, standing before you. It's very shaded in this part of the forest. You can see a little bit of what looks to be interior light, very faint.
Travis: Like a normal person-sized dwelling?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: Yay!
Matt: It would be a little small for you, Grog. But you could walk in it. Proportionally, it looks maybe like it was built for a little bit of a smaller person.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I want to start eyeballing the ground of the house for any kinds of traps set out. Is that investigation, yeah?
Matt: That is investigation.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. So you guys begin to slowly--
Travis: Wait. Before we do, there are no random nudist giants that have run over in this area, right? There's nobody sees us over here taking off?
Taliesin: You're worried about giants streaking?
Travis: Not particularly.
Taliesin: That was very specific.
Travis: Well, yeah, have you ever seen a giant naked? You'll never forget it.
Taliesin: I might. I don't know.
Sam: Are you suggesting we set up a perimeter?
Travis: Yeah! I mean, it's a tiny house, I don't really want to go in there. I like having exits I fit through.
Laura: I don't want whoever it is to think that we threaten them in any way. But then, if they threaten us, I wouldn't want them to attack us, either.
Travis: Yeah, I'll just knock the house down from the outside.
Taliesin: Let's keep this structure standing for now.
Travis: I'll stay outside.
Sam: Are we knocking properly or are we just going to Invisibility in and see who's in there?
Laura: I feel like maybe knock properly.
Taliesin: If you think long and hard about it, it's not like manners have failed us very often.
Laura: Yeah. But do keep an eye out for traps or anything weird on the way up.
Marisha: I think we've failed at manners often.
Taliesin: We fail at manners more often. We'll see how this goes. We'll try being nice.
Travis: I'll stay out here.
Sam: I'll go knock on the door. It seems like a smallish door, right?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go with you.
Matt: Okay, so what's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go first.
Liam: Nothing perked up my spidey-sense?
Matt: From this current glance, no. You guys are behind a tree at a distance.
Travis: No nude giants, right?
Matt: Currently, no, but you're keeping an eye out.
Laura: I'm walking with a smile, looking very friendly.
Matt: Who's leading the charge?
Sam: I'll go knock.
Laura: I'll walk behind Scanlan.
Matt: We have Scanlan and Vex'ahlia.
Liam: I'm going to go, as well, and continue to eyeball for traps.
Taliesin: I'll be hanging back a bit, as well.
Marisha: I'll be comfortably back, as well.
Sam: Before we knock, what were we told was in this thing?
Travis: The key.
Sam: The key. Inside a person, inside a house.
Laura: It's possible the person is the key; we're not sure.
Matt: Is Trinket within your necklace for this?
Laura: No, he's out.
Matt: Okay, Trinket is out alongside you. Grog?
Laura: He's a very friendly bear, look at him!
Travis: I'm outside the house.
Laura: Trinket, smile! Be friendly!
Matt: As you get across this small walkway towards the front, as you're walking with a big smile, Vex'ahlia, something catches your eye on the ground right before her and you watch as she steps forward. You reach out and grab her wrist and hold her back before she steps down.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: There is a large, rusted, iron bear trap that is open that you almost stepped right into.
Travis: That would be have been donesies.
Laura: I was being friendly, and it almost crushed me. Trinket, be careful, this thing was made for you.
Matt: Trinket walks up to it.
Laura: No, no, be careful! Spit on it!
Matt: (growling)
Laura: Can he spit? Can Trinket spit?
Matt: (bear spitting) It's not very-- it's more of a power drool, if you will.
Liam: Is it easy enough to walk around?
Matt: You can walk around that one, and you begin to see what looks to be seven other ones that are clustered around.
Taliesin: This is probably a giant-infested forest.
Marisha: Yes, that's exactly why. Bear traps are the biggest thing you can get for a giant.
Sam: Can we evade them and get into--
Matt: You begin to walk around. Yeah, you would, actually. As you step around one, you can see, at the front door, there is a welcome mat that says "welcome." As you're approaching it, you can see the welcome mat, there's just something a little off about it. Like, it's raised higher than the ground should be.
Travis: Willkommen.
Marisha: Trapped?
Liam: Well, I could attempt to dicker with it, but we could just knock the door over it if we really are going on manners.
Taliesin: Double-check to make sure the door isn't a problem, either. I'd imagine if the welcome mat is.
Liam: The door's going to blow up if we knock on it? I mean, we don't have much luck with doors.
Laura: Can I grab a stick and lift the edge of the mat up?
Liam: Do you want to do that?
Matt: Are you stopping her from doing that?
Liam: Yes, I am! Let me take a look at it, please! I've already detected it. I will attempt to disarm it with thieves' tools, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: That's fine. That is a 29.
Matt: You walk over. You look and you watch. There's a small cord that is hidden amongst the brush that runs from underneath the mat through a small ring that goes up from the house, then up a branch or vine, so it's hidden amongst them. You look straight up about 40 feet, you see a nice, solid, thick trunk that is just (creaking).
Travis: That's some Predator shit!
Matt: Right above the door.
Taliesin: I feel like there's a complicated story that goes along with all of this. I'm really excited by it.
Marisha: Is this going to be an Uncharted kind of adventure?
Taliesin: We have found the cabin of Macaulay Culkin!
Matt: So knowing this, you walk over and grab the cord. Looking to see where the leverage is, you motion to Grog to come over and hold it. You find another piece of heavy stone that is by the wall to the side. With Grog's help, you snip it, bring it over, and tie it onto the edge of this piece of the stonework, like a small pole that was placed at the base of the house. It holds the weight of this suspended trunk and it no longer triggers based on the step.
Liam: Percy, I'm sorry, I know you like a good Rube Goldberg.
Taliesin: I was really excited by this thing. It's a shame to dismantle it.
Laura: It's still there. Maybe when we leave, we can crash it down.
Liam: Does the door look hinky at all?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: You did say kinky, right?
Liam: I said hinky. 18.
Matt: 18. It does not appear to be trapped, per se. It does appear to be locked.
Liam: Yeah, well, I don't want to pick it.
Laura: I want to use a stick, and oh! Here, Scanlan, you were going to knock.
Sam: (chuckles) What is this stick?
Laura: So that you don't have to touch the door in case it's magic.
Matt: Which as a note, the door, at full height, is about at the shoulders of most of you. You recognize this. This is definitely a homestead built on the scale for probably halfling or gnome. It's still pretty big for a gnomish home, meaning it's a little more spacious headroom, you'd probably be able to stand in comfortably, except for you, Grog, you're probably a little hunched.
Liam: So it's like an ostentatious gnome door. Little more than is needed.
Sam: Like me. I'll just rap on the door with my knuckles.
Matt: Okay. There is an awkward pause.
Sam: Hello? Bidet?
Matt: Darin, if you want to go ahead onto the stage, please. (cheering)
Laura: I'm glad he didn't murder us with his bear traps.
Sam: You need this? Oh, you need this. Oh! I've been goosed.
Liam: Hey, chaotic evil necromancer gnome.
Matt: You weren't supposed to tell them.
Darin: I didn't.
Matt: So you hear amongst your business for the day, out of nowhere (knocking) on the door.
Sam: Kaitiaki!
Darin: I open it.
Matt: Okay, you hear (clicking) what sounds like six or seven different locks unlock on the door, as it slowly swings open, and before them what do they see?
Darin: A very small, elderly gnome, bald on top, with a long white beard, and a bit of a distant look in his eyes, and he looks at you and says, are you real?
Laura: I think so.
Darin: You're real? Prove it! Say that you're real to my invisible frog companion.
Sam: I will step forward and say, hello, there. (whispers) I'm real.
Darin: Yes, you're real. There is no invisible frog companion. The voices in my head would not have spoken to that. (stuttering) They know a little bit better than that, but that doesn't matter, I haven't had people here in over 35 years. (laughs) But you're here! And you're real! Go away. (laughter)
Darin: Demistrik, show them out.
Matt: You watch as two tiny red claws come around the corner as these tiny, impish wings unfurl. You watch as a tiny imp releases from the edge of the doorframe. (wings beating) "Get out!" (door slamming) and slams the door.
Darin: And show yourself out, Demistrik. I don't need you here, 19 years of you is more than enough.
Matt: You hear muffling argument through the door as the voice goes, "I'll stay where I damn please. You gave me permission to stay. If anyone is going to leave, you're going to leave!"
Darin: I think you should go to Kraghammer and become a circus performer with a little tin cup and a little hat and say, "Oh dear, I am Demistrik, the magical imp." That's where you belong, I tell you right now.
Matt: "Sounds like a lot more fun than having to deal with you on a daily basis, you son of a--"
Darin: (offended cry) Language, imp!
Matt: The door creaks open once more. "Sorry." (door closing)
Darin: The door creaks open again. I'm sorry, as well. (whispering) For him, he's awful.
Liam: I stick my foot in!
Darin: No! (laughter)
Liam: I'm really very sorry to bother you, although I'm delighted to make your acquaintance. I'm having a very hard time not just smiling like an idiot. Could we trouble you just for a few moments? We mean no harm at all. We do need to talk to you. We've come a very long way... as farts. That's got to count for something.
Laura: (sing-songy) We could give you some interesting conversation. 35 years is a very long time.
Liam: We've done a lot, we've seen a lot, we could tell you all about it.
Sam: I play an old, traditional gnome song to soften him a bit.
Matt: Make a performance check.
Laura: What is an old gnome song?
Sam: I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: 24.
Matt: It's been a long time since you've heard music, let alone one that scratches an old memory of childhood. It's nice.
Taliesin: It's more or less whatever strikes your fancy, to be fair.
All: (humming Going to the Chapel)
Matt: You see the imp in the back going, "Ugh! Stop that racket!"
Darin: You don't even appreciate music. What would an imp song sound like? You can't say one, can you? Because you don't have music where you're from.
Matt: "I can, but it'll cause your ears to bleed! It sounds like this." (screeching)
Darin: I find that very entertaining.
Matt: "You're such a liar!" The imp (poof) vanishes before you.
Darin: He's gone. Don't worry about him. He gets a little bit... testy, if you will.
Sam: May we speak? May we have a moment of your time?
Darin: Oh, well... Very well. You can come in if you like. Oh! Be careful, there's illusions and thingamabobbers.
Liam: (stammers) Sorry, that's infectious. We have a really big guy. Are you all right with him coming in? Grog, are you all right with coming in?
Travis: How the fuck do I get in that damn door?
Liam: Have you not crawled on all fours before?
Taliesin: You should try it if you haven't; it's quite delightful.
Travis: Are you lying?
Taliesin: No. For once, no, I'm not.
Travis: Can I do an insight check on Percy?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19.
Taliesin: I have never actually been quite so honest in my entire life. I think you'll find it very therapeutic.
Travis: I roll in on all fours.
Taliesin: How does it feel?
Travis: I'm waiting for it to kick in.
Taliesin: Crawl forward, back a bit, stretch, downward dog, stretch.
Matt: You watch as this large, gray-skinned mountain of a man crawls his way in. You could duck-walk through if you really wanted to. This is worse than Gandalf in Bag End. All fours is probably the most comfortable means of transport through the house. But you walk in and immediately, you watch as your new gnomish friend is going around and quickly disabling small things, putting small keys and tying off strings and wires you saw that were set up around portions of the room.
Taliesin: I am going to try and map this in my head, the crazy stuff I'm seeing right now.
Matt: This place is a hoarder's den. You see shelves and shelves of books and papers and scrolls and stacks of them. You see on bits of furniture and chairs more stacks of books and sacks and satchels and quills and inkwells. Some spilled and left and dried long ago. This place is very lived-in, very chaotic, and very unique.
Liam: The first thing that I do as we come in is I scan the room, or rooms, for more Macaulay Culkin shenanigans.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Maculkins. I think we can just call them Maculkins now.
Liam: That is a 21.
Matt: Okay. You do see there's one portion of the floor that he keeps avoiding, instinctually, that catches your attention. You're like, "why does he keep walking around that?"
Marisha: What's your name, friend?
Darin: Oh, well, that was taken from me a very long time ago. I only have what they call me. You know, names are an odd thing, aren't they? Sometimes a name can stick to you like blood on a knife or your fingers on a wallet that might not be your property, and then who you were is not who you are and yet... here we are.
Marisha: That oddly made way too much sense.
Sam: What do they call you?
Darin: They call me Sprigg. There's more. They call me Sprigg the Obnoxious.
Sam: Sprigg the Obnoxious?
Darin: Yes. It's not my given name; it was a name that was given to me when it was given to me.
Liam: Did you used to be obnoxious? Because I'm not picking that up.
Darin: Oh. We're rarely who we used to be.
Taliesin: Is there mercury in those pools? (laughter)
Darin: Who? Is that a friend of yours?
Taliesin: I sometimes will talk to the fourth wall. It's a thing; ignore it.
Darin: It's a domicile. There has to be four walls. If there weren't, it would be a yurt. I don't live in a yurt, dear boy.
Marisha: I sometimes live in a yurt. They're quite nice.
Darin: I have nothing against yurts. (laughs) Like a stick that you would put in a yurt so it wouldn't fall over. I would want it to fall over, therefore, I have nothing against yurts. (wheezing laughter) Demistrik!
Matt: The imp just appears across the room and just goes, "Good one. That was-- I am so sorry."
Laura: Pike? Do you think maybe a Greater Restoration is in order?
Matt: Pike goes, "Why?"
Laura: No reason.
Matt: "Could I just touch your hand for a second? Is that okay?"
Darin: (stuttering) Why?
Matt: "Just to see if we can help your day."
Darin: Do you not think that I'm real?
Matt: "Probably not."
Darin: I assure you, I'm real. I'm here. My companions are long gone. They were like you, like you, like you, and you, and you, and I'm all that is left. You are looking into a mirror of your future.
Sam: I'm going to look like you, or you're going to look like me?
Marisha: No, I know what he means. Who were your companions?
Darin: Memories. They're all memories now. I don't even remember their names. I remember some of them, but we were heroes and now I am here.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: Were there no other gnome folk in your party?
Darin: No, there was one like you, there was a big one, a mighty one. There was one like you, brave and kind.
Laura: That's like me! That's exactly like me.
Darin: There was one like you. Smart, yet sad. And you, as well. Yeah, and I was you.
Matt: Pike goes, "Please?" She grabs your hand and concentrates for a second, you watch as the holy symbol flares for a moment and the warmth passes through her arms into your hand. And it feels nice. It's like holding a freshly heated cup of tea. And as the spell completes and she pulls back. "That's all. Thank you."
Darin: Thank you, very kind of you. Don't ever do that again.
Matt: "Right, okay. Okay."
Sam: Your companions. Not to bring up sad times. How long ago did they go away? Perish?
Darin: 37 years.
Sam: And how, was it in a fight?
Darin: Oh, yes.
Sam: Against a powerful entity?
Darin: Oh no. Against ignorance, against bravery that should never have been. And that's why I'm here and they're not, because I ran, you see. I'm your future. You'll all be gone. You and you and you and you and you, and you'll be left.
Liam: While listening to all that, Vax slid his hand into Keyleth's and quietly listened to the whole thing.
Darin: Oh, well. Perhaps we should talk of other things. Should we?
Sam: Yes. Yes, we want this to be a positive visit for you, so is there anything we can tell you from the world outside that you might be curious about?
Darin: The world outside? Who needs the world outside? I have everything here, and what I need, dear boy, I have taken from Kraghammer. All these books over there, you see, those are mine. They should have been mine to begin with, and I took them, and now they are mine. (wheezing laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to peruse some of these titles, quietly.
Sam: The books, you mean?
Darin: Yes. You'd like to look at the books, would you?
Taliesin: I find it's the easiest way to learn quite a bit about a person.
Darin: Oh, you're very welcome to look at anything you like. What will you give me, dear boy? I require something. And yet, what do I need, living here? Not much. Intelligence, no. Secrets, no. Love, no. Sadness, bravery, power. What do you have that you would give me?
Travis: I reach in the Bag of Holding. I take out Percy's glasses. Would you care for a pair of these testicl-- spectacles?
Darin: I seek power, dear boy, not silliness. If I wanted silliness, I would talk to a Sun Tree. No one ever should talk to a Sun Tree, they should only listen to a Sun Tree. And so I shall say again, if you would like to peruse my book and perhaps find what you are looking for, what will you give me that would bring power and redemption into my life?
Sam: What do you have, Grog?
Laura: (whispering) Give him some ale.
Travis: But that's not fucking power.
Laura: You don't know. Bet it's been a while since he's had some of that.
Darin: It seems you have powerful items.
Travis: I do. I have these Bracers of Defense.
Darin: Ah, but that is strength. I require power.
Travis: (softly) Shit. Fuck.
Taliesin: Well, I reach into my bag and start cleaning a small green shard of residuum, polishing it.
Darin: Demistrik! If you excuse me for a just-- while you look, I'll just talk to my imp. You'll pardon us. (whispering) A word, Demistrik?
Matt: "Ugh. Just one moment. What?"
Darin: The big one worries me. I think we should have a code in case we have to jump him.
Matt: "What code would you wish?"
Darin: Goliath grab! But we need to remember that. We need to remember that.
Matt: "Goliath grab. Good luck!"
Darin: We need some sort of mnemonic device to remember goliath grab. G, goodness gracious, grab that goliath. O?
Matt: "O? Huh. I'll tell you what, I've got your back."
Darin: I don't feel that at all. You're right in front of me. How could you have my back? (wheezing chuckle) I got you. (laughing) Go away. So what do you have for me? You've had ample time to look in your Bag of Holding to produce something very--
Travis: Powerful. Well, I do have one thing that seems to be pretty powerful.
Marisha: Oh no, Grog.
Travis: I pull out of the Bag of Holding a small leather case. I open the flap. I don't know if you have any interest in this, but my experience with these items has been very extreme. Would you care to take a card?
Darin: Would you care to give them to me?
Sam: All or just one?
Travis: No, you can pick a card.
Matt: Make an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add your arcana skill modifier to it.
Taliesin: You are a madman.
Darin: 15.
Matt: 15. You don't recognize what he's holding in his hands, but you immediately see the leather casing around it, and your essence being able to read certain elements of magic-- It does appear to be a powerful enchantment, whatever he has procured from the bag.
Darin: Indeed. Perhaps one card for one book?
Travis: Yeah, sure. I mean, Percy, do you have a book out of all of these that you want to read?
Darin: What are you looking for? What do you seek? What knowledge? I've got it all here.
Sam: We seek a key.
Laura: To find a very ancient goddess--
Darin: Oh, don't say Ioun.
Taliesin: We're not going to say Ioun.
Darin: You just did!
Liam: Is there another name that you would like us to use? Like a nickname instead of Ioun?
Darin: The Broken Goddess. I know more than Ioun, please! Ioun. Gods, what do they know? We know more than they, for we exist! We live! We adventure! They merely observe. Am I right?
Sam: You have a point. They don't do much for us in the day-to-day.
Taliesin: Are you saying you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Of course I know more than Ioun.
Taliesin: Can you prove that you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Yes.
Taliesin: So if I ask you a question that is almost impossible to answer, you could answer it before Ioun could answer it?
Darin: Could Ioun create a rock so heavy that even she couldn't lift it?
Taliesin: Oh, please. I'm far too clever to ask such a simple question. That's easy. I would have to ask something that was very difficult to answer.
Darin: I will give you your answer if you give me a card.
Liam: You know, I was just saying what a good idea I thought it was, but I thought you were talking about the entire deck, Grog. I think the entire deck is a fairer thing than to have him pull a card, because that seems unpredictable to me.
Travis: Yeah, that sounds perfect to me.
Liam: We're all in a small, enclosed space together, Grog, and I like this fellow.
Laura: Sprigg, it is quite powerful, yes, but also maybe slightly dangerous.
Taliesin: A bit dangerous, to be fair.
Darin: I'm here alone. Well, there's... oh, yes. Go peddle your papers somewhere where they'd like papers peddled!
Laura: You're not alone at the moment.
Darin: That's true!
Laura: This is very true. And I'd rather not put my life in the hands of you, not knowing you very well.
Darin: Some did. I'm here.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: They are not.
Laura: So something bad could happen, and you'd run away, and we'd be stuck here?
Darin: No. 37 years. I ran away. I've been here deciding how to live again, how not to run away. That's what all this is about, isn't it? You can't just hide from the world. I've done it! Done it for a long, long time. Maybe you being here means that I should hide no longer. Or maybe I just have an invisible frog friend. Maybe I have nothing here, and nothing here.
Taliesin: Whoever has devised these contraptions and created this safety for you is a genius. I'm not saying you're necessarily--
Darin: It was both of us.
Taliesin: I somehow don't think so.
Darin: What?
Matt: "It was all me."
Taliesin: I've had my own demons to contend with in my life, to make me doubt my own intelligence. I get the sense that your compatriot-- I hate to call it friend, here--
Darin: I hate to call it friend, and yet I do. Isn't that right, friend?
Matt: "Unfortunately."
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Darin: You can tell them.
Matt: "No!"
Darin: Just tell him.
Matt: "No! Why, because he asked me?"
Darin: Yes! Be polite. They're guests in our home.
Matt: "Oh, it's not our home."
Darin: 19 years you've been here, ever since your master died trying to enter and got tricked into one of my traps, and now you're here-- does that answer your question?-- now, why don't you tell him what I just said?
Matt: "My master died trying to get in here on one of the traps, and now I call this my home."
Darin: Beautifully said. Bravo. You should be a little performer in Kraghammer. You know what the reviews would be? Not very good! Shameful behavior. Abysmal behavior from the Abyss itself!
Taliesin: We don't have much. Many of the things that we carry are very dangerous. Obviously, you have a great deal of genius here. I'm going to show him the elemental shard. I don't know if this would interest you, but I consider it to be of great value.
Matt: So you're showing him the residuum piece?
Taliesin: The last piece of residuum I have.
Matt: All right. So this is a sliver of what looks like green glass. It's finely polished, about that thick, that long. You've read about this. You've read that condensed residuum is very susceptible to enchantment and/or the focusing of short-term magic spells. It's expensive, it's lauded, it's hard to find.
Darin: I will use that Ring of Telekinesis to lift it up and take a better look at it.
Matt: You watch as it darts out of your hand and wisps up, maybe two feet ahead of him, and slowly rotates above him as he inspects it.
Taliesin: Impressive, but not as impressive as the giant log.
Darin: Oh, yes. But is there power in this, dear boy? Or are there only secrets? For you are secrets. He is power.
Taliesin: I may be secrets, and that is of me, but I believe there is power in its secret. People died for that. Many people.
Darin: People die every day. Except me. That's my punishment, child. I live on. I live on with my shame and my intelligence and you.
Laura: Because of Ioun?
Marisha: What's your relationship to her?
Darin: What is anyone's relationship to a god?
Marisha: Good question.
Laura: Some of us are champions. Some of them don't like them. Some of them worship them but don't really get respect. What's yours?
Darin: All of that and more.
Laura: So you're a champion? Are you a champion of Ioun?
Marisha: You're a champion of Ioun. Of course he's a champion of Ioun.
Darin: I wouldn't say that.
Taliesin: But we might, wouldn't we?
Darin: Champion of Ioun?
Matt: (demonic cackling)
Darin: Are you going to start calling me Ioun's Champion?
Matt: "Only if it bothers you, Ioun's Champion!"
Darin: I like it. Drat, eh? Drat. You tell them what you know of Ioun.
Matt: "She's a heinous bitch who got what's coming to her 800 years ago."
Marisha: What?
Darin: It's a bit common, but that is his belief. What is yours? What is your thought about Ioun?
Sam: We know that she possesses knowledge that could help us in our quest to save the world, and therefore, no matter what her personality is, she is valuable to us.
Darin: And yet, is there value in saving the world? Or should you just let it all go away?
Laura: No, no, I think we should save it.
Sam: Yeah, we're pro-world here.
Darin: Are you? That is interesting.
Liam: Sprigg, you're seeking power.
Darin: I seek redemption. There is great power in redemption.
Liam: We offer you redemption. Collaborating with us grants you the power to fell a would-be god.
Darin: Excuse me. For one second. Can I speak to you for just a second?
Matt: (flapping wings) "What?"
Darin: He's tricky. I think we should get a mnemonic device on what we need to do if he becomes too tricky. We should say, elf boy grab! E! For egads! There's an elf, we should grab him. L! Let's grab that elf boy.
Matt: "Right, all right." You guys can hear all of this.
Darin: F. Forsooth, I shall grab this elf boy!
Liam: I'm not an elf. Not an elf.
Marisha: Why do people like calling you elf boy and elf girl?
Liam: We have vaguely pointed ears. Not even fully pointed ears. My mother was not an elf.
Darin: Just a second. He's not an elf!
Matt: "We'll stick with the device. I've got your back."
Darin: I still don't feel it.
Matt: "You will."
Darin: All right. Hello!
Sam: Hi. Hi, mirror man. Listen.
Darin: All right.
Sam: Let's cut to the chase here. We need information from you.
Darin: Indeed.
Sam: You need something from us. Grog, give him a card.
Marisha: Wait.
Sam: We're dancing around this! We need this man!
Laura: He took the stone! Are you taking the stone?
Sam: Are you going to take the stone as a source of power? He said it's too mysterious.
Liam: I thought we were talking about redemption.
Darin: If you'll allow me. You've been very quiet.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a little freaked out right now. You're my worst fear incarnate. Sorry, that seemed very rude. My worst nightmare incarnate.
Darin: That didn't make it any better, dear child!
Matt: (cackling)
Darin: (shushing) Go ahead. Why am I your worst fear in a carnation?
Marisha: I've seen you in my dreams.
Darin: Hear that?
Matt: "Go get her, tiger."
Laura: Trinket starts chasing the imp around the room.
Matt: "No!" Up into the corner, (hissing). Turns invisible.
Darin: Oh, I guess you found that unbearable!
Sam: That was a good pun.
Matt: You hear the tiniest little demonic fart by your ear.
Liam: I'm also gently steering Trinket away from the floorboard in the middle of the room as he walked by.
Marisha: Somehow everything you have said since the minute we've walked into this building has made 100% sense, and I think that's what scares me the most, is I understand everything you've said.
Darin: It should scare you the most. I was one of you. I did what you did. 37 years ago, I did it. And we fought, and we fought, and they were right here. They were right here!
Sam: Who is they?
Darin: My companions.
Sam: And who were you fighting against? You, we?
Travis: Vecna.
Darin: No.
Sam: Gods?
Darin: It was silly. It was hobgoblins. It should never have happened. It was a simple fight, and they died, and I ran, and I can't even remember their names.
Liam: Sprigg.
Darin: Yes?
Liam: Would you like to be needed again? Maybe it's time to stop running.
Darin: What would I do?
Marisha: We can grant you power in items, but I don't want to speak for all of us, but I think all of us can speak a little bit to the fact that items don't grant you as much inner power as you expect them to.
Laura: Unless they're boots. And then they're amazing.
Marisha: Unless they're very highly argued and debated-upon boots, in which case I still think the argument--
Darin: Are we about to have a debate about boots? I'm against them! Your turn.
Laura: I am for them, usually.
Darin: Continue, Councilor, but watch yourself.
Laura: Have you any idea where the key to Ioun is?
Darin: In the boots? We're talking about boots, are we?
Laura: Yes. Boots that hold a key to Ioun's location. Specifically.
Darin: I think the key might be here, but I don't really know.
Liam: Sprigg, the world is on the brink right now. It's worse than hobgoblins. We've come here in great need, and the world is in great need, and the power that I offer you is making a difference.
Darin: Then make me believe in Ioun. We'll make a difference together.
Liam: Make you believe?
Marisha: Of course he believes. Believing is not the question.
Darin: Books everywhere, you see. That's something you can hold. That's something you can learn.
Marisha: That's something that's tangible. Ioun is distant.
Laura: But she could be tangible if you'd help us find her.
Marisha: What if we have found her? What if Sprigg is right? What if all of the information that Ioun knows is here in Sprigg?
Taliesin: I really want to look at these. I want to look at these books really quickly. I'm having a moment. I just want to start looking at these titles. What are these books?
Matt: You go over and start walking towards the edge of the nearest bookcase, and all of you at once-- everyone but Sprigg, actually-- suddenly hear a voice come through, filling your mind, filling your consciousness, filling your ears. Sourceless, delivered to your consciousness directly. "Thank you for showing me where he is." And that's where we're going to take a break.
Liam: Fuck!
Marisha: How? We don't have the eye! What a cock!
Taliesin: Oh my god, he's been in the troll dick all along.
Marisha: It's always been the troll dick.
Matt: All right, we'll be in just a minute. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. For the Twitch giveaway, we have this awesome Peruvian walnut dice tray, leather interior. It's very nice. It's the same type that I have, actually, back here, which is nice. Giving it away for somebody in the Twitch chat, so run on over, and the code for the evening is Sprigg. S-P-R-I...
Darin: G-G.
Matt: G-G. Double G.
Darin: S-P-R-I-G-G spells Sprigg, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to win that valuable prize.
Matt: So pay attention in the chat. When it's time to, go ahead and enter Sprigg into the chat, and one lucky winner will be announced when we get back here. See you guys in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so first and foremost, we have our winner for the dice tray from Wyrmwood. That is our friend k0sn1ght, spelled in the way that you spell your XBox Live name: k0sn1ght. Congratulations, you are the winner. Go ahead and contact Danoba and get your information and we'll get that shipped out to you. Bringing us back in.
Taliesin: That was fast.
Matt: Last we left off, you all, almost all of you, heard a singular familiar voice. The low, gravelly undead voice of The Whispered One fills your minds, saying, "Thank you for showing me where he is." In that moment where you all pause in place, you hear a series of simultaneous sounds (arrows firing) as a number of heavy crossbow bolts from nearby windows all fire simultaneously at Sprigg.
Marisha: Do I have time for a reaction?
Matt: No, you do not. This is a surprise round.
Liam: This is the sound of bolts, no.
Travis: It's all right, he can't die. It's cool. We're all right.
Matt: So that first one is a 24. What's your armor class?
Darin: My armor class is 19.
Matt: Okay! So you take 23 points of piercing damage.
Darin: Okay. Oh, there we go.
Matt: That's 17. That misses you. It strikes your shoulder and glances off. One bolt sinks into your chest and you look down and you see it's this big, long heavy metal bolt and it's jutting out from the side of where your shoulder and pec is. Another one rushes by and glances off your other shoulder. The third one--
Darin: Well, this is different.
Matt: That hits. That's a 25. That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: That one actually misses; a six and a one. It slams into one of the nearby books right behind you, barely moving past your cheek. Fifth one, that is a 19 exactly, so you take 24 points of damage.
Laura: How many fucking bolts are there?
Marisha: 24?
Matt: They're all sneak attack. And that is 20.
Darin: Another one?
Matt: Another one.
Darin: Okay.
Matt: That one's going to be 26 points of piercing damage.
Darin: I'm gone.
Matt: You guys watch as all these bolts (arrows firing and impacting) into Sprigg's body and Sprigg falls back, unconscious on the side of the room. I'm going to bring out a map now.
Darin: Fly, you fools!
Marisha: (yelling) No, Sprigg!
Sam: Darin, it was really great having you on. Thanks so much.
Laura: Whoa, cool!
Sam: Whoa, this is a cute house!
Laura: Oh, I can't see inside of it.
Matt: Moving the top floor off.
Liam: There's crates of apples!
Sam: There's a sack of something in the corner! Oh my god, how are we all going to fit in there?
Matt: Sprigg is currently unconscious on the ground there. Percival was there talking. Trinket is off to the side.
Laura: Trinket! Where's the imp?
Matt: The imp is not currently visible. Pike would be over on the side here. Keyleth, Vax, where would you guys see yourselves right now? Actually, tell me where you would be. I think that's what I'm trying to ask.
Liam: I would be right next to Keyleth because I was holding her hand.
Matt: As I chuck you onto the ground.
Liam: It's all right. It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, comes back in a day later. All right, cool. So you're there holding that. Scanlan, where would you be?
Sam: Near Sprigg-ish.
Matt: All right, so I'll put you right there next to the scroll in the ground.
Liam: And Matt? Could you touch on the map where the bad man touched you? No, where the bad floorboard is?
Matt: Yes, actually, I can do that.
Liam: None of you know this.
Matt: None of you know this, except for you, which is actually why I'm not going to show you. You know how to avoid it, but nobody else knows where it is.
Laura: Where is the front door?
Matt: The front door is right there.
Liam: There, over by Grog on your right.
Sam: These trees need to move.
Laura: I know, these trees are a pain in our butts. Oh no.
Sam: There's cloaked men everywhere
Matt: You watch as one that was up in the stairs vanishes up top.
Travis: Oh, he actually made it upstairs?
Matt: He fired, and then ducked up there. I need everyone to roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative?
Matt: Yes. Including you, even though you're on the ground.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil. It's fine. Gil did all right.
Sam: I don't trust Gil. I never roll on his dice.
Liam: Rarely. I have, but I got my Matt Colville meteorite.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 20.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Oh wow, so we have Percy, we have Grog, and Vax. Okay, 20 to 15?
Sam: 19.
Laura: Should somebody roll for Pike?
Matt: Yes, actually. Okay, yeah.
Darin: Also a 19.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've got a very low initiative bonus.
Matt: All righty, anybody else?
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 12. I don't know why I did deuces. 12.
Taliesin: Peace out.
Sam: NKOTB.
Marisha: 12 initiative, Wu Tang out.
Taliesin: That's our next shirt.
Sam: Quidd, everyone. Quidd.
Laura: Quidd.
Liam: Quid pro quo.
Matt: All right, so top of the combat round. The surprise round is done, you watch Sprigg fall to the ground, bolts sticking out of the side of the neck, the shoulder, and the body. Unconscious, now beginning to pool blood underneath where he's bleeding out, and you glance around and you see a series of shaded figures in the windows that all dart out of the way.
Marisha: Cowards.
Laura: Dicks.
Sam: Oh, they left. The fight's over, everyone.
Matt: Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Wow, this is a lot that happened. I'm going to click my boots, and I'm going to run up the wall and run upstairs.
Matt: Which, for the purposes of this, I will place the upstairs over here. So as you dart up, Percival, you run up the stairway there where the one guy you saw was standing.
Taliesin: Is he right there?
Matt: Yeah, he ducked out of the way, and there's also one figure that you recognize from the Shadowfell earlier. You see one of the ghastly creatures that was darting through the ruins leaping from from rooftop to rooftop. Its skin is grayish and long, its limbs lanky, its fingers curled into claws, and this long tongue dangling from his jaws, it's getting ready to run down the stairs as you charge him, and it goes (growls).
Taliesin: Manners! Action Surge!
Marisha: Yay, Manners!
Matt: Okay then.
Marisha: We're bad at manners, until now!
Matt: All righty, so what's the saving throw on that one?
Taliesin: It's a DC 20 strength. Oh, I'm sorry, no. Never mind. It's an attack roll.
Matt: Okay, so you have to roll first to see if you hit it.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah, that definitely hits. It hits, and you watch as you pull the sphere out and chuck it in the direction of the creature. Pulls its claws back, slams into its chest, and then unravels. It falls to the ground, prone, unable to move, right there in the middle of the floor.
Taliesin: Just making sure that I can do this.
Matt: Was that your action, there, doing that?
Taliesin: That was my action surge. I can only do one round. Just seeing if I have anything at a bonus that I can do.
Matt: You spent your action--?
Taliesin: My action, I activated my boots. My action surge activating that. Do I have anything I can do with a bonus action?
Matt: Not really.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn to the other guy and pull the ripcord on the glove angrily. (revving)
Matt: You load up Diplomacy. Good. That's your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Me? Oh? Can I go into a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: And he fell where?
Matt: He fell right there, on the ground, currently bleeding out.
Travis: Can I run over to Sprigg and shove a-- should I shove a health potion in his throat?
Laura: Well, we've got healers.
Travis: Right. I'll run upstairs to see where Percy went.
Matt: You rage-run just past Percival and you see there's one creature bound on the ground and there's another guy who's there with his crossbow, he's trying to reload, who sees Percival and is getting ready to pull it up as you leap in front.
Taliesin: Smash him!
Travis: Do you mind?
Taliesin: Please!
Travis: Yeah. (rage noises)
Matt: Go for it. Roll for a double attack.
Travis: Reckless! Not Great Weapon Master. Two-handed with the Dwarven Thrower. That's a lot. 30, minus-- oh, there is no minus. 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Second attack?
Travis: 31.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Travis: So they're not giants. So I just roll a d10. That's a ten. Rage damage. 25.
Matt: 25 damage on the first hit?
Travis: On the first one. Second one.
Laura: 24.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. With your hammer, two hands, whack right across the side of its head. You see the jaw unhinge from the side. As he pulls back, it's hanging loosely there, and the second hit you clock right in the side of the temple, and it nearly goes unconscious, and picks itself up again, gets its crossbow ready. It's still holding. It's not down yet, but it's hurt badly. You can see now, up close, you can see these figures, they're dressed in very, very tight black leathers, cloaks enshrouding their body, the hood is still up, but you've knocked it back. There you see a human male in his late 40s, early 50s, the head shaved completely bald, a tattoo of black tendrils around the left eye, and the left eye is missing from the socket.
Travis: Black tendrils? Okay, cool. That's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. All right. Grog's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, let's talk this out. Click the Boots of Haste. I think, with 120 feet of movement, I can blur up the stairs to where Percy is in probably 50 or 60 feet. And then finish that movement and go past the guy, out the window, with all of my movement in 120 feet or less. Okay, so I'm doing that.
Matt: There's also a window here, a window here, and a window here. Just so you guys know, and a window here, if you wanted.
Liam: Definitely understand. Blur up the stairs, shoot past Percy, shoot past that guy, out the window.
Matt: You're on the balcony now, looking right about here.
Liam: Do I already see those guys?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 19 plus 14 is a hell of a lot.
Matt: 19 plus 14? Yeah, you do see them. And you glance down, you can see they're hiding amongst bushes, and they're specifically stealthed. But you're keen of eye enough to see where they're placed.
Liam: I stealth, hide. Bonus action to hide. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. 27.
Matt: 27. Okay. You're not sure if they see you or not.
Liam: All right, then from this spot, if they're in range, I'm going to throw Whisper at one of them.
Matt: Right now, you are currently up here. So you glance off and you can barely see one that's over the edge of the roof right there. That's the only one you can see.
Liam: But I can see them and I can ignore three-quarters cover because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: So you barely see the edge of one there. Sharpshooter. I'd say yeah, you can. You can hit both, if you want.
Liam: So the one that I can see, hidden, I will try to throw Whisper. I'm going to hopefully sneak attack him and bamf there. That is a 28.
Matt: 28. He does not see you. So you have advantage on that if you want to roll again.
Liam: Right. Natural 20.
Taliesin: Turn him into paste.
Liam: Okay. (counting)
Sam: Did Pike roll?
Matt: Pike did.
Laura: What did she get?
Matt: 11. Typical Pike.
Marisha: She's after me.
Laura: Well, no, but Sprigg is right after Scanlan. He's before we are. So I'd rather get him up before.
Liam: So that one is 60 on that guy.
Matt: 60 points of damage?
Liam: Yes, and I bamf there.
Matt: As you chuck the dagger, like right towards where the center of the shoulderblades connect in the back he (groans) and you watch as the crossbow that he had drops to the ground and he crumples over on top of it, but he slowly starts getting to his feet out of the bushes. He looks really hurt, but he's still standing. And you appear right next to him there.
Liam: So I did movement, I hid for my bonus, I have action-action as a paladin. And action.
Matt: You have attack-attack as a paladin.
Liam: Attack-attack as a paladin. And then my bonus action. That was the first of attack-attack, so now I'll just do a regular attack, which is a 20--
Laura: (sarcastically) I'm so glad he got those boots back, I'm just so glad.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Liam: That is a ten and I'm going to pump him full of poison. He has to make a DC check on 15.
Matt: That is a seven. No. Four plus three.
Liam: So he also gets, that was ten plus 14 total. 20 total, between the dagger and the poison.
Matt: So the second dagger, you shiv him in the side and he (groans) goes to spin with the heavy crossbow and try and pull away, and as soon as the poison through him he goes, (gurgles) and you can see blood vomit down the front of his chest, his eyes roll back and he twinges and falls to the ground.
Liam: And there's another guy there who can see me, right?
Matt: Yeah, and he's hidden, but he's like (scared, heavy breathing).
Liam: Whisper.
Matt: Okay, he's trying to see that you're not being seen.
Liam: That is 31. Yeah, okay. So that is two plus eight is ten, plus psychic damage. 18. I'm going to bamf there with Whisper.
Matt: Okay. All righty. You hit him and you stand there. You're right in front of him now. All righty. That ends your go. As you appear over on the other side, you realize that over in the clearing there, there is another one of the robed figures, this one clutching a long, black, smooth staff that crooks over in the front that looks like a hand holding an eye.
Marisha: What? Where? Who? There were more of them!
Liam: But you guys don't know that yet.
Matt: You guys don't know that yet, just him. Ending your turn, Vax. That guy on the ground is going to try and break free. That is a 17. DC 20?
Taliesin: DC 20.
Matt: It struggles on the ground and can't seem to break free of the current magic manacles that hold it in place.
Taliesin: Yeah, he's stuck. I love that we have floors!
Matt: Another one of these darts through the window, leaps across the way, right in front of Sprigg, and you being right there, Scanlan, goes, (angry hissing) and lashes out at you.
Marisha: He's going for Sprigg!
Taliesin: He's going for Scanlan.
Marisha: But because Scanlan's over Sprigg!
Taliesin: Oh, that's fair.
Matt: Makes two claw strikes at you. First one is 16 to hit.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right. You suffer eight points of slashing damage, and I need you make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy. Not great. 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Sam: Is it magical?
Matt: No, it is not magical, but you feel this pulse of some sort of necrotic disease hit your system, and you just manage to shrug it off. (relieved cheering)
Matt: The other claw comes towards you. That's a natural 20.
Sam: Natural 20 to hit, sure.
Matt: That is 30 points of slashing damage on the second hit. Make another saving throw, please.
Sam: That's 17.
Matt: 17. The second strike hits you and you feel as the side of your torso gets torn out of the side, the blood splatters onto Sprigg, who's already bloodied and now there's gnome blood on gnome blood. As you reach for your side, however, it does not take effect; you manage to shrug off.
Travis: Those are constitution saving throws?
Matt: Yeah. That ends the shadow ghast's turn. Sprigg, I need you to make a death saving throw, please. Roll a d20.
Liam: Come on, Sprigg!
Marisha: Come on, Sprigg!
Darin: 14.
Matt: Okay, so you're okay for now. You're stabilizing. You're not bleeding out, yet. Mark a success on your death saving throws there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I am going to, bonus action-- down here, success, one.
Matt: Actually, before he even does that, what are you doing on your turn?
Sam: I'm going to heal him first.
Matt: That roll wouldn't matter because he may heal you before you come up. Don't worry about it.
Sam: I'll bonus action Healing Word him, 2nd-level. I will sing to him. I'll do a little line dance right in front of him and I'll say: (singing) I'll heal your heart, your achy breaky heart. I just don't think you'll understand. That if I heal your heart, your achy breaky heart, you got to wake up and kill a man!
All: Ooh!
Darin: (singing) If only you had used Mage Hand!
Sam: Nice!
Matt: So how much does he heal?
Sam: Seven plus six. 13.
Matt: You heal 13 hit points. That roll doesn't matter. You hear this echoing song in the back of your head. The second song today you've heard from your childhood. You come to consciousness. You wake up and look around you and you can see him singing to you as this giant horrible necrotic creature is looming right in front of you. You have metal bolts sticking out of your chest and an old sensation you haven't felt in a long time courses through your body, which is the need to survive.
Sam: It's my turn still.
Matt: It's both of your turns at the same time.
Sam: I will hold my turn.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: Dimension Door, but I'm holding until either Pike or Keyleth heals him more. And I will also say to him, old man, do you have some fight left in you?
Darin: I hope so.
Sam: Hold that thought for one second.
Darin: Holding.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Darin: There's a bookcase, is there not?
Matt: There's bookcases here, bookcase there. There's books strewn and clustered in these corners.
Darin: I'd like to, if I could, use the Ring of Telekinesis to pull a bookcase down upon an attacker.
Matt: Okay. Currently there's a bunch of books up here on a shelf, you can pull them down on him if you'd like.
Darin: I would like to do that.
Matt: So from the ground, you yank a bunch of heavy tomes off of this large shelf that goes flying towards this creature. I'm going to make this a dexterity saving throw for it.
Marisha: The pen is mightier than the bookcase security!
Matt: What's the DC on the telekinesis ring?
Darin: Where was it? Ring of Telekinesis.
Matt: I'll pull it up here real fast. Looking up magical items really fast. I have it here. Oh, it's for the spell Telekinesis? That's right. What's your spell DC?
Darin: 17.
Matt: 17. No, that's a failure. So for this, go ahead and roll 3d6.
Sam: He failed, or the guy failed?
Matt: The guy failed. He didn't dodge out of the way. He's like, (confused snarling, book impacts) and gets pummeled from behind by a bunch of tomes, books, and random glass baubles that were on the shelf that shatter against the back of its head.
Darin: We have a six, we have a five, and we have a two. 13.
Matt: Then add your intelligence modifier.
Darin: My intelligence modifier is a four.
Matt: 17, nice! 17 points of damage to that one. As you slam it in the back of the head (impacts) and it doubles over and (snarling), its long tongue slashing around. You're still on the ground, and it's over you. Is there anything else you want to do on your turn?
Darin: Demistrik?!
Matt: You hear nothing.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Darin: Can I cast something?
Matt: That is an action to do that, so if you have a bonus action spell, you could do that.
Darin: I believe I do. Tasha's Hideous Laughter?
Matt: I believe that's an action to cast, unfortunately.
Darin: I don't think we have any bonus actions. Oh, are there any healing potions that I can use my Telekinesis to get a healing potion to me?
Matt: You can do that next round. The attack was your one action. You can stand on your feet, if you'd like to.
Darin: No, I'm gonna stay right here.
Matt: Got it. That ends your turn. Now, these guys go again.
Laura: That's good, they're at disadvantage, now, to hit you. They are! Because you're prone.
Matt: This guy's going to move in. This guy is still standing and is going to drop the crossbow and pull out his shortsword. Is going to go ahead and attack you, Grog, first. That is 13?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: You take five plus four, that's nine points of slashing damage, reduced to five, yeah. Round down, so it's four. Struck twice, missed both. Both of these guys are going to fire at-- one of them's going to fire at Sprigg on this end because it's their goal, here. With disadvantage, that is a 16? What's your AC again?
Darin: My AC is 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. It darts over you. It misses, it hits the side of the wall. The other guy's going to strike again with disadvantage. That's a 14. And you see the other guy pulling back with a crossbow and fire. You roll out of the way and it (arrow vibrating) into the wooden flooring right next to you.
Darin: Are there any traps that they hit?
Matt: No. That one is going to attack you, Vax, because you're right there in front of it. That's going to be a 13. Does not hit. Second strike, another 13. Both of its shortsword attacks, you duck out of the way and dodge, moving around very quickly. All righty. Those two right there, one of them is going to, because it saw that you got up, Scanlan, they're going to fire two bolts directly at you. That is a 16 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, and the second one is a 24.
Sam: Everything hits.
Matt: You are currently in base-to-base with one of their companions, so they both get sneak attack on you. 19 points of piercing damage from the first hit. 24 points of piercing damage from the second hit. And then they both duck around the side here.
Sam: What was the second one? 24.
Matt: They both, we'll say, they vanish from sight. You're not quite sure where they are right now. Those two also duck out of sight, not quite sure where they are, either. That ends their go. Now, the guy in the back right there, who noticed Vax show up, is going to, after you slaughter one of the guys, and stab the other one, is going to angrily go ahead and use Blight on you. Can you go ahead an make a constitution saving throw, please?
Liam: Natural 20. You fucking dick, necro guy!
Matt: All righty. That does half the damage.
Liam: It's still a lot.
Taliesin: I feel like a natural 20 should auto-fail this.
Laura: I know, right?
Matt: 21 points of necrotic damage to you.
Liam: All righty.
Matt: And is going to-- four, five, six. All righty. That ends his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to run over to the window that those guys disappeared from.
Matt: Over this way or this way?
Laura: Right there, yeah. Can I see that motherfucker? Did I see him run past the window?
Matt: You know what? Yes, because he was not stealthing. You watch as he darts by, and you would have a shot, yeah.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to shoot at him. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: All righty, look at that!
Laura: Trinket doesn't have enough movement to get over by him, does he?
Matt: No, but Trinket can attack whatever's in your area, too.
Laura: I'm going to attack him with my Bramble Shot. With the Blazing Bowstring. Ooh, yeah. That's a 31.
Matt: 31? That hits!
Laura: Yes! Okay! Do I get sneak attack on him? I don't, do I?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn! At least I got Hunter's Mark. Okay.
Liam: Hey Matt, I realized. I never shot out the wings, so I shouldn't have had as much movement as I did, so I think we should take the damage back from my last attack.
Matt: (counting). 50 to get up to the top there, so at your double speed, you'd be at 60, threw the dagger and threw the dagger. You're fine. It still works out.
Laura: Okay, 28 plus my 4d8 piercing damage. That's balls.
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth, just so you know.
Laura: Seven, nine, plus nine is 37. 37 points of damage.
Matt: The first arrow hits him in the stomach, doubles forward and pulls back. Now, glancing over, saw you rush up and couldn't get out in time and now is going to try and back up as you're taking the second shot.
Laura: Does he roll a DC of over 17? A strength save?
Matt: Rolls a natural 17. Literally. Strength save? Minus one strength modifier. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, silly necromancer. You and your strength of nine. All right, so he is currently entangled in the brambles as the vines wrap around and pull him in, almost near the tree. You see the staff is pulled close to his chest.
Laura: Nice. Then I am going to shoot him. Oh, wait! I didn't add my Blazing Bowstring damage. Eight more for the Blazing Bowstring. And then I'm going to shoot him again. I'm just asking: do you get sneak attack damage if they're restrained?
Matt: You do, yeah. You can do that. You have advantage on the attack, remember, because he's restrained.
Laura: That's okay. Eight plus 14 is what? 32?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Oh gosh! Okay! Ten, 11, 12, 13, plus sneak attack. 13. What's that? Ten. So 23. And then Hunter's Mark. Plus one. 24.
Matt: 24. Nice. The second arrow hits right in the throat, and you can see it doesn't hit anything vital, but you can see blood's starting to pour out. It's one of those things that if he were to pull it out, it would probably be very bad. But he's leaving it in right now. He's looking pretty rough.
Travis: The necromancer is?
Matt: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn? Keyleth, your turn.
Laura: I'm going to step away from the window.
Matt: Okay. Step away from the window.
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: Against the wall there? You push the table back a bit; book almost falls off the top. What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Trinket is going to run over to Sprigg and Scanlan.
Matt: Up to Scanlan, or the guy who's there?
Laura: Just to the guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just try to growl at him and scare him because he can't attack him.
Taliesin: He's technically now engaged with the bear, so if he walks away, the bear gets an attack of opportunity.
Matt: That's true. That ends your turn. Trinket goes (roars) right in front of the creature. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. In my weird, emotional panic, Keyleth is going to turn and look around and she sees Vex firing a bow and Sprigg down on the floor, and she's upset, and she's just going to scream at the top of her lungs and do a Fire Storm around the building. Just (screams) and then I'm going to go (boof) where I think people might be in my rage.
Matt: Okay! So around the building where?
Marisha: Around the building. Sorry, Vax. I don't really know you're there, but around here and around here, and I'm sure I see Vex shooting at things, right? I'm going to try and go around.
Matt: So you have right here.
Marisha: Here, around, and that way.
Matt: All right. Okay, because you didn't see Vax outside.
Marisha: No. He's getting hit.
Matt: You saw Vax run upstairs.
Marisha: I just know there were people shooting through this window and through this window, so I'm doing a perimeter around.
Matt: How many squares is it? Ten, right?
Marisha: Ten ten-by-tens.
Matt: These two here get caught in it, as well as Vax and that guy there.
Laura: What about the magician guy?
Matt: If she's doing a perimeter? No.
Laura: Did you know that I was shooting at somebody?
Matt: She doesn't see the magician. Doesn't know where it is. "The Magician." The Prestige!
Liam: I have evasion.
Matt: Which means it's either half or nothing.
Liam: Right. At advantage because of the boots. What do I have to match?
Matt: Her DC, which is 21, right?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh yeah, way higher than that. We're good.
Matt: Yeah, you take no damage. You duck out of the Fire Storm just in time for it to (raging fire).
Marisha: I need two more d10s.
Liam: Yeah, dexterity save, man. Area effect.
Taliesin: Smoky d10 and spiky d10. And you get rerolls!
Marisha: I reroll ones. None of these are ones, unfortunately. (counting)
Darin: I just noticed the little lanterns glowing. Bravo!
Matt: Oh! Bravo to Dwarven Forge, man.
Sam: Well, it's your house.
Matt: True. Good torches you have in there.
Travis: Way to be energy-conscious with those LEDs!
Marisha: 39 fire damage.
Matt: 39 damage. This guy incinerates. He screams and burns. He manages to dodge partway out, but even the partial damage burns him and he (screams). You see him run off into the forest ten or so steps, on fire, like a stun man shot in a movie before he (impact) on the ground and smolders there in the distance. Those guys take it. What was the amount again?
Marisha: 39, and they're on fire.
Taliesin: It's hard to stealth when you're on fire.
Matt: They're both on fire.
Marisha: So that was my action. I'm going to do that out of my staff as I slam it down. I'm going to look at Sprigg and say: gods damn it, Sprigg! And I'm going to use that as my Healing Word, and I'm going to cast Healing Word at second level. Which is 2d4. 11 points to you. And then I'm going to use my free action that I have to turn into a fire elemental.
Matt: Your free action?
Marisha: Changing into something's not a bonus, it's a free action to change into my beast shape. Circle of the Moon, bitch!
Sam: Did you just call your fiancé--
Travis: -- a bitch?
Marisha: No! Combat wild shape.
Matt: Combat Wild Shape makes it a bonus action, as opposed to an action. That's the difference.
Liam: I would like to retract my "bitch," please.
Marisha: All right, so I'm just Keyleth.
Matt: Does that end your turn? All right, so as Keyleth's turn ends, it comes to Pike's. The entire exterior perimeter of this part of the house is on fire. Flames are now starting to catch. It is dry wood; the entire building is made from wood of the forest, so your home is now in flames.
Marisha: Wait, hang on. No, I'm doing the perimeter. I did think about this, which is why I didn't attack the guy in the house.
Travis: If you napalm the forest, the trees will probably catch fire.
Liam: It's a quick jump, though.
Matt: In order to do the perimeter, it's not a blazing inferno, but it's starting to catch. Flames are starting to lick up the sides.
Liam: End it quick, we can save it.
Matt: Fire Storm's a dangerous spell.
Laura: Let's try to save those books before they all burn.
Sam: He's an old guy. We were either going to kill him or burn his house down.
Matt: It's Vox Machina's MO, man!
Sam: It was always going to end this way.
Taliesin: Things you own end up owning you.
Darin: So glad I wore a jacket.
Matt: Pike is going to rush forward and is also going to attempt to Healing Word you at level two. It's a heal fountain on you. That is six plus five. That's 11 hit points you heal.
Sam: As soon as she does that, I grab him and we Dimension Door out the house.
Matt: Where do you Dimension Door?
Sam: To the only place I know  front of the house. Outside the front door. Not right outside, but towards the edge of the map there.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, anywhere around there, on approach to the house.
Travis: Or do you want to be more over yonder?
Sam: Where's the front door to the house?
Marisha: Right there.
Sam: So I'd be 20 feet, the way we approached to the house. So where you got it, if that's the way we approached.
Matt: You guys approached this direction. So you're there. Make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Ten.
Matt: Okay. You don't see the two hidden fellows over here. You see something large and hulking moving through the forest this direction, at a quick glance.
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then we're going to be okay.
Matt: You guys have pulled out of that house. You're still on the ground and all of a sudden your body physically shifts, and you're looking up at the trees. You glance around and you can see the back of your house, you can hear the frantic fray going on. You see the necromancer who's currently covered in brambles and held in place. You see a couple of guys on fire, on the side screaming on the side of the house, and your house starting to catch fire. That's okay. Pike, on her turn, is going to--
Marisha: Keyleth has anger issues. It's fine.
Matt: Because it's a single target...
Sam: It's the "This is fine" meme, except it's just Keyleth.
Matt: She's going to cast a level five Guiding Bolt because that's what Pike does. So ranged spell attack against that guy. 11 plus-- yeah, that hits. That's a 21. So that is 8d6 radiant damage. Nice. 19.
Laura: Is she doing it to the magician?
Matt: No, this guy right there, in the room.
Sam: He's an illusionist, Laura.
Travis: Is she doing it against Copperfield? Is David Blaine with them?
Matt: So after she heals Sprigg, and Sprigg vanishes, she grabs her holy symbol and goes, "Chill out!" and shoots this giant flashing beam of divine energy that slams into it. You watch as a lot of its flesh burns away from the impact. It's still standing, but it's a shining beacon. The next attack against it has advantage. And then Pike's going to back up with you, Vex, towards the back where the bookcase is and goes, "You smell something?" You now hear, simultaneously, (slow thudding) and watch as the side wall and the back wall explode inward, as splinters of wood and stone (crashing) comes from this wall here--
Laura: Oh no, all of his stuff!
Marisha: So I didn't destroy your house first.
Liam: Flames! Flames, less of a thing.
Taliesin: On the side of the house.
Liam: Flames on the side of the house!
Matt: Two familiar hulking entities come barrelling into the chamber. Remember those giant things you saw walking through the Shadowfell that you barely avoided with the mask?
Marisha: The censer?
Matt: Who has the censer? Not on you right now. You don't carry a fucking giant smoking censer with you!
Laura: Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that big.
Taliesin: I think at that point, I think we put it in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: But you did make a bunch of those herbs.
Marisha: I do have the herbs.
Sam: And there's a shit-ton of shit on fire right now.
Matt: They burst through. (roaring) This big yell echoes through their metal masks. It sounds like this horrible-- imagine a giant vocal scream that's peaking on the audio level against a tinny metallic speaker.
Liam: (Bane voice) Your punishment will be more severe!
Matt: Essentially. This one's going to go after Keyleth. This one's going to make two swipes at Trinket because Trinket's right there. As they barrel through, part of the roof breaks. Guys up top, Percy and Grog, you feel the ground buckle a little bit below you and you drop about two or three inches as the building is starting to lose its physical frame.
Taliesin: Oh god, Grog, what did Keyleth do?
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. You beat me by one second!
Taliesin: I'm well aware. It was totally worth it.
Marisha: #thanksKeyleth.
Matt: That's one's going to go ahead and do two slam attacks against Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah, I've earned it. Come on!
Matt: That's 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: And that's a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's 20 points of bludgeoning damage from the first hit. And the second one is 30 points of bludgeoning damage. (two slams) And it slams you. The second fist actually pins you up against the wall there, and you feel ribs crack inside your chest and now-- they're both down low in this hulking mass. They're almost wider than they are any other dimension with how they're crouched down and the thickness of their body. They're taking up almost the entirety of the room right now.
Marisha: You said 30 points, right?
Matt: Yes, for the second one.
Marisha: So I'm at 83 points.
Matt: Correct. The other one's going to slam twice into Trinket. Giant fists. That's going to be a 28.
Laura: 28 hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: 22 hits.
Matt: That is five plus six. 11 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket.
Laura: Halved.
Matt: Halved, correct. And 22 points of bludgeoning damage, halved.
Laura: Okay, so 11 plus six is 27 points.
Matt: That ends their go. We're at the top of the round. Percy, you're upstairs.
Taliesin: Okay, this all happened. That's awkward. That's okay, I know where I am. I'm going to run out onto the balcony really quick.
Marisha: There's room over here.
Travis: That guy's still up there with us, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I figure you're going to handle him. Grog, take care of these two. What do I see outside on the balcony?
Matt: You see, currently down below-- make a perception check. Actually, you wouldn't even see them from your perspective.
Taliesin: I just rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Right, it's blocking your vision from this side. You do see Scanlan, you see Sprigg who is currently conscious, you see this necromancer who is currently held with brambles, and you see two streaking flames and hear screams on this side of the building.
Taliesin: Weird question, really quickly. Where is that giant log trap?
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: How much swing does it have? Is it locked all the way over here, or is it hung back there?
Matt: It looks more like a drop.
Taliesin: Oh, so it's a drop on the door. Good to know. In the meantime, I'm going to run on the exterior of the wall, like right over here, if that makes sense. That's going to be my movement. I'm going to take some fun, happy pot shots at these bastards.
Laura: At the necromancer?
Taliesin: At the necromancer! Let's start with that bound necromancer. He's fun.
Liam: With the Vecna eye.
Taliesin: With the Vecna eye. He's bound, so I have advantage to hit him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to use my Animus gun so I still have a hand open, and I'm also going to burn a point of grit so that I can get him to drop his staff. Here we go with advantage. Oh darn, it was so close. 28.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's-- ooh! Fancy. 18 points of damage, four points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or drops his items.
Matt: Oh, don't worry, he drops the staff, because there's not much left of his head. When you hit the arm, the staff's clutching, but you slam it and it hits the side of the head and causes the right side of the face to explode against the tree, the brambles still clutching as it falls limp to the ground, and they crush the body into a small rock of flesh.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: You get a grit point back, right?
Laura: You get a grit point back, you get a grit point back!
Matt: You just barely see them; they have three-quarters cover. But you have sharpshooter.
Taliesin: Three-quarters cover, what does that mean in this crazy world? I'm going to burn a grit for advantage and shoot one of them.
Matt: The one right furthest on the side there?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'll start there. Let's give it a shot. I love advantage; it's so wonderful. 32. I really should have done extra damage. So that's 1d10 plus six. That hits, obviously. 32 to hit?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Goodbye, necromancer.
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: How much was that, sorry?
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right, he's still standing. (bullet impact, yelps) He starts looking up to see where the shot came from as the giant bullet wound through the torso and out the back of the shoulder was clean through. You hear him breathing, gasping for breath. (gasping)
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him. I'm going to make this a sharpshooter shot, and again with advantage because that's fun. Here we go. Damn! Almost a crit. That's 29. That hits.
Matt: That hits, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage-- I'm sorry, 24 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: He falls to the ground, face first. The second shot hits him in the chest. He just goes down, crumples. His body begins to smolder.
Taliesin: I use my bonus action to reload and stare at the nice person below me.
Matt: That ends Percival's turn. Grog, you're up. You hear, downstairs, the (heavy thudding). There's the guy in front of you who's like, (angry breathing). What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I smash my Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: You can! And your head goes into the roof! (thudding)
Marisha: We're real sorry about your house.
Darin: It wasn't a house. It was a prison.
Laura: Well, then you're welcome.
Travis: I'm hoping the floor gives.
Matt: The floor gives out. As your head (crashing) into the ceiling (creaking, crashing) it falls out from under you. You come falling down on top of this guy. Rubble falls around. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw. I need Trinket to make a dexterity saving throw. The other shadow ghast fails.
Marisha: Nine.
Laura: 14.
Matt: Trinket, you, and the shadow ghast all take 22 points of bludgeoning damage as the roof caves in over on top. Large part of the upper floor now falls and this guy stumbles and is now prone there. He also takes damage. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage from falling through the wreckage. Trinket's is halved, yes.
Marisha: Ugh, debris, ugh!
Matt: That kills him. The shadow ghast right here.
Travis: Because he had barely any left.
Matt: Yeah. He's like, "Huh?" (crashing) Gets rained on with rubble, broken, splintered wood and stone.
Travis: The guy in Manners, he fell too, right?
Matt: His part of the ceiling didn't fully collapse. He's just out of the way. He's dangling off the edge right now, as he shakes, it's making its way towards the hole. The whole ceiling didn't collapse, just the area right below.
Travis: Beautiful. Can I take Tweedledee to my right and make two reckless attacks against him? They're not giants, right?
Matt: No, they're not giants. They're considered undead.
Travis: They're considered undead. 30 to hit. And the second one.
Matt: Big targets.
Travis: 29.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: So ten. 24 points. Plus the Enlarge-- 25.
Matt: 25 with the first hit. (whack)
Travis: 22 with the second one.
Matt: 22 damage on the second hit. (whacks) You're hitting him. Laying on its back, it has these metal spikes jamming out of its flesh. You can see portions of other creatures that it had slain that have been jammed on these spikes and rotted away on its armor. So as you're hitting it, you're knocking away parts of partially decomposed creatures that previously fell in battle to one of these creatures. As you're slamming into it, you can see it's just rippling, partially decayed muscle that seems to be unnaturally strengthened by whatever necrotic energy keeps it stitched together and alive. It's a thick sack of hit points.
Travis: Wow. Cool. Good to know.
Matt: Is that your turn; are you doing anything else?
Travis: That's interesting. I'm going to go into a frenzied rage as my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, and that's the end of your turn? Okay. End of Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. You heard all this go on and now the whole building is starting to catch fire.
Liam: I'm going to bolt to that window.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: No, other way. So I have a view of Keyleth, the creature, and Grog. I'm going to throw Whisper-- I've got sharpshooter-- at that thing, and bamf there.
Matt: I will say, at proximity to the flames that are starting to catch, you do take three points of fire damage.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: You threw the dagger at the big guy?
Liam: Whisper goes to the window at that guy there.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Liam: And it's flanking, right? Because of where Grog is, or Keyleth?
Matt: It's not flanking, but you get to add sneak attack modifier.
Liam: Okay. Yeah, that's fine. That's 32.
Matt: Yeah, that hits. So you appear next to it.
Liam: Three plus psychic damage is four plus this junk. (counting) 33, doubled to 66 plus psychic damage is 74. Bamf there.
Matt: And you appear next to it. As the dagger sinks into its torso, you watch as its chest muscles and the iron cage-like armor around it seems to swallow the dagger. As it goes inside, you watch as some of the muscles all of a sudden (squelch) fall off of its body, like whatever energy's holding it together is untethered and this weird, fleshy, stitched-together creature is starting to fall apart. It's looking pretty hurt.
Liam: Okay, so here's what I wanted to do. So movement-- and I have action-action, action, action-- action-action, action, bonus action.
Travis: (repeating) Action, action--
Laura: (repeating) Action, action--
Marisha: (repeating) Action, action--
Liam: Guys, it's the rules in the book! You can bust my balls all you want--
Matt: Well, that's your first attack, so you have your second attack.
Liam: So action-action for my regular attack, right?
Matt: Attack-attack!
Liam: It's just semantics. Attack-attack, hasted action, bonus action. So that was the first of my attack-attacks. And here's the second one.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Well, we have dagger, dagger, dagger. Now we have attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack as our next t-shirt. (laughter)
Liam: I'm dumping a level two Smite into this, against an undead. That's seven, 10, 11. Ooh, it's cocked. 17 for that hit.
Matt: 17 with the additional--?
Liam: With attack-attack.
Matt: Right. Well, but you said you dumped Divine Smite into that?
Liam: Into that one.
Matt: You did the additional damage for it being undead? Okay, so that was how much total?
Liam: Whatever I just said. It was like 16.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. 17 will do it, actually. So as you rush in with the second dagger, you jam up into the same space where it's falling apart, and you hear this dull (shockwave sound) on the inside as the divine energy radiates from the strike and its body (slurping) sloughs off of the bones and around your arm. It slowly falls around your arm like old gelatin and (slurping) slips into the ground, covering the floor around you.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to do the old crouch. Not that she needs it, but crouch in front of Keyleth. And then I have my hasted action for an attack and bonus action for an attack into the other one. 29, and the second one is higher than 29. I'm going to dump Smite into it. Three-- you're making me mess up the math, Laura!
Laura: Psychic damage.
Liam: (laughing) I can't keep track of the math!
Matt: (singing) Epic-level DND!
Liam: 25 on that towards that guy, with Smite added. And then the last dagger, with Smite, at level one, is two plus is 10, 14, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Liam: I dumped a ton of Smite into that.
Matt: You didn't add your modifier to the third strike, right?
Liam: I don't know, so why don't you just minus six? 19, so we'll call it 13. Some people might have been catcalling me while I was trying to do math.
Matt: That's okay. No worries. You hit with the two final strikes. They blast into it. You watch as some of the armor gets thrown off its body. It takes a little hit, but the other creature looks like it's largely all right. That finishes Vax's turn.
Liam: Let me enjoy my last two months of life!
Matt: Shadow ghast. What's the DC on the sphere again?
Sam: 20.
Matt: Is it 20? 19. He can't escape from this freaking sphere. The shadow ghast is up on the second floor going (growling). Manners, man. All right. Scanlan and Sprigg, what do you guys want to do?
Darin: I have a question. The gentleman who had an arrow in his throat: he's gone, right? He's been blown apart.
Matt: Yeah. Actually, make a perception check.
Darin: Okay. That's a d20, isn't it?
Matt: Yep, d20 and then add your perception modifier.
Darin: Got it. That's a 17.
Matt: A 17, okay. You glance over and you see two guys who are hiding amongst the bushes on the side there.
Darin: Now, it's too far away to cast a spell.
Matt: No, depending on the spell's range, depending on what you want to do.
Darin: Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
Matt: That we can do.
Marisha: That's such a good spell.
Matt: It's a fun one. So bringing up Tasha's here, looking at the range. There we go. It's a 30-feet range, so you want to get up and get a little closer, probably.
Darin: I will do that, if I could.
Matt: All right, so that's half your movement, and you can move two more spaces. You can hit one guy. So one guy of these two you can select.
Darin: The first one.
Matt: That one there? All righty.
Darin: Yes. I think his name is Dave? Roll a perception?
Matt: Make a saving throw, a wisdom save. That is a ten! Your spell DC is a 17. You watch as the guy there who has his crossbow out and sees you get up, spins around, has this giant, heavy crossbow, the bolt very recognizable because you still have three of them in your body. Aims it towards you and then suddenly (maniacal laughter) and drops the crossbow to the ground and doubles over laughing, falling to the ground and is now kicking and laughing like a hyena right now, unable to do anything.
Darin: Knock knock!
Matt: (maniacal laughter)
Darin: Right! (laughter)
Matt: All right, is that your turn?
Darin: Yes, it is.
Matt: All right.
Sam: There's another guy over there? Have I seen him yet?
Matt: You haven't, actually. You do see this guy's on fire right now, who is still around.
Sam: Oh, I see somebody.
Matt: Yeah, and you can see that hulking figure come running through, and you hear the (explosion) through the back of the building.
Sam: For the beginning of the round, I'll say, guys, I think large giants are coming. Be aware.
Laura: (screaming)
Travis: (screaming)
Sam: What? I can't hear you! Speak clearly!
Liam: Threepio! Where could he be?!
Sam: Okay. Shit. I'll approach the guy I can see burning, on fire. That's where the front door is, right? Is he in front of the front door?
Matt: The log is right up in this area.
Sam: Oh yeah. That. So I'll take out my Wand of Magic Missiles, and I will just take down the rope.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three missiles fire out of the wand and slam into the bits of rope up top. As they explode, it's enough of an impact to cause it, as opposed to fall straight down, just spin and fall. I'm going to go ahead and roll a dice to see which direction it's going to land from its front point. So we'll say inward would be one, two, three, four, five, six. That's a six. So it plummets down, hits the ceiling, scrapes off and slams down onto him. He's going to try and make a dexterity saving throw. That is a seven plus four, nope. That's an 11. Go ahead and roll 4d8 please.
Laura: 4d8?
Darin: Is this Dr. Comedy, who's writhing in laughter?
Matt: I think so. Oh. No, sorry, he's over here. This guy's on fire from her earlier.
Sam: Oh, that's a five. 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to him.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: You only got 16 on 4d8?
Matt: It's not enough to kill him, but it slams on him and then falls over. You see as both of his flaming hands on the ground going, (groans). He's currently restrained underneath it right there, and on fire.
Darin: Knock knock. (laughter)
Matt: All right, you going to stay where you are?
Sam: No. I'm going to move towards any entrance or window I see. I can't really see over there.
Matt: There's a window here, window here. This one has flames in front of it. This one's available.
Sam: I'll go towards that [no audio] other one.
Matt: Okay. Four, five. That's as far as you can move there. You see the guy on the ground who's laughing in front of you.
Sam: Yeah, no thanks to him. And for a bonus, I guess I will inspire Darin De Paul, or rather, Sprigg.
Liam: Why not both?
Sam: I will sing to him, (singing) You had a bad day, you gettin' knocked down. I sing you a song just to turn it around! You say you don't know, but please don't die. I'll sing you this song and maybe you'll go for a ride. You had a bad day. (speaking) I don't know how that song goes.
Matt: All righty, so you get an inspiration die. You get a d12 that you can use on any sort of skill. You don't have to use it right now, but whenever you use a skill check or an ability check you can add that to it if you want to. There you go.
Darin: Thank you. You know, I had a bad day.
Sam: (singing) You had a bad day. (groaning and laughing)
Matt: All right, so now it's the assassin's turn. Keyleth, how much fire damage does it do when they're on fire? Is it d10?
Marisha: (stuttering) Oh jeez. Fire Storm. Yeah, no. d10.
Matt: Thought so. All right, he takes eight fire damage.
Taliesin: Yay! Under a log.
Matt: Under a log. He's going to try and break free from restraint. Nope, that is a 14. He cannot move that giant tree that's currently crushing him on the ground. He tries to reach out for his crossbow and aim it out towards Sprigg with one hand because it's still loaded. But he has super disadvantage on this strike.
Sam: Super disadvantage. Is that in the book?
Matt: It is now.
Laura: That's in the new campaign guide. Super disadvantage. Only when you're stuck under a tree on fire.
Matt: Sure, I'll do all three. All right. Eight, 12, 12. I made him roll super disadvantage. What does this remind me of? Like a terrible old sci-fi movie where the bad guy's on the ground with the gun trying to aim it at the hero with his final shot and the hero just walks up and steps on the gun. You (whoosh) sidestep the bolt as it fires. Nothing on you.
Darin: Of course.
Matt: The crossbow drops, (grunting).
Darin: Knock knock.
Matt: (crying) On fire. All righty, that ends his turn.
Darin: (whispering) Comedy comes in threes.
Matt: This guy back here is going to go ahead and since you're the one who has his friend writhing on the ground, is going to go ahead and try to shoot you with his crossbow. You do see him, although he's unaware of that, so he thinks it's a sneak attack shot. That is a 14.
Taliesin: You got to get better cultists, man.
Matt: I know, seriously. They come in large numbers, so yeah. This one just (impact sound) hits the tree to your left. His aim's off.
Travis: He's missing an eye. His depth perception sucks.
Matt: Exactly. And he goes ahead and darts behind this building there, vanishing.
Sam: Did I see the bolt or any indication that he exists?
Matt: You do. He reveals himself when he fires. So you watched him come out of the bushes and (whoosh) fire and then duck around the side of the building. The guy on the ground is going to try and save against your spell. That is a 13 plus zero. Nope. He's still laughing. He's just on the ground, (laughing). Tears in his eyes now.
Taliesin: I love that spell.
Matt: That's the end of the assassins' turn. Necro's dead. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark the big undead monster in the room. And then I'm going to shoot him! With the Blazing Bowstring!
Taliesin: Be careful. You might catch the building on fire.
Laura: Oh, but I'm going to use the sharpshooter thing.
Matt: Take minus five and do additional damage? Okay.
Laura: Which I don't know if I should have done that on this particular one. It was 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 is exactly his armor class.
Liam: Yas, Pelor queen! (laughter)
Laura: Five plus eight is 13. Plus sneak attack, because he's got Trinket next to him. 13, 18, 23, sorry! 23 and then lightning damage. 24. 25, 26. And then Blazing Bowstring. God dang! 27.
Matt: Okay, 27. So that's your first strike. (arrow shot) First one just (impact sound) hits in the side and you see the bolt of energy arc out and the flames burn up the arrow. By the way, the wall behind you is starting to get really warm.
Laura: I'm going to move forward. I'm going to actually move toward the corner where Keyleth is.
Matt: There's a guy on the ground there.
Laura: Oh, there is?
Matt: Yeah. So you've got to step over him.
Laura: I'm going to step on him.
Matt: As you move past, he does get a swing with his shortsword at you. Oh, wow. That's a 25.
Laura: Oh, wow. He hits me. Probably because I stepped on him.
Matt: I think so. So you take nine points of slashing damage. Just like, (pain sound) as you're walking past.
Laura: (pain sound) Fuck. Ah, shit. Okay, I'm going to hit the big hulking thing again.
Matt: I realized he had disadvantage, but I rolled another 18, so it's fine.
Laura: Oh, okay, well, yeah. I'm going to do the same thing with the big hulking guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't add plus ten to the previous one!
Matt: Because of the sharpshooter, all right. 39 last time. So go ahead and take a swing at it.
Laura: Thanks! 14.
Matt: You're up next, Keyleth.
Laura: 14 plus six is 20.
Sam: Figure out how you're going to ruin Darin's life more.
Marisha: I know. That's my one goal in life. I'm a big old homewrecker.
Laura: I think that's just 32 because I don't get sneak attack again.
Matt: All right. So the second arrow slams into him. It's still holding firm. It's taking the hits and you see parts of its body are starting to spill black liquid out of the wounds and (growls) its red eyes still beaming out from behind the metal mask in front of its face. Its arm swings back and tears some of the ceiling beams out with it. It's looking pretty rickety right now. So that ends your turn?
Laura: I guess so.
Marisha: Is it in a fireproof safe? No? Okay!
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. So I have this big asshole in front of me, yeah? The house is catching on fire, right? Yeah. Nope, she'd still be really upset and really angry. So continuing what I was saying before, she's gonna rage a little bit more and go into her fire elemental self.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unable to contain her frustration--
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Matt: You technically entered the space of the guy who's on the ground, becoming a fire elemental, which lights him on fire. (screams)
Marisha: Even more upset. I'm gonna move right in the space of this guy.
Matt: (whoosh) So occupying his space from this side, we'll say. She can catch you guys on fire.
Laura: But she doesn't have to.
Matt: I'll double-check that real fast.
Marisha: I mean, I'm magical.
Taliesin: Sparkle fire.
Marisha: I sparkle fire.
Liam: Also, we can take it.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's fire.
Matt: You know what? It can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide, so I'll say yes, you can maneuver through. Only if you want to, can you set things on fire.
Marisha: I'm going to go into this guy's space, engulf in flames, and do my multi-attack, two slam touch attacks.
Matt: Go for it. He is now in flames.
Marisha: That's cocked. Ooh, that's good, that's good. 21.
Matt: 21, yeah.
Marisha: And 16.
Matt: 16 just misses.
Marisha: Fucking balls. Okay. No, plus six to 11. That's 17.
Matt: That hits. That's what you needed.
Marisha: So both of those hit. 2d6 plus three. First one is eight. Plus ten. 18 fire damage.
Matt: He's looking pretty hurt. As you slam him with both of your flaming hands and claw across his body, where the flame hits, you see it (hissing) singes through the flesh and drags charred remains of where the muscle once was where you dragged your claws through. The body's starting to shake as it's holding its form together.
Marisha: That's all I've got, I think. That's it.
Sam: No. You have action, action, action, action, action. (laughter)
Marisha: Bonus action.
Taliesin: Bonus action.
Laura: Hasted action.
Liam: Send all your complaints to Mike Mearls and Chris Perkins at Wizards of the Coast.
Sam: Matt, not to be a dick, but has anyone stepped on the trap on the floor?
Matt: Actually, you know what, Vax would have avoided it. Because Vax is in the spot where it was, but Vax knew where it was, so Vax would have probably gone over it.
Sam: So cool. You're doing the little splits over it.
Liam: Splitsing. Van Damme-ing it.
Matt: Wait, you wouldn't have, because when you threw the dagger--
Liam: Let's do it.
Matt: It's not a big deal. Thank you for pointing that out.
Sam: But your boots are gone.
Liam: She stole them again? How did you do it?
Matt: You guys glance upward as you hear a (deep swoosh) and up above you in the hole in the ceiling where there once was nothing but air, you see hovering above you a giant beholder just appear. (guttural moan) All of its eyestalks curling around it.
Marisha: What do you mean, it's not a big deal? That's the part that I'm confused about!
Matt: Thank you for that. So that finishes your turn, Keyleth. Pike's turn. Pike sees this--
Liam: If we're retconning that in, I'm retconning (blows raspberry) when I see it.
Darin: Don't get Gargamel angry.
Marisha: Does that mean that Keyleth would have seen the beholder beforehand? You know what, don't worry about it.
Matt: No. You were so angry-- it's in the hole above. You don't quite see where that hole was at the moment, you backed away.
Marisha: Man, so much blind rage.
Matt: So much blind rage. Look guys, that's what we're doing. So anyway, Pike does actually make an insight check, and says, "It's not real. Don't worry about it!"
Laura: Thanks, Pike.
Matt: Fixed. (laughter)
Laura: It's not a big deal, you guys.
Matt: Pike, however, is going to go ahead and make another Guiding Bolt at the large guy there. That's going to be a 20. That hits. That's going to be 4d6. 14 points of radiant damage, which will do it. So you watch as Pike blasts it in the face with the Guiding Bolt. As it hits, the mask gets thrown off, and where the head was beneath it, you see this empty black void with two red burning coals for eyes that blink out as soon as the mask is removed, and the whole body crumples to the ground and turns into a horrible, thick, black-purple ichor.
Laura: I'm going to have nightmares about that.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: The beholder is still upstairs, staying in place going (hoarse screaming). (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's that kind of thing.
Taliesin: Brilliant.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. They're both dead. That brings us back. Percival, it's your turn. There's the one guy on the ground there. One's laughing. We'll say for the purposes of this, for the time, most everything there is not much of a threat at this point. So systematically, the guy on the ground who's hidden by the tree, you can just--
Taliesin: I'm ignoring him. I'm not even gonna deal. I'm just hopping in the window. I'm going to grab my little guy there. I'm going to bring him out to the balcony, and I'm going to unceremoniously toss him out of the house.
Sam: Defenestrated!
Matt: You throw him (thud). He lands.
Taliesin: And then I'm going to jump and I'm going to crawl down the rest of my way and join him outside the house. And try and jump around the fire, dragging him away from the fire.
Matt: Make an athletics check. Sorry, acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Acrobatics? Bless you for an acrobatics check. I'm rerolling that.
Matt: No, it's not a saving throw. You can't do that.
Taliesin: It's not a saving throw. Oh well, that's fine. That's a 16.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: I had the Spider Climb boots.
Matt: Right, I know. But Spider Climb boots only helps you if you keep on the surface. So as you leap, you manage to land on your feet, but the flames do catch you a bit, so you take six points of fire damage as you start to burn. For the purposes of time on this one, the guy who's currently under the log just burns to death there under the log. Pinned, he's trying to reach for his crossbow, but he's only fired the one bolt that was loaded in it. The guy on the ground is still laughing as you approach him.
Darin: Are there any rocks about?
Matt: Yeah, there's quite a few heavier rocks on the ground.
Darin: Well, I look at him, and I say, "It was a prison, but it was my prison." And I use the Telekinesis ring to lift a rock and drop it on his head.
Matt: (splat) A horrible sickening crack sound. It slams into the head. You lift it up. The laughing has stopped, but he's still moving and you can see the face is broken. The nose is smashed to the side and it's just blood. He's starting to try and get back up.
Darin: Well, tell them that Ethred Brokenbranch sends his regards.
Matt: Do you let him get up?
Darin: Yes.
Matt: He gets up. (grunting)
Sam: I'll Lightning Bolt him as he runs away.
Matt: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of this, he runs off in the distance (footsteps, yelp) and falls to the ground, no longer moving.
Travis: Can I kill the guy on the floor? Can he be mine, please? Can I please smash him? The guy that's lying on the floor in the house, please?
Taliesin: Just sit on him.
Travis: I haven't Gallaghered anybody in a while.
Matt: He's on the ground on fire now, going (frantic gasps) patting out the fire.
Laura: Oh, Grog, put him out!
Matt: He spends his action putting the fire out now, and is like, (frantic gasps).
Marisha: Keyleth takes a few steps back and motions as a fire elemental...
Travis: I skip on in and (gibberish yell).
Matt: He's like, (scream, impact). Just smashed on the ground. Red watermelon.
Laura: Fire's out, I'm assuming.
Marisha: I drop my fire form, turn, see my anger, destruction, get immediately guilty, and then do a Tidal Wave to quell the flames.
Matt: The building is standing, mostly. The whole front of it is blackened. The flames are gone. Most of the interior is destroyed. You have two giant holes in the back. Most of the upper ceiling is ruined. The house is in shambles.
Laura: What about the books?
Matt: A lot of them have been destroyed. Some of the ones on the back wall have been burned. Some of them have been burned by people in flames or made of flame or general black ichor that spilled out. The house is pretty wrecked.
Laura: Can I go over to them and see if I can find some books I think Percy would like?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'm running over to see that staff with an eye in it.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay. You start glancing through. You find some history books. You find some that relate to local history. You see some books that relate to various types of creatures; some animals and beasts. Many that are encyclopedias of various rivers and it's scattered everywhere. It's just universal knowledge of pretty much anything he can get his hands on. So some of it seems less useful than others but you hand-pick a few out that you think Percy would like.
Travis: I don't mean to ask the obvious question, but how did he know we were here?
Taliesin: No, that's not an obvious question. I have no idea.
Marisha: They have multiple eyes.
Laura: But how? Was he watching us? Is he scrying on us?
Taliesin: Must have.
Laura: Oh, he's fucking scrying on us.
Taliesin: Maybe he can feel you the way you can feel him.
Matt: You get the sense that's not how this works.
Taliesin: Yeah. I don't know.
Marisha: He had another eye, right?
Sam: Does that thing have an eye in it?
Matt: The staff you see? It's a carved eye. It's made of wood and paint. It's ornamental. It's mainly used as a focus, technically acts as a plus-one staff.
Travis: Sprigg. You said this place was a prison. Did you mean that?
Darin: Of course I meant it, boy. I've been there for years.
Travis: Could you leave? If you wanted.
Darin: Of course I can. The prison was more up here than in there.
Travis: Oh. Sorry about the prison, then.
Darin: Why would you be sorry? I asked you for power and redemption. Don't you feel you gave me that? We lived, child. We all lived.
Travis: Yep. Yes. That is indeed what I was hoping for.
Laura: I lean out the window. Hey, Sprigg!
Darin: Hello!
Laura: Hi.
Darin: Hi! How are you? I have some arrows in me at the moment. You like arrows, don't you?
Laura: I do. Come in here, I'll take them off your hands.
Darin: Okay. Question  if you do that, I'd probably die again.
Laura: I'll cure you, darling. Don't worry.
Darin: She called me darling.
Sam: She's the cutest.
Darin: (growls) I go in. (laughter)
Matt: You walk into your destroyed abode, managing to sidestep all the bear traps along the way. You've walked the path many times and you know it and I'm actually surprised none of you walked into any of them. You knew where most of them were, but none of you wandered out far enough into the open to do that. They're all inside. You can see your giant friend, of course, that you were talking to as you walked in is twice the size he was earlier. Previously where you had to hunch, you're now having to almost belly crawl inside the house.
Travis: But why? There's no separation between the first and the second floor.
Matt: So if you stand in that space, you're fine.
Travis: I'm in my space.
Taliesin: I'm going to prop our idiot up in the window so I can go in and keep an eye on him even while I'm inside.
Sam: We have a prisoner?
Taliesin: Yeah. I kept one.
Laura: But he's one of those creepy ghouls that probably doesn't speak.
Matt: And in the last minute or so has not been able to break free but is still trying.
Taliesin: He automatically fails until 24 hours has elapsed.
Matt: After the first failed save?
Taliesin: Any further attempts by the creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. He ain't going nowhere. It's mean, man.
Laura: Me and Pike can heal him as I take the arrows out.
Matt: Okay.
Darin: At last you've seen the point of me, eh?
Laura: (sarcastic laugh) Sprigg, anything valuable in here that you want to save before we get you out of here?
Darin: Would like my organs! Oh, I would like to save those.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: All right. No. There's nothing.
Laura: No keys to Ioun? You know where she is?
Darin: I might. I hope I do. I hope that I can give you the answers you seek.
Laura: I hope so, too. I cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Pike casts Cure Wounds on you, as well, and you heal 18.
Darin: Do I know her name yet?
Matt: No, you do not.
Darin: Cleric.
Matt: "Pike."
Darin: Yes. Ethred. Or Sprigg. Whichever you like. You can call me Sprigg. Can you help me pray to Ioun? We need answers, and I think together we might find them.
Matt: "I can certainly try. Do you have any items of her iconography?"
Darin: Do I?
Matt: Yeah, actually. You just reach over and find one of the undamaged books.
Laura: You healed 19, by the way.
Darin: Thank you. Use this and you talk to her where I can't. At least, not yet.
Matt: "I don't know if I can talk to her. I'm not... But I can help you pray. I don't know if it'll be enough."
Darin: Let's give it a go. There's a first time for everything.
Matt: "Grog!"
Travis: Yeah?
Matt: "Can you help me clear some of the floor, please?"
Travis: Not a problem! (grunting) Keyleth, catch!
Marisha: Ah! Ow! (laughter)
Sam: Floorboards! In her face!
Travis: I thought you were on fire. I'm really sorry.
Matt: Pike takes you over to the center of the room and tells you. "Kneel with me. Now take this book and close your eyes and... apologize."
Darin: For what?
Matt: "For everything you said about Ioun."
Darin: (grumbles) All right. Well, look the other way. Find some things that are of value.
Travis: (whistles)
Laura: Trinket sits down next to him and stares, but I'll turn around.
Darin: All right. I don't know if you're listening, Ioun. It's been many years since I've actually spoken to a god. I'd like to express my deepest sorrow. You see, this home... didn't mean as much to me as life. And I think these people gave that to me. If you could give us... If you could give me anything, any little hint, it would be greatly appreciated and I would be a warrior in your name forevermore. Please. Was that okay, bear?
Matt: (huffs, licking) Licks the side of your face.
Darin: No, I'm not crying. You're crying, bear.
Matt: You sit there in silence with your eyes closed, concentrating, holding the book before you. Doesn't seem to be an answer. Just silence in the darkness. Nothing. Everyone wants to look at him-- still turned away?
Marisha: Keyleth is definitely staring, but pretending not to stare.
Taliesin: I'm watching through the book.
Laura: I'm leaning against the wall and staring at him now.
Matt: Nothing. Nothing responds. As you have your eyes closed, you hear this soft chuckle in the far corner of the room. (cackles) "Really? Praying, are you?"
Darin: Yes. Can you help?
Matt: "Do I look the kind of guy that would help?"
Darin: Yes. I've known you for 19 years and I think anybody's capable of anything, so why don't you do something unexpected?
Matt: "I think you're right. It's no longer your prison. It's not mine, either."
Darin: That's true.
Matt: (flapping) Flies out the window.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Darin: Kraghammer has another performer, and not a very good one.
Matt: While you've been talking, by the way, and the silence has been sad. Taking in the slight emotional cut that not getting a response and putting yourself on that limb means nothing. The rest of you notice his torso is glowing bright blue.
Marisha: What? Is it really?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Your stomach is glowing.
Darin: Growing? What? I didn't eat anything. How could my stomach be growing?
Sam: You're blue balling.
Darin: What?
Sam: (whispering) Look down.
Matt: Pike looks at you and takes your hands and opens your arms and motions to your chest. And the book in your hand, you pull aside. You glance down and you can see, there's this soft, bluish glow that's emanating from your torso. Strange.
Darin: You see? I didn't have to believe in Ioun. I've found my religion. (chuckling) I'm Bluish! (laughter)
Travis: Aw, man!
Darin: It didn't happen!
Matt: No, it did. That's canon.
Darin: Wait a second, gentlemen. We'll restart for just a second. It'll be fine. That little imp is gone. So apparently, the key... is me.
Laura: Is you? It is you.
Sam: Is in you or is you?
Marisha: It is him. I've known it from the minute that I laid eyes upon him. It's him.
Travis: You did? You knew that the moment you saw him?
Marisha: No, I mean I had a hunch, I had a feeling, deep down inside. I can't say it. If I say it out loud and then if it's not true then I'm an asshole.
Liam: To be fair, we've only been here 12 minutes.
Darin: Yes. House gone. The imp gone. Burny, burny. Sad, sad. Pray, nothing happened. Now I'm blue. That's a day for you, isn't it?
Laura: So do you glow brighter the closer we get? What's the deal here?
Darin: I've never glowed before, child.
Laura: I think it's glown.
Darin: I've never glowned.
Sam: If you're the key, where's the lock? Where do we take you?
Darin: Well, I have been gone for many, many years, so English may have changed. To be fair. To be fair. I don't know. This is all new to me. I would have thought it would be in one of those tomes.
Taliesin: I'm going to pick up the book that he was holding when he was praying. I'm going to just try and read it.
Matt: Okay. You glance through it. The book is a simple book, talking about the construction of barricades and it looks like it was less the contents of the book and more just the image of the book itself.
Taliesin: I'm going to hand him the book again and see if maybe there's focus to be found. Maybe this is--
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Oh, lord. Ooh. Let's call that a 28.
Matt: When you took the book from him and handed him another book, there was a very faint vibration to his body as you pulled it from him and gave it back to him. Which you haven't noticed, but there's a physical vibration to him.
Taliesin: If it's all-- with your permission, I'm going to take his hands.
Matt: Okay. You feel them, and you feel this very faint vibration to his body.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Continue holding his hands. I pull out the Tome of Quick Movement. Hold. Hold while I find the paper. Hold.
Laura: What if he's a tuning fork?
Marisha: (shushes)
Darin: That's very rude.
Marisha: Where is it? I have a lot of things.
Sam: Divining.
Darin: Oh yes. A divining rod. A rod to the divine. Perhaps I am a divining rod.
Laura: That's what I mean.
Darin: Well said, child!
Marisha: I pull out the fork we that we got to get to Elysium. Is it similar?
Matt: When you pull out the fork and you hold it, you recall that whenever you cast the spell Plane Shift, there was a faint vibration to the specific fork when you cast the spell.
Sam: He's the tuning fork.
Taliesin: He's the tuning fork.
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: What, no? This is good!
Marisha: No, it is good. It's good, it's just... Oh, Sprigg. No, it's fine. It's good. I don't know. Everything in my life seems to have this impermanence factor about it. So I hope he's not something that can be used and discarded.
Darin: I haven't been used in 37 years.
Marisha: Sprigg.
Darin: It's all right. At least I wasn't discarded all that time.
Marisha: I'm sure it's fine, I just--
Darin: Look. Look at me. Just remember. Whatever happens, remember me. That's all that's important.
Liam: That's good advice.
Darin: That's all that we have. My friends are gone and I don't even remember their names. I don't remember Thetapax or Zephyr or... the guy with the nose. He was my favorite. (coughs and sniffles) Dusty in here, isn't it?
Marisha: Oh, Sprigg.
Darin: (sniffles and coughs) I remember. (softer) I remember. See? It's all up here. So whatever happens, keep me there. All right?
Marisha: I guess I have to start getting used to losing things.
Darin: Yes. Or you can be hidden away in a prison for 37 years. And that's not life, child. That's hiding. Don't hide.
Marisha: I've already built my own prison. They don't know. I'm already there.
Darin: You can break out. You can. It's hard. But you can do it. Just take the first step. And then you take another one. And then you take another one.
Marisha: And I grab his hand, and with that, I cast Plane Shift to wherever he is leading to go.
Matt: All right. The rest of you gathered hands for this?
Laura: I guess so.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Is there enough of us? Trinket, in the necklace. Quick!
Matt: Trinket. (roars) Into the necklace.
Darin: Wait. My invisible frog companion.
Sam: Is he real?
Darin: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: There is a sudden (sucking noise). A shuddering of power energy around you as you feel the vibration out of Sprigg's hand emanate throughout the entire loop you guys have created throughout your grasp. The familiar bright light flashes before you, and you feel your body being pulled through, at incredible speeds, through darkness. There. The familiar racing of the divine gate. (fast travel noise) As you pass through one of its many portholes. Then, adrift. By now you've-- the times you've passed through the gate, you've passed through it a handful of times since now. Adrift. Still holding hands, but the circle's beginning to turn into an oval. You can all glance around and see each other. Did you miss your destination? Did you overshoot? What's next? (whoosh) Another white flash. And suddenly you're at a destination. You glance around and you're standing within a small chamber. It resembles a decadent bathhouse but with no water nor occupants. It's empty. There are marble pillars stretching to a domed ceiling about 60 feet above you all. Silk-draped cloths drift and hang at odd angles throughout the ceiling. Glowing points of magical light latched within iron cages dangle at the edges of these pillars about 15 feet up that give the faint glow to an otherwise darkened room. There are walls on each side of this chamber, about 30 or 40 feet from you, and one arched hallway across from you that leads to the only other chamber you've seen.
Marisha: I immediately turn and look to see if Sprigg is still holding my hand.
Matt: Sprigg is still holding your hand.
Laura: See? All that fucking shit was for nothing! He's still alive!
Sam: Are you the same Sprigg as before?
Darin: I hope so. Let's ask my invisible frog companion. Well, I guess we'd better go find what we are looking for.
Marisha: Okay. Glad you're with us, Sprigg.
Darin: It's good to be alive.
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Darin: Remember that.
Marisha: Okay. I will.
Matt: As you guys walk forward towards the singular hallway, you go through the domed arch, and the hallway extends on. Featureless, smooth grey marble. Like a solid punch that seemed to have carved out whatever this material was. It extends for 100 feet. 150 feet. And even though there's very very faint light, and many of you can see through darkvision, there is a darkness about 60 feet from you that seems to consume what you can see. You can only see so far beyond that radius, and you're not quite sure where that oppressive shadow is coming from. The air is chilled, but not uncomfortably so. You can hear the distant sound of pinched winds whining through small spaces. A familiar sound from the many times you've spent underground, through caverns that had some openings that allowed air to streak through to the surface. A few steps more and suddenly the hallway opens into a second chamber. Into a library, if you could even call it that. Bookshelves that stretch upward for seemingly hundreds of feet, before flickering lights fell from your vision. You do not see where they stop. These columns of just tomes and cases and scrolls and parchments stacking as in tablets and any form of recorded information seem to just be infinite in front of you, to two sides of this road and upward. They seem to stretch in almost every direction, the walls to the side of you. You see columns ahead of you, and they tend to wind and curl like a labyrinth made of bookcases, to no end. It's very Escher-esque in how the further up you look, they tend to curve and shift and bend around each other. Your eyes, now attuned to the realms beyond mortality, you catch glimpses of shifting wind gathering books and turning pages. Spirits of the library, though sparse as they may be from this entry point, organizing. Reading and learning from whatever words are within. You begin to almost get vertigo, trying to contemplate the strange and overwhelming construction of such a wondrous place. An endless sea of stories. Spectral custodians keeping the tales of each other and the history of Exandria past, present, and binding the pages to tell what will eventually be the present, currently the future.
Taliesin: I've dreamed of this place.
Liam: Inside Matt's brain?
Taliesin: This is immortality. This is everything. (sighs, chuckles) I may never leave. I glide over to Vex and hold her close. This is stunning. My god, I think they may have actually forgotten all the idiot things I said yesterday.
Laura: Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
Taliesin: I think they've completely forgotten. I'm sorry. May have panicked.
Laura: I give him a kiss.
Taliesin: I'll be right back. I'm going to run towards one of those stacks, like a child.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the first--
Taliesin: I'm doing a title run. I want to figure out the organizational system before I touch a book.
Matt: There are no words on any of the spines.
Taliesin: I pick one.
Matt: Okay. You pick.
Taliesin: All right. I pick it up. I look around to see if anybody has a problem. And I turn to the title page.
Matt: It's ironic you do this, because the book is in Celestial.
Taliesin: I read Celestial.
Matt: You do. It's ironic that you did that. (chuckles) Glancing through, it appears to be describing a birth. Describing a tunnel, then a light, then a cry.
Taliesin: I skip to the end. Last page.
Matt: It seems to be an older man, surrounded by his family--
Taliesin: I've got it. I put it down. I pick up another one.
Matt: You glance through this book.
Taliesin: First page.
Matt: Begins very similarly to the last one.
Taliesin: Last page.
Matt: This one actually ends with what appears to be a horseback riding accident.
Marisha: Oh god, they're souls.
Taliesin: 115 pages in.
Matt: 115 pages in you get to a page that seems to talk about the sorrow of a lost romance, and trying to deal, coping at a young adult age.
Taliesin: I put it back and I turn. They're made of people.
Laura: Wait, what? It's skin books?
Taliesin: It's people! And I'm going to find the most interesting spine and I'm going to turn to the first. Birth. Death.
Laura: I can't read that, dear.
Taliesin: Birth! Death! Sex. Birth, death, some disappointment. I am just gone. I'm running back and forth, finding whatever interesting spine I can. Are they all in Celestial?
Matt: They are currently. All the ones you've picked up are in Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Okay. This is great. All right. I'm eventually probably going to pass out from mild hyperventilation and have to sit down.
Laura: We should maybe find Ioun, don't you think?
Taliesin: If we must, yes. Just as an experiment, I'm going to think about Vesper and try and touch a book. I don't expect this to work, but I'm going to close my eyes and think about, and pick it up and flip through it.
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: You grab a tome and pull it forth, and as you read through the story, it's an unfamiliar one.
Taliesin: There's a system. I will discover the system. I'm going to keep running around like a kid.
Matt: What are the rest of you guys doing while Percival is running around like a kid?
Travis: I'm not interested in the fucking books.
Marisha: Distracted by Percy, Keyleth just scans. Does anything in Primordial stick out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's good. 29.
Matt: Glancing about, none of the spines have anything written on them, so you have to start pulling a few books out and opening them.
Marisha: I hold my hand over and pull.
Matt: You open it up. It's not in a language you understand.
Marisha: I put it back and get frustrated.
Taliesin: I've stopped. I'm good.
Liam: Watched her the whole time and quietly walk up behind and give her a hug from behind and don't say anything.
Sam: Are there any doors leading forward or back?
Matt: It's a labyrinth of bookshelves. There's a path forward between, two or three ahead of you, but then it comes to an end where it splits off in two directions. Like I said, they travel up infinitely, so you're not quite sure which way leads where.
Laura: Is Sprigg still glowing?
Matt: Sprigg is, actually-- There's a very faint blue glow in him that never really faded since your arrival.
Laura: I wonder if we could follow the glow. Warmer?
Marisha: Hey, Sprigg. Stand over there!
Darin: All right. I run to where she's pointing. Is there any change in the glow?
Matt: No noticeable change.
Marisha: Damn. Sprigg, stand over there!
Darin: I just was shot with a bunch of arrows, so give me a second. I run over there, stop halfway and go, ow, and then I continue. When I get there, any change in the glow?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Darin: Oh, it's a one.
Matt: No discernible difference.
Sam: You're inspired, if you want to use inspiration.
Matt: It's a natural one. It's an auto-fail.
Taliesin: Is there a card catalog?
Sam: Is there a central area info desk?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to begin to wander around and try to find your way.
Sam: Oh, that's a natural 20.
Matt: Scanlan seems to walk with purpose into one of the random rows.
Sam: I'm clutching my Ioun stone.
Matt: Okay. All right. Anyone else do anything?
Taliesin: He seems to have purpose. I'm giddily following behind.
Matt: Okay, Percy's following Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to walk with Percy. Oh, and Trinket's out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket (bear grunt) looks confused and starts looking up.
Laura: I know. I know, dear.
Matt: Falls onto his back.
Sam: Are Vex and Percy walking with me?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to whip out my flute and I start going, (wedding march).
Taliesin: Oh. He may have heard.
Laura: He heard?
Taliesin: I thought you were going to die! I may have panicked.
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: We were asked to plead for your life, and I may have panicked.
Laura: Who did you tell? Percival, who did you tell?
Sam: Look at your shirt.
Laura: What? (screams) No!
Taliesin: I panicked!
Laura: Percy!
Taliesin: I panicked! There was a giant glowing sun, and I may have panicked. Well, I was a bit vague, but I was--
Laura: A bit vague? Scanlan, what did he say?
Sam: Well.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: First comes love. Then comes marriage.
Taliesin: I may have hinted that we might have eloped. May have hinted.
Sam: Wait, you're married?
Taliesin: I may have hinted.
Sam: Wait, no, you said you were betrothed to be married? Wait, you're married? Oh, wow, you just spilled it!
Taliesin: Silence! Cone of Silence!
Sam: They're married!
Matt: You try and yell, and it's making no sound. It is just absolute quiet. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Darin: I run in the corner and see if I glow again.
Liam: Keyleth and Vax heard the (wedding march), so we had a very different silent scene over in our spot.
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth was quietly sobbing in Vax's arms and then heard (wedding march) and went (angry roar).
Laura: Why is that bad? Why was that angry?
Liam: Because we don't get that.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Grog?
Sam: So you're going to ruin everyone else's joy. You're one of those couples.
Liam: Thank you, vacation Scanlan.
Marisha: Worst double date sangria partners ever.
Taliesin: He's back, ladies and gentlemen. He's back and taking no prisoners.
Sam: Are you guys going on vacation? We got a divorce.
Liam: It's the Debbie Downer SNL sketch.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm as uncomfortable as I can possibly be. This is the worst-case scenario of my entire life. I'm not moving and hoping this is all over soon.
Taliesin: I love that.
Travis: It's just endless books, beyond what you can see! Are there chairs?
Laura: I feel like Pike would've comforted him.
Matt: Yeah, Pike comes over.
Travis: There are chairs?
Matt: No, there aren't. She goes, "Do you want to go with everyone else, Grog?"
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Matt: "It's okay, yeah! They're walking."
Travis: I want to leave. Fast.
Matt: "The faster we follow them, then the faster we can go."
Travis: Okay. Let's go.
Matt: "I bet you could read some of these books."
Travis: I bet not. These are really tall books.
Matt: "Come on." She grabs your hand and begins tugging you behind her. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: Me and him?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Leaning into each other.
Matt: Okay. So you guys stay there.
Darin: I'm trying to see if I'm glowing anywhere.
Matt: You run around for a good minute and a half and you're not seeing any sort of change.
Darin: Nothing?
Matt: No.
Darin: Can I go forward into the bookcases and look right and left to see where they lead?
Matt: Okay, yeah. You turn around the corner and see them disappear around the edge.
Darin: I'll continue.
Matt: Okay. So you follow them. As you guys are having this silent argument, Sprigg catches up to you, but you hear nothing, Sprigg, as they're all going...
Taliesin: I just turned it off. I got everyone to agree.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi. How's it going?
Darin: Glowing. You are, too! What's going on with that? Yeah, you seem to be blushing.
Laura: It's so hot in here. It's very hot in here.
Matt: Pike and Grog catch up around the corner.
Travis: What did you find? The way out? Exit?
Sam: Seems like it could be this way. We'll have to band together and go forward.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Where did you get the sunglasses from?
Sam: It's glowing in here.
Matt: The Ioun stone actually is giving a faint glow similar to the glow that you see emanating from Sprigg's torso.
Sam: Is it glowing any more than--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh, okay. That's an eight. Maybe 11, I don't know. Do I add Jack of All Trades?
Matt: You do, yeah. If you're not--
Sam: I really want to know. I will inspire myself, and I'll add a d12. That makes it 16.
Matt: Okay. You start getting the sense, the further you walk, both your stone and Sprigg are beginning to emanate a slightly stronger glow, and so you guys begin to realize that this could be used as a path to something. You're not quite sure.
Sam: Let's keep going.
Matt: Okay. So everyone's going behind.
Liam: Imagination clarification, because a Silence effect went off there. Did Vax and Keyleth hear, "You're married?" Or was that all covered by Silence?
Matt: No, he crushed that in Silence.
Liam: So we heard the song, but that's it. Good to know.
Matt: Everyone else has gone ahead and vanished into the library. You guys are staying?
Liam: Noticing that we're totally alone, silently tug Keyleth down after them.
Taliesin: I felt that honesty was important at that moment.
Laura: No, it very much is. I'm very glad. I'm just surprised he didn't say anything. I spoke with him.
Sam: He was acting nobly. I won't tell anyone if you don't want me to.
Taliesin: We had to tell them eventually.
Matt: As you're following the stone, you hear some footfalls as Vax and Keyleth catch up to you guys.
Marisha: We already know. It's fine.
Liam: You're engaged. You don't have to--
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: I'm sorry I didn't tell you about that. Engagement. But you know.
Marisha: You fucking liars. You fucking liars! Just tell us! We know!
Laura: We got married.
Taliesin: We may have gotten married.
Marisha: Yeah. (sarcastically) Oh, surprise!
Taliesin: It was going to be--
Laura: (weakly) Celebration!
Taliesin: We didn't want to make it a thing. We wanted it to just be--
Sam: I think it's great.
Laura: Thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: It's wonderful when two people can fall in love and have each other forever and ever. That's nice. No, I mean it! You guys are great. You're super cute together. You'll make Whitestone-- You'll be celebrities there.
Travis: Do we have to get you gifts?
Sam: No, they eloped, so we're clear.
Taliesin: Very specifically, no. This place.
Marisha: Yeah, it's amazing. And Keyleth lights up her flame hands as she walks off in a fury.
Taliesin: Do you not know what this place means? Am I the only one who understands what this place means?
Travis: I would love to know.
Taliesin: It all matters!
Laura: None of us have forgotten.
Taliesin: No, I mean, really! It all matters! So much, and it's not going to go away! Nothing goes away!
Marisha: No, it only gets filed away in some library where no one else can experience it except for, what, one, maybe two people ever.
Taliesin: One and two people are all that it takes to experience something!
Matt: An echoing voice billows out from the right side of your troupe. A creaky, warm, matronly voice that surrounds and almost welcomes you with the intonation of a grandmother. It says, "Nothing is forever, Percival." You glance off to the right, and you can see there's a break in the bookcase. To your right, you see the shelves have stopped ahead in this direction to reveal a circular common area within the library, where the ground domes downward into an 80-foot-wide concave pit of cushions and tables, all standing at odd angles alongside this pit, but never sliding. Gravity seems to shift depending on where the dome stands. These tables hold teacups and writing implements and various other décor, and things that involve binding and writing. None of them slipping, all of them affixed to the table as the dome slowly comes to a central rest. Long, spiraling streams of silver, blue, and gray silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, and they come down like drifting silks that push past as you enter the area. Sitting 40 feet from you in the center of the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older woman with long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is somewhat weathered and wrinkled around her almond eyes, but the warmth of her smile, and her vibrant purple irises put you at ease immediately. Her blue and white robes tumble out from her form in tendrils of parchment that snake through the pillows like roots. She smiles as you turn and see her. "I felt that you would find me." And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Sam: Wow, Matt. Wow, Darin!
Liam: Can everybody watching still at home give a round of applause for Darin?
Matt: Seriously. If you're available, you may want to, if you can, come and join us for the first half maybe. Not next week, but the week after Comic Con, if you're interested. Because I want to roleplay out you meeting Ioun.
Darin: It would be an honor. You know how important this is to me.
Matt: Great. I'll look forward to having you back in a couple weeks, then.
Darin: And I will see you next weekend, as well!
Matt: Yes, indeed. Oh, Comic Con. Guys, thank you so much. Great game, well done. Breaking stuff, apparently. Once again, we have no episode next week because we'll be at Comic Con, but we have our panel on Saturday for Critical Role. Love you guys, hope you have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hi, everyone! Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Good job, Sam. Thank you for your patience. Sorry we were off last week. I'm doing much better, for those who are worried about it. Happy to be back. Missed you guys, and happy to be back at this table. So yeah! It's been a couple of weeks. Let's go ahead and get into some announcements real fast. First off, tonight we have our fantastic sponsor, Shadow of War!
Travis: Shadow of War! Oh shit!
Laura: Are we allowed to say what we did in it?
Matt: Yeah, a number of us actually worked in the game. It comes out October 10th, actually.
Sam: And the full name of the game is Middle Earth: Shadow of War, for all of those who are looking for it alphabetically.
Travis: The sequel to Middle Earth  Shadow of Mordor.
Sam: Yes, and many of us were in the game yelling our asses off. I played a little character known as Orc 4. It was so much! I did 20 recording sessions.
Travis: I remember talking to you! I was Commanding Orc 1.
Sam: Oh, nice.
Matt: I was Professional Orc 1, as well as the Witch King of Angmar, the head of the Nazgul. I'm pretty excited about that.
Laura: Oh, nice!
Liam: I was Troy Baker's fluffer. It's prestigious.
Sam: You were in it, right? No?
Liam: I'm in the first one.
Sam: Oh, what did you do in the first one?
Liam: The thing I killed two weeks ago? That was me.
Sam: Laura, were you in it?
Laura: I am in it. I play the Blade of Galadriel.
Liam: You play a sword?!
Laura: I know! Get this, so I'm an assassin elf, right? She's really cool. The DLC is going to be about my character.
Sam: Do you have a number after your character?
Laura: No, it's the only one. It's the coolest thing! I don't think I ever told you this. When I saw the character design? She's a combo of Vex and Vax.
Matt: That's pretty great.
Laura: No, seriously, though, she's an elf chick. So she's an assassin. She's got dual-wielding, and she wears feathery armor. It's so freaking cool! So basically, it's like if Vax was a girl, which is Vex.
Travis: But with the sex appeal of Grog.
Laura: Of course, baby.
Matt: I will never forget being at the Shadow of War panel at Comic Con, and you mentioning the DLC and then going, "Has that even been announced yet?" And there was five seconds where I watched Laura wither away into a shell of a human before they went, "Oh, yeah, it's announced." And you reverted.
Laura: Even at this very moment, as I said it, aftershocks. "Was I supposed to say that?"
Liam: They scare you so bad that, even when it's official, I'm like "I'm in the--"
Travis: It's such a dope game. The Nemesis system has been improved on from last time. We can testify.
Sam: We're supposed to mention that on the 18th of this month, Shadow of War will be debuting a brand new live-action trailer that will take you near the game? No! Right into the game. Soon we'll need to choose whether to save or slay. During the break tonight, they're going to be showing off some awesome videos from the game. It drops October 10th. Go buy it and try to pick out our voices in the game as you slay us.
Travis: And make us rise to the higher echelons of the orc order.
Matt: By the way, if you haven't played the previous game, the Nemesis system is one of the coolest things I've played in many games in a long time. I'm going to challenge you guys to try and pick out not only who you voice orc-wise, but then to try and make sure our orcs rise to the very top. So you have nothing but generals from Critical Role. I challenge you for this. Because that would be pretty cool.
Liam: I hope you like hearing the word ranger.
Liam: Ranger!
Travis: Ranger!
Laura: Ranger!
Matt: It's going to be fun. All right, thank you, Shadow of War for being our sponsor tonight. We're excited about the game, and hope you are, too. Also, there's been a lot of insane weather tragedies that have been in the news recently. I want to make sure that everyone knows that if you want to help support relief for both of the hurricanes that have come and torn through the U.S., we have a link to the Red Cross to donate and be part of that. It'll be available in the chat and throughout the rest of the game tonight, so if you have the opportunity to help out, I highly recommend it. Come help these people that have lost a lot in the past couple weeks or so. Give what you can. I've given, and we really appreciate that support.
Travis: They'll let you delineate between Harvey and Irma, too, in case you want to pick one over the other. Harvey had a lot of support from J.J. Watt's $30+ million dollars. Irma, the damage is still accruing.
Matt: I grew up in Florida. I know the area well, and I have family out there that endured it. It's very close to me. So if you can, greatly appreciate it. Let's see here. Merch! Laura.
Laura: This feels so weird to say after you mentioned that.
Travis: Nah, but we make happy stuff.
Laura: Happy stuff! Which, by the way, you're wearing your Dalen's Closet shirt, Matt, and it matches your eyeballs so beautifully.
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: I'll show it to you, and my back brace, to make it really better.
Sam: Are we selling those in the store?
Matt: The back brace?
Travis: Critical Role back brace! Do you DM 20 hours a week? We've got something for you!
Liam: We missed an opportunity to put Backblaze on that back brace. (groaning)
Laura: Next time.
Matt: Next time.
Liam: No next time!
Laura: There are Dalen's Closet shirts in the store. Go check them out. There's tank tops. They're really cool; they're cheaper because they are sleeveless. That's less material. Dagger, Dagger, Dagger; it's been re-released. We have the Scanlan tee; we have all the tees. And it's getting cooler now, so the hoodie is still in the store; the softest hoodie ever is there. Go check it out. We have hats and we have key chains and necklaces and pencils and aprons and tarot cards, and other stuff. And more stuff coming! So keep your eyes peeled.
Matt: Thank you, Laura. Also reminding you guys, we have up to episode 40 of Critical Role now released on iTunes, Google, and geekandsundry.com has all the information for it. So if you want to listen to the podcast, or your friends have been like, "I don't want to watch it, but I just want to hear it."
Laura: I want to watch it, but I don't want to watch it.
Matt: It's good for commutes.
Marisha: Also, clarification, speaking of saying things prematurely before I should have. I've gotten a lot of questions being like, "What happened to that plan of rolling out one a day once a week?" Yeah, that plan didn't turn out to be feasible. And I might have said that-- I said it, and then I looked down at the announcement sheet and it said in parenthesis afterward, "But do not announce this part." Which, why was it even on our announcement sheet? Still my fault.
Matt: To be fair, I remember looking down at the sheet as you were announcing it.
Marisha: Oh shit. Anyway, it's never going to happen because they're easier to do in batch. So ten at a time. That's what you get.
Taliesin: It's like one cookie at a time. You can't bake one cookie at a time.
Marisha: It's just better to do them in a block.
Matt: Thank you for the heads-up on that. We announced a while back the Critical Role six-issue mini-series comic book. We announced last week that it's going through Dark Horse, which I'm super excited about.
Travis: DM is very excited.
Matt: Oh, yeah. Dark Horse was my introduction. I was probably in fourth grade when I got into the Alien comics through Dark Horse. I didn't realize there was more to explore. Dude, I've been a fan of them ever since. Being able to take this into their realm is brilliant. I'm so excited. First issue drops on the 20th, guys.
Marisha: The digital issue. The first issue releases digitally this coming Wednesday.
Sam: Is it good? I haven't read it.
Laura: It's so good!
Sam: Why have you all read it and I haven't?
Marisha: Because you don't read your emails.
Sam: Yeah, that's fair.
Liam: You show up ten minutes after we start, you leave an hour before we end the game every week.
Sam: That's true.
Matt: So that's coming up. It will be on Comixology, iBooks, Dark Horse Digital, Kindle, Nook, Google Play, etc. It's written by our good friend, Matt Colville. It's drawn beautifully by our good friend, Olivia Samson from the Critter community, and the coloring and lettering by Chris Northrop. Super stoked, hope you guys enjoy it. So look out for that next week.
Liam: Looks fucking awesome! The writing is awesome! The art is awesome!
Matt: What he said.
Laura: Did you already say about the physical copies, too? When those will be released?
Matt: We'll have a trade available in spring 2018.
Liam: It's coming out with the DLC for Middle Earth.
Matt: Yeah, to tie in with it. Of course, we have Talks Machina coming up this Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, here with our fantastic host, Brian. We'll be talking about our episode tonight. So look for that next week. All the Critical Role episodes are now available on Alpha. They've gone back and added the bells and whistles, the information, the stats, everything, for all the episodes before Alpha even launched. So if you ever watched it there, it's all updated.
Sam: I really should check my email!
Taliesin: We would miss this sense of wonder that we get to share with the community. It's really nice.
Marisha: They get your unbridled reaction.
Taliesin: It's like watching Home Alone next to Macaulay Culkin. It's great. I'm getting so much out of it.
Matt: All righty. Last few things. One  this is Sub-tember, guys, by the way, for Twitch. Sub-tember means for the next few weeks, Twitch has a special promotion where subscriptions are half off for new subs for every Twitch channel, including this one. So if you've been watching and you've always wanted to subscribe, but you never really felt like you can give the full $5, it's half off this month. So if you want to subscribe to our Twitch, now's the month to do it. Just giving the heads-up. It's pretty rad, and thank you, Sub-tember. Last but not least, Laura and Travis, you are going to be at an event soon, aren't you?
Travis: Yeah! End of this month, we're going to be at Anime Weekend Atlanta. The last week of September. Hotlanta, Georgia. We're going to be there with other people like Jennifer Hale and people like that. But we're going to be there. Come out, say hi, smack our hands, not our faces.
Laura: Give a high-five.
Marisha: I love Atlanta.
Travis: It's pretty dope. I want to get in that aquarium with those whale sharks. That's what I want to do. We're not going to have time for that. And then, also, in the middle of November, we're going to be going to Australia. Laura and I are going for two weeks. We're going to be in Adelaide, Brisbane. So for all the Aussies-- what?
Laura: I've got to get my passport.
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: Expedite!
Travis: So barring Laura's passport showing up--
Matt: You can hear the $400 burn away instantly. That's how much it costs to expedite.
Laura: Oh my god. I'm doing that tomorrow! I'm going to write a note in my calendar.
Travis: (sighs) Adelaide, Brisbane. If you're there, you want to see us, come see maybe just me. (laughter)
Sam: Everybody tweet Laura tomorrow at noon, saying--
Laura: No, but seriously! If you want to, feel free.
Travis: Will Friedle will be there, too. He's going to be my convention wife. Me and Friedle.
Laura: I'm writing an email to myself.
Marisha: Australia? Is that when we got caught with having to have those weird travel visas, as well?
Matt: Yeah. Make sure you get your travel visas.
Marisha: Yeah, we didn't know until we got to the airport. And then they're like, "You have to have one." And then we're like, "Oh, okay." Luckily, you can do it online.
Travis: Oh, I totally have that covered.
Matt: All right. Well, cool, guys! Thank you so much. Thank you for dealing with our long announcements. It's been a few weeks. However, I think, with that, it's time to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. I'll remember this. Why's everything targeting Scanlan in this battle? Welcome back, everyone. So last we left off, Vox Machina, preparing themselves for a final fray with the recently ascended god, Vecna, the Undying King, discovered that he had brought the city of Thar Amphala about 300 miles northwest, of Vasselheim on the continent of Issylra. Upon gathering allies to assail this region, you discovered that it was shifting, moving. And apparently the corpse of the long dead primordial earth titan had been risen and began marching its way towards Vasselheim with Thar Amphala embedded at the top of its torso, protected by some sort of magical barrier. With an advance army of wyvern riders at your back and J'mon Sa Ord giving you a ride between their wings, you made your way southward. Quickly depositing yourselves within a waterfall, expelling opening towards the hip of this large titan undead beast, you began to fight your way to the interior. Dealing with corrupted earth elemental shards, you began to make your way through the catacombs, the long ruined and abandoned dwarven city of Thomara, where you encountered the tomb of the dwarven king. Where you also managed to raid the tomb, found a magical item, and dealt with some fun traps in the process. Then, continuing to follow where this route led you upward, hopefully towards the underbelly of the city of Thar Amphala, you uncovered a mostly cleaned out vault and did battle with some undead trolls that immediately rushed in and attacked you. You managed to destroy them, and make your way out through a small cavern that had just momentarily collapsed, clearing out of the way. You all began to squeeze through the opening to find the next length of your journey. And that's where we left off. As you guys all crawl through this recently cleared opening, you come into a partially collapsed cavern about 20 or so feet wide in places with elements of the ceiling fallen in. You can see the rocks that are scattered amongst the ground rumbling with each impact of the feet of the titan you're currently riding within. It seems to be going at a steady incline beginning baseline and then about 20 feet ahead, begin to rise upward to about a 30 to 45-degree angle with the next 25, 30 or so feet.
Sam: How do you play Dungeons and Dragons?
Matt: Two weeks, Sam? It's too much for you?
Sam: I've forgotten entirely what we're supposed to do now. Insight check! I got nothing.
Liam: I'm going to do my due diligence and scoot a little ahead of everybody and start looking for traps or anything hinky.
Travis: Wait, Vax. You should consult that little scrawny NPC fellow that was supposed-- oh, wait. Oh, he's dead.
Liam: Did anybody see that guy?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: Yeah, we did. We saw him.
Matt: Well, you saw the corpse after it was there, yeah.
Liam: Nobody asked me about him.
Laura: No, because you did a good job of killing that.
Liam: That clearly undead cannibal dwarf eating flesh, as I saw it, so problem solved. We're on a time table, yeah?
Laura: We should keep moving upwards, I'm assuming?
Sam: Did we get any items recently?
Travis: No, I picked up that hammer that was hitting me in the face.
Laura: Well, yeah. But Percy, the belt?
Sam: Yeah, what does it do?
Taliesin: Stuff, things. I'm using it right now.
Marisha: Do we need to do a switchery-poo of our items?
Laura: I think we maybe should do that, actually.
Sam: We all have potions, right? Did we pass out potions?
Travis: We all have at least the one superior from the brass dragon.
Liam: Are we going to take a little 20-minute breather here?
Sam: This is just for us to remember what we're doing. I don't know. Should we stop? I think we're on a timetable. We should keep moving, right? Does anyone need to heal?
Marisha: We just stopped, right?
Matt: You'd taken a brief rest after the battle with the trolls where you guys began to look about the inside of the vault. And that's where the part of the exit collapsed.
Travis: I didn't roll any hit dice. Should we roll some hit dice?
Marisha: You dug things out?
Laura: But he was doing something? He was reading, or something.
Sam: Yeah, you were trying to read Dwarvish, or something. And it took an hour.
Travis: I clearly do not remember this. That's right, I remember. I don't remember what I read, but I remember.
Sam: It just said, "Do not enter."
Travis: Yep. There were things.
Liam: We're doing the Vox Machina thing and standing around like a bunch of dumb fucks trying to figure out what to do. I'm going to attune the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic damage.
Matt: All righty. Necrotic it is.
Travis: We also need to be on the lookout for that sword, remember? In the story?
Sam: The sword of Kas?
Travis: Just saying. Keep your eyes peeled, high-perception people.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I literally can't see anything.
Laura: Wait, we have light.
Marisha: (whoosh)
Laura: Yeah, see?
Matt: Between her hand, his dagger, and Pike's mace, you have a few light sources that you guys maintain.
Laura: Pike's mace is lit up. We said that last time.
Matt: But do keep in mind that light sources also do make you a bright beacon in dark places.
Laura: Probably your hands are less noticeable than Pike's mace.
Liam: Oh, I don't know.
Taliesin: I think they would be less intimidated by a glowing mace than by glowing hands, at this point.
Matt: Glowing hands is like a small torch firelight. The Mace of Disruption--
Liam: Is like a headlamp.
Laura: So maybe we'll not have the mace on.
Liam: "Yeah, okay. I'll put this away."
Laura: That sounded just like her.
Sam: She's turning more and more Canadian as you go.
Liam: She's kind of Canadian already. Come on.
Matt: So if I could have a marching order, please?
Liam: Yo. Up front, looking for traps.
Laura: Did you want this acid-resistant armor? You'd at least be resistant to acid.
Travis: And Vex is probably with her brother. I'll be right behind the twins. It's the twins and then me. Who wants to be behind?
Taliesin: I'll be behind you.
Matt: Okay. Do you have Trinket out, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, Trinket is out.
Matt: Percy's after Grog.
Marisha: Me.
Matt: Keyleth, and then we have Pike and Scanlan holding up the rear. All righty, there you go. Have that marked down. How far ahead are you tracking?
Liam: 20 feet.
Matt: So 20 feet ahead, you begin to make your way up the incline, and it is loose rock in this tunnel. As you step, there are elements that skid and fall beneath the pressure of your feet, and you have to be careful as you progress up the incline based on how much it continues upward to keep your footing.
Laura: Brother.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Make sure you stay within 60 feet of me.
Liam: I turn around and look at her and go  all right.
Laura: You said you're 20 fucking feet in front of me, I'm using my fucking earring to whisper to you.
Liam: You're stage-whispering and that's very easy to hear.
Laura: Stay within fucking 60 feet of me, all right?
Liam: I love you. Perception check. Investigation for traps? Yeah. That is a 25.
Matt: Okay. No traps catch your attention. As you progress forward, you begin to notice the tunnel seems to be pincering a bit the further you go. The sides of the walls begin to close in and eventually, about 30 feet ahead, comes from the 15, 20-foot width that the initial entrance way into this carved tunnel was, pinches to about three feet wide.
Sam: How tall?
Matt: About five and half, six feet tall?
Taliesin: Is this pressure by design, or is this what's been done to the structure by the transformation?
Matt: You'll probably have to get closer to see. Where you are currently, it looks like part of the tunnel was carved outward and then shaken, and elements of it collapsed and loosened the earth that at one point was packed at the sides.
Laura: And the tunnel's rising steadily upwards?
Matt: Yeah. It's coming at an incline.
Travis: How's it look?
Liam: It's dark up there. I can only see about 60 feet up. Does it keep going beyond that?
Matt: The incline isn't increasing. It gets to about a 45-degree incline and then maintains that up until the outside of your visual range.
Liam: Okay. I'm a punching bag for this shit. Why don't you all wait here a minute. Wait.
All: Wait.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up there?
Liam: Well, will you go with me?
Laura: Of course. Can you not use your wings?
Liam: They're gone.
Laura: Well, then hop on.
Liam: This could be the last time we do this. Come on.
Sam: Oh god.
Liam: Well, there's only four games left, Sam.
Laura: You don't know that!
Liam: It's scripted! (laughter)
Marisha: That's going to be a Reddit thread later.
Laura: Do we have Pass Without a Trace on?
Liam: Yeah, I think that probably faded by now.
Matt: Not if you haven't recast it because after the short rest it would've been gone.
Laura: Should I cast that on us?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: No, wait! I shouldn't because I got a proficiency, so we're both stealthy stealth. We're fine. So we're just going to go. I'm not casting it. But here's the thing. Everybody stay right at the bottom. We're going to fly up, but we're not going to fly up more than 60 feet away from them.
Liam: Right. We'll go 60 feet up, see what we can see.
Laura: And then come back down.
Liam: Sure. Or you could stay there and I could go even further up 60 feet--
Laura: All right. As long as everybody's within 60 feet of me. Because we're getting really close and I don't want Vecna to see us. I've got this ring.
Taliesin: That's right. I forgot about the ring.
Liam: All right. Let's do that.
Matt: So as you guys glide up on the broom, stealthily, I want you guys both to roll a stealth check, please.
Travis: Pick from your fucking 300 dice.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Travis: Almost poked my eye out. You almost made me Vecna.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 30.
Matt: All right. That's impressive. So as you both quietly coast your way past this entrance way, squeezing into this two and a half, three-foot-wide location, you get just within the 60 foot range and look up and Vax, you step off the broom and make your way quietly up to the other side of the range. You get about 30 feet beyond the broom before your vision meets where this tunnel seems to end and it looks like there is a solid, rocky blockage.
Laura: What do you see?
Liam: It's corked up. It's all right. Yeah, it's blocked up with stone. I guess I'd have to get a closer look to see if we could get through.
Laura: Well, get a fucking closer look.
Taliesin: If we have to, we can just have Grog beat it down.
Laura: Yes, but quiet is the key word.
Taliesin: Is it? We can try and time it to a step.
Liam: Hand on the sides to get my way up closer to it. Looking for any traps.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check as you're climbing up to maintain the strength, as the incline is now towards the end getting more and more steep.
Liam: Get ready to catch me.
Laura: I'm going to hover.
Liam: Yes! My athletics is a two, but I rolled a 19, so 21.
Matt: Deftly, you manage to find the proper handholds and pull your strength up as the final bit becomes a little bit of a upper body weight carrying situation, and you come to the edge of the rock and you see it. It does appear to be a rocky cave-in or larger boulder that has fallen or been placed to close. It looks to be one solid rock, yeah. At this point, the entrance is about four foot by two foot. And it's all blocked by one solid piece of rock.
Liam: Yeah. We're not getting through this. Hey. I'm not getting through this, you're not. Maybe Kiki can.
Laura: Do we see any other openings?
Matt: This would be a perception check.
Sam: Matt, my friends just told me to start paying attention to the cadence of the steps to see if they change in any discernible way.
Marisha: That's what we're doing. While they do that, we're timing the steps out.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay.
Taliesin: Ugh.
Marisha: Ugh.
Sam: 15.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: It's not that difficult to discern the pattern of the steps. The entirety of this titan shifts and quakes with each footfall, so it's pretty easy to find the pattern. It rarely changes, and you imagine any slight shift that you feel as they're going about this is because it's stepping on or through terrain that is not flat. But it is a pretty discernible pattern.
Taliesin: We could go have Grog smash it down in tempo with the steps so that the sound will be covered.
Travis: Like Shawshank Redemption and the poop pipe.
Taliesin: I was thinking of the Tainted Love Levi's commercial.
Laura: Do I see any other--
Matt: Not really. It mostly looks like loose rock and the more you glance about with each impacting footfall, you see two or three errant rocks go. You guys watch as more rocks tumble down the incline.
Laura: Maybe we need to do this quickly. This doesn't seem like the most stable sort of tunnel. Hop on the broom, darling.
Taliesin: I like the idea of you punching this at the appropriate moment.
Marisha: It also saves me a 6th-level spell.
Travis: Well, that's what's most important. Are the Knuckles still doing that vibrating hum thing?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: And I would like to try and bash the shit out of this--
Taliesin: In tempo.
Laura: In tempo.
Matt: This is a tight tunnel for you. You have to crouch down, round your shoulders as you're doing it.
Travis: I'm going to do the one-inch punch.
Matt: Make an athletics check. With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: Yeah, because I'm an angry monster. 21.
Matt: Okay. Here's the scenario  Vex and Vax, as you guys are on the broom in the tunnel, you look down and you know in Labyrinth, when the cleaner comes through the tunnel that fills the entirety of the space? You watch as this angry goliath starts up the tunnel towards you, and there does not appear to be much of any space you could squeeze through.
Liam: Is there a bubble at the top, maybe?
Laura: Grog?
Travis: What? (angry panting)
Laura: Can we pass under his legs or something?
Liam: Dive, dive!
Laura: Rage quietly.
Matt: You can both attempt to. Make an acrobatics check to attempt to squeeze between his legs.
Laura: At the same time? Acrobatics. 22.
Liam: 30-something.
Matt: It's not comfortable, but you both (popping) out the back, between his monstrous goliath thighs. From a backward perspective, those of you who are still waiting a little further down the tunnel from Vex: it's a unique sight, as the back end of your goliath friend suddenly gives birth to two half-elves. It's very Ace Ventura 2. However, you eventually climb your way angrily up to the very edge and there is the boulder, there, and you're about to go right towards it, but then stop and remember what your friends had said, and you wait patiently for the pattern of the next footfall. (boom)
Travis: (punch impact)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it reckless-- oh, I didn't say it.
Laura: But you do extra damage because you're--
Travis: Oh, yeah, siege. Oh, it's fine. 30.
Matt: Yeah, all right, so roll 1d4 damage.
Travis: Okay, 1d4. Four!
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your rage damage.
Travis: Eight. 27.
Matt: Whoa, wait, did you double it already?
Travis: No.
Matt: Wait, so it's four plus eight, 12.
Travis: And my rage damage is 15. Well, that's with the axe.
Matt: That's with the axe, yeah. No, that's your overall. So your rage damage at this level is four, because you just went up a level. So it's 12 plus four, so it's 16. So you do 32 points of bludgeoning damage with a single punch to this rock. With one hit, the entire boulder shifts and cracks, and you watch as part of it breaks away, and you see a brief glimmer of a dull light from the opposite side, as it rests back into place, heavily damaged.
Taliesin: (singing) Wait for it to go again and bump, bump, bump.
Matt: You wait for the next footfall of the titan (impact). You feel the impact and the shake. Do you want to go for another punch?
Travis: Do I hit it now?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: Yes!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Roll another attack.
Travis: Oh, that's even better. 33.
Matt: Easily enough. Go ahead and roll another d4.
Travis: Two plus eight. Ten plus--
Matt: Four for rage damage.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All right, and so with that, your fist slams into the boulder a second time. It explodes and shatters into hundreds of crumbled pieces of rock and stone goes firing across the distance of this tunnel, now revealing a little bit of flickering firelight. As you're sitting there seething with anger and your muscles and veins bulging with each breath--
Travis: I'm so swole right now.
Matt: Yeah. You can see above you, this entranceway opens up into a five-foot wide, ten-foot tall hallway that goes to the right and left. As you emerge, it goes a little bit to the right and front, and then to the back and behind you that direction.
Travis: Hey guys, it's a Z.
Laura: What do you see?
Travis: Let me find out. So I wiggle up a little more.
Marisha: So you know the first and last letter of the alphabet? Don't worry about it.
Matt: So you squeeze out of the small entrance way and step up into it. You can see now a well-constructed hallway. You can see there are stone slabs that are carved. The patterns and the angular architecture of this hall as it comes up into a trapezoid position. The hall comes in a bit, and the hallway rooftop is a flat, even surface. This is apparently a hall of dwarven make and seems to be a continuation of some sort of structure or pathway of Thomara.
Taliesin: Let the twins take a look. I think it would be safe.
Travis: It's a well-constructed hallway of dwarvish make. (groans)
Laura: We sneak under his legs again to like see what's going on.
Matt: You guys all eventually make your way up into this hallway. Now, it is still a five -foot-wide hallway, so you're still here in single-file progression one way or the other.
Liam: Twins are already at the top looking for problems.
Matt: Right, so you guys would be able to because it's a ten-foot-tall tunnel. You guys would be able to occupy a space above another party member if you were both on the broom.
Laura: Oh, should we be on the broom? No, you should be off the broom because you might check for traps. I'll check for traps along the wall and ceiling. And he's going to check for traps--
Liam: I'll take the lower half. That's called advantage.
Matt: So go ahead and make and investigation check.
Laura: Both of us or just him with advantage?
Matt: Both of you separately because you're investigating different elements of the hallway.
Liam: 18 for me.
Laura: Investigation? Natural fucking 20!
Matt: As you guys glance up and focus on the surrounding location. The hallway behind you goes for about 30 or so feet before it looks like a cave in. It looks like a mass of fully collapsed, broken stone. You can see bits of the hallway slabs that originally held up that part are collapsed inward and broken, left scattered across the ground. The other direction you go continues on and opens into a dark chamber about 60 feet ahead of you.
Laura: We should go toward the cave in, don't you think?
Matt: There are small built-in sconces that are magically, perpetually burning firelight.
Laura: Does this seem like there's any traps that could be set off as we walk towards the--?
Matt: You do not notice anything, as you were investigating specifically for that.
Taliesin: Check the sconces, see if they trigger something.
Laura: I'll look at the sconces.
Liam: I will look at the sconces.
Laura: I'll look at them better.
Matt: I included that as your perception for traps above. You did not notice anything that would be considered a trap.
Laura: You guys, there's no traps. We should head towards this darkened room.
Marisha: Save a life, check a sconce.
Liam: I'm going to creep about 40 feet down the hall and continue that search.
Matt: About 20 feet before this darkened chamber is there before you. As you get to the edge, you can see a little bit the very inside of this chamber. You can see a darkened brazier. It's your mind playing tricks on you. You thought you heard a raven.
Liam: Every day when I'm on the crapper, Matt. Everywhere.
Matt: A cold metallic brazier in the middle of the room. And that's as far as you can see into the chamber, before the edge of your visual range goes dark.
Taliesin: People don't install those unless there's something awful that needs to be done.
Marisha: Do we have any idea how far we've climbed?
Matt: You can make a nature check.
Liam: And do I need to make a extra roll to look for traps around this brazier?
Matt: If you want to enter the chamber, you can. You're too far away.
Marisha: Hey! Natural 20! That's a Gil 20!
Matt: As you take a moment, and think back to how far you've traveled path-wise and inclines and where you entered this titan and to where the city of Thar Amphala is placed upon its torso, you gather you're close to halfway through its torso, if not a little beyond it.
Marisha: If not a little beyond?
Sam: He's big.
Marisha: Okay, all right. Nipple level?
Matt: Sternum.
Marisha: The heartburn region? A little acid reflux?
Liam: We are the acid reflux.
Marisha: He has acid resistance against reflux.
Liam: Jesus Christ. Whoever that is.
Matt: You scoot up to the edge.
Liam: I don't want to go further than roughly 60 feet away from my sister.
Matt: Right. Which will put you right at the entryway to this chamber.
Liam: Yeah. So I will peep in from here.
Laura: I follow up and stand next to him. Did you want to go in?
Liam: I did.
Laura: Feel free.
Matt: So the marching order is the same? We got the twins up the front.
Taliesin: Yeah. I like this marching order.
Liam: Let this shit blow up in my face, so everybody hang back for a second. And I'm going to pitter patter in and look around the sconce, the room.
Laura: I think I was more stealthy than you a moment ago, so are you sure you want to be in front of me?
Liam: I love you anyway. Here I go.
Taliesin: He's better at blowing up than you are, dear.
Travis: Yeah. His heart beats once a century, so let him go.
Liam: Slower than this titan's footfalls.
Matt: All right. So as you enter the chamber, it's a small, about 20-foot radius square-shaped dark iron chamber with rounded corners. So it's about 40 feet wide from side to side, 20 feet from the center where the brazier is and the corners are slightly curved. It doesn't come to a straight, hard corner. There is no exit door currently visible; the chamber comes to an end. The room looks mostly bare, aside from an eight-foot-tall, five-foot-wide mirror coated in dust, framed in intricate gold and brass that sits across the chamber on the opposite side of where you entered.
Liam: Mirror in brass. So it's an iron room, right?
Matt: Iron room with a brass edge around this eight-foot tall, five-foot wide mirror. You can tell it's a mirror from this side. What little bit of light there is behind you, you can see your silhouette waving mirrored in the mirror.
Liam: So doorway, brazier, mirror.
Matt: Mirror. And then the rest of the chamber seems fairly empty.
Laura: And the brazier is complete dark?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's cold.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: This is not good.
Liam: Look at his fake innocent face.
Sam: I think it's just a vanity.
Liam: Going to check for traps from right here to start. All right. That's totally fine. That's a jellyfish. That is a 17.
Matt: You begin to glance around the chamber, best you can, to take in the scenery. You notice small gold piece-sized buttons or pressure knobs set in the rounded corners of the chamber on the mirror side. One's embedded within the upper left and right corners and within the lower left and right corners.
Sam: Pressure knobs?
Matt: They're like little buttons that are gold piece-sized that are embedded in the upper right and left corners and the lower left and right corners.
Travis: Push them!
Liam: Stubby, come up here. I have a real bad history with pushing buttons.
Matt: You also notice very thin light piles of black residue or ash scattered in places across the floor.
Marisha: Called it. This is a fucking incinerator. I knew it! This feels like an incinerator. No? What? He's looking at me-- (nervous laughter)
Liam: (sighs) So we've got buttons.
Marisha: Or lasers.
Travis: Incinerator or lasers.
Marisha: Laser incinerator! Duh!
Travis: That was a great jump for me and my character.
Liam: If something stupid is going to happen here, I don't want it to be on me alone for once. So we've got an unlit brazier, there's mirror over there, and buttons, yeah.
Laura: Maybe the mirror is a door.
Liam: I thought that, as well.
Laura: Should we try to walk through it?
Taliesin: Maybe a second interrogation room and there's another room behind it, maybe?
Liam: Can we get your hub up here, please?
Taliesin: I am up here. I'm right here.
Liam: Jesus!
Laura: Hi, darling. I don't know why he didn't hear you. You used to be so good at that. Is the mirror leaning or is it on the wall?
Matt: It's on the wall.
Marisha: Is it curved? No. The whole room isn't curved. It's a square room.
Matt: It's a square room but the corners curve ever so slightly so there's no direct corner and in those curved corners on the side that the mirror's on, so the far side from you, there's these little buttons in the upper right and left corner and the lower left and right.
Laura: Can I reach down and touch the iron on the ground? The floor? Does it feel warm?
Matt: Mm. It's cold.
Liam: I catch her wrist. Just a second. You two do the thinking, all right? And I take a step into the room.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What do I do?
Laura: Go see if you can walk through the mirror.
Taliesin: Tap the mirror.
Travis: Light the brazier!
Laura: We've done that before and we all exploded.
Travis: Yeah, but it's Vax.
Marisha: Wait. Before we do that, can I reach some of the ashy stuff?
Matt: If you enter the chamber to, yeah.
Marisha: Hand me some ash. I'll test it.
Liam: I scoop some ash. Lady of the Grey Hunt, here. I scoop up some ash and I pour it into her hands.
Marisha: Okay. I do a nature check. What does this ash feel like it's made out of?
Sam: Human bones.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. (groans)
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: No. What is it? (groans)
Travis: Is it for real? You are lying!
Liam: Look at that face! You are not lying!
Marisha: Oh man. That's a one. Thanks, Gil. I blame Gil for his natural 20 in the balance of the universe.
Matt: It's light ash. You're not sure what the basis of what may have burned here. You see more of it gathered near where the brazier is.
Taliesin: Is it in piles that would be about human-amount of ash?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: All right. I'll Gil this one. Yeah, natural 20. That'll do.
Sam: Only ones and 20s tonight.
Liam: That's it, yeah. Just quarters. Heads up, heads down.
Matt: More of it seems to be around the base of the brazier, but you do see there are thicker traces at different places throughout the chamber.
Taliesin: It's organic ash?
Matt: You've dealt with different types of ash. The carbon appears to have been organic-based at some point.
Liam: I pull off my belt and say  Hello, Simon. Wake him up.
Matt: Okay. (slithering)
Liam: Hi. Gosh, it's been a while.
Laura: Simon, go through the mirror.
Liam: That's right. Go check out the mirror, Simon, all right? Off you go.
Travis: Are we still in the room?
Laura: No, nobody's in the room. He's the only one in the room.
Matt: (slithering) Scoots over and heads up to the mirror and presses up against it.
Liam: I dart back one step out of the room as it happens.
Matt: The snake trying to push up against the wall but half of its body sliding against the mirror before it eventually scoots off and lands. It tries again, pushing against the mirror and then eventually (sliding).
Taliesin: I hate to say this, but tap the button?
Liam: That's on the list. Simon, buddy. Crawl up the brazier. Wrap around it. Go up to the top.
Matt: The snake slithers around and makes its way. It's a cross-metal cage. There are inch wide metal bars that all curl up like a basket and then there are bars that cross around it to hold the shape. It looks like there are some long-burned, blackened pieces of wood that have been left for a long time. So Simon curls up into the brazier and curls up around the metal, comes around the top of the outer rim of it, rests there.
Liam: There's two buttons low down. Oh man. The nostalgia here. All right, buddy. I take two steps back away from the door. Buddy buds. Will you go push those low buttons in the room?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: There's two, right?
Matt: There's four on the opposite side.
Liam: There's two high up. And I don't think he can reach the high, because he doesn't stick to walls. Get the one over here on the left first.
Laura: What if we all have to push every button at the same time?
Liam: That's true. That could be.
Matt: Simon (slithering) moves over.
Liam: I lean over to Percy, I say  science!
Matt: Hits the button. (click) Right on the entrance of where you are in the chamber, slams closed. Iron metal now closes off that entranceway.
Taliesin: I'm going to touch the door.
Sam: And say goodbye.
Taliesin: Simon, we barely knew him. Is it warm?
Matt: It is beginning to get warm.
Taliesin: It's an oven. I'm looking for some sort some sort of cancel mechanism somewhere on the outside of the door.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Is Vax in the room?
Liam: No, I took two steps back from the door.
Laura: No, nobody's in the room.
Taliesin: Let's say that investigation was somewhere around a seven? (laughter)
Matt: It's pretty solid at this point. The walls that lean in towards the ceiling there-- it is a perfect solid iron slab that has closed off at the entrance.
Travis: No problem. I'll get it down.
Laura: No!
Liam: Wait. Simon is technically a magical item, so I don't think he would be harmed by anything going on in there, so why don't we give it five minutes?
Marisha: And maybe it'll open again.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Is there anything going on in the tunnel, on the outside of this door, where we are?
Laura: Coming up from behind us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Temperature check, anything like that? Natural 20.
Taliesin: We have been gone so long!
Matt: Gone for two weeks and you guys can't find middle math. It's only extremes.
Liam: Yeah, we've had blue balls for two weeks, and it's all coming out now.
Matt: So as you guys glance back in the shadow of the tunnel behind you, nothing seems to be catching your eye. It's still dark. About two minutes in, what was once dark metal is now giving a slight orangish hue. You can feel the heat emanating from it.
Travis: There's no ash on the floor in the hallway that we are in right now, right?
Matt: I'd say, because of your perception check, as you glance around, there does not appear to be any ash.
Travis: I don't want that door to fucking open all of a sudden.
Matt: About five minutes go by as you guys are waiting. Eventually, the iron wall begins to descend. The dull orangish glow of it is still there. As it opens, a wave of heated air emerges from the chamber. You all have to immediately close your eyes. Some of you instinctually begin to step further back into the hallway. On the inside of the room, you can see the black iron interior of the chamber is also that same orangish glow. The mirror is unscathed. You all step back and watch and a few minutes pass as it slowly begins to cool off, the metal slowly darkening. You're too far away to look. You make a perception check to try and glance in?
Laura: Can't you call to him?
Liam: Simon? Come here, buddy.
Matt: There's no response.
Liam: (gasps) He's a magical item! Oh, but he could have turned back into a belt.
Taliesin: What's he going to say if you call to him? Was he going to say something?
Liam: He would come to me, Percy! Jeepers creepers! Perception check? 29!
Matt: You glance past where the button was that it hit. You see a limp belt left on the ground.
Liam: Okay, I'll get that in a minute.
Laura: When you go pick him up and put him back on your fucking waist.
Matt: Technically, since Simon's taken enough damage to revert to the belt form, Simon cannot turn back into a snake for the day.
Laura: How about that unseen servant?
Liam: I'm thinking, having no knowledge of magic, that we either want to somehow push all four of these buttons at once, as my sister said, or light this brazier, or both.
Laura: What about the brazier? Is it cold? Does it look like it's hot?
Sam: The brazier's the source of the furnace, I assume.
Travis: Are there still charred wooden pieces in the middle of it?
Matt: The pieces are still there, but it's black carbon. There's nothing in there that could burn. Whatever's been in there has been heated so much to the point--
Travis: It's not the source of the flame. Not for that much heat.
Marisha: If I was the person who designed this, why would I put a failsafe in here?
Liam: A way to get through that only the creator would know how to use?
Marisha: I feel like there's got to be another entrance because we can see another room, right?
Laura: There's no other room, it's a mirror. Oh, Keyleth, that's our reflection.
Marisha: No, I know that, but a lot of things have reflections.
Liam: Listen, all of you, or I, are going to be dead very soon. Are you sure you want to be that sarcastic right now?
Marisha: I go up to the mirror and check it out. It's cooled off enough, right?
Matt: Well, no. If you guys want to take a few minutes, you can wait until it cools off, if you want to.
Taliesin: Why don't we try pushing all four buttons at once?
Sam: Wait, before we do that, I'm going to enter the room and look around at the walls and the ceiling.
Matt: Okay, I take it you wait until it cools off. It takes about ten minutes or so for it to fully cool off, to the point where it's comfortable.
Sam: I'm looking for markings, indications of instructions, arrows, any hidden words--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Look for Dwarvish. I'm aces with that.
Sam: Ooh, a lot. 29.
Taliesin: He's coming up with some bullshit.
Matt: Okay. Because the room is not fully cooled off, it's still warm in there, somewhat. You glance through. The ceiling and the walls all appear to be solid iron, and there's a layer of dust across a lot of it, a bit of ash from whatever previously may have been incinerated in here, long ago. As you look from the opposite side of the room into the reflection of the mirror, you see a very faint orangish glow in the reflection. It looks like, in the upper corner and the lower corner of the opposite side of the mirror as you're glancing off across to the other side. As you look over to the wall, of the room you're in, there's no glow.
Sam: Wait, so the wall that we came in through?
Matt: Let's say you enter the chamber and you move to the corner immediately to your right. You look in the mirror at an angle. You're now seeing the reflection of the corner opposite to you, right? Looking in that reflection, you can see this very faint orange glow in the upper and lower corner, but you glance over to the physical corner across from you, and it's not there.
Laura: What do your gnomish eyes see, Scanlan?
Sam: I think there's magical buttons in here and we need to find them? So I'm going to look in the mirror. I go to the opposite corner and do the same thing.
Matt: As you have this conversation and look back, those two glowing sigils are gone.
Sam: Even in the mirror?
Matt: Even in the mirror. What you saw earlier is now gone.
Travis: But they're revealed by heat.
Marisha: Where were they?
Sam: They were upper and lower corner, yeah.
Marisha: I walk over and I heat them with my heat hands.
Matt: Okay, so you take your hands and you put them up near there. As you put your hands on the wall, nothing seems to happen. As you glance through the reflection where she has her hands, that symbol seems to be appearing again.
Laura: What is the symbol of?
Sam: It's so far. I don't know. Can I see it?
Matt: It looks to be a simple triangular symbol, marked in a circle. Make an arcana check.
Sam: Oh yeah. 14 plus six, that's 20.
Matt: It's the most basic of arcane marks. It's a variation on a spell that basically is a mark that a certain enchanter or somebody places to mark as their own. However, this is meant to be a basic marker, a visual draw. There's no language behind it. It's just an indicator.
Sam: Keyleth, do that same thing to the lower one. Same marking?
Matt: As you head down there, the one above begins to slowly fade. As her hands go there, the symbol appears below.
Sam: Same symbol? Let's do that to the other walls and see if we can find other ones.
Matt: As you guys reverse, opposite sides, you go to the other corners, the ones that were immediately toward the entrance of where you walked in. Sure enough, two more symbols, mirroring where the buttons are on the far side corners.
Sam: So we push those? But there's a hidden button in there.
Travis: When you're a big fire, the walking thing--
Marisha: A fire elemental.
Travis: Sure. Do you take damage from fire? So you should be in here.
Laura: You should go in there, see if you can disengage the trap.
Liam: So you are impervious to being set on fire or burned?
Marisha: Well, when I'm a fire elemental.
Laura: Can you do that?
Marisha: Can I do it right now? Yeah. I just took a short rest, so yes, I can do that.
Travis: We also have an unseen servant.
Sam: So we're going to need four people.
Marisha: So what's the end goal? What am I doing?
Liam: Press all four buttons at once, although we've got at least three sharpshooters--
Sam: Not the buttons that we can see. What are these symbols here? I think they're buttons, as well.
Travis: It might be a depression on the wall or something.
Marisha: But what if the buttons are correlated with the symbols?
Taliesin: Let's try pushing all four buttons.
Travis: The regular buttons or the magic ones?
Liam: Please stand by.
Laura: I want to go look at where the symbol is and see if it's a fucking button.
Marisha: Yeah, if I touch the symbol, there's nothing there, right?
Sam: Was there anything there?
Matt: You put your hand on there. Nothing. The wall doesn't move.
Marisha: It's just a wall.
Travis: No depression, no toggle?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: I've got this, you guys. Oh! Minus two. 17!
Matt: 17. Grog, as you step up and glare down at the place where Keyleth had placed her palm, you get frustrated and (sighs heavily). As you exhale, it looks like a bit of soot and ash that had been slowly drifting in and filling this space flutters away. You can see two lines, parallel to each other, about an inch tall.
Travis: Fifth Element, anyone? Oh look! Breath of Grog reveals all! Look, behold! Two. Lines.
Laura: What did you do?
Travis: I breathed on the wall.
Sam: What do they do? What do these lines do?
Marisha: I do a quick Gust cantrip.
Matt: Across the parallel lines? All right. As the wind blows across it, a lot more of the soot and the ash blows around the area. It creates an open space where it pushes out to the edges and darkens areas of the floor and the vicinity around Keyleth. That edge of that corner, where you blew the Gust cantrip that Grog had unfurled, is now clear, the iron revealed. Nothing beyond the two.
Laura: I fly up on my broom and do it to the symbol up on the corner and go (blowing).
Matt: Okay. So up there. You blow on that one and it looks like--
Marisha: Hang on, I've got a paper ready.
Liam: How many people at home do you think have figured this out already?
Laura: We already figured it out!
Sam: Wait, you guys are blowing on the arcane symbols?
Laura: Yeah, to clear them out!
Travis: If you're looking at the door we came in, Grog blew on the lower right?
Sam: And that's two lines. Boom.
Matt: That would be lower right.
Travis: Two vertical lines.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: I'm in the corner above Grog.
Matt: That would be upper right.
Taliesin: I'm going to do bottom left.
Matt: All right, you blow, and you watch as the dust reveals. It's two more lines.
Laura: Two lines? Shit. I thought it was going to be another--
Taliesin: Bottom left. Getting out a hanky and (blows).
Liam: Did you use your ascot?
Taliesin: Yes, of course. That's what it's there for. The back of it.
Laura: The one clean spot left on it.
Matt: That one has four parallel lines.
Laura: Ooh! I'll go into the corner above Percy. There was a reflection there, too, right?
Sam: Blow! Laura, blow!
Laura: (blows) I looked straight at the camera as I did it. It was really awkward.
Matt: All right, that one has a single line.
Sam: Wait, so we've got one, two, two, four?
Laura: Is there one with three lines, or are there any more areas we saw a reflection?
Travis: What about above the door? It is opposite of the mirror, right? If one's a door, and the other one's a door?
Laura: Okay, I'll blow above the door.
Liam: And I'm going to start blowing around the mirror.
Laura: We all walk around going (raspberries).
Travis: Constitution check to see who passes out first?
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: Does the mirror have a fancy frame?
Matt: It's not extremely intricate, but it looks like there's a brass or bronze frame around it.
Taliesin: Are any of these symbols mirrored in the frame itself? Is there a mirror of any of these symbols in the frame?
Matt: As you look in the actual frame itself, you don't see anything that matches the symbols.
Laura: What if these are numbers and the order you have to push the buttons?
Sam: Except we have two twos, and no three?
Laura: I know. One, two, four!
Taliesin: No, because you have to hit one, and then you have to hit the two together--
Sam: And then why not three? Okay, all right. Can we do a sweep for more?
Travis: Can I clear off the door area that we walked through?
Matt: So Grog, you go through, (rapid blowing). Blowing around. Okay. Make an investigation check.
Marisha: I take my mantle and start doing a--
Matt: You clear that archway very well, around the door. You do reveal Dwarven runes on the upper right corner, upper left corner, lower right, and lower left corner of the doorframe.
Travis: I only know Dwarven writing. I don't know runes.
Matt: Well, the runes are part of the Dwarven language.
Travis: The runes are part of the Dwarven language, so I know them.
Laura: Pike goes over and she helps you.
Travis: Help me, Pike! Yeah, I would like to decipher what these symbols mean.
Laura: "If you lift me up, I could see the ones above the door!"
Liam: "Yeah, the last time I wanted you to do it on your own, but I think we're pressed for time."
Travis: I hold her up to the upper left corner of the doorway.
Matt: Okay, so turning around, upper left corner. Okay. That one is the Dwarven rune that represents the number three.
Travis: Three. All right. Now, to the upper right-hand corner.
Matt: That is the number one.
Travis: Okay. I put her on the ground and I say, okay, look at the lower right-hand corner.
Matt: So lower right-hand corner would be a two.
Travis: And now the lower left-hand corner.
Matt: A four.
Laura: Oh, yeah! We know! That's the amount of times you have to push the button!
Taliesin: So one-one, two-two-two-two, three, four-four.
Sam: Possibly.
Laura: Wait, I think we reversed it.
Liam: How long does your unseen servant last?
Sam: Not too long.
Liam: How long? An hour? Ten minutes?
Sam: I'll look in my memory. One hour, but I have to be close to it. How big is this room?
Matt: It's a 20-foot radius from the center of the brazier, so it's 40 feet on each side.
Taliesin: Is our physicality of this map correct? If we show you this?
Liam: Well, I have this jar. It's an oil of etherealness. You could potentially be standing in here, but not be in here. Lasts an hour, though. Same time gap as your friend. You could stand in here and not be in here.
Sam: From the doorway to the mirror, is it less than 60 feet?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, then I can be out of the door. Am I right with what I wrote down there?
Matt: All right, so this is the-- facing from the inside--
Sam: Yeah, from the brazier-- Frasier Crane. Looking at the door that we came in. Right?
Matt: I'm going to have to draw you one. I think you guys got confused on that one.
Laura: I think me and Travis got it right.
Sam: I think, Matt, you're wrong.
Travis: I have the same thing as Laura.
Liam: I'm pretty sure it's up up down down left right left right A B A B.
Laura: I hope we passed the test.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Did we get it right?
Matt: There, that's what you get! Sorry, I'm limited in my reach right now.
Marisha: I love that we all did something similar but all wrote something different. We're like, numbers, somewhere!
Matt: Yep, almost. Almost.
Marisha: Did you help us, or are you just saying "almost?"
Matt: I'm saying, looking back and seeing where the numbers lie and the runes in there, you have the correct configuration.
Laura: (victorious laughter)
Marisha: I think this is right. I think you have this. I think I have the right part of this and you have the right part of this.
Laura: We'll copy it and you can see what the fuck is correct.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: No, this is wrong. I'm just going to draw it. (counting)
Sam: Guys, Shadow of War! It's a great game by-- I don't know, who makes it? Warner Brothers!
Laura: Okay, so now we know the order to push the buttons and the amount of times to push the buttons.
Sam: Yes, so now we've just got to do it.
Travis: Should we check around the mirror frame to see if there's anything to dust off? The mirror frame?
Taliesin: I gave it a little bit of a rub.
Marisha: I'm going to go up and go tap-tap-tap on the mirror.
Matt: Okay. It taps.
Travis: Can I wipe off the edges around the frame and see if there's anything around the frame of the mirror, since I seem to be so good at this?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: Three. You smear a bit of ash, but eventually get some semblance of shine through. Nothing catches your eye.
Travis: It's clear. We found everything there is to find.
Marisha: Grog draws boobs on himself in the reflection out of the ash.
Sam: All right, should we leave the room and have Mr. Invisible start tapping buttons? All right, we'll do that.
Laura: We step just outside the door again and let his invisible servant push buttons.
Liam: (singing) Scanlan Man, Scanlan Man. Does whatever a Scanlan can. Makes a guy, pushes buttons, Scanlan Man-- I'm out.
Taliesin: Look out!
Liam: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Marisha: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Taliesin: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Sam: Would a person who cannot fly be able to touch the top buttons?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Shit.
Travis: Well, there's no saying that it will activate if we do it correctly.
Liam: Also, what about shooting the button or firing an arrow at a button?
Laura: Yeah but the buttons are on this side.
Taliesin: How high up are the buttons?
Matt: The buttons? The top are about ten feet up.
Taliesin: So if he had something that was-- if he had a mop, basically, he could probably tap it.
Laura: The buttons are on the side of the mirror, so we could shoot arrows at them.
Taliesin: But only if we're in there and then we don't need an unseen servant to do it.
Sam: Want to give him a pole or something?
Taliesin: Let's give him a stick.
Sam: Do we have a stick in the bag?
Travis: I have a lance.
Taliesin: Yeah, he has a lance.
Travis: It's almost broken.
Taliesin: My god, it will finally be useful one last time.
Liam: We do have three trammels.
Taliesin: No! We are not disengaging a smoke alarm with a fucking trammel. There is a limit!
Travis: You have a slightly splintered lance.
Laura: Okay. Let's hit buttons. Let's do it! Let's get through this room.
Taliesin: Let's explain to the unseen servant what he's supposed to do.
Sam: Matt, can he hold a lance, or is that violating some-- he's not allowed to hold weapons.
Matt: He can hold them. He can't attack; he cannot be a combatant. It can hold things for you.
Liam: He's like a Kids in the Hall character.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. You're not wrong.
Sam: I conjure an unseen servant, whom I will name Simon Two.
Taliesin: Electric Boogaloo.
Liam: Not cool, man, not cool.
Matt: All right. There's this brief shimmer, and you watch as a bit of ash displaces on the ground where two footfalls (landing noises).
Sam: All right, Simon Two, take this lance. We're going to go tell you what buttons to press over there, good speed-- good speed? (laughter)
Sam: Godspell. You'll be fine. Hope you don't like burning alive. So you tell me what to tell him, because I don't have the paper. Upper left? Upper right? What do we start with?
Marisha: It's this. Tell him to do this.
Laura: The reflection of that.
Sam: Okay, so two upper right. Two pokes. Oh, wait.
Laura: So the upper left corner from where we're looking.
Sam: Yes, we're going to go mirror image of this, so project that across the room.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, that was the mistake.
Matt: Okay, so pressing the upper left twice.
Sam: Yes, mirror image of this, so upper left. Let's try that.
Matt: Heads over, holding the lance. You watch the lance wobble, and it misses a couple times, (clicking) hits the button, and it clicks inward. The lance is pulled back and the button presses back out outward into its position.
Sam: Any door?
Matt: No door.
Laura: We'll know if we push it again then we did it the wrong order.
Matt: Second time, (clicking) pulls off, the button depresses.
Taliesin: All right, keep going.
Sam: So below it, two presses.
Laura: In the corner, bottom corner.
Sam: Just like your name, Simon  two.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: Okay, opposite corner, up. One press.
Laura: Upper right-hand corner.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: And then below that, bottom corner. Four presses.
Matt: (clicking) (laughter)
Matt: The fourth one hits. There's a moment of pause, and the mirror shimmers faintly. You watch as, almost like a stone thrown into the middle of a still pond, begins to ripple from the center, and as it ripples, each ripple seems to fade, until eventually the five-foot-wide mirror is now an oval portal that leads to darkness behind it.
Laura: Let's go in!
Marisha: I told you there was a room behind the mirror.
Travis: Yeah, let's go. Hurry! We don't know how long it will stay open for.
Sam: Simon Two is coming with us.
Matt: Okay. You hear the faint footfalls of sound behind, and Trinket takes a moment to try and squeeze through this small entranceway. Trinket had a hard enough time getting through the incline. (moans) Into the necklace. You make your way through the opposite side, and as you all step through, the portal remains open for at least a moment.
Laura: Hey, we did it, guys.
Sam: We beat a door.
Travis: We beat a door.
Marisha: Guys, it took 111 episodes, but we bested a door.
Liam: The last episode of the third campaign will be a door that we do not open.
Matt: So the darkness you step through leads into a ten-foot-wide hallway of similar dwarven stone. Same slightly angled hallways about ten feet tall or so, about five or six foot wide. You get a few steps in and about 20 or 30 seconds after you guys make your way in, the mirror portal behind closes up.
Liam: Can we see?
Marisha: Can you see through it?
Matt: Through the mirror?
Liam: I meant where we are. Are we in pitch black?
Matt: You're in pitch black, but you guys with darkvision can see there is a staircase not too far, maybe ten feet from where you stand into this next hallway.
Travis: Iron stairs? Stone stairs?
Matt: Stone stairs.
Liam: I've got a dagger out.
Matt: All right, lights up briefly and you get a little bit of a vision beyond that, and it's gradual stone steps. They're not too wide; they're made for dwarven gait, so there are many steps that are relatively shallow.
Travis: These are dwarven steps that are relatively shallow.
Sam: We can see it, Grog.
Liam: Pike says, "That's actually right".
Laura: Is there any traps?
Matt: You're welcome to search for traps.
Liam: And I'm going to scoot 40 feet up the stairs and look as I go for traps. One. I'm taking it, but I'm still going and looking for traps.
Matt: You do have reliable talent, don't forget.
Liam: Does that oversee ones? Because I've been counting ones as ones for a long time.
Matt: The reliable talent as a rogue specifically says any roll lower than a ten you take as a ten.
Sam: Any roll?
Matt: Well, not any roll. Any ability check he has to make.
Liam: Okay, well, we wrongly assumed that ones and 20s were king, but no.
Laura: So he rolled way better than me because I rolled a ten.
Liam: That's an 18. My one is an 18 now.
Matt: Yeah, because that's one of the cool things about rogues. You guys make your way up about 45, 50 or so feet up the stairway, you keeping an eye out, no traps, nothing catches your eye as iffy or strange, and the stairs now switch back into another set. It's a small landing and then it continues upward.
Liam: Okay, but I'm only going to go 40 feet in advance. That's like ten fucked rolls of mine from the past 30 games! Anyway, I love it.
Marisha: So it's a big 180, going right up?
Matt: Yeah, it's a switchback. The staircase ascends, then there's a landing, and it continues upward and around.
Laura: Do we hear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that perception.
Matt: So you're joining them up the staircase?
Taliesin: I'm behind. You know, the standard--
Matt: All right, so you guys are keeping up.
Marisha: Did you fuck the roll, too? Oh, what the fuck!
Taliesin: I got a 25.
Matt: Seriously, welcome back after two weeks and people just cannot-- wow.
Liam: But do you remember when we were at home and we'd go six weeks without playing and we'd spend 45 minutes trying to remember what we did, how the rules worked, what our names were, who you were.
Taliesin: Vex is right.
Travis: 25, you said?
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: 25. Okay. It's hard to discern what shifting in the distance is not the rumbling from the ever-occasional titan footfalls, but nothing seems to catch your attention. Occasionally, you hear dislodged rocks and stones clacking across the stone floor and the steps, and every now and then you catch a stone or two fall past and eventually come to rest either near or below you. You continue up the switchback stairs and lead into a third switchback that continues upward.
Liam: 40 feet in advance.
Marisha: We are following behind.
Laura: Are you looking for traps as you go, brother?
Liam: I am. That is an 18, anyway.
Marisha: I still have my hands guiding Percy, our blind human.
Matt: Leading the old man forward.
Taliesin: (old man voice) Where's Steven?
Marisha: (laughs) Where's Steven?
Matt: You do not find any other traps. There's no other issues that worry you upon this climb. You do eventually come to the top of the third switchback stairway and it leads you into a slight curved cavern. The stairs stop and it leads into a continuation of the dwarf-like hallway structure that you had below, but it is curving around now, in sections. I would say, as opposed to a gradual curve, the design in the structure here has a very rigid, geometric shape, so the curvature is in sections.
Liam: Yeah, I appreciate it as I go, and I look for traps.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Love it. That's an 18.
Matt: Okay. Coming around the edge  no traps, no plates. Nothing catches your attention. However, this tunnel comes to an end, and it opens up into a larger crevasse than the one that you previously saw that held a number of city buildings of the remains of Thomara. It looks to be about 100 to 120 feet tall, you assume, from the bits of the stalactites that you can see, barely reaching the edge of your visual range. Very faint bit of light here, bioluminescent fungus in a dull orangish color that dots the edges of this interior chamber.
Liam: And is it like where I killed that motherfucker? They were built into the cliff face, right?
Matt: Yes. This one is larger than the one you were in before, and you can see just beyond your visual range, a number of these buildings, partially crumbled in some places, some still standing obstinately against the ever-shifting interior of the titan's form, the chamber curling upward as the ceiling crawls higher and higher just beyond your visual range, and you can faintly see the images of dozens of thin bridges that weave over themselves across different levels, up into the higher portion.
Liam: I want to confirm an intuition and use my last Divine Sense and feel undead.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that one?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? You do not sense any undead within the 60-foot range.
Marisha: I think we're in the lungs. I think we're in its chest cavity.
Liam: Speaking into the earrings; they're all behind me. I think we're in a more populous place with the undead cannibals, know what I mean? There's a very large cavern in here and a lot of room.
Taliesin: I'd be grateful if anyone got a sample of that bioluminescent fungus.
Marisha: I can get that. I'm interested.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up and get some?
Liam: We're on a schedule here.
Marisha: Well, if it's on the way. We have to go that way.
Laura: We have to go up, right? Does it look like there's openings in the ceiling?
Matt: Well currently you're the only one who's stepped into this entrance to look up, the rest of you are now exiting into the chamber.
Liam: I'll wait, obviously. Nothing's going to explode on my friends, so they catch up with me.
Matt: Okay, so they're all behind you now where this entrance is, and as you look past it, this hallway that you're entering, it looks like there was a doorway here. There was some sort of hinge on the edge that held a door that had since been broken or toppled forward. You can see pieces of the door that once held this entranceway, and a number of the buildings immediately to the right and left. That's where you stand, what do you want to do?
Laura: Does it look like there's any footprints coming in and out of the doorway that we came from?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Can I look for a doorknob or a keyhole?
Liam: Everything we were told is that this place is full of undead cannibals.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Not in a long time.
Travis: Is there shattered remnants of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you see a couple of shards here and there--
Travis: Any doorknob or a keyhole that's on the ground or anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check. Lot of investigation checks today.
Travis: Two.
Matt: You scramble about and find a couple of pieces that might be, but no, it's just more stone.
Marisha: Can I see any stairs carved in the side, in the walls, trying to head up to this-- is that what you just checked?
Laura: No, that's what I was about to look for, too.
Liam: Is there any movement, because there's bioluminescent shit on the walls in here, so there's a little bit of light, right? Yeah. 26.
Matt: 26. As you glance about-- once again, your vision, because there is very little light in here and the very, very faint bits of fungus in the distance that give you a sense of the shape of this entire chamber. There isn't enough light for you to make out any shape beyond the exterior of your visual range, so you can't really tell.
Liam: A second thing I want to look for is what other exits from this gigantic cavern. Ways through, up. Yeah, you looked, but I didn't look.
Matt: Let me finish what I was saying first.
Travis: Roll! Roll again.
Matt: But based on the size of this chamber and the bits of what small elements of structures that you can see of the architecture within, this definitely appears to be more of the heart of the city of Thomara when it was once at its ancient height. You can see at the very edge of your visual range a cracked central fountain that is empty and dry, and you see, just beyond your range, the exterior of a large temple-like building that rises out of the ability to see any more of its height and structure.
Taliesin: Temple.
Matt: But like I said, you guys are still standing at the entrance to this cavern.
Marisha: What about the temple? Why?
Sam: Want to fly through here? Can we fly?
Liam: I don't think we want to stay here--
Sam: I know, that's why we just fly through.
Liam: Find another exit, yeah, but where?
Travis: I'd like to see the temple, if I can.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Travis: Well look, all right, my gloves--
Laura: Keep your voice down.
Travis: (whispering) My gloves come from the heart of a ruined primordial titan. So if maybe they harvested pieces of my gloves, and it's in a temple, I don't know, you smart people could do something with that.
Liam: Right, what's your plan? You expect us to come up with a plan to explain why your gloves are connected to that temple, and you're going to get what? A Mighty Morphin Power Ranger bonus for doing so?
Travis: Yes.
Marisha: Are your Titanstone Knuckles exalted yet?
Travis: Yep. They're just buzzing.
Liam: Yeah, are they still dildoing on your fingers?
Marisha: Are they buzzing more?
Travis: Are they humming more?
Matt: Doesn't appear to have changed.
Travis: Nope, just humming.
Marisha: Step two steps closer.
Travis: Two steps closer to the temple.
Marisha: Do they appear to be buzzing more?
Travis: Are they appearing buzzing more?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Ooh! 19.
Matt: Not bad. Nope.
Taliesin: Is the temple on the way? Does it make sense to cross through the city, or does it make sense to fly up?
Liam: We're moving towards Vasselheim now. I'm negative on our chances of dealing with this before Vasselheim, but that's the goal, right?
Taliesin: We've got some time, and I feel like this city is an opportunity to find some more advantages.
Travis: We are also looking for the Sword of Kas. What's if it's in the temple?
Sam: Why would Vecna keep the thing that could kill Vecna near Vecna?
Liam: I'm pulling Percy aside. I hear you, but this is a city that has existed here for a long time. Vecna didn't create this city. Vecna doesn't own these people. This is a fucking mountain that existed and now they're going for a ride. What do these people have to do with Vecna?
Taliesin: It's not a city that just existed.
Liam: No?
Taliesin: This is a giant primordial beast that people inhabited. God only knows what existed in here.
Marisha: Yeah, but as we've already seen from the other tomb, it's already been heavily, heavily plundered.
Liam: And Vecna's just a user. This place was just sitting there. He lifted it up and took it away. These assholes don't have anything to do with--
Travis: Why did he choose this?
Marisha: How far away is the temple? Do we know? Can we football range guess it?
Matt: I'd say, because you guys have darkvision of 60 feet?
Taliesin: If gods really understood how this world worked, this would not be happening right now.
Matt: It's at about the 50, 55 foot areas where the wall begins, then it vanishes beyond that.
Liam: Percy, this shitbird has appeared like three times wherever we were.
Laura: Well, he's not going to be able to do that right now because I've got a fucking ring.
Taliesin: He doesn't necessarily know this place as well as--
Marisha: Hang on. How long have we been in here, versus how far have we been from Vasselheim? Because we are on a time crunch.
Travis: 200 miles away once we entered is how far away we are from Vasselheim. 200 miles. With steps of?
Taliesin: What was the average land speed of a laden undead?
Matt: You've been within the titan for, I'd say, roughly three and a half hours, maybe.
Liam: Yeah, he's 110 miles out from Vasselheim, at this point.
Travis: We have time to check the temple.
Sam: All right, let's swoop in and swoop out.
Marisha: Super fucking fast!
Taliesin: I'm not even saying look in it, let's take a look at what it--
Laura: Did I see any stairs?
Matt: You do not see any staircases within a 60-foot radius of where you're standing.
Taliesin: We might be harder to spot if we stay on the ground for now, anyway.
Marisha: I just want to say, we gave you guys the other temple, in which you found your stupid waistband, but we got really fucked up from it! Everything has a consequence and a price and shit. Nothing is free.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a fucking Trace. It's my last Pass Without a Trace, but I'm afraid--
Travis: No, don't do it.
Laura: What if we bring out an entire fucking city of undead dwarves upon us?
Marisha: Let me do it. I have Pass Without a Trace and one more 2nd-level spell left. I'll do it. Save yours.
Liam: I'm also going to put something on the table here: we're trying to save Vasselheim, but we're also trying to save the world. We might not be able to do this without recharging before Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I'm aware.
Sam: You want to go to sleep in this undead city?!
Liam: No, but we're trying to save the world, not just a city.
Sam: So sacrificing Vasselheim so that we can feel better about a fight?
Liam: What if we lose the fight Scanlan? Then who fucking cares? Vasselheim is gone. Westruun is gone. Kaylie is gone. Everything's fucking gone if we fuck this up!
Sam: Well, let's stay on the path and see how long it takes.
Marisha: How about this? Hold. Wait! We still don't know how to get up there, right?
Sam: Is that purple eyeliner?
Marisha: Yeah, do you like it? Thank you. It's a little metallic. Thank you, I bought it while I was waiting for--
Travis: Oh my god!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: Okay. I hate to say split the party, but what if we split the party? What if a few of you check out your fucking temple, and then the rest of us try to figure out a way to get up.
Travis: I'm cool. I'll vote for a temple party.
Marisha: Temple party. Who else is on temple party?
Sam: They need somebody who can help them in there.
Liam: I hate the idea, but I'm the stealthiest motherfucker in this room.
Taliesin: And then you three on the carpet, you on the broom.
Travis: I need the carpet.
Marisha: So wait, just the two of you are going to go check out the carpet?
Laura: Vax is going in with you.
Sam: I feel like one person with magic should go with them. I'll go with them.
Taliesin: We're all ear-pieced.
Marisha: Okay, so Grog--
Liam: Everybody but Keyleth.
Sam: No, it's Keyleth, Vex, and Pike are going searching. The boys are going in the temple, and the girls are going searching.
Marisha: Okay, cool, I'm on board.
Taliesin: This is in no way, by the way, an amazing mirror of that one time underneath Kraghammer. They're just going to find another Clarota.
Liam: The boys all die. The girls go to glory.
Laura: I want to kiss Percy before he goes. Don't die in this stupid temple.
Taliesin: I will not die in this stupid temple.
Sam: I'm going, too.
Taliesin: I slap him in the face.
Laura: Right on, Scanlan. Sorry, Percy.
Matt: Who's traveling in what group?
Laura: Girls are going to look for stairs, the boys are going in the stupid temple.
Liam: I yank the druid in for a kiss.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh wait, shit. Your fucking ring.
Laura: Fuck! My fucking ring! We can't split the party.
Taliesin: Okay, can't split the party. We all go looking for the stairs. Oh, you asshole, stop it! (laughter)
Laura: He was really excited about it!
Matt: I was waiting on that.
Laura: Oh my god, he was so excited about it.
Sam: All right, into the temple. Come on, let's just fucking go to the fucking temple.
Matt: I was like, you guys literally had this conversation an hour ago, but okay.
Taliesin: Whatever we do, we can't split the party (fast-forward noise). Okay, we're going to split the party.
Travis: Sam saved our asses.
Taliesin: That was Cabin in the Woods shit.
Liam: 40 feet in advance, Vax walks ahead of the group, hating himself. Here we go.
Matt: Go for it. What are you doing, you're checking for traps?
Liam: I'm checking for enemies hiding.
Matt: So as you push forward--
Laura: We're stealthed, we're Pass Without a Traced.
Matt: Okay, then roll some stealth, guys.
Laura: She Pass Without a Traced us.
Matt: Right, then roll some stealth.
Sam: Oh, we're all rolling stealth?
Liam: 34.
Sam: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: 39.
Travis: Natural one.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Sam: He's so excited about that temple.
Laura: Natural 20 for Pike! Oh wait, she gets disadvantage.
Matt: She has the boots that make it not at disadvantage.
Taliesin: First time ever.
Liam: But that's a lot of good.
Laura: So much good for one shitty--
Matt: You begin to push forward past the cracked fountain, heading ahead of everyone, keeping an eye out for what's ahead of you. The high walls of the temple-like structure begin to reveal themselves, standing ominous over the debris-strewn streets with shattered carts and bone fragments. The bone fragments faintly quaking beneath every footfall of the walking mountain that you currently are walking through. You see long-decomposed dwarvish bodies brutalized beyond reanimation lying scattered across the broken street paths ahead of you, deep grooves marking the splintered bone. A tangled network of partially ruined catwalks begin to reveal themselves above you, carved from the mountain, contains a ghostly image of a multi-level metropolis long fallen. You, make a perception check.
Liam: 29.
Matt: 29. You can see, as soon as you get to where the fountain is, the center of the street ahead of you. Dozens of slow shifting creatures moving throughout the streets and rubble of crumbling structures. You can see now, many of the undead citizens of the catacombs are now wandering, shaken awake by the lumbering titan that now carries them within. You also see a very faint blue pulsing glow emanating from one of the windows of the temple.
Liam: Can we put the goliath on the carpet so he doesn't kick something or be himself?
Laura: We don't know that he rolled shittily.
Liam: I know that, but he's a big, blundering mother fucking asshole when he wants to be--
Travis: On the chain. Literally on the text chain.
Matt: Which, as you're saying this, you hear a (clattering), and you glance over real fast and watch as Grog is walking by and the edge of his-- which weapon do you have attuned right now? You have the Blood Axe? The Blood Axe hits the edge of a large dwarven statue that had fallen off at a corner angle and is currently being held by a small barrel, and as the axe hits it, it shifts (crashing) and rolls and comes to a rest for a second with this clattering, grinding sound. Parts of it chip and break, but most of it remains strong and sturdy upon impact. At which point, you see at the edge of your visual range, about seven of the wandering creatures go (raspy groan) and begin slowly slinking their way in the direction of the noise.
Sam: So a rock just fell?
Travis: A big statue just fell.
Sam: And is in pieces?
Matt: Parts of it are broken. It's still pretty sturdy.
Taliesin: Let's try and serpentine around and see if we can trace back.
Liam: And they're to the right or the left or ahead of us?
Matt: They're ahead of you.
Laura: Do they look like they saw us?
Liam: Go left. Jenga, jenga, jenga. Can we put Grog on the carpet now?
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: We're trying to go up, right?
Sam: No, we're trying to go towards the temple.
Laura: Towards that pulsing light.
Liam: We've got a little bit of business, a little bit of activity ahead of us, so we want to curve to the left.
Travis: All right, we move accordingly.
Matt: All right. So you guys move along the left and curve around the side. As you begin to move along the edge, you watch as about eight of these mostly-skeletal dwarvish corpses begin to shamble in the direction of where the noise came from. You can see elements of their long-mummified skin pulled tight against elements of the rib cage and the skull. Bits of chipped teeth, now broken against whatever things it's attempted to chew on its long un-life. As they move past, two of them glance over in the direction of Grog, and then all of them shift over in the direction and begin rushing forward in your path.
Liam: What's the distance?
Matt: At this point, they're probably about 50 or so feet from where you are.
Liam: Oh shit!
Laura: We don't want to make too much noise. I'm going to shoot a couple.
Travis: We could just go straight up.
Laura: There's only eight of them. We can take eight undead.
Liam: Pickle walks forward and takes a knee and waits with her holy symbol of Sarenrae, waiting for them.
Laura: I take two of them by surprise. That's auto-crit.
Liam: Vax does the same, watching his badass sister, and Pike waits to turn whatever's left of them.
Laura: Yeah, they're super-silent arrows.
Liam: So what happens first?
Matt: All right. She's preparing for it, right?
Liam: Yeah. She's waiting until she sees them.
Matt: Oh, well she also has darkvision of 60 feet.
Liam: So she's waiting until they're within range of her holy abilities.
Matt: What's the radius on that one?
Liam: That's a good question, because I'm a rogue paladin. (sighs) Goddamn it.
Matt: That's all right.
Liam: What if I look in the sorceror rules?
Matt: Nope. 30 feet.
Liam: 30 feet. So she's waiting for the twins to do their work and anything that's left over she's going to scatter.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as she holds position--
Laura: So it's auto-crit?
Matt: They know you're there. It's not a surprise. There's as threat, and they're rushing. But you do have advantage on the hits because they don't see you.
Laura: Well great, that's great. 20?
Matt: That definitely hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, the other one super-duper hits. It's a 19 plus 14.
Liam: 25, 31, natural 20.
Matt: Okay. All right. So go ahead and roll damage on those. Are you shooting two different skeletons or one each?
Liam: I'm after my sister. She talked before I did.
Laura: I'll see how the first arrow hits?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 14. Oh, I didn't Hunter's Mark. Whatever. 14, 15, 16. Two lightning damage. Do I add anything? Sneak attack!
Taliesin: Been a while.
Laura: How do we D&D? Plus ten sneak attack.
Matt: Okay. So the first skeleton, the arrow hits it and the torso explodes behind with ribs shattering and scattering across the stonework, its body falling and collapsing to the ground.
Laura: I hit another one.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: Oh, and we go first, so it's advantage.
Laura: 14 plus four lightning damage. And that is plus eight.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. This one right behind it, its jaw unhinged slightly. Its tongue made of this slick rotting material that dangles through the hole in the bottom of the jaw. Comes around the corner, and you watch as part of its head explodes off one side from the secondary arrow, taking out what remains of the center of its skull, and the body crumples to the ground. Two skeletons down.
Liam: Sneak attack hits the first time we connect, right?
Matt: Yeah. You don't have to roll damage for that one.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, I did sneak attack on the second arrow.
Matt: Well, you can do sneak attack once per round.
Laura: Okay. I did eight damage too much.
Matt: It was still enough.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You don't have to roll damage for sneak attack.
Liam: So then that one's gone?
Matt: A third skeleton now is ruined. You hit it with the arrow in the middle of the spinal column, and it folds on itself.
Liam: Okay. So paladin action-action and my bonus action. So that's the first of three. The last one's the one that was a critical hit so the second one goes onto the next whole skeleton. It's just an eight.
Matt: Okay. This one the arrow slides into the side of the skull, and it keeps coming forward towards Grog.
Liam: Okay. And then the last critical hit, which is Whisper again, because it bamfed back, is two plus eight is ten. Two and three. It's not that much. It's 15 total.
Matt: Okay. And that one does finish it. So that's three skeletons down. Grog, I want to to individually roll an initiative check for me.
Travis: Natural 20. With Gil's dice.
Matt: So as you guys are watching this happen, the other five rush in to close the gap, but you are at the ready, and you get to strike before they do.
Travis: Nice. Am I hitting them? Yeah, Okay. Reckless, great weapon master. 31 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: Your minimum damage will kill them. So as the first one comes up towards you, you swing up. As you slam into it, you watch as its bony body blows up against the side of the nearby stone building and then scrapes to the ground.
Travis: Can I use the other strike on another?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Reckless great weapon. That'll hit. That's like 30.
Taliesin: If there's anything left on Grog by the end of this, I'll try to swipe them off with my sword.
Travis: 32.
Matt: All righty. So two more detonate on this point. So there's three left. They're closing in on Grog. Does Pike want to take her turn?
Travis: We might want to save that Turnt Undead.
Laura: No, I think we should save.
Liam: I've already said it, but she's whispering to me to hold. She's half of Pike right now. You're half of Pike right now.
Taliesin: I'd like to pop in and see if I could take a couple--
Matt: Make an initiative roll.
Laura: Don't shoot, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not; I'm going to use my sword.
Liam: Pike holds, breathing hard, looking at them coming on.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Yeah, that beats them by one. So yeah, as the three remaining ones start charging in towards Grog--
Taliesin: I'm going to run in, draw the silvered sword, and take some swipes.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Let's take three swipes right out of here.
Laura: Pike can use her mace on anything left in that area.
Taliesin: That's one natural 20, one natural 19. Do I crit on a 19 with the sword?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay, never mind. And a two. But that might be enough, because I have a really high-- that's a 15 as my lowest to hit. Does a 15 hit?
Matt: 15 does hit. Yes.
Taliesin: So the 15 is-- That's 14 piercing damage to the first one with a silvered sword.
Matt: Okay. You rush up and you carve through the first skeleton, and it breaks on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: Number two is 13 points of damage to the second one.
Matt: Okay. The second one, you bring the blade down into the skull and cleave it in half. You watch as part of its skull breaks off to the side and the jaw falls to the ground and the rest crumbles in place.
Taliesin: I twirl around and take my third wonderful pirouette attack, which is 20 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, and as the final one lunges forward, in a fervent-- strangely faster than you expect for a skeletal undead, it begins to accelerate towards Grog. And with that, you take the blade and take the head right off at the neck, and it falls and crumples to the ground.
Marisha: So it's like 28 Days Later zombies?
Travis: 28 Days Later, they run.
Marisha: He said that they were fast.
Matt: Well, the last one-- it was flavor.
Marisha: Just wanted to make sure they weren't special.
Matt: Okay. As you finish the fray and hold yourself, you wait and wait. You do not hear or notice any more advancing undead from that direction.
Travis: Okay, how about I don't move and somebody with flying ability go to check out that blue glowy window?
Taliesin: We have to stick together.
Laura: Is the glowy window within 60 feet?
Taliesin: No, it's far.
Travis: When we were at the opening, we were 50 to 60 feet away.
Matt: The temple where you guys were at, at the time was 50 feet away from you, but you would have crossed the other side of the hall. So now it's about 100 feet away from you. At this distance, you can see it's a round, almost cylindrical building, Colosseum-esque. And there's a small square window about every 25 to 30 feet. And it's big. It's large, but you can see that faint glow between multiple windows from this distance.
Travis: So should we fly up to that window?
Taliesin: I think it'd be safer to stay on the ground level and sneak. Because if we're the air, they are going to see us.
Travis: Let's do it.
Marisha: And we still have Pass Without a Trace, so let's go.
Laura: Yes, we do. She cast it.
Matt: All right, now that this brief combat has finished, those who took place in it, which would be you, Vax, Grog, and Percy have to remake your stealth checks.
Laura: You're like, "Gladly!"
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What about Pike? Because she just knelt down. She didn't really fight.
Matt: She stepped out of her stealth. She was making herself visible.
Laura: My natural 20 for Pike, wasted!
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: We still have Pass Without Trace?
Marisha: Yes. I didn't do anything.
Travis: 26.
Marisha: Keeping that concentration.
Taliesin: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Marisha: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Liam: You're the doctor! Keep your patients on the run!
Laura: 30 for Pike. 29 for me.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to slowly make your way along the left wall of this large cavern.
Liam: 37, by the way.
Matt: Good to know. As you slowly move through the shadows, dodging through open doorways and through windows, trying the best you can to stay out from the center thoroughfare of this opening, you see more and more of these undead. Dozens, maybe even a hundred have crossed your path at the perimeter of your visual range and you can see in the catwalks above too, with the faint bit of the orange glow, occasionally shapes breaking across the orange. This entire cavern is swarming.
Laura: (whispering) Do we still have the thing?
Sam: Oh, the filter? The censer?
Laura: Do we have it in the Bag of Holding?
Taliesin: We also have the herbs.
Laura: What if we use it? What if we use it and it just repels them?
Taliesin: When it's time. We don't have a lot of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a very small amount.
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Taliesin: Let's prepare it, and when it's time--
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Marisha: Yeah it's dried. I spent that time. I spent time during the break.
Taliesin: It's just burning the herbs, though. We don't need the censer. Just hold it in your hands.
Liam: Do we have any sense of where we started in this giant cavern? Or are we totally fucking turned around?
Matt: No. I mean you have a decent sense. You are maybe 100 to 150 feet from where you began. Because you've been moving slowly. Staying stealthily, you're moving very carefully and very slowly and judging by the shape of the cavern and where you are currently, you're about halfway through it, or close to halfway.
Taliesin: It's good that we didn't go on the catwalk.
Matt: The temple's on the opposite side of the chamber.
Liam: Oh! All the way on the other side. I thought it was central.
Matt: I'm sorry. When you entered the entrance, the temple was to the front and to the right of you. You guys curved around the left, on the other side of it, keeping a view on it so you could see it from across the way. Are you making your way across to the temple?
Liam: So it's pressed against the opposite wall of this big place?
Sam: Are the undead all around the temple?
Matt: Further in. Nothing directly around the outside of the temple. So you guys curve around the entrance where you came and slowly make your way towards where the temple emerges from the rock wall. About a third or so of its exterior wall is actually built into the side of this cavern, and the large cylindrical-like Colosseum temple structure curves outward. You can see as you get closer to it, there's maybe the three floors to it but edges of the top wall have crumbled inward and you can see areas where it looks like it's sustained some physical damage or eroded over time. You eventually make your way around the outside wall of the temple to one of the first doorways, and it is an archway, maybe six feet tall and about four feet wide. Very simple. This is an old temple.
Liam: Is that light you talked about coming from one specific source, or all over the place? Every window.
Travis: Is there a story?
Matt: It looks to be coming from the base.
Liam: From down below.
Laura: Can we see in one of the windows?
Matt: You can look inside. Make a perception check.
Sam: Are there any bone laying around?
Matt: Plenty.
Sam: I am going to pick up two bones, give them to Simon Two, and tell him to go across the street, 50 feet away from us, and wait there in some building. Hold these bones.
Matt: You watch as two bone shards slowly glide over, then stand there.
Laura: 34.
Matt: Okay. As you pull up to the window and glance down, you immediately look inside the temple, and you see about 30 or so silhouettes of shambling dwarven corpses all standing inside the base floor of this temple. You see the silhouettes and shapes because they are all faintly outlined from the source of this blue light. You see a small, baseball-sized, bluish crystal that is resting, not in the perfect center of the temple but somewhere in the open middle floor area, and it looks like these 30 undead are surrounding it, and standing.
Sam: Smash and grab. You could go in there and get that thing, be out before they even saw you in there.
Taliesin: Also, have your unseen servant make a bunch of noise and have them all--
Marisha: Be a distraction?
Laura: Yeah, but making any kind of noise would draw large crowds.
Taliesin: We can have the unseen servant pick it up.
Marisha: How far away can he be, though?
Sam: He's 50 feet away, right now, and he's waiting to make noise.
Taliesin: What if he were to go in and get it himself?
Sam: He could.
Travis: He is invisible, isn't he?
Sam: He could go and pick it up and come right back with it.
Laura: But first don't tell him to come right out, tell him to like walk a little bit to see if they follow the light.
Liam: But what are our options if that doesn't work?
Sam: If he picks up the crystal and it doesn't work, or it doesn't move?
Liam: I want to do that. If that doesn't work, I can click the boots, and I can be there in a heartbeat and run, but what do we do next?
Sam: We need an escape plan, right? How many can fit on the carpet?
Liam: This goes back to my conversation with you, which is: are we going to find a pocket and rest?
Taliesin: Yes, but not here.
Liam: Agreed, but we're talking about Vasselheim, and is damage to Vasselheim a sacrifice needed to be ready to do what's necessary?
Travis: If he destroys Vasselheim, he does his miracle, his display of power, and he will be even stronger. That is not an option.
Taliesin: If we were to be clever, if we're at the edge of Vasselheim, the Vasselheim forces will be distracting his forces, so we'll have less to deal with, so we want this fight to happen at the edge.
Liam: So we're talking about no rest. I'm not talking about a short rest.
Taliesin: There will not be a long rest, I don't think.
Laura: There might be.
Liam: Not without him spilling into Vasselheim.
Marisha: I've been very conservative with what I've been doing for a reason.
Travis: I don't think a long rest is in the cards.
Taliesin: I've only burned one thing that requires a long rest.
Marisha: I agree with Grog. We can't sacrifice having him gain all of those followers, because then the only option would be murder a lot of his followers, which I'm not really comfortable with.
Travis: And he may be too strong at that point.
Sam: We don't need to discuss this now. We need to get the crystal and get the fuck out of here!
Taliesin: If we can pull this off without burning anything important, then it doesn't matter.
Marisha: I want to go on record and say I think this is stupid. Okay, let's go.
Laura: That crystal looks really appetizing, and I want it.
Travis: How about we get ready to leave? I'll get on the carpet.
Laura: It looks really super magical.
Travis: Who's on the broom with Vex?
Laura: Me.
Travis: No, who is on the broom with you?
Taliesin: I'll be on the broom with her.
Travis: Do you want to get on the carpet with me?
Sam: Yeah, of course.
Marisha: I have to come with you because I have the Pass Without a Trace spell.
Taliesin: We all have to be together. We can't separate.
Travis: And he can fly.
Sam: No, he can't. He's done with his wings.
Liam: Yeah, that's right.
Sam: We have too many people for the carpet and the broom.
Liam: My wings are gone. There's no wings for Vecna unless we rest.
Travis: Well, kick Trinket out of the necklace, and I'll get in there.
Taliesin: I can also climb up the wall, if need be.
Sam: We can leave Trinket.
Liam: It's fine, I still have the boots. Just the wings. It was death or wings. I chose wings.
Travis: All right, so how do we fly? How do we do that?
Sam: I can burn a spell and be a giant eagle or something.
Taliesin: Just for shits and giggles, I'm going to take one last look around to see if there's any infrastructure for getting up. There must be infrastructure for getting up here. There wasn't layers of a city on top of each other.
Sam: We could just run.
Liam: But wait, where are we going though if we get this thing?
Sam: Up away.
Liam: We have no verification of an exit or a hole or anything!
Travis: Yeah, sometimes you just got to leap, okay?
Liam: That's my entire life, but this is the last moment.
Sam: Every organ in a body has an entrance and an exit, right? Wait, no, lungs don't; they just have the one.
Marisha: Wait up, we argued more this game more than anything else. Okay, we know we still have to fly upwards, including on flying up to the blue crystally thing right?
Laura: No, the blue crystal is right here.
Marisha: Well, then what the fuck?
Laura: I don't know!
Liam: We have a plan for getting the crystal, just not how to get the fuck out.
Marisha: We fucking fly!
Travis: Who burns a spell to become an animal?
Marisha: I can burn a spell.
Travis: You do that.
Marisha: We're probably going to take another short rest, right?
Travis: Probably.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I can recall Simon 2. I can send him across the room, make a bunch of noise, draw a bunch of people over there. You run, grab the crystal, and then we hustle out of there.
Travis: What if only half the room leaves, though?
Laura: No, you go get Simon 2 to go get the crystal.
Sam: And there's going to be a floating crystal that marches across?
Travis: They don't give a shit. Do it. I'm on the carpet. We're ready to go.
Marisha: You're on me? And you're on carpet, and you're on broom?
Travis: Percy and Vex are on the broom.
Matt: Gnomes on the carpet with Grog. You and Percy on the broom. You're transforming into what creature?
Marisha: Giant eagle.
Matt: Giant eagle.
Marisha: Not yet, though.
Laura: And then we all, within 60 feet of each other, fly up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay, who's doing what?
Laura: Simon 2.
Sam: Simon 2 is going to go get the thing. Let's say they all start watching the thing come towards us. Grog, are you here? Are you with us?
Travis: Yeah, I have to be.
Sam: Can you throw something across the room to make a noise?
Travis: Yep. I can absolutely do that.
Laura: I'll prime an arrow.
Travis: I have a hooded lantern that has fuel in it. It will even burn when it lands. It's been sitting in there for four years.
Sam: This is a terrible plan.
Taliesin: This is why we hoarded it in the first place.
Sam: Guys, I'm just going to say this one more time before we do this: he's way faster than Simon 2. Simon 2 could create a distraction. He could (snatching noise).
Liam: Scanlan, only with the boots.
Travis: If they chase the jewel, fuck the jewel, and we'll leave.
Taliesin: If they chase the jewel, we can grab it and run, anyway.
Sam: All right, Simon 2. Come back with your bones!
Matt: The bones shift over towards you ever-so-slowly.
Liam: (singing) Don't worry, be happy now.
Sam: All right. Simon 2, go to the middle of the room. Throw the bones away, far, then grab the crystal. You don't have pockets. Run back to us! Away, yeah. Should he cover it with a blanket or something? Do you have a hood?
Matt: The bones begin to drift.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm not saying no.
Laura: A handkerchief to put over the light.
Sam: So it blocks the light? All right, so go put this handkerchief on the thing, pick it up, and bring it back to us. Go, Simon 2. You're our only hope.
Matt: Is Simon holding bones or a blanket?
Sam: He's holding a blanket.
Taliesin: He's holding a hanky.
Laura: He's holding a hanky.
Travis: Put the bones down gently.
Sam: Give me the bones. I put the bones down. Here's a handkerchief. You'll put it over the crystal, pick up the crystal, and bring it back to us.
Matt: Simon begins to slowly walk, the handkerchief floating by.
Taliesin: This is like those little handkerchief ghosts you would make in kindergarten.
Matt: As you glance inside and watch as it happens, you can see all the undead that are in there are standing, unmoving, swaying a little bit in place. Simon's about 30 feet out from them. About 20 feet out. They don't notice his presence. You notice that all the undead are facing the crystal, by the way.
Laura: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: (laughing) That's crucial information.
Sam: Right before he picks it up, hock a rock as far as you can.
Travis: Not the lantern?
Taliesin: Not the rock, the lantern. Light the lantern and throw it.
Marisha: By the way, they're all staring right at you. They're 100 percent aware of what's going on.
Matt: They're not staring at you. They're staring at the crystal.
Laura: They will be staring at us. What if we destroy the crystal? I wonder if all the undead would die. Let's keep going.
Matt: The handkerchief makes its way forward. Simon walks between the undead, and they don't even notice.
Sam: That's a good guy, that Simon 2.
Marisha: What happens?
Matt: The handkerchief moves over onto the crystal, and all the undead look over to the crystal, and the crystal lifts, and they all begin to (groans).
Travis: I take the hooded lantern and I (laughs) I throw the fucking piss out of it.
Matt: Make an attack roll. Roll and add your strength modifier.
Travis: Oh, that's good! 19.
Matt: You're adding your strength modifier to that? Yeah. You're aiming at the opposite end?
Travis: If the entrance is here, I'm throwing it in the opposite direction of where we are.
Matt: With your strength? Easy enough. You lob it. It arcs over (flame noises) and explodes. The oil spreads across the ground. Flames ignite, and the bright light that emanates from it and the flames burst, and all the undead turn over (grunting) and begin to retract away. Two of them are following Simon. Only two of the undead are following Simon, currently. The others are distracted by the detonation of flame. They look confused.
Liam: How close are the pursuers?
Matt: They're making their way slowly. No, they're much faster than Simon.
Liam: I'm throwing.
Laura: I'm going to get down and shoot.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just the ones following Simon!
Matt: Both of you guys roll an attack.
Travis: Are they far away from the other ones that aren't leaving yet?
Taliesin: It doesn't matter; they're not paying attention.
Laura: 25. No, 33.
Liam: 29.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: They drop out of nowhere. They faint. It's going to be good.
Marisha: So we hope.
Taliesin: I thought you were made of sterner stuff, Travis. Come on. Now is not the time to get squeamish.
Laura: 24.
Taliesin: We made a solemn oath.
Sam: They were innocent.
Taliesin: We agreed, weeks ago.
Liam: I rolled a 77 for mine.
Sam: 77?!
Matt: These two skeletons almost atomize. As they're walking, they're both gaining on Simon, and as they both start reaching towards where the dull bluish glow, mostly muted by the handkerchief, is floating in the air, they (growl) towards it. You watch as both their heads and torsos scatter across the ground, like a heavy wave of force blasted them across the stonework. The scraping sound hits as the detonation hits. The flames are dying down, and... no, no other undead see it. Slowly, the stone floats past, out of the doorway, and makes its way back to you.
Taliesin: Drop it in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: At this point, Simon's getting real close to the end of his hour-long casting time.
Sam: You've served us well.
Travis: Bag of Holding. It doesn't hurt my hand, or anything, does it?
Matt: No.
Travis: Cool! We've got that.
Matt: Whatever it is.
Laura: I guess we have it.
Marisha: Nothing happened to them when we put it in the Bag of Holding? They were like, (groaning) and kept going? All the undead?
Matt: All the undead inside that were distracted by the explosion of the lantern are riled up now, and they're starting to wander around, and some of them are starting to make their way towards the entrance to the temple. Some are making their way toward the staircase to head upward.
Marisha: Are we flying?
Travis: Yes, we fly up.
Matt: All right. You go into eagle form, grab Vax, and all of you guys make your way up into the cavern entrance.
Laura: Bubble. Tight bubble.
Matt: Currently, I believe the eagle form has darkvision. Right now, you have no light source.
Liam: I do. I can say things to her. I can see.
Matt: Right, so you guys are able to maneuver. So as you guys head up into the center part of the cavern, above the catwalks, you can see as you push through, about a third of them are still standing. A lot of them have collapsed in the center, and there's edges of bridges that come to a halt where they've collapsed and tumbled down into the cavern below. You can see straggling undead wandering the catwalks and these pathways along the edges of the cavern. As you pass forward through them-- I imagine you guys are cruising through as fast as you can?
Taliesin: Trying to avoid them.
Laura: We'll try to avoid the clusters.
Matt: A few of them seem to glance up and see you as you pass and reach, but they have nowhere to go. As you begin to cruise through the center of this cavern, following it to the opposite side, it widens further, and now as you look down, faintly, you can see bits of the orange bioluminescent fungus that are growing within this city below. You can see elements of these beautiful statues that are partially crumbled. You can see small homes that litter the center of this chamber. You can see some of the catwalks that meet in the center of this actually meet in a suspended platform that contains another dome-like structure that is partially caved in. With another shake and impact of the titan's footfall, you watch as one of its suspension pillars cracks, and the entire center finally gives way and falls and slams down, collapsing into the center of the chamber, it being there for the final moment of its tensile strength. As it slams down, you watch as it crushes about 40 or so various skeletons below, and from that blast, you can see something on the interior of it was apparently explosive or flammable, and it explodes, giving a brief flash of light into the center of this cavern. Where you had the brief outside of your visual range, you now look around and see the entirety of these dozens of catwalks and the city below you. Hundreds and hundreds of roving skeletons and mostly decomposed, mummified dwarven corpses that all glance towards this explosion. Some have been blasted away from it by the impact of the detonation. Others are making their way towards what the strange sound was, drawn towards it, but you're keeping this central safe space between, where none of them can grasp or assail you.
Laura: Were there other buildings like that, ready to fall from the ceiling?
Matt: Currently, what you see is just the one.
Liam: I'm looking for gaps or holes or anything in the ceiling of this cavern or anywhere to get out. MATT; You see entrances to homes that are built into the sides.
Sam: What about a tunnel or anything?
Matt: Make a perception check. Anyone who has darkvision can make a perception check.
Marisha: I have keen sight. Does that count?
Matt: You have advantage on your perception.
Marisha: Oh, shitty and shittier.
Liam: 27.
Travis: 18.
Laura: 18.
Sam: I didn't do one.
Marisha: 28.
Sam: I'm weeping over Simon 2.
Matt: Oh. Your keen eagle vision-- wait, you said you rolled shitty and shittier and still got 28?
Marisha: I have a plus 13, plus advantage.
Matt: Right. All right, cool. So glancing through your eagle vision, you can see the top of the chamber almost seems to come to a conical shape, and as you look up to the top of it, it emerges into a completely vertical chamber that rises up and out of the central opening of the city of Thomara.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: I take the lead, I guess. (caws)
Laura: (shushes) Caw quietly.
Liam: Vax is trying to appreciate his last ride.
Travis: Debbie Downer.
Liam: No way! I'm not going to stop. Fuck you all. Every game until the end, motherfuckers!
Matt: As the group of you make your way up into this vertical cavern, we're going to take a break. I need to take a break, myself.
Travis: Remember, we have the--
Travis: Sponsored announcement.
Matt: That's right. We have the Shadow of War video coming up at this break to give you a glance at this game coming up that we're all part of. If you haven't seen it, or if you have seen it, check it out, anyway. It's pretty awesome. Also, for this week's giveaway, Wyrmwood, we've got a little video for you here to show you what's up and what you can do and try to win it at the break, so pay attention, stick around, and we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
Liam: This is what's up!
Travis: Yeah! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so last we left off, you guys were all traveling upward through various means of flight, through a peak in the central cavern chamber in the center of Thomara, the long-dead dwarven city. As you begin to climb upward through this 15-foot-wide or so upward hallway, this cylindrical cavern, you continue upward for about 50 or so feet since passing through the ceiling of this chamber, and then it opens up into a domed room. Immediately, as you fly up, you see a ceiling come up, and you have to coast off to the side. You catch yourself, hovering there as the rest of you guys make your way in there. This domed, mushroom-shaped chamber with a very thin, circular floor around the outside with the hole that you entered at the bottom. Whoever would stand on the edge there would have the opportunity to either leap into or toss something down into this hole that would then drop them right into the center of the city.
Taliesin: Weird question  if I were holding the blue gem and had dropped it down this hole, what would be the likelihood it would have ended vaguely where it ended up?
Matt: Not at all. It was a ways off.
Taliesin: Just checking.
Laura: Are there any undead around us right now?
Matt: Currently? Glancing around, you do not see any undead.
Marisha: You said things or people? Is this a body-sized hole?
Matt: No, it's about 15 feet wide. The full chamber is maybe 50 or so feet across. About a 20-foot walkway, circular, before the hole in the center.
Liam: Did you say the hole is a natural gap in the cave, or does it look made?
Matt: If you glance down and look about the interior of this chamber, it is not natural. It is all carved.
Laura: Can we look at the gem for a second, since there's no undead around?
Matt: If you want to. Grog has it.
Travis: Do you want me to pull it out?
Laura: Yeah. Can you do an arcana check on it?
Sam: Sure. I can look at it.
Laura: How big is it? Is it baseball-sized?
Matt: It's about that big.
Travis: No undead, right? No creatures, nobody that's going to (whoop) to the shiny blue light?
Laura: We can't see anything around us?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Sam: I remove the handkerchief. I look at it. I inspect it like a jeweler inspecting a jewel. 18 arcana check.
Matt: Okay. It's definitely magical. The blue light from it grows stronger, then weaker. Stronger, then weaker. It has this rhythmic flash to it, like a heart or something that has a pulse to it.
Marisha: How is it lining up towards the steps of the giant?
Matt: Not at all. It's much quicker.
Marisha: Much quicker.
Matt: It's cold to the touch.
Taliesin: Does it do anything to the Titanstone Knuckles?
Liam: Is it faster than my heartbeat?
Matt: It's slower.
Liam: Slower.
Travis: That's slow.
Marisha: So it's very slow, but not as slow as the rate he's walking.
Travis: Is it a cut jewel, or is it rough?
Matt: It's rough. No jeweler's hand has touched it. There are some edges that have flat surfaces; it looks like there have been things that have chipped off the stone.
Taliesin: Does it have the vibe of something petrified?
Matt: No, it has almost a quartz-like look to it. Elements of it appear to be cloudier or imperfect, and some areas appear to be clearer, and light shines through a little brighter.
Liam: It's like a hunk at the natural history museum of minerals.
Matt: Yeah, but there is an enchantment.
Sam: What about Pikey-pants? Can she detect if it's evil or good or something? Does she do that?
Laura: You should do that.
Liam: I'm going to do that.
Matt: Okay. You don't get a sense of any evil from the stone.
Sam: You said no sense of evil?
Matt: No evil coming from the stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to gaze into it super hard.
Matt: You look really hard into the stone as you hold it to your face, and your eyes almost cross as you glance into the very core source of this pulsating arcane energy. It's bright.
Laura: So bright, y'all.
Matt: It hurts a little bit, and you wince after a while.
Laura: I saw so many things.
Liam: She looked at the eclipse, too.
Travis: We don't have Identify or anything like that, do we?
Marisha: No.
Sam: No.
Laura: You know who had that?
Sam: No, who?
Laura: Our good friend, Tary. He was wonderful.
Sam: Who is it? Oh, the fancy fellow? He's probably dead somewhere.
Travis: I think we should try and smash it.
Sam: Don't you think that about everyone and everything?
Marisha: I'm not against this idea.
Travis: What else are we going to do to it before we face El Vecna?
Taliesin: My only other thought of how it could be useful, at this point, with what we know about it--
Sam: Is "El Vecna" Spanish for Vecna?
Travis: Sí.
Taliesin: It seemed like the undead were crowding towards it, which means that if we do get attacked by a group of undead, we might be able to shiny-object them, unless, of course, it's dangerous in their hands.
Travis: Or we spike it down the hole, and it causes a hydrogen bomb, and we shatter this titan in half.
Taliesin: That literally made the dungeon master laugh, so I don't know if that's necessarily--
Travis: It's blue, right? That is the color of hydrogen.
Taliesin: That's the color of Dr. Manhattan. I don't necessarily know if it's the same thing.
Travis: It is known.
Sam: Why don't we hang onto it for now? In a moment of peril, we can throw it or smash it.
Taliesin: Not crazy, trying to crack it.
Liam: What if it stops this thing where it stands? We're all thinking that this thing could be its heart.
Sam: Its heart?
Travis: It's palm-sized, right?
Taliesin: It could be a chunk of heart.
Laura: Is it the same color as his Knuckles?
Travis: No, these are stone-gray. This is blue crystal.
Matt: There's nothing about it that gives you the sense, based on what you've seen both outside and within the titan, that it is of similar essence to the titan, from what you understand.
Travis: It could be a soul or something.
Sam: Soul glow?
Travis: Does Pike have anything that detects a soul?
Liam: It's not evil. It's not good. It could be the thing that's keeping these undead moving.
Travis: Well, then I don't know what else to do. I think we keep moving.
Liam: I like the spiking idea.
Laura: I'm okay squishing it with the hammer.
Liam: I think that you should let me squish it, because if that blows up--
Laura: I think it's funny that we spent so much time getting it, and then we're going to destroy it.
Liam: We spent ten minutes getting this thing.
Travis: We'll think about smashing it when we take our rest. Maybe a cause will reveal itself.
Taliesin: Hold onto it for now. It could come in handy.
Marisha: It's like that dress you bought four years ago you still haven't worn. It might find a purpose.
Sam: All right, focus!
Laura: Let's get out of this dome.
Travis: Is there any writing or engraving or runes on the edge of the circle that's been engineered?
Matt: On the edge of the circle? No. It's smooth stone, intently designed to be a drop or opening of some kind.
Taliesin: Are there exits?
Matt: Make an investigation check. You don't see any doorways or passageways.
Marisha: Wait, there's not a hole that we can go up?
Matt: There's a hole that you came through to come into this chamber. Imagine a dome. You're in the chamber.
Taliesin: I literally rolled a one. I'm aware that there's a hole.
Matt: You get vertigo as you stand in the chamber.
Laura: Is this investigation or perception?
Matt: You look about, and you don't see any exit. Investigation to see if there's any hidden or not-immediately-noticeable exits or entryways.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. As you do a pass around, looking closely along the wall, you see two small domed doors that have metal rods jammed through, almost like a small barricade that's been placed down on one side of a doorway. However, they are closed from this side.
Laura: So you could open them up?
Matt: You could.
Laura: Are they trapped? I'll look to see if they're trapped.
Liam: On it.
Travis: Also fair to assume that whatever's on the other side of that door--
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27?
Laura: I rolled an 18.
Matt: You're both looking at the same one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Neither of you notice any traps.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to jimmy open that lock.
Travis: Whoa.
Laura: I already said it.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: Not locked.
Laura: Two! Wait. Yeah, that's straight-up strength, not a saving throw? Two!
Sam: Two?
Laura: I'm really fucking weak. You'd think I'd be stronger pulling the bowstring, but no.
Travis: Use your legs. Really, use your legs.
Laura: Okay. I put my legs up on the wall and (grunts).
Matt: It is not budging.
Liam: Can I use my finger skills to see if it's locked? Just my finger skills. I made a perception check to see if it's trapped. Wouldn't I know if it's locked?
Matt: The lock is the barricading mechanism on it. There is no handle.
Liam: I'm going to try to sidestep this lock with my lock-picking skills.
Travis: It's a barricade.
Marisha: It's a barricade.
Liam: There's nothing to do?
Marisha: It's like steel rebar in front of the door.
Travis: Is there any decorating or writing or scratching around the door frame or wall around the door? Anything other than a portal to go through?
Matt: Not from what you can see, no. The room's pretty simple. The construction of it may be older than most of the things that you've seen in the city below and previous chambers. It seems to be built almost for function rather than ceremony.
Laura: It's a trash chute.
Marisha: That's what I was going to say. Is it a water chute? Drainage? Is this a drain pipe?
Laura: We could fill the city with water. Drown all the zombies.
Matt: One thing you do notice, which is interesting as you're glancing around at the side, looking at the ground at the bottom of it, there's a very faint groove in the ground that leads toward the central hole at the base of each of these doorways.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any other type of chutes coming into this room?
Matt: No, just the two doors on the opposite sides.
Travis: How far apart are the doors?
Matt: Opposite sides of the chamber, yeah.
Taliesin: So there's a bar. The door is barred, then?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So break it. Let's get out of the way and pop the bar. See if we can pop the bar right off the door.
Travis: Do we want to have Keyleth there in case 900 undead zombies start pouring through, and she can Wall of Stone the door?
Marisha: I'll be with you. Yeah. I'm right behind you, man.
Travis: I will try and remove one of the doors. I don't know how to delineate between them.
Taliesin: The left one.
Travis: Sure. Yeah. It's a circle. That one. 25.
Matt: 25. It immediately comes off to the side, and when you lift it, you realize that it's bolted to the wall to the side, and it curves upward and holds it in place. This is meant to stay in place.
Laura: Wow. Really? It was meant to move? I think I loosened it for you, Grog.
Travis: I didn't get that sense at all.
Matt: As you lift it up, the door is now unbarred.
Travis: Shall I?
Laura: Yeah, open the door!
Travis: Are the hinges on this side so it looks like it opens towards me?
Matt: It looks like it opens towards you, yes.
Travis: I'll pull open the door.
Marisha: I'm at the ready for whatever.
Matt: Okay. We'll say as you entered and landed, the door on the left. Okay, so as you pull that one open, immediately preparing yourself, a couple of rocks tumble out, and it reveals a packed-tight mass of earth and stone.
Laura: Shit! Let's try the other one.
Travis: Should I punch the rubble?
Laura: No, let's try the other door first.
Travis: I make my way around.
Taliesin: We set ourselves up.
Travis: 20 on the dot.
Matt: 20. (metal creaking) It lifts over without an issue. Pull the door open. You lift it open, and a few rocks tumble past, but a slick rockslide incline continues upward, dry, no water. Nothing.
Travis: A rockslide continues onward. Slick, dry.
Laura: How big is the tunnel?
Matt: It's about four feet wide or so.
Laura: So we can fit in?
Matt: Yeah, you can fit in.
Taliesin: We have some Immovable Rods.
Matt: When I say slide, I mean smooth stone, like an actual slide. You get the sense that there was some sort of aqueduct-type scenario.
Laura: We brace ourselves on the wall to make sure we don't slide down.
Taliesin: Whoever's in the back should have the Immovable Rods, so if there's a sudden rush of water, we can create a grate for ourselves.
Matt: You envision that at one point, long ago, this would have been a beautiful waterfall in the center of Thomara's chamber that has now dried.
Travis: Dope. That's awesome. I'm getting creepy as fuck now. I've got the Immovable Rod; I'll be the caboose.
Marisha: I've got the other one, so I'll be second.
Matt: So Grog is the caboose.
Marisha: Keyleth in front of Grog.
Matt: Keyleth in front of Grog? All right. Who's in front of them?
Sam: Me.
Matt: Scanlan.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Then Pike. All righty.
Taliesin: Myself and the twins, I suppose.
Laura: Yeah. I want to be in the front.
Travis: I'll go ahead and take the Immovable Rod out and have it in my hand.
Marisha: Samesies.
Matt: So you've got both of those. Oh, I totally forgot there was a winner for this. I'm sorry. I should do that, huh? RyanBoo, you're the winner. Danoba will contact you and get you your cherry deck box soon. Now that's taken care of. You make your way up the slide, and it's relatively gradual; it's not too heavy of a scenario. You make your way upward, upward, and about 30 or so feet up, the walls of it separate out and appear to break into two smaller chambers, like this was a breaking point where a person could enter from either side to check on the flow or do maintenance on whatever the ducting was. The slide continues upward. Vax and Vex, you get to that portion and lift yourselves up, looking right to left. It ends on one side, and it looks like there's some dry-rotted wooden crates, and to the left, a staircase.
Marisha: So it looks like a landing?
Matt: It's a brief landing for somebody who needed to come in and do repairs, maintenance, or checking on the flow of water.
Laura: Keep going up the slide or take the stairs?
Liam: Quick glance in the crates?
Marisha: No, if you're going to take a quick glance, then we have to bust them open like a proper RPG.
Travis: They're dry-rotted. They'll break easy.
Matt: They will. What do you do?
Liam: Check them out. I eat some edamame.
Matt: So you lift the crates. There are only two of them, and they're relatively small: two feet by two feet. The first one, you open up and look inside, and there are rusted tools. Long iron bars; some appear wrench-like. It looks like whatever mechanism was used as the early aqueduct system for this, this box contained materials, though you're uncertain as to what their application was into this system.
Taliesin: I'll take a glance at these things to memorize their general shape.
Travis: After you're done with them, I'll actually take them.
Matt: You go and grab a few. There's five rods of varying widths. Some appear to be ratchet elements, where they fit around different metal caps. There's one that looks like a wide crowbar that's used to hold or wedge elements separately. Very basic; nothing too intricate.
Taliesin: This is some basic shit that you're picking up right now.
Liam: That was the first crate. What's the next crate? Is it whoopee cushions?
Matt: No, the next crate you open up and it looks mostly empty, but it looks like there are a couple of rows of small glass vials, half of which appear to be broken or shattered, but there are three remaining, with a faint bluish liquid on the inside.
Laura: Does that sound familiar to us at all?
Liam: Healing potions are blue.
Matt: These don't resemble healing potions, actually.
Taliesin: Do these resemble underwater breathing?
Matt: They do. You've seen these before.
Liam: For toilet diving.
Taliesin: Emergency, yeah. Let's take those.
Travis: Okay. I got them.
Liam: I give one of them to Percy for being so sharp. I give one to my sister. You don't need it. I keep one. No, I don't. I'm barely alive. I give one to Scanlan.
Sam: I give it to Grog.
Travis: I've got one. I've got two, actually.
Sam: All right, then I'll keep one.
Taliesin: Just in case.
Travis: I've got two vials of underwater breathing.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Why is there no water running?
Travis: Any other boxes to smash?
Matt: No.
Marisha: I'd imagine because he's vertical now instead of horizontal.
Travis: And undead.
Sam: Let's keep going up the stairs.
Matt: All right. Heading up the stairs in the same order?
Liam: 30 to 40 feet in advance.
Matt: All righty. 30 to 40 feet in advance? Okay. You make your way up the staircase. Roll stealth.
Travis: Immovable Rod's out.
Liam: 28 for stealth.
Matt: Okay. Are you stealthing, as well? Are you going along with him, or are you letting him go ahead?
Liam: She's coming.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so the two of you very quietly make your way ahead, the rest of you keeping within, I assume, the range of the ring. The staircase doesn't go too far; it goes maybe 30 or so feet, and then it opens into a hallway. You're stepping up through the floor, and there's about ten feet behind and to the sides of you. There's a slight element of a cave-in to the left of you, where part of the stone seems to have collapsed, and a bit of the earth has filtered in. It's a smooth stone floor that's tiled in places. The walls continue on, a somewhat trapezoid-like angle. There are other portions of the wall that have caved in on certain elements, and there are two large pillars that mark the center of this hallway, either used as support beams or decorative, but they go from ceiling to floor. You glance over the side, and you see a distant staircase on the far end of this hallway, maybe 80 to 90 feet from where you are, if not further, with larger stairs. You've seen some of the dwarven-based ones. These seem to be a little more grandiose as they lift up higher and higher. Part of that hallway is completely collapsed; it's a wall of fallen earth. But there's a hole carved out of it. There's a tunnel that has been pushed through. You hear this very faint buzzing sound. Very faint. This (low humming). A very faint vibration. You also see a figure stepping from a side wall crevasse, an opening of a similar shape to the circular opening in the wall.
Liam: I hide.
Laura: We were stealthed.
Matt: You guys were stealthed. You re-hide, while stealthed.
Liam: That's what I do.
Matt: You hear some muttering across the way in the shadow. There's a faint source of light that looks like a glowing orb that's floating in the air above and giving this faint greenish-white light; a bauble that's giving a light source to whatever this cloaked figure is. You hear the muttering, and two more walk down the staircase to join them. You recognize, from the faint bit of light, a glimmer of metal around the neck of one of them that is the symbol, the hole with the metallic fork. You see Remnants of Vecna.
Sam: Remnants?
Matt: You don't see any faces. You see a glimmer or shine on the metal from the light cast from the bauble.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Taliesin: This can't be happening right now.
Liam: We don't recognize faces? We don't see faces?
Matt: You see hooded figures that are walking in. There are three of them.
Marisha: Oh, so they're cultists.
Matt: Okay. So which ones are you aiming at? There's three of them.
Laura: I'm aiming at the first one I saw.
Matt: Okay, the first one you saw just stepped out of the center of the hall there, and then the two others walked down the hallway. You're aiming at the one that came out of the side of the wall?
Laura: Has he seen the two coming down the stairway yet?
Matt: There's been discussion over the shoulder. They seem to be aware of each other's presence, but they haven't come together to engage as three in the same area yet.
Liam: I will follow my sister's lead. If she attacks one, I send one to another one and two to the third.
Laura: I'll attack the first so he can take the second.
Liam: One. Two, three.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: These are auto-crits, though, because we are surprising them.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: Yes, you can Hunter's Mark him.
Laura: Oh, so we don't have to roll for attack? It's an auto-crit.
Matt: Well, no, you still have to roll to see if you aim. You have advantage on the attack.
Laura: 27.
Liam: 27 on my first.
Matt: Okay, both hit.
Laura: Second attack. Oh my god, 20. 20 on the second attack.
Matt: Okay, that hits.
Laura: I got a one on both. Thank god they were both at advantage.
Liam: 27. 19, 25.
Matt: Okay, all three hit.
Laura: And they're all critical?
Matt: No, the first one crits.
Liam: Oh, really? Okay. The first is sneak attack.
Matt: They're not all crit. Once you hit the person they are no longer surprised.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is a crit. Solid! That's okay.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel so bad for you.
Liam: You are the most powerful person at this table.
Laura: 14, plus six lightning damage. Oh wait, you know what? Should I single out the lightning damage or say what all the damage is?
Matt: Well, it's an auto-crit, so lightning damage is doubled, as well.
Laura: So it's 12 lightning damage.
Matt: Right, plus whatever your sneak attack damage is.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's happening.
Travis: You already did 40 point of damage without doubling.
Laura: Don't do that.
Sam: Travis, shut up! These two and their gigantic damage rolls.
Taliesin: Huge, mammoth.
Sam: Huge, bulbous.
Taliesin: Turgid.
Laura: I had already rolled that, but it was a six again, so 40, plus 12 lightning damage. On the first.
Matt: 52 points of damage.
Liam: I got 48 on my first, but that's it. 48, done.
Laura: I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage on that first guy.
Matt: This is on the other guy; the second guy.
Laura: Add ten because of Hunter's Mark on the first one.
Marisha: Little bit of that reach around.
Sam: The dice smell a little bit.
Liam: 48. 20, ten.
Matt: So 48 on your critical.
Liam: That's the critical. That's the dice damage. I rolled really low.
Matt: 20, ten. Okay, then. All righty. Are you shooting the same guy, Laura?
Laura: Yes, I was all on one, unless he went down. Would I notice?
Matt: No, he did not go down.
Laura: Okay, then the second one. 21 on the second one.
Matt: That does it.
Travis: How much damage? Total.
Matt: Total on that round from you would have been 110 with the first hit between the two of you on the first guy and the second hit. So the one that was off to the side, who is leaning forward, hunched over, and looking over his shoulder. The first arrow goes into the throat and he reaches for it, and as he does, the dagger (impact) into the face, into the socket where there is no eye, which then looks up with a groan. Finger goes out as soon as the second arrow takes the other eye out, and then falls back down to the ground, dead. Pointing your direction like (gasping). As soon as the two other daggers go into the other two, they both see the one crumple to the ground, the two left there, the guy who is standing at the stairs--
Liam: May I also dump some poison?
Matt: Sure, into which one?
Liam: Into the first one. I did one into my first target and two into the second; the poison would have gone into the second person. It's a DC of 15.
Matt: All righty. DC of 15? Yeah, that succeeds. 16.
Liam: So nothing, right?
Matt: Nothing, yeah.
Liam: Balls!
Matt: As soon as the one crumples to the ground and the two other daggers into the other two that are there, they (grunt). They see the one fall. The one in the center of the chamber glances over his shoulder and says, "It seems I'm the lucky one. Odell, run back and tell that Viskorad found sneaky prey." The one immediately to the left begins to run up the stairs.
Laura: Can I shoot him again before he runs away?
Matt: Nope because you took your turn. This is their reaction.
Sam: Oh shit. You need help, Matt?
Liam: Initiative!
Matt: We're about to roll initiative, motherfuckers.
Laura: Sorry, guys. We did it.
Marisha: Viskon? We've heard the name Viskon before.
Sam: We've also heard the name Odell.
Liam: Yeah, Odell.
Marisha: Odell comma tell Viskon we have visitors. Wait, when did we hear Odell before?
Liam: I just know we've heard it.
Sam: There's been three Jamieson's in our campaign, too. Matt isn't an infinite fount of names.
Matt: Everyone else is still down the stairs right there.
Laura: I wonder if we should have let them talk for a second. Oh, well.
Liam: That's not our way.
Matt: Apparently not, as recent events have shown. So now, I need everyone to roll initiative.
Travis: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Laura: No, it's okay. I've got advantage.
Marisha: Don't let them leave. I agree with that.
Taliesin: Leave one of them alive, but don't let them leave.
Liam: Not good for Pike.
Marisha: Did everyone roll shittily?
Travis: No.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Laura: 23.
Travis: 21.
Liam: Get that long range. Get that runner.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Sam: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: What's up, bro?
Liam: I'm not fast.
Taliesin: 13.
Liam: 13.
Travis: That's weird for you.
Taliesin: It's almost as low as I can go.
Matt: 13 for Pike? No, that's Vax. What's Pike?
Liam: Pike clocked in at four.
Matt: Pike is clocking in as Pike.
Liam: Yeah. Where's the remix of this song?
Taliesin: I know. (beatboxes)
Matt: All righty, so beginning of the round. Vex, you're up first.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine around here, so he can lash up and try to catch that wizard, the cloaked guy that's running away.
Matt: What's he have to roll for that?
Laura: He has to roll a dexterity save above 15.
Marisha: Get it! Get it, son!
Matt: That's an eight. He is running up the stairs.
Laura: So it snatches his ankle.
Matt: And then drags him.
Laura: Backwards. Then I'm going to shoot him twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Not that one. That one looks like he knows too much.
Laura: What is that? 32.
Matt: 32, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 14, plus four lightning damage. I don't get sneak attack on this guy, though?
Matt: No.
Laura: Okay. 14, plus four lightning damage, and then I'm going to hit him again. That is also a 32. No, that's-- well, it's very high. 27? 28
Matt: 28. All right, that hits. Roll damage. Grog, you're up next. You're in the back of the marching order.
Travis: We're not up at the top, are we?
Matt: No. So you've got at least 25, 30 feet before you can get to the top there.
Laura: 12, plus six lightning damage.
Matt: Nice. All right, 36 points of damage in one round. The arrows (impact) as he is pulled through the rock and rubble by the Grasping Vine that is currently wrapped around him.
Laura: I am going to use my movement to stand behind this little pillar right here.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Grog, you're up.
Travis: As I hear the sweet melodical Miami Vice tunes of warfare being played, can I double dash up past my mates and into the fray?
Matt: Sure, so at 30 feet, it'll get you right at the edge of the stairs. Still have 20 more feet you can go.
Travis: Yeah, straight towards them.
Matt: All right, so that's there.
Travis: Then can I use dash to go the rest of the way?
Matt: To close the gap there? Sure.
Travis: Now, I only have my bonus action left, so can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may, yeah. All righty, so at that point you go into a rage.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty, so now it is his turn.
Marisha: You have that guy? But this guy was the runner, I thought.
Taliesin: Yeah, but he's vined.
Marisha: Okay. He's currently grasped.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up into his face, you hear the individual, the hood pulled back at this point. You see shaved entirely bald, older, late fifties to early sixties, missing one eye, but in that socket you can see a faint spark of arcane energy. Shouting out amongst the space, "Glory and reward is mine! Wraiths, go forth and devour, while I bring oblivion to them." As you rush up, is going to cast Wall of Force right in the space between there.
Marisha: Between him and Grog?
Laura: (singing) The space between.
Sam: (singing) Your wicked lies.
Matt: It pushes you back five feet, and now there is a Wall of Force that is blocking that side of the hallway from where he is.
Marisha: Him and the other guy? Or just between him? How big is it?
Matt: Sorry, the entirety of this chamber is the Wall of Force.
Marisha: Fucking fuckface.
Travis: What does Wall of Force do? Can I walk through that shit?
Marisha: Yeah, it just might hurt.
Travis: Will it?
Matt: As soon as the wall appears there, you see a slight short barrier that forces you back about five feet. You catch your back foot, and now as the barrier finishes shimmering, it's invisible. Looks like there's nothing there. He's grinning from there. He glances over to the right into the hole in the wall where his friend was earlier.
Travis: Which was that way, right?
Matt: As he glances over, he goes, "Odell, bring me the sphere." You hear the humming noise, the faint humming vibrational noise, now louder. That ends his turn. Actually, he is going to take a step back up onto the stairs there. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? What can I do?
Matt: You're 20 feet down from the staircase.
Sam: My speed is 25.
Matt: That'll get you right up to about there, with five-foot steps.
Marisha: Don't let them leave!
Sam: Oh god, this looks like a crazy thing.
Travis: (counting) 60 is how far away he is.
Sam: Wow. There's a Wall of Force. Do I see a Wall of Force?
Matt: You don't. You actually rush up, and it looks like it's an open hallway right now.
Sam: Okay. I see Grog in attack mode, right? I see these two bad guys. I will send a Lightning Bolt at somebody.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Looks like I can't see this guy because there is a pillar in between, so the other guy.
Matt: That's true, so it'll be that guy. All right. You'll have to move off to the side, or else you're going to hit Grog with the Lightning Bolt. It's going to be hard. He's up a few steps, though. You could probably aim it above and hit him without Grog. I'll let you do that. As you get to the top, you release your bolt of lightning. (crackling noise) It arcs forward, and as it gets right above Grog, it hits something solid and splinters. No effect.
Liam: So this Wall of Force visually is floor to ceiling?
Matt: You don't know; you don't see it. He saw a faint shimmer because something pushed him out of this space, but right now you have no visual perspective. That's going to end Scanlan's turn, I believe. All right. The other guy, who is currently held by the vine that falls limp off of his body--
Laura: It falls limp off of his body?
Matt: Well, it doesn't wrap around or keep him held. Every turn, it can pull something towards it. He's going to glance over towards the side, listening to what the other, Viskorad, said. Okay. At which point, that humming gets louder and louder.
Taliesin: He had the map. If he built the map, there's a way out.
Matt: You watch as a two-foot-wide black sphere of void-like nothingness comes carving through the stone wall immediately to the left of you, Grog, leaving a completely disintegrated form roughly the shape of its sphere. It's coasting in towards and into your space.
Travis: It's a Sphere of Annihilation.
Liam: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: Oh shit, son!
Laura: Oh god!
Sam: Is someone controlling it?
Matt: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh my god, roll so well! Do you get advantage?
Travis: I do. I have Danger Sense. It fucks you up. Yeah, it hurts real bad.
Sam: I see this happening, right?
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. You manage to duck out of the way as it enters the space, and you can feel this weird energy. Your beard is almost being pulled toward it, and the loud vibrating (vibration) hum before you. It's like staring into an absolute nothingness.
Travis: Take my life, but not my beard.
Marisha: Who looks like he's controlling it? Odell?
Matt: The guy who is being pulled by her is concentrating and moving it over, at that point.
Laura: Oh, the guy in red? The guy in red is controlling it!
Matt: All right. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: (yells)
Matt: I've got to rest for a second. Controlling enemies hurt. It's okay.
Sam: We can get dudes behind you to hold you up.
Matt: We'll see how I can do it. Keyleth, your turn.
Marisha: Oh my god. So much has changed from what I thought I was going to do.
Matt: You're about 25 feet down the staircase.
Marisha: Yeah. So I come up from the staircase.
Matt: Okay. That gets you up to the edge there, where the staircase stops.
Travis: Does the Sphere of Annihilation get an attack of opportunity if I run away?
Taliesin: Probably not.
Sam: Is it a thing? Is it a weapon?
Matt: It's a black sphere of void. One of the guys is looking focused, concentrating on it, and it moved under his willpower in the direction of Grog.
Travis: It's real bad.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to come up. I'm trying to think of what I have in range, and I'm terrified. And I'm going to stick with my original instinct and do Wall of Stone and try and wall these guys in so they can't run. I think they can still carve through it with their big black death orb now.
Travis: They can, but at least they'll be here.
Taliesin: They'll have to move the orb to do that.
Marisha: Okay. I can do ten ten-foot by ten-foot panels, so I want to be a semicircle block off, bring up a whole wall of stone behind them.
Matt: Okay. Hold on a second.
Travis: Who can get to the other side? You have Dimension Door. But that's it, right? That's the only person that has that kind of a thing.
Matt: As you attempt to concentrate and create a Wall of Stone, you are unable to pick a point or an area beyond the barrier.
Travis: The Wall of Force? No!
Laura: Say it again?
Travis: And you need to focus, or is it a random?
Matt: It doesn't fizzle the spell. You have no area to release it on. The barrier, while invisible, is preventing targeting a specific area to create.
Taliesin: We need to dispel this shit.
Marisha: I do have Dispel Magic.
Matt: You've used your action to attempt it. You didn't lose the spell slot, but you spent your action attempting it.
Travis: Hey, man. That was a nice try.
Marisha: Can't cast through it.
Laura: Good to know. But the orb went through it?
Matt: No, the orb is on the other side.
Marisha: Even though it's a nature thing, going up underneath there, I can't get around it? No?
Matt: You're targeting on the other side of the wall. It has to be in visual range for you to create it to happen.
Marisha: (singing) I'll see you on the other side of the wall. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's Keyleth's turn. No, sorry. At the end of Keyleth's turn, you hear this (breathy noise) sound as these two shadowy figures emerge from the nearby walls.
Liam: Ghosts! Shadows!
Travis: No. What? Ghosts or wraiths?
Marisha: Wraiths.
Liam: There's ten different kinds of things like that.
Marisha: Hey, was wraiths what fucked me and you up when we were evil Vax and Keyleth?
Taliesin: Oh shit, and look what they're doing!
Matt: This one hovers over and lands behind Keyleth. And it's going to attempt, as it seems to shift through the pillar--
Marisha: I look over my shoulder and go  Oh no!
Matt: This one here stays within the pillar, and it reaches out, as it's incorporeal, and strikes at you. That is 24 against you, Vex.
Laura: That hits.
Matt: All right. You suffer 21 points of necrotic damage, and I need you to succeed on a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Fuck! Come on.
Travis: My fucking god!
Sam: It's a 20? (screaming)
Matt: All right. Well, you suffer the 21 points of necrotic damage, and your maximum hit points are reduced by 21.
Laura: Forever?
Matt: Until you finish a long rest. The other one's striking at you, Keyleth. That is a 16.
Marisha: Misses!
Matt: That's right, because your AC is 17 with the ring.
Marisha: That's right! I leveled up, motherfuckers!
Matt: All right. Cool. Technically, leveling up didn't affect your AC; however, calculating the magic item did.
Marisha: But I feated, so I'm good!
Matt: I know. So as it swings toward you, its claw streaks out and has no effect. And then they both vanish. You want to take an attack of opportunity? You can if you'd like to.
Marisha: War Caster?
Matt: War Caster. You can attempt to cast a spell on it as a reaction, if you'd like. This one's going to back away into the wall, as well. Vex, you also get an attack of opportunity if you'd like, with a melee weapon.
Marisha: Does it have to be a bonus action?
Matt: No, it can be an action. That's part of the War Caster feat.
Laura: I have a dagger, but I don't even have it drawn.
Matt: Then yeah, you're fine.
Liam: They're both out of visual range, right?
Matt: They both are now backing up.
Liam: One's in a pillar, and one went through a wall. Are they moaning and shit, in the wall?
Matt: You can't hear them.
Liam: I can't hear them. Can't see them, can't hear them. All right. Thanks.
Matt: No worries.
Laura: I have resistance to necrotic damage, by the way.
Matt: You do! Then you take ten points of necrotic damage, and your hit points are only reduced by ten.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, I'm trying to figure out what would be a good idea right now.
Taliesin: I have no ideas for anything.
Marisha: I have never done this before, but I have it learned. I will Ice Knife it in its face. Ice Knife! Level one, you create a shard of ice, fling it at-- oh, it's a flingy-thingy. But it's 1d10 piercing damage, and then it explodes?
Matt: Okay. It's right next to you. She has the feat where she can cast the spell as a reaction when something comes at her. Just know that whatever you're hitting is right next to you. So if it explodes, does any radial damage, it might come back and hit you.
Marisha: No, hit or miss, the shard then explodes, the target and each creature within five feet of the point where the ice explodes. Oh. I'm fine. I'm doing it anyway.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll to hit.
Travis: And Scanlan's in five feet of her?
Laura: No, he's behind her.
Taliesin: Oh, for fuck sake.
Marisha: What's wrong with us?
Laura: Wasted all of our 20s on goods.
Matt: Tonight is ridiculous.
Marisha: One.
Matt: All right, so as you release the Ice Knife, it slams into the wall. No effect. However, it does still explode, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So it does what damage?
Marisha: 2d6.
Matt: 2d6 damage. So go ahead and roll 2d6. To both you and the creature?
Taliesin: Yeah, all creatures within range.
Marisha: Technically, reroll ones. Three, four, five, six, seven. Yeah, each creature. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes.
Matt: All right, so you take seven points of ice damage, and it hits the wraith. However, the cold damage doesn't seem to have as much of an effect as you would expect.
Laura: It's a fucking wraith!
Matt: That ends their turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: I hear a whole bunch of commotion, so I'm going to pop my head up out of the hole and see what the fuck is going on.
Matt: All right. You glance up and get just beyond where Keyleth is, pushing past. You have five more feet you can move if you want.
Taliesin: Well, I'm coming up the hole. I take a look. Oh, sweet god. I'm going to take a shot at the guy I see up on the table there.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: That's better.
Matt: Which guy?
Taliesin: Yeah, the gray. And that's 28?
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) You fire a shot and watch as it detonates against some sort of invisible wall that you didn't see was there before, scattering helplessly against the space in the air.
Marisha: I hate this force field shit.
Travis: It explodes near my head, and I'm like Stop shooting into this thing!
Taliesin: I'm going to drop back down the hall.
Matt: All right, you get right back down to right there. That ends your turn, Percy? Vax, you're up.
Liam: Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to dance through to here, where I can see Grog and these guys, and I can see all my friends here, and I'm going to hold my action to attack anyone who comes right up to one of my friends within striking range.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Perfect. Ending Vax's turn, Pike's up.
Laura: Pike comes running up the steps.
Matt: She can get right up to here, and that's as much as she can move. She can still cast a spell if she wants to. She's going to cast Beacon of Hope for all of the allies within range, which is 30 feet.
Matt: All right, so that is everybody but Grog.
Laura: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: That's my fault.
Laura: That gives everybody advantage on wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and any time you're healed, you regain the maximum number of hit points.
Sam: Even if we move out of the radius?
Matt: It affects everybody at that moment, and then you carry it with you.
Laura: Wisdom and death saving throws.
Liam: You got glitter-bombed with holy goodness.
Marisha: Wisdom and death plus what?
Laura: And full hit points when you get healed.
Taliesin: You don't roll; you get the max.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Matt: Okay. So ending Pike's turn brings us to the top. Vex, your turn.
Laura: Oh, great. Well, I've seen all the things explode. Fucking hell. I'm going to pull out my Vecna symbol, that necklace that we still had, and put it around my neck, because that fucking sphere is out and I don't know if it matters.
Matt: Okay, so you quickly throw it around your neck.
Laura: Do I still have control of the vine?
Matt: Currently, yeah.
Laura: Okay. And it's on the other side of the force?
Matt: This is true.
Laura: So I'm going to use it and I'm going to try to grab a hold of the guy-- the guy in gray is holding the force wall, right? But it probably is a concentration. The guy in red is holding the sphere.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: The guy in red is holding the sphere. I'm going to try to knock him down and see if I can break his hold on the sphere, maybe? Is that stupid?
Matt: He does not make his save. He isn't moved. It wraps around him and pulls him tight against the area where it is again, but it's barely shifted him, so he gets moved a few inches, but doesn't seem to affect him at all.
Laura: That's a bonus action. I still get an action.
Matt: Yep, and movement.
Laura: And movement. Oh god. I'm going to spread out. I'm going to come over here, maybe? Or here. Oh jeez. I don't know. I can't hit anybody! I'm going to wait. I'm going to hold my action until I see something getting through that fucking force wall.
Taliesin: Until there's something to hit.
Laura: So that I can attack him.
Matt: Sounds good. All right, Vex, that's the end of your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to try and run through the Wall of Force. It's only five feet of my movement, and we'll see what happens.
Matt: All right, you slam face-first into a stone wall. Immediately, the anger fills through you, the familiar smell and taste of iron-like blood as you seem to have busted some element of your nose in the impact.
Travis: Probably some eyelids? Do I go anywhere? Not even an inch?
Matt: No.
Travis: What if I channel all the rage from my life, and I draw on the undead? Okay, cool. I'm going to turn around and run the other way.
Marisha: You didn't get through?
Travis: No, it didn't even give, apparently. (counting) 50, right there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that ends my turn.
Matt: This guy turns around and begins to make his way up the stairs and move double dash, and disappears up the stairs.
Marisha: (screams in frustration)
Travis: We can't do anything. Nobody knows Disintegrate or anything?
Marisha: Whose turn is it?
Matt: That finishes that guy's turn. It is now Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I'm going to take a few steps forward. I will inspire Grog, I guess.
Travis: Or yourself.
Sam: I'm okay.
Travis: Really? Okay.
Sam: I'll sing to him. (singing) Don't mess with that big black ball, it can really fuck you up. I really hate that big black ball, all it better do is miss you, make it miss you.
Matt: Oh my god, that was not my intent in creating this encounter. Take your d12 inspiration die.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: And I guess I'll Dimension Door, try to go through the Wall of Force. We've tried this before, Matt. Who knows how this shit works?
Travis: And the previous ruling was it worked.
Sam: Yeah, but that could have been a gentle nod.
Matt: The wording is important on this.
Liam: I think the cultist shits his pants and his brain explodes. I think that's in the book.
Matt: I've had to look this up very carefully. With elements like this wall, it's a targeting thing. You cannot target something that is in full cover, total cover, which being behind a wall is. Teleportation, however, you're the target and Dimension Door and Teleport is unaffected by that.
Sam: Matt fucking hates this.
Marisha: Get the runner!
Sam: I don't know where the runner went.
Marisha: He went that way.
Sam: I don't see him, right?
Matt: You saw him run away, you just don't know where he is at the moment.
Sam: Can I gauge roughly how far he went down that hall? Do I see down the hall?
Matt: Not from where you were over there.
Sam: So I'm going next to the red guy.
Liam: Also, if you get out of range of Vex, Vecna knows all.
Laura: Oh yeah. Stay within 60 feet.
Matt: All right, so you Dimension Door there. That's your action.
Sam: That's my everything.
Marisha: We've got to take out these guys' eyeballs.
Matt: That's the end of your turn. At which point, Odell, who's standing there currently, is physically sweating, concentrating on this sphere right now. Looks over and sees you appear and goes, "Viskorad, the little one made it through!"
Sam: Who are you calling little?
Matt: At which point, you glance over your shoulder and you can see that the darting, cloaked one stops and spins and faces towards you.
Sam: That's not good for me, guys.
Marisha: It's not good for you, but it's good for us. Fuck them up!
Travis: Oh god.
Matt: That's as far as they can get. However, it completely disintegrates the central pillar. It is obliterated, like it lays with a top part and a bottom part, but wherever the sphere passes through, about a good six inches around it is turned to dust and is gone.
Laura: Oh my god, what if we fail these rolls?
Matt: He's then going to go back around--
Taliesin: No, he's grappled.
Liam: No, he's grappled.
Matt: No, it doesn't grapple. It just moves things toward it.
Marisha: You're confusing Entanglement with Grasping Vine. Two totally different things.
Matt: He's backing up, and he's looking over at the sphere, concentrating on it. You can see the beads of sweat pouring down his face, and he's glancing over nervously at you, but smiling at the idea that his friend is returning. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Seeing Grog slam into that. Ugh, fuck. This is a pretty beefy spell, yeah? Force Wall? Should I do fifth or sixth level to dispel this? Okay. Fifth or sixth level? Sixth level. I'm going to Dispel Magic this wall.
Matt: Okay. As you focus and concentrate, you release the essence of the Dispel Magic, the burst of arcane energy casts forth, and falls harmlessly against the exterior.
Laura: It's a higher level.
Liam: It's a higher level.
Marisha: Higher than sixth level? The spell.
Matt: Didn't appear to have an effect on the wall.
Travis: Come on, maybe it needed to be something else.
Liam: No. He did what Scanlan does with Counterspell. He beefed it up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can move.
Marisha: It's higher than seventh level? Did you have to roll?
Matt: No effect on it.
Taliesin: Okay, it's going to be okay. Everything's okay.
Liam: So about that long rest...
Marisha: I don't know now, you guys.
Laura: We're fucked.
Marisha: I move forward. I guess. I don't want to move that far forward. No, I don't move that far forward! (laughter)
Marisha: I don't want to die!
Matt: That finishes your turn, Keyleth?
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Marisha: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Laura: Oh no, here they come.
Taliesin: Oh no, here they come.
Matt: They take minor damage being in the physical wall, but that's fine with them.
Liam: Boom, I attack! Sneak attack on the one near Keyleth.
Matt: Emerge. All right, so the one near Keyleth. Go for it.
Laura: What was I holding for? I was holding until I could attack something, or until I could get through the wall? I think it was through the wall.
Matt: The wall.
Liam: All right, 27 on that guy.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. So that is three, plus three is six, so ten. (counting)
Taliesin: If we can hit them, they're probably squishy.
Matt: You took out one of three between just two of your surprise attacks.
Liam: 34 for the first hit, and I have the second paladin attack, so if it's not dead, I will attack again.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is eight for the second.
Matt: As it emerges from the wall, its blackened shadow form giving off small tendrils of dark black ether and abyssal energy, it reaches out to strike at Keyleth, and you immediately release two daggers in its direction. Both hit its form. It gives this pained sucking sound as you watch its beady, burning red eyes seem to blink in the pain, and it angrily lashes out at Keyleth, its form somewhat more disparate and unable to maintain a corporeal form.
Liam: When is Pike? Is it her turn? No? Okay.
Matt: No, she cast Beacon of Hope. So attacking against Pike. That is 21. What's her AC?
Laura: 23!
Matt: 23. It tries to strike at her, and she manages to take the shield and bash it away. The light from her mace arcing around causes it to flinch, and it actually strikes a little too wide. The one that's arcing towards you, Keyleth, that is fucking 16 again! Yeah, because it's plus six to hit. Okay. You dodge out of the way a second time. It's then going to move back into the wall over here. He's going to move back into the wall, as well. Both of you get reactions.
Laura: Pike definitely takes it. With her Mace of Disruption, she gets an extra 2d6 radiant damage.
Matt: All right, so roll an attack on that one.
Laura: That's a 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: I am wickedly out of my element. I'm running from an 8-ball.
Taliesin: We've got to get everyone away from that thing.
Laura: 27 for Pike.
Matt: 27 points of damage?
Laura: Is it a fiend or an undead? So it has to have a wisdom save of 15.
Matt: If it has 25 hit points or fewer after taking the damage, which it does not. That one has not taken a whole bunch of damage. However, it did take a relatively decent hit, and you watch as she swings the mace out. As it pulls back, where the mace impacts, it seems to almost evaporate part of the shadowed form, and it shrieks as it disappears into the wall.
Liam: For clarification, that is the one I hit, as well, right?
Matt: No, the one that you hit is where she was.
Liam: Oh, Pike hit the other one.
Matt: Correct. Keyleth, are you doing anything as a reaction?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to pull out my staff and do a Burning Hands on him. Dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Natural 20, so it takes half damage.
Marisha: Half damage.
Laura: Ooh, that's good. You did the six and the four.
Taliesin: And then there was a third one.
Marisha: And then there's a third one that is a six? Was that right? Six and six is 12, so 16.
Matt: 16 points of fire damage reduced by half which is eight, and even that impact seems to be lessened by the wraith-like being seemingly absorbing some of the heat from the impact.
Laura: Radiant damage is the bomb!
Taliesin: Radiant damage is what we need in here.
Matt: All righty, that ends their turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to stay in my little cubby hole. I've got some good visual on a couple of these guys down here. I'm going to yell at everybody to get the fuck away from the ball. I'm going to hold my attack until something happens that's going to give me something to shoot at.
Matt: Okay, so as soon as an enemy reveals itself that you can shoot. Okay, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Fucking hell. I'm going to do the same thing except I'm going to move to here and wait for something to attack one of my friends.
Taliesin: That's awfully close to the ball.
Liam: I know it is. That's what I do. I'm waiting until one of them attacks one of my friends. One of the undead. I can't do anything about that. That's what I'm doing. That's my turn.
Matt: All right, Pike's turn.
Liam: Stupid, I know. That's what Vax does.
Laura: I can only do this as a bonus action so that she can have that up, right? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon. Should she do it at a second level? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon up near the wall as a giant sword that looks like it's on fire.
Matt: Whereabouts? On the wall here?
Laura: No, near the wall, yeah. Up close to the wall so that she can attack as soon as that thing is down. And then she's going to hold her physical action until there's something that she can attack.
Matt: Okay, she's holding her physical attack?
Laura: Yeah, her mace.
Matt: Okay, that ends Pikes turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, that's me!
Matt: Yeah, that's you, actually.
Liam: You're Vex.
Laura: I'm Vex. I'm going to dart away from this ball as fast as I can, and I'm going to come up here.
Sam: Hey, you broke through!
Laura: I broke through the wall. I can't reach. I'm too fucking-- It's fine; I got it.
Sam: Make Matt stand up, Laura.
Matt: Please do. I appreciate it.
Laura: And I'm going to hold my fucking attack until something comes out that I can attack.
Matt: Okay. All righty.
Marisha: I can't believe I couldn't fucking dispel that wall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah, I am, aren't I? Okay. Cool.
Laura: Wait, I have bonus action still.
Matt: You do.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use that Grasping Vine that I still have up, and I'm going to re-grab onto that stupid guy's fucking neck and yank him towards the wall he's right in front of.
Matt: That's a 15. What's your DC on that?
Laura: 15.
Matt: He succeeds, unfortunately. It slaps out towards him and this time-- I forget the adage, but never mind. He dodges it. (laughter)
Liam: It took 425 hours, but we did it. We broke his brain.
Matt: Blame it on the painkillers. The vine whooshes out and tries to wrap around him. He dodges out of the way, and it slaps harmlessly against the stone and withdraws back into the small crack of stone where it's based. That ends your turn. All right, Grog.
Travis: I'm going to put my faith in Scanlan that some sort of impossible miracle happens. (counting) 30. Right up against the wall. Can I look to the left down that hallway? Can I see down there at all? Is it blocking the hallway off from vision? Is that a moveable space?
Matt: Looking off, it looks like the orb was being used to carve a path.
Travis: It hadn't finished doing it?
Matt: No. It was maybe 25 or so feet down and was hitting solid rock.
Laura: My spell DC may be higher. I don't know if I have increased that in a while.
Liam: It's eight, plus proficiency bonus, plus her spell bonus.
Laura: So my spell DC is 17.
Matt: You need to keep up on that, girl.
Marisha: That was how I lost to Grog in our battle.
Laura: I wanted it around his neck, just to make him annoyed.
Matt: It hits him against the wall. He's still glancing over his shoulder.
Taliesin: He's lost visual range of the ball?
Matt: No, he can still look over the rubble there.
Travis: Not enough to make a concentration check?
Matt: If that's what it does.
Travis: I'm there. I can't get into that hole anymore, can I?
Matt: Not with the way the Wall of Force is placed, no.
Travis: Fair enough. I will hold my action until someone comes within melee distance.
Matt: Okay, ending Grog's turn. At the top of the staircase--
Laura: Oh no! He's coming back for Scanlan!
Matt: This guy here, we'll say he got about that far from the stairs and continues that way.
Marisha: Sanctuary!
Taliesin: Like he's parting the Red Sea.
Taliesin: You shall not pass!
Marisha: You shall not pass!
Laura: Oh my god, we're going against Gandalf right now, you guys.
Taliesin: That's not Gandalf. That's a cosplayer.
Liam: Do you know many hobbits I have under my cloak?
Taliesin: Five hobbits in a cloak. That's all it is. It's not a wizard.
Matt: He glances down at the staircase where you are, and as he begins to smile, the flash in the eye begins to glow briefly, a pale comparison to Vecna, but there is an essence of energy lent to him from his worship of the newly risen deity. He begins to speak in a language you don't understand. And as he speaks one alien word-- how many hit points do you have?
Sam: A lot. 167.
Matt: Fuck, okay. I miscalculated. No effect.
Sam: Power Word?
Matt: Power Word  Stun. He assumed the smaller stature of the gnome was not as hearty.
Travis: He's upset that he miscalculated. The DM wants blood!
Liam: That's what he gets for profiling.
Matt: He's going to continue moving upward, 30 feet back up into the staircase as he keeps focusing on you. That's going to end his turn. You're up, Scanlan.
Sam: Hold on. I need to look up the range of a fucking spell. How far is he from me?
Matt: It's hard to tell at this point. You'd say somewhere between 50, 60, 70 feet.
Liam: I bet your spell is 120 feet, Sam.
Sam: I'm looking. That one's not.
Liam: Is it Thaumaturgy? Because that's right where your eyes are.
Sam: You said how far? Oh shit.
Matt: Between 50 and 70 feet from you.
Laura: You can move.
Liam: You can move.
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to move 25 feet towards him.
Matt: Okay, so that puts you up here.
Sam: And with my darkvision, do I get a sense for how far he is from me now?
Matt: Yeah, you'd say he's about 40 feet from you.
Sam: Fuck no, it's not. Shit, I need 30.
Laura: You can move five more feet. You've got more movement.
Sam: No. That's my movement. I have tiny little nubs.
Travis: Tiny little nubs?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: What about long-range shit, man?
Sam: That's okay. Yeah, I've got longer-range shit, but it's not as bad news.
Marisha: Keep them from running away.
Travis: Damn it, Matt. Why'd you have to back up?
Matt: Because that tactically made sense.
Liam: Bigby's Hand him? Grab him?
Sam: I'm thinking. I'm trying to decide between two things.
Travis: Yeah, do it. Take your time, baby. Take your time. Taliesin, give him a backrub. Come on, let's focus up here. There you go. Support. Feel the love.
Marisha: This is all on you, man. This is all on you.
Travis: Do your thing. Listen, Shadow of War comes out October 10th. A lot of us are in it.
Sam: It's going to have a lot of wisdom. All right. I will Bigby's Hand. I assume he's got a lot of wisdom, so I will Bigby's Hand him. At level seven. And I will punch the shit out of him.
Laura: Punch him back toward us. Bigby's Hand on the opposite side of him and punch him back toward us.
Marisha: That's a good call.
Matt: All right, so that is 8d8 force damage if you hit. Roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Inspire yourself!
Taliesin: Inspire yourself!
Sam: I didn't. I forgot. I rolled an 18.
Matt: 18 hits. He's a caster; he doesn't have a lot of armor.
Marisha: Kill him!
Matt: All right, so roll 8d8 force damage.
Taliesin: I have three.
Sam: And I've got one.
Liam: That's just some dude from Sea Org in a bathrobe. Punch him!
Taliesin: Wow, that was a deep cut.
Sam: Wait. Shit. What did I just roll? 16 plus four. That's 20. And then this is another-- 40.
Matt: 40 points of force damage.
Sam: 40 points of force damage.
Matt: All right, that's a 20 DC concentration check.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Come on.
Matt: 16. No.
All: Wall down!
Laura: Did we notice? Did we notice that the wall went down?
Matt: No, you don't see it.
Sam: I don't know. Right?
Matt: But Grog would feel it. Grog is sitting there waiting for something, as Bigby's Hand full-on sucker punches him in the body, and he slams against the steps and has to shake his head as he glances at the giant fist and down at you.
Sam: As a bonus action, can I do anything?
Matt: If you want to do a bonus action, you can't do Bigby's Hand again.
Sam: No, but can I throw something to see if it goes through the wall?
Matt: Sure. I'll let you do that. Roll an attack roll, just to aim it.
Sam: Sure. 17, plus I don't know.
Matt: What are you throwing?
Sam: Scanlan found these two really crappy daggers in the desk in the casino.
Matt: He pulls one of these jeweled daggers that he wore and throws it behind, and Grog, you watch as this dagger passes through.
Taliesin: I see that, and I take three shots at this fucker up here immediately. How far away is he?
Matt: Which guy? The who Bigby's Hand just punched? Okay, he is about 120 feet.
Taliesin: I'm going to use Bad News, then, because that is within range for my fucking sniper rifle. He's going to take that.
Laura: I'm going to shoot at the dude in red in front of me.
Taliesin: I can't use a bonus action, and I have to reload once, so I can only take two shots with my action. I can't take three. So two shots with Bad News. Here we go. That's a 25 and 27 to hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: First shot is 22 points of damage. Second shot is not as good. 14 points of damage.
Matt: So as you fire those two shots, the echoing noise of Bad News's explosions echoes through the hallway and stairway above. Vex.
Laura: I'm going to sharpshooter him, the guy right in front of me.
Taliesin: There's a lot of noises going on in this place. I think it'll be okay.
Marisha: Oh, it's fine. There are tunnels collapsing and shit. It's fine. I'm not concerned about the noise at the moment.
Laura: 22 to hit?
Matt: 22 does hit.
Laura: 21 damage on the first. And then 19 on the second. That's also Sharpshooter.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: No, that's 19 to hit.
Matt: Gotcha. That hits.
Laura: 27 on the second.
Matt: All right, nice. The guy who's controlling the sphere, after the first arrow strikes him right in the chest, he looks and starts to run up the stairway, and as it does, you take aim with your second arrow and release it, and it hits the base of the skull. You watch him go down one of the stairs.
Taliesin: So the sphere is still there?
Matt: The sphere is still there.
Laura: But he doesn't have control over it anymore. This guy in red is down, so all that's left is the guy and the wraiths?
Taliesin: Was there a third guy?
Laura: We killed him. That was the first guy we killed.
Matt: That finishes Scanlan's turn, right?
Laura: Yeah, that was your turn.
Sam: Yeah, I'm done.
Matt: Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay. I run up as far as I can, 30 feet. Do I see this motherfucker?
Matt: Yeah, you see him. You have a 60-foot range of darkvision?
Marisha: Or I see the glimmering of Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you could probably see him okay. A little bit. It's very dark, but barely.
Marisha: Fireball! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's an answer.
Matt: As you rush up, from the edge of the staff, a bead of red light engulfs the hallway above in flames. You see a split second of him and Bigby's Hand's outlines before fire engulfs the space. Go ahead and roll damage on that. That's a natural 20 on his save, so he gets half damage.
Marisha: What the fuckballs?
Matt: I didn't even roll with advantage on that one.
Sam: You said Fireball on this guy? Bigby's Hand takes damage.
Marisha: Does he? Magical?
Sam: Yeah, he has hit points.
Taliesin: He could roll a save, though.
Sam: He could!
Matt: Let's check. Yep, it has no bonus, so you roll a d20 and see what you get.
Sam: 11.
Marisha: 29 points of damage.
Sam: It's fine. Bigby's Hand has 167 hit points.
Matt: Yeah, it has your hit points.
Laura: That's amazing!
Sam: Yeah, it's me.
Matt: That ends Keyleth's turn. He's still alive. This one's going to move through the hallway here.
Marisha: He's still going after my ass?
Matt: This one's going after Pike.
Liam: I get to attack. I've been holding.
Laura: Pike gets to attack. Pike has been holding her action to attack as soon as she could, too.
Matt: So Pike gets her attack, and so do you.
Laura: So 20 to hit on Pike.
Matt: 20 to hit? That hits.
Laura: Where is my other d8? Here it is. (counting)
Liam: When you hold, does bonus action carry over?
Matt: Nope, just the action.
Laura: So it's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. And what's the saving throw?
Laura: Saving throw is 15.
Matt: 15. Four, no. As it comes out of the wall reaching for Pike, she swings wide with the mace. As it slams into it, there's a flash of divine energy. Her eyes seem to pulse with a matching burst of radiant power, and as it hits, the creature squeals and squeaks as the light from the mace actually dashes it from this existence or any other. That is scattered into nothing from the shadows.
Liam: I rolled an 18 and a one.
Matt: 18 hits. One misses.
Liam: Okay, so sneak attack. One.
Sam: One misses?
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: 39 for the second attack.
Matt: 39 for the second attack. All righty. And with that, as this one reaches out towards Keyleth, your dagger strikes the back of its body, and as it impacts, you watch as its shadowed form turns into nothing but a splash of dark, half-existing ether, which then fades as your dagger clatters to the ground motionless.
Liam: Back to the belt.
Matt: All right. Percival, you're up.
Laura: Kill him!
Taliesin: Reload. Going to take another shot.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Going to take a shot. Yeah, let's take another shot. Probably got a low AC. Let's make this a sharpshooter, just for fun. Yeah. That's a sharpshooter shot, so that's a 24 to hit?
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: All right. So let's do (counting) 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage. (gunshot) The echo of the impact as you watch part of the lower jaw and throat of the cultist in the robe gets blown apart. He stumbles back onto the steps that he had barely started to get up off to and you watch and you hear the horrible coughing sound as his last moments of life are robbed of it as it tries to get back up and then stumbles right back and bleeds out against the steps.
Taliesin: We can still interrogate him. He doesn't have to be alive for that. Any other problems?
Liam: How's the ball doing?
Matt: It's hovering there in the center of the hall.
Laura: We can't do anything about that floating ball. Cover it with a handkerchief.
Marisha: You beat me to it, man.
Taliesin: Let's rifle through these guys' stuff. Which one do we want to interrogate?
Marisha: Keyleth goes up to the red robe.
Taliesin: Let's throw gray robe into the annihilation ball. Let's get rid of him.
Travis: Vax. Why don't you go down the hallway and see if anyone else is coming? Keep watch.
Laura: But stay within 60 feet. Everybody gather up around me again.
Liam: Sis, come up to where Scanlan is so I can go a little further ahead.
Matt: Everyone is barely still within 60 feet.
Taliesin: Everyone gather up. We're going to get our stuff.
Laura: Avoid the ball.
Marisha: Vax, can I borrow a dagger?
Liam: Yeah. I give her Whisper.
Marisha: I take it and I stab it in his other eye. Red robe guy.
Matt: Okay. (splat) Other eye is destroyed.
Sam: I'm going to use Bigby's Hand to grab the sphere.
Matt: Do you? Okay. Bigby's Hand reaches over and grabs towards the sphere, and as Bigby's form attempts to grasp the chaotic point of destructive energy, Bigby's Hand suffers 26 points of force damage and is forced to pull back.
Sam: That's not so bad.
Matt: But cannot grasp it. Cannot move it. (electrical shock)
Laura: I'm going to rifle through the robes of red robe.
Taliesin: I'm going to get Odell.
Matt: That's the one she's rifling through.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. There was a third guy, right, that they killed early on?
Matt: Oh, the first guy. Yeah. Okay, gotcha.
Taliesin: Assume we're going through everybody and taking their shit.
Liam: I'm standing as far from Vex as I can, but I can't go much farther because obviously-- yeah.
Matt: Okay. Interestingly enough, based on the current scenario and what preparation has been, no money on them. They have no worldly possessions that are what you consider of use. They each carry a gnarled wooden wand that they've been using as a focus for their spellcasting. Beyond that, they have nothing on them except for the one that you shot has, you notice the left hand is withered and gray, the skin is pulled taut against the bone. But beyond that, there is no other possessions on them, beyond the symbol of Vecna they wear around their throat.
Marisha: How many of those symbols do we still have, and how many robes do we still have?
Laura: Well, we can grab their robes, I don't know how many of those we have, but I think we also have a necklace.
Liam: Also, we can have Pickle talk to one of these arseholes.
Taliesin: I think that's a good idea.
Marisha: The guy that I'm standing over, red robe, I'm going to rip his necklace off.
Matt: Okay. You tear it off.
Laura: I'm going to take his robes.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we're taking all this shit.
Matt: So you take every set of robes. And these robes are different from the robes that you had seen in Thar Amphala before. These appear to be a little more ornate. They seem to have a little higher station, which is why it's interesting that beyond the robes and some basic undergarments and the wand, they have nothing on them. They are a sheer conduit of their own power.
Taliesin: Were they drilling? I want to take a little bit of an inspection. Were they drilling with this thing? Is that why they had it?
Matt: Looking around the pathway, you can see that a lot of the staircase probably was more caved in, but has been cleared out by the movement of this orb. It's being used as a form of excavation tool as they push deeper into the catacombs here.
Marisha: So they were holding on to that orb the whole time.
Laura: Yeah, the guy in the red was controlling it.
Marisha: Yeah. He didn't cast it, though. We didn't see him cast that.
Laura: It came out of the wall.
Matt: Yeah, it came out of that little gap on the side there.
Sam: I'm going to go over to the sphere and say to it: I command thee to respect my authority and obey me as your new master.
Matt: Are you trying to exert your will on the sphere?
Sam: I'm intimidating the sphere.
Matt: Make an intelligence arcana check.
Sam: Intelligence arcana check?
Matt: Just an arcana check.
Sam: Oh! 19.
Matt: 19? And you're standing right next to the sphere to push your will into it?
Sam: Yeah, I came closer to it.
Matt: Okay. As you stand there, you focus on the orb, and you can feel your will push past the event horizon of the sphere. However, the force is too strong inside, and as you pull out of it instinctually, it moves towards you. (screaming)
Taliesin: Why did you have to tamper with the fundamental forces of nature?
Matt: Yeah. Ten feet. Which is right where you are, so I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Matthew McConaughey is going to reach out of it for you.
Sam: That's not good. 11.
Matt: 11?
Sam: Bigby, save me!
Matt: The orb pulls back and slams into the edge of his gnomish face and chest, and you watch as his flesh is pulled towards and disintegrated at the exterior of the sphere.
Laura: Can we reach down and grab him away from it?
Marisha: Yeah, Grasping Vine!
Matt: You take 30 points of force damage, and it's currently now right in your square, right up against you.
Laura: I use my Grasping Vine and I yank him away from it.
Marisha: Yeah, move away!
Matt: Okay. So you all push him out of the way and the vine pulls him.
Travis: Two-Face!
Matt: Yeah, you look a little rough.
Laura: Scanlan, you're hideous now.
Sam: Don't look at me! I'm fine.
Travis: Some other voice starts coming out of him.
Sam: I think I can take this thing.
Liam: "So did you want me to talk to one of these guys?"
Matt: You got the sense that there is a way to exert your will over it the way these guys did, but in that moment, your will faltered, and you didn't quite understand the nature of the sphere.
Sam: I just need to try again harder.
Marisha: Wait!
Laura: You got to roll higher than a 19. Can you give yourself inspiration?
Sam: This is an ability check, right?
Matt: This is an ability check, yes.
Taliesin: Wait, was that a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: No. It was an arcana check.
Travis: It might be high, dude. You might have to roll a 30.
Taliesin: Let's leave it. Tend to the sick and leave the well alone.
Travis: Indiana? Let it go.
Laura: Or Dominate that shit.
Sam: I'll try one more time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: All right. Let's all back up.
Laura: I get ready with the vine to yank him away in case it starts moving toward him.
Matt: Okay. And everyone else backs up a little.
Marisha: Keyleth stares with a vague familiarity.
Sam: I'm going to inspire myself.
Matt: Okay. So make your roll first, as you begin to focus and exert your will towards it. You add it on to it.
Sam: Pretty good.
Laura: Now inspire!
Sam: And inspire?
Matt: Up to you.
Sam: Okay. Plus my what? Arcana?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ooh, that's a lot. 30.
Matt: Okay. As you this time begin to push your will towards the sphere, you push past the event horizon, your consciousness connects with some--
Sam: (garbled) Listen to me, damn it! Respect my authority!
Matt: Some ancient space of the void within this blackened circle. As it connects-- What's your intelligence modifier?
Sam: Plus three.
Matt: Okay. What are you trying to will it to do?
Sam: I'm trying to will it to-- Shit, it's just a big black ball. Slam straight into the ceiling!
Matt: It moves up ten feet and then it hits, devours the stone above it to create this small tunnel right directly above.
Laura: Oh my god! You did it.
Sam: We can use it!
Taliesin: Finally.
Sam: Have you guys seen The Explorers?
Taliesin: I'm in The Explorers, motherfucker. I'm in The Explorers.
Sam: You are?! That's one of my favorite movies of all time! Can I get your autograph?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Were you kidding? Are you really in The Explorers?
Taliesin: Yes! I'm really in The Explorers.
Liam: Stop the game!
Taliesin: I'm one of River's little brothers. I'm Ludwig.
Sam: Oh, wow!
Marisha: Yeah, he knew River through that.
Laura: What if we use the orb and go straight up? We don't even keep tunneling, we juat go straight up to the city.
Sam: It only listens to me.
Laura: Yeah. Do you need us to heal you or anything?
Sam: No, this is a cool thing.
Travis: Yeah, but it only makes a hole its size. It's two feet across.
Taliesin: I think he's not ready to pop a wheelie on this thing yet.
Travis: Plus, remember the guy was concentrating super hard, so it's the only thing Scanlan will probably be able to do.
Marisha: But if he cores out a tunnel for us, we can carry Scanlan like on a palanquin? Like We Are The Champions?
Sam: Guys, I think we can make it. No, we can't! We'll never make it! Yes, we can!
Liam: All I'm thinking is I could come up and do Lay on Hands and heals, but I'm like, you made your bed, lie in it.
Taliesin: Yeah, no. I'm okay with this.
Laura: What do you think? Do you want to go up?
Sam: We're still investigating these guys and stuff.
Marisha: Fuck these guys! We got all their shit. Let's go!
Sam: I'm going to call this ball Simon 3.
Travis: Do we know how far the sphere can move in a single movement?
Matt: You watched him push it, and it went about 15 feet.
Travis: The sphere can only move 15 feet.
Sam: It will slow us down.
Matt: It's a very slow-moving ball of destruction.
Taliesin: Bring the sphere back down so that we can throw their bodies into the sphere so that they don't turn into undead fuckwads.
Liam: Wait a second, though! God, I don't know what this will do. I have a spell called Zone of Truth.
Laura: So it forces them to speak the truth? Does it work on undead?
Liam: A creature that enters the spell's area for the first time. If it fails.
Laura: So you could cast it, and then Pike could cast Speak with Dead, and it would come up into the Zone of Truth.
Liam: That's right.
Travis: No, they have to tell the truth when you do Speak with Dead.
Liam: No, they don't.
Matt: They don't have to.
Marisha: They can lie.
Taliesin: Here's a weird question  what saving throw do they have to make to speak the truth?
Liam: An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. So it could avoid the questions.
Laura: But they have to answer the questions.
Liam: But they have to answer the questions because of the other spell.
Laura: Right?
Sam: Double mumbo-jumbo?
Matt: It can't tell a lie, as you're discussing this. Technically, a creature would be unable to lie in the area.
Liam: Unable to lie, and with Pike's spell--
Laura: They have to answer the question.
Liam: They have to answer the question.
Matt: Let me double-check for you.
Taliesin: And what's the save?
Liam: Charisma saving throw against my spell save DC, which is not huge.
Marisha: What is it?
Liam: 16.
Matt: I mean, it does have to answer.
Liam: I like it.
Taliesin: Are we going to try this crazy shit?
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Might as well. Okay, hang on, though! What are we going to get from this guy?
Laura: Find out how close we are to Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Yeah, what's the plan? What are they trying to do?
Liam: What has Vecna got cooking?
Taliesin: What's Vecna planning? How many of them are there?
Marisha: I'm going to go pee, you guys.
Liam: He might not know everything. How long does it take for Keyleth to pee?
Laura: No, but how close we are to Vasselheim? What's the plan of attack in Vasselheim? How big is his army? We get five questions, I think, with Speak with Dead.
Taliesin: Five?
Sam: How close are we? What's his plan? Where is he?
Laura: Where is Vecna within the city?
Sam: Who's with him?
Laura: Who's the death knight?
Taliesin: He might not know that. But what are they excavating for? What are they looking for?
Travis: I think I know that.
Taliesin: I think I know, too, but I want to hear him say it. It'd make me feel better.
Laura: Let's do it! Cast your Zone, yo!
Taliesin: Get in the zone.
Laura: (singing) Autozone!
Matt: (chuckling) Autozone of Truth?
Liam: Shit. So can anyone drag him down on his roll to save, or boost me?
Taliesin: No. Not me.
Laura: I don't think so.
Liam: Does anyone have a cantrip? Okay. All right. Let's do it.
Matt: All right. So which one?
Liam: Well, first Zone of Truth, then Pike.
Matt: Okay. So you create the Zone of Truth, you create the area, the radial space where the divine energy kicks in and the compulsion to not lie remains within. And then Pike--
Laura: Casts Speak with Dead.
Matt: On which corpse? There are three corpses.
Liam: Red robe seemed more fancy.
Sam: Who seemed more senior?
Liam: Red robe did.
Matt: There are three, technically.
Sam: There was the guy they killed right when they burst on the scene.
Taliesin: We'll take the fanciest cloak.
Matt: Okay. It's relative, but the guy who was controlling the sphere seemed to be at least different.
Laura: He had a different color. Yeah, red robe.
Matt: All right. So as Pike takes the time to focus and recite the incantation, she grabs her holy symbol and focuses and speaks aloud the words in Celestial of the blessing of Sarenrae. And as she completes the ritual, she suddenly screams out in pain and grabs at her head and falls to her knees. No effect. And she suffers--
Laura: Oh no! What did he do to Pike?
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: On 6d6, I rolled four sixes and a five. That's 31 points of psychic damage to Pike.
Liam: She tried to cast Speak with Dead Dumbfuck.
Matt: She's shaking and grabbing her face and rubbing her eyes, and it takes her a moment to come back to you and she looks around, and you can see a faint bit of blood slightly dripping out of the corner of her eyes. She's like, "All I heard was laughter."
Sam: Laughter?
Laura: And you said it was minus 36 damage?
Matt: 31.
Liam: Vecna is in these motherfuckers' brains.
Marisha: Everyone looks upset.
Laura: Pike got psychic damage from that dude.
Marisha: How much? A lot?
Laura: 31 points of psychic damage.
Marisha: Oh, that's a lot, yeah.
Taliesin: Burn the bodies. Fuck it.
Marisha: Throw them down the well.
Taliesin: Throw them into the sphere.
Marisha: Oh yeah!
Sam: Sphere! Do your worst.
Matt: One by one, you grab and take the corpses and thrust them towards the sphere, as they immediately crumple, fold and get pulled in, turned to nothingness, disappearing into the black void. There are elements of the way the sphere acts and manipulates things that remind you of the siphons, though differently. It's more violent in some ways, and it is its own contained magical entity. With each body, it vanishes in the sphere, and you all sit there for a moment taking a breath and deciding the next order of business in traversing the insides of this titan. And that's where we'll end tonight's game, because it's 11:30.
Marisha: I feel like I always come back from the bathroom right as we're ending games.
Sam: First of all, it's so great to be back!
Taliesin: It's so nice to be back.
Sam: Matt, thank god you're totally 100 percent healed and all better again.
Matt: It's great. Sorry. But yeah, missed you guys. We'll be back next week, pick up from here, see as the final charge gets closer and closer. What will you guys do next time? In the meantime, rest well, don't forget, if you can, to give to the Red Cross to help support the victims of recent hurricane battering in the US.
Laura: Look for Shadow of War.
Matt: Shadow of War coming out on October 10th.
Marisha: Our comic on Wednesday.
Matt: Yep, look for that. And we'll see you guys soon. Have a wonderful week, we love you, and: Is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]