The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play D&D, Dungeons & Dragons. Roll dice and kill monsters and sometimes maybe get killed themselves. I don't know. (yelling)
Matt: Because it's fun to set the tone. It's fun. But yeah, so anyway. Thank you guys for joining us, old and new, welcome to our chaos. We have a few announcements to get through before we start tonight's game. First and foremost, for those who haven't seen, we've been putting up Spotify playlists compiled by our different players here. And this week we had Vex, Laura, put up her playlist. Which is awesome. If you want to say something about your playlist and some cool stuff they can look forward to?
Laura: Just that it's the coolest. No, it's actually weirdly personal to put it together and put it up. It feels like you're baring your soul. So I hope you guys enjoy my soul. And also, song three, which is like... everything.
Marisha: That one might have made me cry a little bit.
Laura: Right?
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Laura: I may or may not have been thinking of the Critters while I was picking that song. Just so you guys know.
Taliesin: I'm so excited. I haven't heard yours yet.
Sam: Are we on?
Matt: We are on. Hi. Welcome, Sam.
Sam: Hi, guys.
Liam: You're so early tonight.
Sam: (breathless) Oh yeah, sorry. (laughter)
Marisha: We're the beginning of the announcements. It's great. We were talking about the playlists.
Sam: Oh, I've got to finish mine.
Marisha: Yeah! You're almost done. I will say, for those who have not gone and checked out any of the playlists, we have Vax and Percy up as well. Definitely go do it, because all that little extra content that we put out is always kind of a litmus test, to see if people are going to be interested in it. And if you guys go and actually visit the webpage at Geek & Sundry, then we get more content. So the more you go visit it--
Matt: Make more stuff for you guys, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, the more that we can show the people upstairs that people do like our stuff and our content, the more you will get. So please go check it out if you have not yet. It helps.
Taliesin: Here, actually, do this with me. Let's make a double rainbow gif, for later. (laughter)
Laura: That's beautiful.
Matt: That's on you, CritRoleSource.
Taliesin: That's on you, internet.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Cool. So that's awesome. Next announcement, for those who haven't had a chance to see it. A little over a year ago I Kickstarted a web series with a bunch of other really talented people. Sean Becker, who is director of The Guild, directed it. It's called Muzzled the Musical. Ashly Burch, a bunch of great talented people from The Lizzie Bennet Diaries and a bunch of other web series, Juliet Landau is in it. It's a great fun web series and it went live last week right before Halloween. So we have our three-episode arc up on YouTube. If you like musicals and you like fun silly dark, Doctor Horrible-style performances, then you're going to like this. Check it out, see if you like it. Let's see. Oh yeah, tomorrow is BlizzCon. BlizzCon, for all you crazy guys who are going or those who are watching on the digital online pass. A bunch of us Critters will be wandering the halls, doing panels and all kinds of fun stuff. Like, for me personally, I'll be there tomorrow at 4:30. I think, Liam, you are on that as well?
Liam: Yeah, same panel.
Matt: Yeah, The World of Warcraft Live panel. We'll be there doing that. And then doing a signing afterward. What else you guys got going on at BlizzCon?
Liam: I'm on three, so I think it's two on Friday and one on Saturday. I tweeted out the times. Don't remember them now, so just go check my feed if you want. I'll see you there.
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: I'm going to have to do my job really quick and jump in on that. And say that tomorrow at 4:30PM PST here, we will be doing a live trailer watch and reveal with special guests. Laura and Travis are coming by. Alison Haislip and Ify Nwadiwe are going to be our hosts for that. And then we are going to have interviews with Duncan Jones the director and some of the cast and crew. It's going to be really cool, so tune in tomorrow, 4:30, for that.
Taliesin: And then if you're at BlizzCon, I think we're going to be wandering around a little bit.
Marisha: Yes, I'll be there.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll be there.
Marisha: We'll be there. Probably watching his panels.
Matt: Rock that out. Cool. Also, tonight is Critmas. So for those who want to hang around. (voice cracking) We have quite a cavalcade of presents.
Laura: There's a lot of presents, you guys.
Liam: Taliesin and I got here early and with Ryan we opened everything and it's an embarrassment of riches.
Laura: They had to open it so that we wouldn't be opening the boxes.
Taliesin: We tried not to peek.
Liam: Some of the stuff I didn't see, some of the stuff Taliesin didn't see. So we're not completely spoiled, we're a little spoiled.
Laura: We got a little spoiled. I got a little spoiled early, though.
Matt: Because of that.
Laura: Somebody sent a new Trinket! Look at that, you guys!
Matt: Giant bear.
Laura: Look at him. He's so cute.
Liam: And please. I mean, we thought it was a corpse, at first, when we got it. Then, when we opened it up we got really excited and I had this, which I used to open it. We got really excited and took a bear out, and then it was a bear and we forgot about all the wrappings and the paper. So if you sent us the bear, please contact us now.
Sam: Wait, we don't know who sent it?!
Liam: Just contact us now. You're watching. Somebody is watching who knows that person, so just let us know.
Matt: Find them, post it in the chat room.
Taliesin: Somewhere they're saying, "That's my bear".
Laura: Please! I have just been hugging it non-stop.
Matt: It was pretty amazing when it was wrapped up. It looked like a body. Like, straight up, season two Dexter. It was pretty fantastic.
Marisha: Which leads us to our next point. Please don't send us bodies.
Matt: Please don't. No bodies.
Taliesin: Address it to me, if you do.
Matt: (laughs) He'll know what to do.
Liam: I think if it had been the only package, we would have been able to focus better, but there were about a hundred packages, so it was difficult for us to focus. We were opening stuff for an hour and a half, so thanks in advance.
Matt: So thanks in advance for that. Also, you will recognize a couple of new songs tonight. We had the wonderful pleasure of having Bethesda approve us using Elder Scrolls music in our on-channel playlists. So I have been able to go back and re-incorporate all of my old Elder Scrolls music that I used when we originally played off stream. So that's really cool. Thank you, Bethesda. Thank you guys very much.
Taliesin: Now ten percent more realistic  Critical Role.
Matt: Exactly. Imagine that. Really stoked about that.
Taliesin: More authentic. Homebrew.
Matt: Just a reminder. The "How do you want to do this?" shirts are up. I still have to get one for myself. I think I should. And we have the Critical Role necklace and awesome keychain, which I have not seen in person until tonight.
Laura: They're really cool.
Matt: So we'll pass them around and we can each give it our blessing. Each individual one is blessed by me. That's not true, but you will still roll well while wearing one. So that's exciting, and let's see what else we got. Do you want to do the quick Wyrmwood thing? Reminder from Wyrmwood?
Liam: Yeah. We are friends with Wyrmwood Gaming, and you can still use the code CritRole to get free shipping on an order for your wood. Its beautiful wood. I have some black wood, but there's many different colors.
Laura: I got this wood.
Liam: They are really, really beautiful. So just share the nerd connections, everybody.
Marisha: Pretty sexy.
Laura: These are the Kickstarter boxes, though. These are what's being done now, or are those for sale right now?
Liam: The Kickstarter boxes are not. The CritRole code will not work for these, but they'll work for these bad mama-jamas right here.
Sam: Which is really what you want.
Laura: And these, too. These are deck boxes.
Matt: Yeah. Thank you, Wyrmwood, for being so awesome and for putting that code together for our community.
Liam: I have one personal thing.
Matt: Yes, please.
Liam: I have a pilot on Amazon Prime called Everstar, where I play a little robot.
Sam: Is that true?!
Liam: And he's really uptight. Yeah, that's a pilot.
Sam: Oh, did the Amazon pilots launch today?
Liam: They all launched, and I'm in a cute adventure cartoon for young girls and boys. And I'm up against bloody, gritty live-action dramas and political satire and other cartoons, as well. Roger Craig Smith is playing Mouse Cookies. But if you like Everstar, which is this young action/adventure space-pirate story, give it a watch. If you like it, vote it through. If it gets voted through, I will continue to be a robot.
Sam: I directed one, too, called Yoyotoki Happy Ears. So that's on there too.
Matt: How's that go, again?
Sam: Yoyotoki Happy Ears. It's really weird and funny, and it's actually really awesome.
Travis: Also, Halo 5 is out this week, which Laura and I are in. It's amazing.
Liam: I'm not familiar with that. What is that?
Travis: It's some game. Takes place in outer space.
Liam: Is that a match three? Like Bejeweled?
Travis: It's like Candy Crush, but with more death.
Taliesin: That's available on Android.
Matt: The last announcement is that they announced that The Witcher is coming to theaters in a couple of years, and that has nothing to do with us, other than the fact that I'm probably going to be at full mast for the next week, thinking of that possibility.
Travis: Said so casually.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so excited. Please don't fuck it up.
Travis: They will. It'll be Mark Wahlberg.
Matt: No, no, no!
Marisha: Channing Tatum.
Liam: Will Ferrell.
Matt: I will... I would not!
Marisha: Channing Tatum is Geralt of Rivia.
Laura: Done! Let's make this happen.
Matt: Don't. Guys, I will stop this show. Your DM is out! If Channing Tatum becomes Geralt, I will be so furious. He's great at certain roles. I loved him in... I absolutely adored him in the 21 Jump Street movies.
Sam: I guess he's not coming on our show, jeez.
Matt: That's enough of our silly talk. Let's go ahead and dive into the chaos that is the current circumstance. Keep in mind, the culmination of leading into Halloween with this story arc and now going and starting a rebellion in Whitestone on the Fifth of November has been a very delightful, unintentional coordination here.
Taliesin: I almost wore my special spider belt, too, but it felt too weird.
Matt: So that's pretty cool. So to get you guys up to speed with the circumstance that has happened, those especially that are tuning in for the first time. A couple known as the Briarwoods that took over the city of Whitestone five years before, murdering most of the ruling family of Percy-- other than himself, escaping-- have recently been doing political discussions with the home city of Emon. Vox Machina, our troop of intrepid adventurers, upon discovering this, battled them at Emon. They fled to Whitestone, and the party has then gone after to seek to destroy them and free the town, the once-home to Percival. In the process, it appears that there have been a number of warnings set, and the entire town has been long held under this dark, ominous rule that they have kept at bay. Apparently, they have found notes of previous, failed rebellions, and things that die here don't seem to stay dead. A number of zombified giants are wandering the city as these giant lurching sentinels. And apparently, a number of the cutthroats that helped the Briarwoods come to power in this town have now been given titles and land here and are now called the new nobles by the locals. During this process, you guys managed to sneak into the town, began setting out word of coming rebellion and that Percival de Rolo has returned and the Briarwoods' time is numbered. Upon meeting the previous chancellor to your father of the town, Archibald, you guys came to an understanding, and he was going to reach out to all of his contacts and let them know that the rebellion is happening. You guys then set out to set a two-pronged attack against two of the remaining new nobles in the town. Most of the party going to seek the outside of Count-- what's his name?
Travis: Count Dooku.
Laura: Count Dooku.
Marisha: Count Duke.
Matt: Duke Vedmeyer was the one that Scanlan went to, and then Tylieri is the one that the rest of you wandered outside. Now, as the rain pours down into the city, midday. Scanlan decided to open from a Polymorph spell, as a fly, to the top of the front doorstep of Vedmeyer's home. Then, proceeding to un-Polymorph and re-Polymorph into a triceratops. Of which, I have your statistics here for your triceratops form, if you want to come get that.
Marisha: Go get them stats, boy!
Taliesin: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Marisha: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Matt: So that's your triceratops form. After becoming a triceratops, you squashed the front guard that was there, you slammed through the front of the building, destroying the front door, and we cut to the other group who is stealthing through the rain. At which point, the okay was given to Grog, whether intentionally or not. Grog then charged to the front door of Tylieri's estate, and the rest of you prepared for impact. And that was where we left off, in the center of this chaos.
Liam: Let's do this!
Laura: Oh, god.
Matt: So without further ado. Sam.
Sam: But I was just handed this.
Matt: I know, take a look.
Travis: Sucks to be first!
Liam: He's got the maps out already. Get your shit together, man.
Sam: I've never been a triceratops before.
Liam: That's not what I heard.
Sam: All right, you're right. Think like a triceratops. So, I need shelter. I don't know. How do triceratopses think?
Taliesin: Probably like punk rock hippopotamuses.
Sam: Hip-hop-ipotimi.
Matt: Say, for the sake of this, for now, we'll go through your circumstance, as they are separate. So Scanlan, you are-- I did not have a triceratops, but I did have a stegosaurus. It's the same size. I'm sorry, bloodspike behemoth.
Taliesin: That's kind of racist.
Matt: I'm sorry. You know what? They're not around to argue.
Travis: That you know of.
Taliesin: We are going to get a bunch of angry tweets from stegosauruses and triceratops.
Matt: I'm sure. Please, bring them my way. As you slam your way into the front of Duke Vedmeyer's estate. Pieces of wood blasting outward, scattering among the center of the foyer. You see before you a rising staircase that divides into two separate staircases that curl around to the second level.
Sam: Lovely decor.
Matt: You also notice that the entire interior is currently filled with guards. All seemingly prepared and almost expecting your arrival.
Sam: I think I can take them, guys. I think I can take them.
Matt: You also see, at the top, Duke Vedmeyer himself. A large, hairless, grey-skinned goliath, wielding a giant two-handed sword, armored with a breastplate.
Marisha: Vecmeyer?
Matt: Vedmeyer.
Laura: He's a goliath?
Matt: He's a goliath, yeah.
Marisha: Vedmeyer is a goliath?
Sam: Wow, that's going to be fun later, but not right now. Okay, do I know? So, let's assess my knowledge real quick. I know about him a little bit. He is one of the thugs that came into the city.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: He is not a magic-wielder, as far as I know.
Matt: As far as you know, no. And at first glance, based on the fact that he is wearing heavy breastplate and is wielding a giant two-handed sword, you get the feeling he is probably not as heavily inclined towards the arcane arts as others you have encountered.
Sam: As I quickly survey the room, do I see anyone else who is a threat greater than a heavily armed guard? Anything that is a creepy wizard or a weird old mage?
Matt: Currently, no. Currently, all you see are a series of Whitestone guards in uniform armor, all with heavy crossbows, currently nocked. And as you come blasting through the door, they are already arranged in what appears to be a waiting pattern, should anything try and charge its way into the house.
Sam: So they'll probably all shoot me, won't they?
Matt: In fact, roll initiative.
Sam: So directly in front of me, there's a staircase going up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Any other doors or exits?
Matt: There are doors on each side that are currently locked, and other than that, no.
Sam: Those are locked doors?
Matt: They are closed currently, and they appear to be-- There's a giant wooden beam crossed over the front of each. Then there's the outside which leads to the exterior, to the raining outside of the household, and the stairs that go up.
Sam: Oh, man.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative? Don't I get a surprise round? Doesn't matter. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't get a surprise round because I sprung in there?
Matt: Apparently not.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: You made a very loud noise when you turned into a triceratops and tore through the front of the household. All right, so Scanlan is up first.
Sam: So here's the thing. Here's the thing. I should probably leave.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Sam: But come on. I'm a triceratops! I've got to have some fun first, right?
Travis: You can take a couple of hit points, right?
Sam: Right?!
Taliesin: I think you revert back to normal.
Marisha: Does Polymorph carry over?
Matt: If you go to zero hit points in animal form, you go back to your regular full health and any damage that carries over just goes to your regular health, at that point.
Laura: That's a lot of people.
Marisha: You have 115 hit points.
Matt: You guys aren't there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Travis: (sings Jurassic Park theme) (others join in)
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Wait, it's my turn first?
Matt: Yeah, you have initiative, man.
Sam: I beat them with initiative?
Matt: You did.
Sam: They are more than my charging distance as a triceratops, right?
Matt: He's the only one that's within, technically. What's your speed?
Sam: 40.
Matt: 40. You would get right up to Vedmeyer if you were to charge.
Sam: I would be dead.
Travis: No, you wouldn't. You got it. Go stick him!
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: I'm going to go-- How far away are the doors on the sides?
Matt: Over here? It's about 35 feet.
Sam: I'm going to turn right and blast through that door. (laughter)
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Oh shit, it could be trapped. Well, we'll find out.
Liam: Expect the unexpected with Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: He goes blasting through the doors.
Sam: Do I have to roll to blast through the doors?
Matt: We are going to find out. Yeah, go ahead and roll a strength check. Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier of the triceratops form.
Sam: Okay, strength modifier says plus five. So that's only a 17.
Laura: For a door!
Sam: Me and doors don't get along too well.
Matt: You, running, slam your head in, through, the horns protruding and tearing through the wood. The doors break inward, but the doors don't fully blast inward.
Sam: The door beat me!
Matt: The door is in bad shape. It won't take much more power to blast through.
Sam: These fucking doors.
Matt: It's now your worst nemesis.
Sam: So now I am stuck in a door?
Matt: You could try and pull back out. You manage to pull out without an issue. The doors are mostly beaten inward. It will take but a small impact to blast through next turn, if you wanted to.
Sam: Next turn? Do I still have an action after this?
Matt: That would have been your action.
Travis: You're great! You're money. You're good.
Laura: Every single one of those guys can attack you now.
Sam: Yeah, but it probably won't happen.
Travis: Maybe they didn't see you.
Laura: Run away.
Sam: It's not my turn anymore, right? That's it.
Matt: That's your turn.
Laura: No!
Sam: My triceratops ass is sticking out.
Matt: Just right there.
Travis: Look, they're all dummies. They're just mannequins.
Matt: This guy moves up over the railing with his heavy crossbow and aims this way. These guys all shift to this side with their crossbows.
Sam: I'm going to die.
Matt: Over here, this guy's going to move to this point so he can get a view of you. And Vedmeyer is going to move down here and get his sword ready, grinning. As he holds his sword up, he puts his hand up and goes, "Aim, fire!" A bunch of crossbow bolts get loosed at once (shh, shh) through the middle of the room. What's your armor class as the triceratops?
Sam: I have no idea. 14?!
Matt: 11, that misses. That's a 13, misses.
Sam: Wow, these guys suck.
Taliesin: They are like stormtroopers.
Matt: Natural one.
Taliesin: They are! You are being attacked by stormtroopers.
Matt: That's going to be a 14, hits. 18, hits. 24, hits. That was six?
Sam: That was six.
Travis: Three hits.
Matt: One more, that's a 22. So I have four that actually hit you with the crossbow bolts.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're now a porcupine triceratops.
Laura: You have 115 hit points.
Sam: I have 115 hit points?!
Taliesin: And when those go out, you are back to human hit points.
Matt: That's eight piercing damage. 13 piercing damage. 21.
Laura: Are you immune to any kind of damage?
Matt: 25. 34 points of piercing damage from this volley.
Liam: Is there resistance to anything on there?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: What does that take me down to? 81? Is that right? 115 minus 34, 81?
Taliesin: Sounds about right.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us back to the top of the initiative round, and you're up.
Sam: Well, shit, then I've got to get some retribution.
Travis: Totally. Turn around and give it to them.
Sam: Am I considered flanked?
Matt: You are not.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: You do have a tail.
Sam: I do have a tail.
Marisha: You are like a drunk guy at a craps table.
Sam: I don't know how to hit things. I've never hit things before.
Liam: There's the door you mangled in front of you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to gore that guy to my left.
Matt: He is above you on the railing.
Sam: Oh, that's a balcony. I thought that was a stairway down.
Matt: I'm sorry, this is a balcony up top. So he's actually aiming down and firing at you.
Laura: Then just go through the door.
Sam: I'm going through the door.
Matt: All right, then roll another strength check.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm not tangling with Duke Vedmeyer or whatever. 23.
Matt: 23, not a problem. You burst through.
Taliesin: We're going off the map.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: He's taking them off the grid.
Taliesin: He doesn't have a social security number!
Marisha: He doesn't have a social security number!
Matt: So what you see in here, as you blast through. It's a dining room with a central dining room table, two small tables in the far corners. There is a ten-foot window across the way. It appears to be a normal dining room set.
Sam: Is that my action?
Matt: That is your movement.
Sam: That's my movement?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say at this point it is so damaged that it doesn't take much effort to push through, so you can manage to push through as part of your movement.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You could pick 'em off as they run through. I'm not helping. I'm sorry.
Matt: Nope, you guys aren't there.
Taliesin: Not there. Shutting up.
Sam: (whispers) I should get out of there. But it's so fun.
Matt: What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: So, I am in the room. No one is in there with me.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So where's this laser pointer?
Taliesin: You can also hold your action. Just as an option. Not to help, but you can hold your action.
Sam: So, yeah. I'll just position myself right next to the the door there, and I will hold my attack until anyone runs through the door. They get an insta-gore.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Holding an action. The next turn will be Vedmeyer.
Sam: Oh shit, here he comes. Here he comes. It's me and the big guy.
Matt: Holds up there. He is going to wait there. He's actually going to dash and just get up right next to where the doors are burst open. He can hear you right around the corner. The rest of these guys are going to dash in.
Sam: Oh god. I think I can take them, guys.
Matt: There, there, there. This guy is going to just try and jump down. Let's see if he makes his acrobatics. He does not, with his armor. He leaps off the edge and manages to damage his ankle and is currently prone on the ground. That ends their turn. Back at the top. Are you still holding your action on your turn now? It's back to you.
Sam: Okay. Tell me this, did I hear a bunch of footsteps? Can I hear?
Matt: You heard a bunch of footsteps coming in, yeah.
Sam: (sighs) All right, I'm not good at fighting. I will--
Laura: Can you set a blaze?
Sam: I don't have any fire. I don't know why I was sent into this mission. I don't do fire things. I will drop my form. Is that an action?
Laura: You have a lantern!
Matt: You can drop it in a moment.
Marisha: Don't you have a torch?
Matt: The triceratops shrinks down to gnomish form now, in this partially destroyed dining room area. What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to-- hold on.
Marisha: How did this plan happen, then?
Travis: Because we're a bunch of slap-dicks, that's why!
Marisha: Why didn't you say I don't have fire?! I said, "Hey Scanlan, I should come with you," and you said, "I can take care of myself. How many times do I have to tell you guys? I don't need your help."
Matt: The echoing voice you hear, in the back of your mind, as you imagine this is what Keyleth would be saying right now.
Marisha: Dorito's a failure, you guys.
Sam: Yeah, okay. I peek around the corner a little bit. Just make sure they're all there, and I will Stinking Cloud all of them.
Matt: Okay!
Liam: Why are you not Dimension Door-ing out of there?
Sam: I've got to have some fun first. How often am I going to take on a whole house by myself?
Travis: I like it. I'm so in love with you right now.
Taliesin: I approve of this plan.
Matt: All right. 20-foot radius sphere. I'd say you could affect all of them, yeah. All of them in this big ol' Stinking Cloud radius. Not a worry. This whole area fills up with gas. All right. All of a sudden, the entire foyer just fills up with this greenish, noxious cloud of poisonous gas. Let's see. They have to make a constitution save.
Liam: Get the goliath. Get that goliath.
Matt: What's the DC? Is this through your hand cone?
Sam: Oh, for sure it is. So 19.
Matt: (laughing) 19? Jesus Christ. Okay. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Natural 20, he's fine. 19, he's fine. 18, nope. Nope. Double nope, because he's on the ground. Fuck that guy. Vedmeyer rolls a one. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so these two guys immediately cover their mouths and pull up this little bit of material they have around their chest plate armor to cover their mouth. The rest of them start (coughs) hacking up. One of them starts vomiting all over the ground, and he has a helmet on, so it's straining through. It's awful. (groaning)
Matt: Vedmeyer himself kind of backs against the wall and (groans) just tries to get it to leave the area, but it's just this thick cloud. It's slowly moving away. Yeah, they are in a bad place right now. Okay, and you still have movement. You have only moved five feet so far.
Travis: Is Stinking Cloud methane-based?
Sam: (laughs) It is the way I do it. I can still move?
Matt: Yeah, you only moved five feet so far, so you still have 20 feet of movement.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a Dukes of Hazzard over the table.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Unnecessarily.
Sam: Do I have to make an athletics check or anything for that?
Matt: Do an acrobatics to see how cool it was.
Marisha: See how cool it was!
Sam: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: What do I do for that?
Liam: You got a number.
Sam: I know, but I don't do these things. 11.
Matt: 11. You (grunts) you slide, only because you partially destroyed it as a triceratops, (ssss) but in your head it looked pretty cool. Thank god none of your allies were around to actually witness it, but you heard the theme music.
Sam: Okay, yes. So I'm near the window now, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're right by the window.
Sam: Okay, and that's, I guess, everything. Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Your turn ends. Vedmeyer is just-- you can see his eyes are filling up with liquid. He does make his saving throw. He coughs. (coughs) Manages to clear the air around him. You can see the cloud slowly moving back this way, away from where it was cast. That finishes his turn. However, he is no longer affected by the Stinking Cloud. You can see as the cloud slowly moves past him, and his face comes through, his pupil-less, angry goliath eyes are staring at you from across the room to where the doors are open. You see him grit his teeth and (growls). You can hear his teeth scratching across themselves in anger and fury.
Sam: I'm shaking.
Matt: The rest of them are going to go. These two guys are going to move forward. They both come running in, putting another bolt into their crossbows, (clicking) pulling it back real fast, pulling up their heavy crossbows, and firing at you. That is going to be a 24.
Sam: Well, that hits. Of course it does.
Matt: And an 18.
Sam: Against what?
Laura: Your AC!
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: So you take 12 points of piercing damage from the first bolt and five points of piercing damage from the second. As both (zoomf, zoomf) bolts, one hits you in the shoulder and ricochets off, not doing much damage. The other one slams and actually embeds itself into your thigh, about an inch into it. It's piercing and sticking out the other side. Mostly caught armor, but you can feel it definitely got a chunk of flesh in the process.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: That ends their turn. The rest of these guys, now, are going to try and make their saving throw. Fail. Fail. Fail. No, success on him, actually. He rolled a 19. A success on a natural 19. Fail. Fail. Well, no, actually these three succeed. The rest of them are still down. So I'll say that these guys here are all down. And he's still up. These two are still down. Okay. That ends their turn, you're up.
Sam: I so want to get some payback, but I shouldn't, right?
Liam: G-T-F-O!
Sam: I think I can take these guys.
Matt: That is a hell of a Lightning Bolt line, right there.
Sam: How big is that diameter?
Matt: It's about six feet across.
Sam: Oh, I can't lift that thing.
Matt: No, it's a big, long table. You have a very wide line of individuals, right there. All ready to snatch you.
Sam: All right, one more round. What do you say, guys?
Travis: We're not here.
Liam: We're not here.
Sam: One more round. I am going to-- fuck. Do I have line-of-sight on the door?
Matt: The door is right here. So you're by the window. So if you wanted to move over here, then you would have line of sight on pretty much everybody.
Sam: Yeah, that would be so fun.
Taliesin: You could move and then move back. I'm only helping with gameplay strategy.
Sam: He could brain me.
Travis: He could.
Sam: He could brain me in one shot. Okay. I will duck under the table so they think that's where I went, and then Dimension Door to the roof.
Matt: Okay! You duck under the table. I'm going to say make a deception roll to try and successfully feint them.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Liam: Can they see the top of his head behind the table?
Matt: From their direction it's kind of hard. Especially because there's a table and chairs up against it, and part of it has been crushed by a triceratops that was previously here.
Liam: "Oh, I'm going under the table."
Taliesin: Sentences you never expect to hear in your D&D game.
Sam: 31.
Matt: So you grab your head. Oh no! Do a very elaborate dive under the table.
Sam: Here I go under the table!
Matt: A little strange dull thud of arcane energy as you bamf up to the ceiling.
Sam: Okay, great.
Taliesin: He is reaching under the table, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: I know, what does this mean? Oh, okay.
Matt: All right, is that your turn? You are now up on the rooftop. There's rain pouring down. You are immediately soaked from the heavy storm that's now coming into Whitestone.
Sam: Yeah. It's just me up here?
Matt: Just you up there, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will go invisible and just hang and just see what happens.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to do, because it will take a round for anyone to recover from that, anyway, because you have to use your action both turns. So as you are waiting up there, you cast Invisibility on yourself and wait.
Sam: And then I start digging through my pockets, if I have any flint or fire-making apparatus at all.
Matt: Check your equipment.
Sam: I will. I will look.
Marisha: Do you have an adventurer's kit?
Sam: Nope. I have some poison.
Matt: Poison the house. There you go. That'll work.
Travis: We are the best planners. Ever.
Matt: I know, you guys are rocking it.
Sam: Oh wait, I do have something.
Laura: Yeah? You do?!
Sam: I have a Potion of Fire Breath.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Okay!
Laura: It's raining up there.
Sam: Well, but it's a potion. I don't know how it works!
Matt: You're checking your pockets. You find the potion. You look down and you notice, even through the storm, you can see in the distance, there's the dark shape of a giant lumbering zombie guard making its way down to this part of the town. What are you doing?
Sam: So I'm on a roof that's all soaking wet, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: There's no crawl space access? No attic I can get to?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Okay. Whoa, nothing. Two.
Matt: Two? This is a pretty solid roof with apparently no entry point at any points. The craftsmanship is flawless.
Sam: Okay. You know what? I'll just try it. I will Fire Breath Potion myself.
Matt: Okay, you pull up (boink), pull the cork off, (glug glug).
Sam: I don't know what this thing does. I've just got this.
Matt: As you feel the fluid find its way down your esophagus, it warms it like a fine whiskey would, but the warmth just grows and grows to the point where it's almost too hot, but it never quite reaches a point where it's painful, but you feel as if this need to belch is burbling within your stomach, and at any given point in time, you could let that belch fly forward.
Sam: Okay. And am I close to the entry point roof? The roof of the entry point?
Matt: Where you came in?
Sam: Can I get over there?
Matt: Yeah, you just come running across the rooftop. It's a little bit of up and down as the topography happens, and as you're running, you start hearing voices shouting out in the street. You make your way over to the top of the roof above.
Sam: Okay, so I'm just going to lean over the side and scorch the whole front entrance as much as I can from where I am.
Matt: Okay. As you (grunts) let the belch out, it comes out in a large spray of orange, yellow, and red flames that immediately burst beneath the overhang, which--
Sam: By the way, I'm also invisible, right?
Matt: You are no longer, unfortunately. When you do an attack of some kind, the invisibility is released. So this gnome appears, soaking wet, over the edge of the roof and then releases this gout of fire that blankets the front of the building, catching flames on all the portions of the front part of the second, and parts of the first story, including the top of the entryway that you had already smashed through as a triceratops, which exposed a lot of dried wood. It immediately bursts into flame. As you complete that breath and you inhale for a second, you hear voices now starting to shout from the inside of the house. (muffled shouting) You can't really make out the noises, but it sounds like there's panic now starting to hit from the inside, and you see a few guards start rushing out into the street to try and look at where the source of the flames came from. They both look up and see you.
Sam: Oh, great! Wait, these are guards who are outside, yeah?
Matt: These are guards who were inside the house that as soon as the fire came shooting down and burned the house, they rush out, look up, grab their crossbows, and aim them up towards you.
Travis: Just your hands and head are sticking over.
Matt: That's a 17?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: And a 13.
Taliesin: Doesn't he have at least half-cover from the roof?
Matt: He does, actually.
Sam: That does not hit.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Sam: Oh, no, the 17 does-- well, it would have.
Matt: That's a good point. You would have half- cover from looking over the rooftop; you only have a little bit of your hands and your face showing. So both go (pshew pshew), firing off into the rainstorm.
Sam: Because I'm a gnome, do I always have half- cover? (laughter)
Matt: No. But it's easier for you to find it. It's a lot less to cover.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So both bolts (shoosh) streak past you into the sky. They angrily reach down and duck back inside the building with the rest of their movement to get out of the range of now what appears to be a flame-throwing gnome. So that's their go. What are you going to do?
Sam: Do I know enough about this potion to know if it gives me any other breaths, or is that it?
Matt: It does progressively give you a breath for a short time.
Sam: So I can breathe again?
Matt: Yeah. Specifically-- oh no! (laughter)
Matt: And that was the end of Scanlan.
Liam: It's the giant! It's the undead giant!
Sam: I have no idea what I'm doing.
Taliesin: You're doing so well. It's so great.
Matt: You have three different exhales of this. It lasts for an hour or until you exhale three times. It's a bonus action to do it, so you could also do something else and breathe fire.
Sam: It's a bonus action?!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Okay. Well, then.
Travis: I don't know if that house is cooked enough, man.
Laura: I know, maybe you should just keep burning it.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah. So I'll run over to the back side of the house and do the same thing.
Matt: Okay. So you run over. Your full movement will get you about halfway across. At a dash, we'll get your other action there, and you'll have your bonus action left over. You manage to slide across the roof, grab the edge, reach over and (blows air). Just unleash on the opposite side. This side, because the angle the rain is coming at, is getting a little bit of water, but there is still a number of dry wood exposed by the immediate overhang that it does manage to catch, and the flames are beginning to burn up and collect on the sides because it is superheated flame. Both sides of the house now appear to be on fire. Looking over your shoulder, you can see now there is a pillar of black smoke rising up from the front of the building. You do see on the opposite side a hatch (click, bam) slam open and you see a giant, meaty goliath hand (boof)--
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Now stepping out into the rain, you see the goliath Duke Vedmeyer step up (doosh) with his two-handed sword.
Sam: Shit. (shouting) Lovely home you've got here!
Travis: It's like Duel of the Fates. On a burning rooftop in the rain. (laughing) Giant goliath and a gnome who spits fire.
Matt: All right, it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. How close is his hatch to the edge?
Matt: The hatch is actually halfway. It's in the middle of the roof. It's actually met from the second story, from one of the rooms or one of the closets, so it's about 25 feet from either the front or the back side. It's right in the center of the house.
Sam: (frantic breathing) Okay.
Matt: Whatcha got, Scanlan? Whatcha got?
Sam: (muffled) I'm trying. I'm just seeing range here.
Marisha: It looks like a Frank Miller comic right now. It's what I see in my head.
Matt: Scanlan showing down in the rain.
Sam: Five times your Spellcasting ability modifier. My Spellcasting ability modifier is-- what?
Matt: It's charisma.
Sam: It's charisma. It's five. Five times five, that's 25. That's 25 feet. Okay. (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I call forth Bigby's Hand and I will force him off the roof. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: The roof is wet.
Matt: The roof is indeed wet. I'm aware. (laughs) Oh, this will be interesting.
Sam: (sings) I want to fly away.
Taliesin: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sam: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you create the hand next to him, and as he starts stepping forward towards you with his sword at the ready, there's a shimmer in the air as a giant kind of vaguely purplish arcane hand all of a sudden appears. He looks confused for a second and rears back to try and attack it. As the hand pulls back, comes rushing forward towards him, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check with the hand.
Sam: Oh shit, he's strong.
Matt: The strength is plus eight, so add eight to this roll.
Sam: 17 plus eight...
Matt: (laughs) Natural one. (cheering)
Sam: I'm going to kill everyone in this motherfucking house! (laughter)
Matt: I've rolled so many ones today. This is ridiculous.
Marisha: You have, and we're just getting started.
Matt: All right. The hand pushes him five feet plus the number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting modifier. Yeah. Okay. As the hand shoves him, he goes pushed off to this side. Seems to be holding against it, but the hand eventually scoops him up and actually gets him off of his feet and shot-puts him off the roof. He plummets backward off the side of the roof, and you wait a second to hear a (boof) across the way. That's full damage there. (mutters) Okay, he takes 34 points of falling damage and is knocked prone.
Liam: You can't get this on network television, ladies and gentlemen.
Matt: So you're now standing alone on the rooftop, your Bigby Hand there next to you, a little trickle of fire curling at the corner of your mouth from your final dragon's breath when you decide to use it. What are you going to do?
Sam: Oh. I've got to get out of here. (laughs)
Travis: Just burn it.
Laura: Burn in the hatch and then get out.
Sam: Okay. Am I close to the hatch?
Matt: Yeah, you're about 25 feet from it. It's where you got him.
Sam: I'll hoof it over there and just look around and punch myself in the gut, (belch).
Matt: Okay. As you reach over, you look down, and there is a ladder that leads up to the front, and there are two guards that are currently making their way up to the roof. They look up and see you, and their eyes go wide within their helmets, and as you release the flames, all you see is their faces go, "Ah!" Just engulfing the entire tunnel. Roll 4d6.
Marisha: 4d6?
Sam: 4d6?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I don't have any d6.
Matt: There you go. They both fail their DC 13 dexterity saving throws because I can't roll tonight.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. They both take 15 points of fire damage and the entirety of that space has now burst into flames. You pull back because the heat is intense, backdraft-style, as you're at the top.
Sam: Do my eyebrows burn off?
Matt: They don't burn off, but you feel they might be a little singed. You'd have to give it a few days to recover. And you hear screaming down inside the tunnel and both of them are currently dealing with the fact that they're on fire. So that's your movement, that's your bonus action. You still have an action.
Sam: Okay. I've got to get the hell out of here, guys. Okay, tell me this, Dungeon Master.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: Dimension Door. Can it be used at higher levels?
Matt: Let me double-check on that, actually. I don't know if it can, but we'll find out.
Laura: Can you Bigby's-Hand slam down onto the Count?
Matt: Dimension Door, no. Dimension Door cannot.
Sam: Okay. How about Polymorph?
Matt: Polymorph... nope.
Sam: I'm fucked. (laughs)
Laura: You've used all your spell slots?
Taliesin: You can use Bigby's Hand to--
Sam: I don't know if Bigby's Hand can catch me. It's not like Feather Fall.
Marisha: Can it carry you?
Laura: Can you float?
Travis: Maybe it's like a slide.
Laura: Maybe you can slide down Bigby's Hand.
Taliesin: Fly it like the carpet.
Matt: Do you want to try?
Travis: You're welcome to try.
Liam: Yeah, you've lifted people with it. You've grabbed people.
Travis: I mean, ultimately, on foot sucks for him right now.
Marisha: Just surf on the giant floating hand.
Taliesin: Through the sky.
Marisha: Through the sky.
Liam: Is what your friends would say if they were there.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: All you've got to do is get away for this to be amazing.
Laura: Otherwise, you'll burn alive on a roof.
Marisha: All you have to do is live.
Liam: Comically tragic.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Okay. Does Unseen Servant have any mass?
Matt: Not really, no. Unseen Servant is like a barely-there small-level air elemental.
Sam: Okay. So I'm just going to (hums a bit, then sings) I'm jumping in the rain. I'm jump-- so I'm going to jump off the-- can I go away from the Goliath?
Matt: That would be this way, this way, or this way, because he fell off that side.
Sam: So not the two sides that are on fire.
Matt: The flames are now licking up both sides of the house, so you have to go this way.
Travis: Where's the zombie stone giant now?
Sam: It's going to take a couple of turns to get over there.
Matt: Yeah, the full length of it. At full dash it will get you there and there, and you still have about a good 20 more feet to get, so that's your turn, there.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The two guards that were back that way are now no longer on fire. They have gotten to the roof and put themselves out. They both look very, very angry at the current circumstance. They step out of the hatch both places.
Liam: Different hatch or the same hatch?
Travis: The hatch is on fire?
Matt: The hatch is still on fire, there are still flames, but they got out (panting). They're out in the rain now. The rain's putting out and dousing the flame that's on them. They both look over and see you running away. They pull their hand crossbows at the ready. They were already ready to fire. That's a 24? And a 26.
Sam: For the second guy, I-- no, I'll just take it. Okay.
Matt: Okay, they both hit. They had 24 and 26. That is seven points of piercing damage and 12 points of piercing damage. So 19 total.
Sam: Okay, got it.
Matt: All righty. They both reach over and grab bolts out of their sides and start preparing for another series of shots. Both catch you in the side. One you can feel a few inches into your shoulder and it's making the joint stick, and the pain is starting to really burn on the left side of your body, but you're okay. Now it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. I look back at them and I do that thing where you just kind of do this. (laughter)
Marisha: Trust fall?
Sam: And I trust fall off the back of it.
Liam: Do you have the earring in?
Sam: Oh, I do. (laughs) But I'm going to simultaneously make Bigby's Hand try to catch me at the bottom of it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your charisma modifier to it.
Sam: Charisma?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's 20.
Matt: 20? You trust-fall off, your eyes somewhat closed and letting it happen.
Sam: Come on, Bigby. Catch me.
Matt: And in the moment that you expect ground to meet you with a heavy, hard smack of reality, a soft cushion of arcane energy catches you as these spiritual purplish fingers curl around and gently bring you to the ground.
Travis: Beymaxed it.
Sam: Oh! Don't get handsy, Bigby. (laughter)
Laura: Austin Powers.
Sam: All right. Is that my turn?
Matt: Oh, that was just the fall, and you land there. He's way over this way. So you're outside of the house now. You're in a small alley between-- well, not an alley. You're on the side of the house and there's a big grassy area around it, and there's the fence that surrounds the whole...
Liam: Run, Forrest.
Sam: So I'm going to-- do I get an action? No, Bigby's is a bonus action.
Matt: It's an action to use its ability, so it was your action to catch you as part of it.
Sam: It's an action?
Matt: To do anything with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: It says, "and as a bonus action on subsequent turns."
Matt: Oh, it's a bonus action?
Sam: Oh, wait. No, that's for moving it. The bonus action is moving it. I got it.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So you've been moving it along with you as you go.
Sam: Yeah, but the act of catching me was the action.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Got it. Okay. So I'll just start running. (laughs)
Matt: Okay. So you're going to start running over this way.
Sam: On my tiny little nubby legs.
Matt: All right. As you run, you get over to the front of the gate that is closed off. It's a little bit too tight for you to squeeze through. How do you plan to get over the gate?
Sam: I'm planning to climb over the gate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (laughs) I've got nothing left.
Matt: Make an athletics or acrobatics check to try and get over the gate.
Liam: Whatever the better number is. Whatever's better: athletics or acrobatics.
Sam: They're both pretty terrible. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. Is that acrobatics or athletics?
Sam: That's athletics.
Matt: Athletics. So you run, you jump up (ching), grab onto the metal bars to start just pulling yourself up over the top, land on your feet, and you're now right near where the street is, and you can see to your right it's open, towards the direction of where the rest of the party is. To the left, you can see now, coming through the rain about a hundred feet from you, a giant hulking zombie giant that's stomping towards you. As you notice that, you see a number of figures come swarming out of the two buildings to the side of it, and immediately start attacking the zombie giant.
Travis: Go, go, get out.
Liam: Go, go, get out.
Marisha: They're attacking the--
Laura: They're attacking the zombie giant. That's good.
Liam: You have inspired people. G-T-F-O, man.
Sam: Yeah. I'm useless to you guys. Yeah, I'm going to go invisible and watch from the shadows.
Matt: Okay. So you just cloak yourself and watch from the shadows off to the side. As you are there for a little bit, keeping your eye out for the next couple of minutes, you can see the house is now completely engulfed in flames. The rain, try as it might-- the roof itself is not catching yet, but you can see now, fire is licking out of every single window and glass is steadily breaking over time. (crash, crash) The guards have all escaped out, and you can see the guards and Vedmeyer are now storming across the entire grounds. He's giving orders left and right, and they're all out searching for you in the nearby vicinity of the home. Looking across the way, you can see the zombie giant is now currently reaching down and swapping down. You can get a closer view. They look like some of the normal inhabitants here, are wearing makeshift armor, weapons that they have, and they are now rising up and attempting to take down this zombie giant. You watch as it reaches out. It slams and smashes one to the ground, leaving him lifeless, while another two leap up on the back of the zombie giant and are stabbing it with spears, and you see it (moaning), it gives out this roar. It's hard to tell from this distance which side is getting any ground, but it is currently held up by this group of about ten individuals that are attacking it at once.
Sam: It's cool.
Marisha: That's so cool.
Matt: You just going to stay there and wait it out?
Sam: I think I'll wait it out if I'm in a relatively safe place, because I can't really do anything for you guys, anyway. You're on your own.
Matt: Okay. We'll use that to hop over to the other party.
Sam: Oh, I'm taking a short rest.
Laura: Oh, that's good! Yes.
Matt: A short rest is about half an hour to 40 minutes of waiting, so you might want to find a place that isn't quite so intense to do this. You can try and sneak into one of the nearby homes and do it, maybe.
Sam: Well, I still want to see where this giant thing goes, so I'm still watching it.
Matt: Okay, so you would not be able to rest, unfortunately. It's not a very restful situation right now, to gather yourself. Okay.
Sam: Whew! I lived.
Laura: I like that Scanlan takes out an entire house, and we're all probably going to die.
Travis: Dude, you were fucking Rambo just then. You were Scanlan Rambo.
Laura: You're a legend.
Travis: Do you have any red cloth you can tear off and tie around your forehead?
Liam: Is your beret still on?
Sam: (laughs) I never got a beret. Did I get a beret?
Taliesin: You did get a beret. I thought you got a beret.
Sam: Yeah, I wanted a beret.
Travis: That was outstanding. (laughter)
Matt: I approve of this greatly. All righty. The rest of you guys who have all been slinking out the back. You just knocked a guard out. Trinket came with you?
Laura: Trinket went with Grog.
Matt: Grog. Right, that's right!
Laura: You can do it, buddy!
Matt: Percy, Vex, you guys are all back this way. The back of the building. You can see what looks to be one door to a back room. Grog, as you come slamming up with Trinket behind you (thudding footsteps) up to the front of the building, you see the front doors are there before you.
Travis: Oh, they're in front of us?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm already raging?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I just fucking bust through, apeshit-style.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Can I ask you, really fast?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I never leveled up Trinket's hit points when I leveled up.
Matt: You didn't. All right.
Laura: That's important at this moment.
Matt: It is very important at this moment.
Taliesin: Ugh, why do you have to do that, man?
Matt: Trinket's hit points right now are what?
Laura: 56.
Matt: 56.
Marisha: This Elder Scrolls music is pretty dope.
Liam: Bringing it home.
Matt: Trinket should have four more hit points.
Laura: Four?
Matt: Yeah. All righty.
Liam: Zac, adjusting the microphones.
Zac: Nobody knows. Nobody knew, until you said something!
Travis: I got advantage on the strength check, so it was a 26.
Matt: 26?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You rush forward. With your foot, (boom) it's Sparta, the front of that door as it just (crash) cracks open, Trinket coming up behind you. The doors open. You can see now before you, there is a single staircase that curves up to a second floor. There is a large vase right at the base of it, right there. There's a couple of tables by it, and it goes to the right and left. Do you enter the premises, or are you staying right at the door? It's up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I go in.
Matt: All right. Grog, you push your way in, Trinket following behind you right there. Immediately, you see the upper banister, right over the railing also, similar to what Scanlan encountered, has guards completely within this area, at the ready, crossbows pulled. In wait.
Laura: Oh, god. He just keeps adding them!
Liam: Just 12 more.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: There is Tylieri. All waiting, crossbows at the ready. The doors slam open, you guys rush in. For a second, there's nothing immediately within your range, and you look up and see an entire array of guards all trained upon you and Trinket. A voice behind them goes, "Loose!" (fshh)
Travis: At least Trinket's behind me.
Matt: (chuckles) What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Liam: You're going to tell us when we can do something in the back, right?
Matt: Yep. This is just-- because of the speed everything goes, he gets there before anybody.
Liam: Yeah. Just curious.
Matt: No worries. All right, that is-- ooh. That is 27 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 15 to hit? No. Third one, that is 16 to hit? Nope. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: 26 to hit.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: That's a 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: All the shitty guards were over at the other house.
Matt: 14 to hit?
Travis: No.
Matt: 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Then three more.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep, that hits.
Matt: 12 to hit?
Travis: No. Last one?
Matt: And ten to hit. Yeah.
Matt: Six.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six crossbow bolts come at you. That's eight points of piercing damage. Don't halve them yet. We'll add them all up and then we'll halve that.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, eight plus 13. 21. Plus eight again, 29. Plus another nine.
Travis: 38.
Matt: 38, plus another 11.
Travis: 49.
Matt: So 49, and then another 12.
Laura: 61.
Matt: So 61. So you take half that, which would be 31 points of piercing damage on you in one volley of crossbow bolts at you. (shoosh) You protected Trinket, and the rage did descend it a little bit. The pain, as all these bolts are now sticking out of your chest. You look like this front-quilled porcupine. You just take the pain and grin for a second. You have that iron-y taste of blood reach the back of your throat from the immediate impact and it just further intensifies your rage. I'm going to have everyone here roll initiative because you're all acting simultaneously at this point.
Marisha: Which dice? Green dice.
Laura: I know, I'm like, "Which ones?"
Marisha: That was-- nope. Not good.
Matt: All righty. 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, should I roll for Trinket, too? Oh, he goes when I go.
Matt: Trinket goes when you go.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. We have Vax at the top. 20 to 15?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Thanks to the Feral Instinct.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: What did you get?
Sam: I'm not there.
Matt: Oh, no. Sorry, you're not.
Taliesin: I totally forgot. I'm so sorry. I'm at 26. I got distracted because I have a new--
Travis: Distracted by what?
Matt: To be fair, I asked 25 to 20. (laughs) That's my own fault.
Taliesin: I'm using my new sheet and I'm just confused, so yeah.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: You're cheating?!
Taliesin: New sheet. I leveled up, so I had to do a thing.
Matt: By the way, guys, both Scanlan and Percy leveled up this last time.
Travis: If only Rambo Scanlan was here. (laughter)
Laura: It's insane.
Matt: So. We have at the top of this combat round, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay, is there a way in?
Sam: Are you getting a FaceTime?
Matt: Am I?
Taliesin: Are you FaceTiming somebody?
Matt: I'd better not be. That was weird. I don't know what happened there. Anyway. Battle's still up.
Taliesin: So is there a way in, at this point?
Matt: There is a door right here at the back of the building that you can see, but the door is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm running over to the door and opening it. I can hear the commotion from inside, and I'm running in the door.
Matt: Okay. You rush to the door. You go to try it, (clicking). The door is locked.
Liam: Hold your turn, dude.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're going to hold your action.
Taliesin: I'm holding my action.
Matt: Okay. That's fine.
Liam: All right, I'm up.
Matt: Next up is Vax.
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to try to unlock the door.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and you rush over (whoosh), pull out your lockpicks.
Liam: So that's a ten. 23.
Matt: Rain's still pouring down, you have your hood up, the water's dripping past your face as you're trying to concentrate. You get the tools in. It's not a very complicated lock. (click, creak) You push it open, leading you guys into the interior of what looks like a kitchen.
Liam: Perception check. Which is a 25.
Matt: 25. As you look inside, it's a cold kitchen. It hasn't been in use for a while. The fire's up, there's a little bit of a slab in the corner where most of the preparations are done, there's a few cabinets that are up. It's dark. There's no lantern.
Liam: And what are the other doors?
Matt: There's a door immediately to your left, and there's, across the way, is an archway opening. There's no actual door there. It's just a walkway that leads into the next room.
Liam: So it's open straight ahead?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I haven't used any movement. If I go to the archway right across, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm clicking my boots as I walk forward. Do I perception check again at the arch, or does the same one hold?
Matt: As you glance through, you can see what appears to be...
Liam: I unlocked the door and I've walked ten feet.
Matt: There appears to be a hallway. There's a hallway that goes across the way. There's a door at the end of the hallway, and two doors to the right and left of this hallway.
Liam: All right, I'm going to juke to the left. I'm going to go to that door and try the knob.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Nope, no, the other door in the room I'm in.
Matt: Oh, over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You go over there and you try it. (click) It opens up.
Liam: (singing) Perception!
Matt: Opens up into what appears to be a storage room.
Liam: Nothing.
Matt: Series of barrels, small grain sacks in the far corner. It appears that most of the dry storage for the kitchen is kept in this room.
Liam: All right, so I look straight at Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through the hallway and try the door on the left.
Matt: Okay. Move you forward to do that, you move in.
Liam: I'd like to use the last of my movement just to stay-- because I've got the boots on, I've got a lot of movement left; I can stay ten feet behind him.
Matt: You do. Okay. You stay behind him as you move in. The door, this one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, move the one to the right. Yeah, sure, that one.
Matt: (shhh) You slide that one open. It appears to be a bathtub in there. It's a rather nice powder room and bathroom.
Taliesin: There's no way to just quickly push the other door open, too, is there?
Matt: You can try. I'll say for this round, you can go ahead and open that, look inside for a second, go for this, just really quick checking back and forth. This one, this door actually, it does not appear to open at a push.
Taliesin: And I signal.
Liam: Can I, at this point?
Matt: No, you've already done your move.
Liam: And we're on the first floor, right?
Matt: Yes, you guys are on the base floor.
Travis: And they're all up on the second floor, right?
Matt: Right, that's your go. So. Bringing us to Count Tylieri's turn. Count Tylieri, who is currently looking over the banister. He kind of steps forward here for a second. Grog, this works for you because you look up and see all the guards there. Tylieri walks up. This rotund-looking, slimy individual, thinning hair, very pale skin, a little bit of facial hair that has never really seemed to grow fully in, but he tries to groom the best he can.
Laura: Grog's beard is better than that.
Matt: Oh, much better. He's wearing fine clothing. He's got rings encrusting his fingers, but he walks with a deftness to the edge of this stairway and looks over and says, "Interesting. I figured there'd be more of you."
Travis: Interesting. There's a lot of dead men up there.
Matt: (laughs) Of which, you see him leap up onto the ceiling, (pshh) stick to it. And begin to (skittering noise) scatter across.
Laura: The one with the shitty beard?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Tylieri?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: He's Spider-man?
Matt: He jumps up and spider-crawls across the ceiling, and then drops down. Yeah. With deft acrobatic feats, he leaps across, drops and lands right in front of you. You can see now in his face, as slovenly as it is, there is a look of deathly hunger in his eyes, and fangs bared from under his lips.
Travis: That's a neat trick.
Matt: He is now going to make two melee attacks against you. That's a natural 20 with the claw, and the other one's going to be a 15? I don't think it's going to hit.
Travis: No.
Matt: So he now has these long claws in his hand. The first one (whoosh). It catches you off guard from the sheer weird assault that he's brought to you.
Travis: What's wrong with you?
Matt: (laughs) You take 16 points of slashing damage (whoosh) from the first arc, and he goes up with the second hand and this time you (grunt) pull out of the way. His hand manages to knock some of the bolts free that were jammed in your chest.
Travis: Half the 16, right?
Matt: Half of 16, correct.
Travis: So, eight.
Matt: Because you're raging, so eight on that one. That's his go. And he just grins at you with this hissing sound, licking his fanged lips. That ends his turn. That brings us to Grog. You're up.
Travis: (growls) I go into a frenzied rage and I use reckless attack, along with my great weapon master, and I turn that thing into a piece of goo with my war hammer. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. War hammer (fwoosh) bursts into flames. Your eyes all of a sudden go into an intense glare as you rear up and go into your frenzied rage. Make your attacks. Do it.
Travis: Advantage on them. That's much better. That's 24?
Matt: 24 hits on the first strike. You only have advantage on the first attack.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Okay. Just the first one.
Matt: Yeah, the first one's a reckless strike.
Travis: Okay. 21?
Matt: Hits, as well.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: All three hit.
Travis: Yes. Okay.
Matt: That's with the minus five, right?
Marisha: Great weapon master?
Matt: Because of great weapon master, it would be minus five to each attack.
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, so the last one was 15?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Last one misses.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But the first two do hit.
Travis: Okay. I forgot that part. Know your rules, kids.
Laura: Then you add a ten to all of them?
Travis: 21 for the first one.
Matt: 21 points of damage.
Travis: And 20 for the second one, and the third one misses, right?
Matt: That's with the fire, right?
Travis: That's with the fire.
Matt: Yeah. Third one misses, so 41 points of damage to him with the first two, (whack, whack), the impacts slamming into him. You can see his body get pushed back with each impact. He's still taking it and grinning at you, but he's also seemingly surprised by the ferocity of the strikes. Is that your turn? Are you going to move?
Travis: That's it. No, I'm not going to move.
Matt: Okay. He's going to use one of his legendary actions to, at the end of your turn, reach out and attack you again. That's going to be a 23 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Instead of attacking, he's going to grapple you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So his claw goes up and actually (fwoosh) reaches into your throat, and you can feel the claws digging into the flesh. It's a very, very firm grip and he has you right where he wants you.
Travis: Work that hand out a lot, do you?
Matt: That's that action there. All right, that brings us to the guards. The guards all reload their crossbow bolts, move in. These three now see the bear in the back and they're going to fire on Trinket. These seven are all going to fire on Grog, now that he's held there. So the three against Trinket. That's going to be a 16?
Laura: Doesn't hit!
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Laura: Hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Trinket takes six points of piercing damage and 11 points of piercing damage. Total of 17 points of damage to Trinket as two bolts (shink, shink). One of them bounces off the armor. One actually sticks and Trinket, (growls) but it's not enough to really cause much of a worry.
Laura: Yeah, he doesn't care.
Matt: The other seven against you, Grog. Natural 20. Natural one. That's not going to hit, that's a natural five. 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Natural one. That's a 19, that hits. A 19 naturally, so it's 27. One more. That's 18 to hit.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, these all have advantage on you because you did a reckless attack.
Travis: That's right, I did.
Matt: So the one that would have missed is a natural 20.
Travis: Nay!
Matt: That does hit. Natural 20 again.
Marisha: What?
Matt: I'm rolling for all the ones that would have missed.
Sam: Why do they have advantage on you?
Travis: Because I had advantage on mine.
Matt: Yeah. Reckless attack.
Sam: That's reckless!
Travis: (laughs) It is very reckless.
Matt: They all hit you, three of which are crits.
Travis: (sarcastically) Yay!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: First crit is 19 points of piercing damage.
Liam: (flatly) Merry Critmas.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Matt: The second crit is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Last one is going to be another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay, 37 halved.
Matt: Actually, that would be 15 total because that was a crit. So the three crits are out of the way.
Travis: Okay. 37. So, 15 total?
Matt: 15 on the last one, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And so those are the three crits.
Travis: 33. What's half of 33?
Laura: 16.
Liam: 16 or 17. 16.
Matt: There you go, so that's that. And the next ones are 11. Another 11.
Taliesin: We're going to have to thin these ranks out quickly.
Matt: Ten. And seven. So you take another 39 points of piercing damage after that.
Travis: Okay, I'm going to use my stone's endurance to get rid of that stank.
Matt: One of them, yeah.
Travis: Roll, plus my constitution. 16.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say you reduce one of the crits from 16. The first one, take 15 points off that because I think one of the crits was 15. We'll say you used it on that one. That's 39 points of piercing damage, reduced by half. That will put you at 18.
Travis: 18? Okay.
Matt: We'll say you take 18 points of piercing damage from those four non-crits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So yeah. That ends the guards' volley. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me? And Trinket.
Matt: Yes. And Trinket. Both.
Laura: Okay, so I run in after Percy and my brother.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And Trinket--
Matt: Are you going to dash? Because you can move, you can double move, using your action to move, if you want.
Laura: Oh, I can?
Matt: Yeah. Unless you want to use your action to yell out for Trinket to attack, in which case, you can give Trinket a round of combat.
Laura: Oh, I do want to give Trinket a round of combat, so yes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And he gets a couple of attacks if I don't attack at all, right?
Matt: Correct. Yep.
Laura: So that's good. (screams) Okay, Trinket gets two attacks because of bestial fury.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: He hears your voice!
Laura: Because he hears my voice. So he's going to run around and he's going to try to knock over-- he's going to cannonball into the vampire guy.
Matt: Okay, so he's going to move this way and then cannonball forward?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Trinket moves off to the side. (thudding footsteps) Gets a couple of running starts, and then rolls into a roly-poly style forward. All right, so make one attack against him.
Laura: Okay. Okay. What do I add to that?
Matt: Your attack bonus for Trinket.
Liam: I don't know, for your bear. AC, HP, bite attack, claw attack, plus eight.
Matt: Yes, plus eight just for the attack.
Laura: Okay, 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. So Trinket rolls past. He dodges out of the way, gets an attack of opportunity on him because he wasn't hit as part of the attack. That's a 27 to hit. Trinket takes seven plus three, ten points of slashing damage as he streaks by. Seeing the bear coming at him too soon and managing to both pull out of the way and use that to his advantage.
Taliesin: I'm going to be playing rule Nazi tonight. Is that attack of opportunity possible since he's grappling somebody?
Matt: Technically, yes. He's just grappling with one hand and just dodges out of the way, moves over and slashes with the other hand.
Taliesin: Trying everything I can to save this bear.
Matt: I know you, man. It's okay. (laughter)
Laura: Trinket then comes out of cannonball and tries to bite the back of the vampire's neck.
Matt: Okay. I'll let you do that because this is your full round to do that. Usually you would choose to cannonball--
Laura: Or I do my two attacks?
Matt: But because you aren't part of this combat fray and you're giving all of your round to him, I'll let you do it, sure.
Laura: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Trinket comes out of the roll, turns around (roars) and strikes with the claw, swiping--
Laura: He's trying to bite his neck like a vampire!
Matt: Oh, bite him? Okay.
Laura: Oh, shit. Ooh! That's good. 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Split his head like a gourd.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage as Trinket latches onto the back of his shoulder (growls) and pulls and tugs at him, trying to get him loose from Grog's grip. Not strong enough to do so, but he nevertheless takes the damage and (snarls) hisses back at the bear clutched onto his shoulder. Cool. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see the smoke from the fire rising up from what Scanlan did on the other house?
Matt: At this point? Make a perception check. It's a heavy storm.
Marisha: That's not great. 12?
Matt: 12? Currently, in the storm, you're just not able to really make up any visual in the distance right now, no. You do not know if there is any fire going on or any signal, at this point.
Marisha: Okay. Shit. Are there any other windows along the back side of the house?
Matt: Over here? Yeah, there's a window there, window there, window there.
Marisha: Through the side.
Matt: Oh, back here? This side, there are no other windows. It is completely closed off.
Marisha: No other windows?
Matt: Nope, there's just the one entry there that everyone else went in through.
Marisha: Shit. Okay, I'll go inside.
Sam: Hello, is there anyone in here?
Marisha: Is there anything in this direction? This way? Can we not get this way?
Matt: This is a storage closet that was already checked by Vax, who walked past it.
Marisha: Do we know if there are any outside doors over here on this side?
Matt: You don't, no. No one's moved all the way in to see, and it's not very well-lit in there, currently.
Marisha: Could I have gone around the edge here to see? Would we have known, going on this side, if there were any doors?
Matt: No, because you guys approached from that side. You saw windows, but it was fairly dark. You saw a little bit of light moving through some of the windows on the second story, but nothing down here that really caught your attention.
Marisha: And we still have no way into this main room, either, yet?
Matt: Not yet. There is a door at the end of this hallway, but nobody's gotten to try it yet.
Travis: Could you get to a second-floor window?
Matt: You could push past your party and continue to move down the hallway, if you want.
Laura: Second floor's better than first floor, anyway.
Marisha: Okay. I'm sorry. I'm an asshole.
Sam: You turn into an asshole.
Marisha: (giggling) I turn into an asshole. Were there any-- fuck, I really don't want to have to blow-- okay, so I'm going to---
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: Yeah, you know what? I didn't go inside. I'm outside.
Matt: You came inside. Not going to retcon it.
Marisha: Dick. All right.
Matt: I'm just saying! You can't get halfway in there and be like, "Wait, this didn't happen."
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Technically, none of this happened.
Taliesin: Thank you for coming with me on that journey.
Marisha: Fine, I'll just see if this fucking door is open. That's all I can do right now.
Matt: The one across the way?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, guys, excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
Matt: You push past everyone. You push on the door. It opens up and reveals a long dining room, a big, thick dining room table, a double window across the way. This is the house's dining room. There are two double doors across the way that lead into what you think is the foyer, in which Grog and Trinket currently stormed through. And you can hear, muffled through the door in the distance, the sound of combat and impact and people shouting to each other.
Marisha: Okay, can I cross over to that window and look out the front window? The window over here?
Matt: I'll say you can get that far, and you can just crest and look out the window if you want to.
Marisha: Do I see any fire from Scanlan?
Matt: From this point, you've already checked once. You're just getting in there. You won't be able to really see from here.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Can I call him? Can I, (whispering) "Scanlan. Scanlan!"
Matt: You make a little bit of a calling noise. You hear nothing back. You fear you might be just out of range for it.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to make a run for the door.
Matt: Okay. You can get to there. You're just at the edge of it. Do you want to try and knock it open?
Taliesin: Is it open? Can I open the door?
Matt: You can try to. You reach out. (creak) It opens up and you can see now, a light comes pouring through from the foyer, and you can hear much louder now, the sound of combat, and Grog chuckling, and swings and impacts. You can see a couple of crossbow bolts go (boof) and scatter across the ground.
Taliesin: I would have to use my action to move?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: You know... (sighs) Yeah, this is going to be worthwhile. I'm going to-- well... (laughter)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I hate you.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Kill things.
Marisha: Shoot out the window.
Taliesin: Shoot out the window?
Laura: Just act on the fly like Scanlan did. It turned out okay.
Matt: Do your thing, Percy. Do your thing. What are you doing?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to be helpful. I'm going to burn my action to get into the room.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want to get on this side?
Taliesin: Right there.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I want to stand right there.
Matt: Okay, so you just swing around (fwwwt) to the inside. You look up and immediately you see this curved banister and a whole row of guards up top with heavy crossbows. In the center, you can see some blur as Grog, Trinket, and some individual are in the middle of this tussle. The individual currently has Grog grasped by the throat.
Taliesin: How crazy-- I don't know if I can do Minor Illusion that way right now. So I'm going to call Hex on that first guard there.
Matt: Which one? Right there?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge, and I'm going to start taking my shots, and I'm just going to work my way up.
Matt: Okay, so you swing around the corner and look up at the one guard. As you concentrate for a second, bringing your gun up, your eyes begin to go black again, the smoke pouring out from the corner of it. Smoke begins to pour out of the midsection of the guard, who looks confused for a second, and it swirls around him as part of the Hex that has him marked, as you release your next three blasts.
Taliesin: Okay. This is with sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That sucks. Ten?
Matt: Ten misses. First shot just (ricochet noise) goes wide, blasting a chunk out of the upstairs hallway.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11 also goes wide. This time (ricochet noise) blasting part of the banister in front. The guard dodges out of the way as the wood splinters past him.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: That's better!
Matt: That's the Percy we know. (laughs)
Taliesin: And so since that was a third shot, it was also a bonus shot, so that's got an extra-- okay! Does that mean that everything gets doubled?
Matt: All dice gets doubled, and then you add the modifier.
Taliesin: Not the modifier, though?
Matt: Not the modifier, no.
Taliesin: Modifier stays the same.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Roll twice, or just double my die?
Matt: Double the die. It's faster.
Taliesin: Okay, so that's-- I should have just used my--
Sam: What device?
Taliesin: I know! I should have just used it.
Marisha: That's not bad, though.
Taliesin: Nine, 13, 26. 42 points of damage.
Matt: 42 points of damage?
Taliesin: And four of that was fire damage.
Matt: And four of that was fire damage? Okay. As you look up, (doosh) the first two shots fire and go wide. The third one, (explosion noise) just explodes and in a blast of black smoke, the guard's head is no longer across his shoulders. (cheering)
Taliesin: Okay, I move the black cloud to the next guard. He also gains disadvantage on all-- let's make it dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Ability checks.
Taliesin: Ability checks, yeah, so all dex checks.
Matt: So the smoke (whoosh) pours off the body and coalesces around the next guard to his right. All right, that ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: All right, I've got double speed. I go right towards the table, make an acrobatics check to slide my ass across it--
Sam: Are you doing what I did?
Matt: Do an acrobatics check.
Marisha: Yes! Dukes of Hazzard!
Liam: Yeah. That is a 23?
Matt: You (shhht) slide to there.
Sam: You did it so much cooler than me! (laughter)
Liam: I want to slide into a crouch right behind-- I don't want to go that far. Right by Percy, because I can't go much further, I don't think.
Matt: At double movement?
Liam: Would I be able to make it to Grog and his friend? If I can't make it to Grog, I want to stay at the door. If I can make it to Grog, I want to go to Grog.
Matt: Slide will give you movement. Yeah, you can get next to him.
Liam: I don't want to go next to him, I want to go and eviscerate the bowels of the fucker who's fucking with him.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you can get up there.
Liam: Sneak attack because he's engaged with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the total.
Marisha: As he slides over the table in front of me, I go, "That was pretty awesome. Bye. Good luck."
Liam: All right, so...
Sam: You need some daggers?
Liam: No.
Matt: More daggers!
Liam: Wait. So. I'm alive! Rogue rules--
Matt: Whatcha doing?
Laura: What are you doing?
Liam: Oh, I'm stabbing the guy three times! I'm doing my catchphrase, man. Dagger, dagger, dagger! Oh, he's already taken a turn in combat, okay. So. I'm going to use luck on that first attack and go again-- ooh, and I'll use the first one. So the first one was an 8 plus... 19 on the first?
Matt: 19 hits.
Liam: All right. Second is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage. Sneak attack on the first one.
Liam: All right, first one, I'm going to use my Flametongue. It's two plus... nine. And here comes the juice. Nine, 13, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25? That's the first one, and then second attack is three. This is the keen dagger, that's a ten. And the third attack is the Flametongue again for seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, gotcha. So you (fwoosh) dart in a blur of darkness. You come swinging up. You can see Tylieri is currently grasping Grog. Out of the corner of his eye, just sees the movement and looks over curiously as the blade is immediately in his side. (pained scream) And now you can see the jowls shake from the impact of the dagger blow, and he looks down angrily at you, fangs bared as the two other attacks hit his side.
Liam: Yeah, I'm looking him right in the eye as I do that, too.
Matt: At the end of your turn, he uses two of his legendary actions--
Liam: I'm wearing my helmet, my shiny helmet.
Matt: I know. To look at you, reach up with the throat that he's grasped, and sink his fangs directly into your throat, Grog.
Travis: (angry noise) I have a little collar. Does that help at all?
Matt: Not in this moment. You have a big neck. Very big neck, and a very tiny collar. (laughs) That will be a 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All righty. So you take nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Is that halved?
Matt: That is halved. Yeah. So say five, round up.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: However, you do take 14 points of necrotic damage. That is not reduced. But your maximum hit points are now reduced by 14.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: As you feel that same similar cold feeling as the life blood's being drained out of your body and you see his eyes cresting at you with this wild glare. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: It is now his turn.
Sam: Spider-man?
Matt: Yeah, now he's taking his turn. He's now going to go ahead and make another bite attack on you again. As he pulls back and reaches his forearm and grabs the other side of your throat, going for the other side of the jugular.
Travis: Isn't this a Grog buffet?
Matt: That's a natural one, though. (cheering)
Sam: Oh, because you've got your necklace on.
Matt: However, he does have advantage on you because you used your reckless strike.
Sam: Never use reckless strike again.
Liam: Doesn't it cancel out after one roll? Advantage versus disadvantage is one roll, right?
Travis: It ended on the first attack, right?
Matt: It was a one on the first attack, yeah. It's until your next turn. Attacks against you get advantage.
Travis: Oh, I thought his first bite was the first one.
Sam: Wait, so all attacks, even follow-up attacks get advantage, even though he only gets advantage on the first one?
Matt: I'll read it for you right now. It's a cool ability when you're not the only tank in the room.
Sam: No, it is not! It's the worst ability ever.
Laura: It's a good ability if you're only fighting one person.
Matt: Yeah, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.
Liam: Because he's out of it. He's going cuckoo.
Sam: Wait, did you not have-- Jesus, never use that thing again.
Travis: I'm using it every time. (laughter)
Matt: Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using strength during this turn. So yes, I apologize. It does give you advantage on all of your attacks. I misread that.
Travis: (quietly) Oh, shitfuck. (louder) That's okay. That's okay!
Liam: Stuff happens. Give him a bonus 15 HP or something.
Matt: That's okay. Yeah, it's fine. But going forward, good to know. So it does give you advantage on all of your attacks.
Travis: Copy that.
Matt: It's the first attack is the one that confused me on the way it was worded. Sorry, folks. I know better now. But for that, I say the one stands as retribution for me forgetting the rule. (cheering)
Matt: So he goes in to strike for the bite. This time, however, he does manage to catch the chainmail coif that Scanlan had made you. His fangs get caught on the chain. (grunts)
Travis: Like making out with braces.
Matt: He pulls away, releases you-- no, doesn't release you. As he's holding you there, he's going to go ahead and make a claw strike across your face. Two and, oh. That'll be a 19.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: He does hit? Okay. You take eight points of slashing damage, reduced to four because of your rage. That ends his turn. Grog, you're up now.
Travis: Am I still grappled?
Matt: You're still grappled, yeah.
Travis: I'd like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to try and break the grapple. So athletics roll of?
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah, you (boof) just shove him off without a problem.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: You still have your bonus action to strike, if you like.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to try and grapple him back?
Matt: Not as a bonus action, unfortunately. It's an action to do that.
Travis: I will attack, yeah. Just one, right? (whoosh)
Matt: One strike, yeah.
Travis: Okay. Fuck yes! 21?
Matt: 21 does hit, yeah.
Travis: Awesome! And that is badass. Nine, 17. 22. 22 with the fire damage.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. (whack) And you're watching, as he does all these actions, you see his body begin to reform and the wounds beginning to heal themselves in the vampiric manner. But as soon as that wound begins to sew up, you take your hammer and (boof) slam it into him again, reopening, and you can see now parts of his muscles are exposed, a deep purplish color, this very unnatural interior to his flesh. You can see it burn as the flames cauterize the edges of the wound. Awesome. Does that finish your turn? Do you want to move at all?
Travis: I'm staying. Is Trinket still behind me?
Matt: Trinket is currently flanking the guy.
Travis: Yeah, no. I'll stay.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to the guards' turn. They all reload their crossbows. These four are now going to make shots at you, Percy. These three are going to take shots-- all five of these guys are going to take shots at Grog now. They're trying to take you down so they can move onto the next target. So four shots on you, Percy. That is 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 18?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And 11.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take from three heavy crossbow bolts at you. Seven, 19, 32 points of piercing damage. All three bolts stick into your chest. They're big, long, thick, heavy crossbow bolts. One of them gleans off your shoulder and catches the edge of the wall, but the other two have actually sunk into your torso and are sticking out of you. The other five against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Since you did not do reckless strike last time, they are not with advantage. That is 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 12?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, that's a 25.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: That is a 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Last one is a 24.
Travis: Yep, so four out of the five.
Matt: Yep. That's 11 plus seven. 18.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Plus eight. 25.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Plus 13. So 39.
Travis: 39. Half.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 18 points of piercing damage again. Bolts are sticking out of your body all over. You almost have additional armor from the number of bolts that are on your body, but you're still standing there, frothing at the mouth, angry, just like, "Come at me!" That ends the guards' turn. They all reload their bolts and pull their crossbows up. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Yay! Can I get up to the doorway? Tell me that I can.
Matt: With a dash, you can, yeah.
Laura: But I don't get any action, then.
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Janet.
Laura: Damn it, Janet! All right, Trinket's just going to try to claw him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. Two attacks from Trinket.
Laura: Yep.
Liam: Make it good.
Sam: Come on, you're my favorite bear, Trinkie.
Laura: That hits him. That definitely hits him.
Liam: 16 plus a lot.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah, that hits him.
Laura: A natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: A natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: (laughs) Trinket got a natural 20?
Matt: All right, so damage on the first strike?
Sam: That was a critical "rawrl."
Laura: 11 for the first, and then--
Travis: So sour it was sweet.
Liam: Three plus seven is ten. 20? Which part doubles?
Laura: Just the dice doubles?
Matt: The dice doubles, yeah.
Laura: 13 for the second attack.
Matt: So a total of 23 damage? All right.
Laura: 24 damage.
Matt: 24 damage. How does Trinket want to do this? (cheering)
Laura: He really just killed a vampire?
Liam: Is this a first?!
Taliesin: This is a first.
Travis: I think it's Trinket's first kill.
Marisha: Trinket!
Laura: Trinket claws crosswise and takes off his head with a bite.
Matt: Okay. So as Trinket reaches down, (whoosh) arcing both claws across his back, Tylieri is dropped to his hands and knees, looks up as Trinket then puts his jaws down over the head and lifts up. As you see the flesh begin to tear on his body, he screams out in pain as the body (fluttering sound) turns to mist.
Laura: Damn it! He's a vampire!
Liam: Wait, is the mist there?
Matt: The mist is there, yeah. There's a clump of mist where he once was.
Liam: Somebody light a match!
Marisha: I'm coming!
Laura: So the head disappears from his mouth, or did he still get a big taste?
Matt: There's still some thick, purplish, congealed blood in his mouth, but the vampire's form has been forced to mist at zero hit points. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! So seeing Vax go over the table and being like, "That was cool," I'm also going to be like (grunts) over the table. I'm going to join the Dukes of Hazzard train.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Marisha: Damn it. That's not bad!
Matt: It's not a huge difficulty.
Marisha: Acrobatics? 17?
Matt: 17, yeah. You jump up (shh) slide across, land across. The bonus there is that it takes only one block of movement to get across. That's five foot there.
Marisha: So I'm going to come in and I see a headless dude with mist swirling around him?
Matt: No, you just see Grog, Vax, and Trinket in the center of this foyer, with a big cloud of mist near Trinket and Grog, and an entire array of guards with heavy crossbows trained down on the three of them in this ambush pit.
Sam: Would she know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, you would! We've learned about vampires. We know they turn into mist.
Liam: Yeah, the vampires down by the tree did this. They misted in.
Travis: Sunlight that shit.
Laura: Sunbeam!
Marisha: Someone could yell at me to do it.
Taliesin: (shouts) Sunlight!
Matt: I would say... make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Okay. This one.
Sam: Ooh, that's the intelligent dice.
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Marisha: Yes, it is. Just with my modifier?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, is this a saving throw? Just my modifier, so 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. I'd say, given the circumstance right now, just rushing in and seeing mist there and people with things, you have no idea that's a vampire, you have no reason to believe that's a vampire, you just know that right now there is-- I'm just being honest here! You walk in the room and there's a little bit of mist on the ground and there's a bunch of guards up there. It looks like there's a threat of a bunch of guards in the room.
Travis: Identify it. It's a vampire.
Laura: You know it now.
Matt: (laughs) Grog, in the middle of a frenzied rage, would not have that--
Taliesin: I would have enough to point and say-- oh, for the love of god. Okay, fine.
Matt: Keyleth, take your turn.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: No more metagaming. Take your turn. What do you want to do?
Travis: What are you doing?
Marisha: Well, I know what I want to do, but I can't do it without feeling guilty! I was going to Sunbeam this bitch.
Matt: It only makes sense. I'm just saying.
Marisha: What makes sense? That I wouldn't know?
Matt: That you wouldn't know that that little bit of mist on the ground there is a vampire. There's no way that Keyleth would know that based on the way you--
Liam: Just missed it.
Matt: Yeah, you just missed it.
Marisha: I would just see a black mist?
Matt: It's just a mist.
Travis: We've got a ton of other people in the room, though.
Matt: And there's black smoke around one of the guards up there.
Marisha: Well, if I saw a black mist, what I would probably do, realistically, is think it was some sort of poison shit and I would Wind Wall it. So I'm going to (goosh) Wind Wall that mist.
Matt: Okay. All righty. Let's see. (laughs) This should actually be pretty interesting.
Marisha: (weakly) It's what I would assume it was, but I might be aiding it in getting away.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: All right, so. You put a Wind Wall up (fwoosh) in this area. You can see the mist dissipates for a second and holds its place. However, this Wind Wall is now currently held up in this area. That's your action.
Marisha: I Wind Wall it to keep, essentially do the Wind Wall--
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yeah, around Grog.
Matt: Right at this area?
Marisha: Yeah, I'd want to protect him from the crossbows.
Matt: Okay. So there's just wind rushing up around. You can see the tapestries on the walls are flickering around.
Marisha: And then I once again go, "Scanlan! Scanlan!"
Matt: There's a little bit of crackling through. You're right at the cusp of the distance on these communicators. Scanlan, you hear bits and pieces. At this point in time right now, you're--
Sam: I'm on the roof?
Matt: You're hearing crackling in your ear, but you're still on the roof doing the chaos, so you haven't heard anything really coming through, at this point.
Laura: "Doing the chaos."
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: I'm doing this thing.
Matt: Yeah, you're trust-falling off the roof.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to back into the corner and keep this Wind Wall up.
Matt: Okay, just concentrating on the Wind Wall. That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I take my next shot at the next crossbow bugger.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 15?
Matt: 15? Just misses.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It hits the armor and it (ricochet noise) ricochets off.
Marisha: So am I encapsulating the mist in my Wind Wall? I'm kind of trapping the mist in?
Matt: The Wind Wall itself is not a full circle, it's just a semi-circle.
Marisha: A half-circle, yeah, but is it stuck in the wall?
Matt: It's currently overlapped with it, yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: It hit. That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. And you have your third attack.
Taliesin: My third attack, also on him, is also 22.
Matt: That hits, as well.
Taliesin: And that's-- ooh, that sucks. Two points of ice damage plus 11 points of normal damage.
Matt: 13 total. Okay. So (doosh) the last two blasts hit him, and you can see, he almost gets thrown off his feet from the impact. There's now blood trickling out from under his helmet from where one of the blasts got his chin. One into his chest. He's still standing up, barely, and he's still confused by this smoke that's swirling around him. Are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a step forward.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Up the stairs.
Matt: Up the stairs. Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Just ominously stepping up the stairway. I like it. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Right, so I'm going to start rushing up the stairs. Before I do, I'm going to spank Grog as hard as I can on the ass and say, "Kill!" And run up the stairs at the first guy who's enveloped in Percy's smoke and start stabbing him.
Matt: Okay. He's up above the banister, so you probably have to--
Liam: There's no balcony?
Matt: No, the idea is the banister rides up and there's a wall along it, and then they're all up on the second floor here looking down at this.
Liam: So there's no way up there?
Matt: You could leap up. Make an acrobatics check to leap up and over the banister.
Liam: That's what I'll do. Yeah, that's good. That's 30.
Matt: Yeah, you jump, grab it, flip over, land on the balcony next to the guy enveloped in smoke.
Liam: And I stab him.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay. Did the leaping take any of my actions? It's movement?
Matt: No, it's part of your movement.
Liam: Okay, so that's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: And a 16. And a one.
Matt: First two hit.
Liam: Yeah, okay. The first one is the Flametongue dagger. That is four plus six is ten. And the second one is the keen dagger, and that is two plus seven is nine.
Matt: All right. As you rush up, the guard looking at you, confused, the smoke swirling around him. (stabbing sounds) As the first two daggers stab in, the second one actually finds between his ribs up to where his heart is, and you see him gasp for a second as he crumples beneath your grip, and you slide the blade out as he crumples to the ground.
Liam: That's the button.
Matt: (laughs) That is the dead button. All right. That ends your turn. Tylieri--
Sam: Wait, he's still alive?
Laura: He's a mist.
Matt: All right, the mist pushes past. He's going to use some action to move.
Laura: He pushes past the Wind Wall? But it says that figures caught in a gaseous form can't pass through the Wind Wall. In the spell.
Marisha: That it does.
Laura: I just read it.
Marisha: That's my motherfucking Wind Wall!
Laura: So it's going to screw up my arrows, so I was checking in. But yeah, it also says, "creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it."
Sam: Why would they even have a hypothetical for that?
Liam: Because of this!
Marisha: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of the things right here.
Marisha: It's coming in handy.
Liam: Thanks, Mike Mearls!
Matt: However, as part of that, then Trinket is also in the Wind Wall, as well, just as a note. So Trinket will be taking bludgeoning damage for being within it. So just as a heads-up. In fact, right now, have Trinket make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Sam: Is it like a hurricane or something?
Marisha: It's a wall of wind.
Laura: Eight?
Matt: Okay. Trinket takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Go ahead and roll 3d8.
Liam: 3d8. Up to 24.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Yeah. I thought you were capturing him inside. I didn't realize you had it actually on him, and so having the Wind Wall on him to prevent him from moving would also have Trinket in it, yeah.
Marisha: It could be worse. That's six plus four, so ten.
Liam: He's had worse. He'll be fine.
Laura: Yeah. Okay.
Matt: All right, so that will make it actually more here. So Tylieri cannot break through. Tylieri stays there in mist form, being caught in the whirlwind. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, I can't get through the-- I mean, I don't know what the fuck--
Marisha: You can get through the Wind Wall.
Travis: What am I going to do to gas? Hit it? Can I start running up the motherfucking stairs and jump up like Vax did? He said to kill!
Matt: All right, yeah. You can get up to there, and you're just within reach to get one guy over the banister, probably.
Travis: Yeah! I'd like to do that. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits. More attacks?
Travis: Yes. Oh, how many attacks do I get?
Matt: All of them. That was just your movement.
Travis: Yay, I get all of them?! That's amazing.
Matt: Your barbarian 40 feet of crazy movement.
Travis: Yay! 22!
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Shit! 12.
Matt: 12 does not hit.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: (laughs) The first two hit.
Travis: 13. 17 for the first one.
Matt: All right, 17 damage.
Travis: 15, and 17 again. Two plus two.
Matt: Nice. All right, so (whack) the hammer comes streaking down, slamming into the guard there. His crossbow shatters from the impact and the flames begin to lick up the front of his body. The second slam smacks him again. This time, you hear the armor ring out from the metal-on-metal impact. He kind of shakes from it. The third time you're just in the middle of this series of swinging and he backs up, and you end up smashing the banister instead of him, the hammer cracking part of the ground on the second floor. He looks pretty messed up from that series of attacks. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. It's now the guards' turn.
Travis: Come at me, bro.
Matt: This guard's going to move over here. They're all like, "Oh god." These three here are going to attempt to fire on Trinket through the Wind Wall. These two are going to fire at you, Grog, and these two are going to longsword you. They pull out their longswords. This one's going to turn with his crossbow and fire at you, Vax. So first is the attack at you with the crossbow. That is a 20?
Liam: Oh, yeah, that hits.
Matt: You take-- ooh, that's a ten-- 13 points of piercing damage as the bolt strikes you right in the chest, cracking your sternum a little bit. You're like, (groans) that's going to suck. You feel the scraping of the bone as it impacts. The two with the longswords against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That is a 12.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: Both of the blades come at you. One of them actually hits your shoulder, but it just sticks an inch into the flesh, and you just flex and the blade pops out. The second one swings out and you duck your head out of the way and it (whoosh) goes long and you just grin through the anger. That's awesome. Then these two are going to fire crossbows at you, Grog. That is going to be a 15?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Damn, I was almost Neo, just dodging all sorts of shit.
Matt: Another ten. 13 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved to seven?
Matt: Half that to seven, yeah. And then now the three aiming at Trinket. They all have disadvantage, I believe?
Laura: Nothing can shoot through the Wind Wall.
Matt: Nothing can shoot through it at all?
Laura: Arrows can't go through it, it said.
Matt: At all?!
Travis: She said begrudgingly.
Laura: Which fucking sucks.
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's going to save a bear, right? After I punched him with the wind.
Sam: Yeah, and also kill the bear.
Matt: Yeah, they automatically miss. They all three fire through. All bolts just (shhh) get scattered across the room.
Laura: Yeah, it goes straight up to the roof, it says.
Matt: Wind Wall. That's awesome.
Laura: Does the Wind Wall go all the way up to the ceiling, or does it go to a certain height?
Marisha: 15 foot high.
Matt: 50 feet long, 15 feet high. So it doesn't go all the way to the ceiling. In fact, it gets just a little bit past the second floor, so it's about the height of the guys on the second platform. That ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell Trinket to get out of the Wind Wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The Wind Wall gets an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Laura: Well, he's going to move.
Matt: He goes to the front door.
Laura: And he's going to be very happy to see me come around the corner of that door.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Where I will see a bunch of dudes up high, and I want to try to do Conjure Barrage up and over the Wind Wall and in an arc downward on everybody on the other side of it.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Laura: It's like a (whoo, boom).
Travis: A half-pull.
Matt: Yeah, which at this short distance, is not a lot of strength to get the lob.
Laura: I'm a really skilled archer. I'm kind of like Legolas.
Matt: But if you're shooting up this way? The Wind Wall itself only really encompasses the bottom of the foyer, so if you go up the stairs a little bit, you will be able to get these guys here.
Laura: Can I get up there?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah! Fuck yeah, I'll do it and try to get everybody in that cone. Sorry, guys.
Travis: Nope. Make it rain.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to hit all of them.
Travis: Just go for it. I'm a fan of one-dollar bills.
Liam: I can take it.
Laura: Okay. Wait, I've got to see how this works. I just throw it in the air and it turns into a cone.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So I don't have to attack?
Matt: They should have a saving throw, I believe, right?
Laura: Yeah, they have a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Everyone make a dexterity saving throw. Or at least you two.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Do I have advantage-- I don't know.
Laura: I'm casting this as a 3rd-level.
Matt: One guy makes the saving throw.
Liam: 25.
Travis: 20.
Matt: You all succeed. One of the villains makes it, and they both make it. Is it half-damage, right?
Laura: What about all those guys up at the top?
Matt: That's what I'm saying. This guy made it, these two didn't.
Laura: What about the other ones?
Matt: Are you doing it from this perspective? These will go through the Wind Wall, so the Wind Wall itself will prevent it from getting to either. This guy will probably be hit, actually.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: He fails. So yeah, these guys are unaffected because the Wind Wall prevents the barrage from that point. So just go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: So I can't get a critical hit on this because I don't have to roll?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 16, am I right? 16. Okay.
Matt: 16 damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so it's half that for saves, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so eight damage, four damage.
Liam: Oh, uncanny dodge.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Half that. So what did you give me for damage?
Taliesin: You had eight.
Liam: Eight? That's four.
Laura: And then as a bonus action, I'm going to Hunter's Mark. Who looks the strongest?
Travis: Me.
Laura: Not you.
Matt: (laughs) They're all pretty standard. There's one dude over here that appears to be commanding them.
Laura: Yeah, I want to hit him!
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark him. All righty. He is Hunter's Marked. All righty. By the way, the guy that Grog had slammed? The barrage (arrow impact) riddles him with arrows and he falls over and is like (gasps) and crumples to the ground. The last bit of health that he had.
Travis: You took away my playmate!
Matt: Vex, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to keep maintaining this Wind Wall and wrap it up around the mist to double-enforce it, and I'm going to scream, "What is this?"
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: All right, and then what are you doing?
Taliesin: "It's a vampire!" I'm putting my gun away, anyway.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does that count?
Liam: It's a vampire. We just killed him. Sort of.
Matt: Be warned  treading thin ice with metagaming with your DM going forward, but yes. You have now heard it from Percy.
Marisha: I'm not metagaming! I'm legitimately asking whether this counts!
Matt: I know. That's fine. This counts, it's fine. You heard Percy say, "Vampire!"
Taliesin: Vampire!
Laura: Vampire!
Marisha: (weakly) Oh! Great!
Taliesin: What's that charisma score, again? Where is it?
Sam: And we fade to black.
Laura: Drop your fucking Wind Wall so I can hit something!
Marisha: I'll drop the Wind Wall and cast Sunbeam and, eyes flashing, light just (goom), right in the concentrated beam where I have this mist there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And stuff.
Marisha: And stuff.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, that will be considered direct sunlight. As you release the Wind Wall, the mist immediately begins to push its way this way out of the room. However, you catch it, your eyes glow, and as you release your hand forward, a blast of pure sun energy shoots forth from your hands. You see it burning the back wall like a big, thick laser, and as the mist tries to escape, you catch up to it, and you hear this faint, echoing, screeching cry as the mist immediately is evaporated on impact. (explosion noise)
Laura: Can we loot the mist?
Travis: (laughs) "Can we loot the mist?"
Matt: You can fill a pocket with ash, if you like.
Travis: Come on, at least some coins falling?
Laura: (ding ding ding) Like Scott Pilgrim? Oh, look! Coins. (laughs)
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Wait, can you use your bonus action to wink at Matt to ask for forgiveness?
Marisha: Why do I have to ask for forgiveness?!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Marisha: I can use my bonus action to heal somebody, if someone wants it. Actually, how about this? I used my bonus action to ask what the shit was this.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Does that make you feel better?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: What's the damage on my rapier, again? Was it 1d10 plus--
Matt: 1d8. It's a plus-one rapier, so it's 1d8 plus your dexterity modifier, plus one, so it would be plus seven for you.
Taliesin: Okay. Then in that case, I'm going to bring my Hex up to the very next--
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: And I'm going to put my gun away, walk up to him, and begin stabbing.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four, five. At that height you're going to have to leap up onto the second floor to get to him.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make an acrobatics check, if you want.
Taliesin: I'm just going to walk up, not quite that close, but one step back.
Matt: Okay, so there?
Taliesin: Take my next three shots.
Matt: Walk up the stairs. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to stop there in case that kills him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Actually, I had to reload anyway.
Matt: So there you go. So your third attack is to reload.
Taliesin: All three was reload, attack, attack.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's 16.
Matt: 16. All righty.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: (gunshot) He is blasted out of place. You can see there's a gaping hole across where one of his lungs was located, and he (groans) crumples to the ground into a pile.
Taliesin: Okay, I move the mist to the next guy.
Matt: All righty. You use a bonus action to re-curse him, by the way.
Taliesin: I had a bonus action, so I just used it.
Matt: That's right, you do. Technically, you used the bonus action this turn to put it onto him from the last turn.
Taliesin: Did I? You're technically correct, so go ahead.
Matt: You're probably going to do it on your next turn, anyway, so we'll just leave it there. It's fine. But keep that in mind, as this is a new ability.
Liam: (sneezes)
Matt: Gesundheit.
Laura: Bless you.
Marisha: Bless you.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Is that fellow who's enveloped in schmutz right next to Grog?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stab him. (laughter)
Sam: Your answer for everything.
Liam: First one is not that great. It's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: You are flanking him, though. You have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Oh, well let's do that again, then. We'll call that a 27 instead.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And then the second one is now a 20, and the third one is a 26. (shunk, shunk, shunk) Two plus seven is nine for the keen dagger, and then for the life-stealing dagger is a seven, and then back to the keen dagger, that is an 11.
Laura: Don't you get sneak attack damage?
Liam: Oh, right. Yeah, I'll put that in. Thank you.
Matt: I was like, "Where's that? That's the whole point of this."
Sam: All those?! Holy crap.
Liam: Eight, nine, ten, 11, 17, 19.
Matt: (explosion noise)
Laura: Oh, no, Grog!
Marisha: Oh god, you killed Grog!
Matt: Yeah, the daggers cut through his midsection, and you see where the armor plating itself was exposed from the first strike. The last one you just jam up into his torso, taking out any major organs.
Liam: I would also like to boot him over the side as I do this.
Matt: (groans) He falls over (thudding) down the stairs, past you, Percy. You let him tumble by as he slides to a stop at the very bottom of the stairs.
Laura: I put my foot on him to stop him.
Matt: Okay, Vex stops him in place, face-down. There's a smear of his blood across the steps. This once-nice, fine wood is now completely coated in crimson. (laughs) Okay. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me? (stuttering) Is it just a row of guys in front of me?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I would like to hold my turn. Because if I stand in front of them, nobody can do anything to them.
Sam: You can.
Laura: That's nice of you. You could just go (whoosh) and cross them off.
Marisha: How many's left?
Matt: There are five nervous-looking guards right now.
Marisha: They were trying to haul ass out?
Travis: Nah, I'll hold. Whoever's next can go.
Sam: So polite.
Laura: That is really kind of you, Grog.
Matt: That ends your turn. It is now the guards' turn. They all...
Laura: Run away.
Marisha: They're going to try and flee, aren't they?
Matt: They look to each other, and their one leader goes like, "Men, run!" They all rush and leap off the balcony, try and catch themselves there.
Liam: See those acrobatics checks...
Laura: I want them all to fall, please.
Marisha: Eat it. Make them all eat it.
Matt: Okay. Three of them land fine and begin bolting forward. Two of them fall. One of them (cracking noise) breaks his ankle and falls to the ground going (scream). The other one slams into his hip on the ground and falls prone. These guys are prone. These three continue to move forward to there. They're going for a full dash.
Laura: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Against one of them. He can only take one reaction per turn. They all rush out.
Laura: That definitely hits him, though.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage. Across that guy. Okay. Trinket reaches out and strikes across one of the guys, the guy you Hunter's Marked, who takes the claw across the side of his head, and you hear him yell out in pain, (scream) as he makes it out into the rain. Hurt, but not taken down. He continues to run past, and they all dart outside into the rainstorm.
Travis: I'll take my turn now.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, Grog.
Travis: I leap over the banister with my war hammer high and jump down on the guy that's closest to me, bringing it down with a reckless attack and great weapon master.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check for the jump.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh no, don't fall on your ass.
Travis: Okay, that's true. 13.
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this because you're raging and it's reckless and it's just funnier.
Travis: That's better!
Laura: That's better!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. You leap in the air (whoosh) like slow-motion (whoosh, explosion) down on top. Go ahead and roll three attacks on him.
Travis: Amazing, that's 27. That's 26.
Matt: Roll damage on those.
Travis: Okay, not a problem. Ten, 19, 29 on the first one.
Matt: 29 on the first one? Okay.
Travis: (laughing) And 28 on the second one.
Matt: So as you come down, the hammer blow slams into his torso, his actual metal armor crinks inward, and he goes, (screams) gasping in pain, as you've now jammed his own ribs into his internal organs. As you pull the hammer up with a sludgy, sucking sound you see him look at you with this look of, "No!" and the hammer comes down again. This time on top of his head, which, Gallagher watermelon, just (boosh) across the floor of this. Done, you look over at his friend, who is like, (gasps) trying to back up with his broken ankle. With your third attack, he's within your range.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: (inarticulate war cry)
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Oh, I don't need it. That's 27.
Matt: Roll advantage just in case it's a critical.
Travis: Oh, it's the same thing. It's 27.
Matt: Okay, there you go. That hits.
Travis: I know. I haven't critted in forever.
Matt: Even if you don't need the advantage, it's nice to roll a second time in case because there's a chance of a natural 20.
Travis: That's 20, 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage on him. (whack) This one you actually bring down onto his other leg. That leg snaps.
Travis: Is he on his back?
Matt: He's on his back and he's trying to pull away from you.
Travis: Right on the knee.
Matt: Right on the knee? (crack) It snaps underneath and he screams out in pain as the hammer pulls back. You can see where the bone is jutting out. You've actually taken off the lower half of his leg from the sheer bludgeoning force, and he's now bleeding out onto the ground a little bit. Not as much as he would be, because the flame cauterized the impact from the hammer.
Sam: (pained) So detailed.
Matt: He is in a really, really bad place. All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Well, I'm going to-- should I shoot at the guys running away?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yeah. Are they close by?
Matt: They're just out the front of the doors.
Laura: I'm going to come down and get in range.
Sam: Don't forget to tell them about Gilmore's Glorious Goods first. (laughter)
Sam: We're supposed to advertise!
Matt: (giggles) Timing is everything.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow because everything within ten feet is affected.
Matt: Yeah, that would hit all three. All right, you pull out your arrow. You aim it close. You can see the rain pouring down and they're all running out into the storm. You're like, "Storm, that's interesting." And you release.
Laura: 27? No, that's a lie. 19.
Matt: Against the guy you've Hunter's Marked?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit.
Laura: And then get the rest of them?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So they have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This guy fails. What's the DC on it?
Laura: That's a good question.
Matt: It should be at the top of your spell sheet.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, second guy fails. Guy who's Hunter's Marked does succeed, so he takes half damage on it.
Laura: Okay, I'm hitting him initially, so he takes 2d8. They all take 2d8. 17, 19, plus Hunter's Mark on the first guy. They all take 19, and then the extra guy takes an extra five.
Matt: Okay. The guy that Trinket swiped just screams (pained scream) as you can see the electricity charging through him, and the wet rain that hit him has caused it to even give more--
Laura: I thought Trinket swiped the Hunter's Marked guy, though.
Matt: Did he?
Laura: He did.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I remember you saying that.
Matt: Then I'll give you that. So the guy who is Hunter's Marked ends up destroyed, the electricity bouncing through his armor. He goes, (moan) and falls to the ground and crumples over. The other two guys get jolted and almost knocked off their feet. They're both looking really, really rough, and they both look at each other (panting) and just keep running with what little strength they have left. You still have a second attack, don't you?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, gosh. I'm going to shoot--
Sam: You're going to shoot people in the back.
Laura: No, I'm not going to shoot them in the back. The guy on the ground, he looks like he's in a lot of pain, doesn't he?
Matt: Oh, he's not going anywhere.
Laura: I'm going to put him out of his misery.
Taliesin: We don't want people running to report we're here, though.
Laura: Oh, really? So I should get the guys?
Liam: Get them, yeah!
Taliesin: No witnesses.
Travis: They might be vampires.
Taliesin: They might call vampires.
Laura: Okay. I can't lightning arrow them again, though.
Matt: No, it's a bonus action to cast it.
Laura: So I'll just regular old attack and I can only get one of them.
Liam: I yell out from the top, "Vex, no survivors!"
Laura: All right, all right!
Matt: (zoomf) Next arrow nocked.
Laura: That's a 19 again.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage. (zoomf) That guy is, through the back of the head, (zoomf, groan) and just slides through the mud for another two feet.
Laura: And I act like I have another, that I can attack him again. I say, "Stop!"
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: Come on, girl.
Sam: Come on, girl.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: It is. It is.
Matt: Watching his friend fall and slide in the mud, he stops where he stands and looks over his shoulder, slowly turning around, shaking.
Laura: And I say, "Get inside now."
Matt: Okay. Next up is Keyleth. Are you going to do anything?
Marisha: Do I kill him or do we keep him?
Sam: You have to make that decision yourself.
Marisha: Is he coming back inside?
Laura: He's standing there now.
Matt: He's currently standing about ten feet outside in the rain, just (shaky breathing).
Marisha: Is that a window I'm up against, behind me?
Matt: Actually, no. There is no window to the front here. It's just a wall.
Marisha: I'm just going to go, "Excuse me. Excuse me, Trinket. Sorry." And I'm going to peek around the door and go (shkoof) and Sunbeam him.
Matt: You're going to Sunbeam?
Marisha: That guy. That scared-shitless guy.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: It's what I just did.
Matt: What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: Six.
Matt: How many 6th-level spells per day can you cast?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell.
Matt: Oh, that's right! You can do it for up to a minute. Good call.
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell. I can keep doing it for a minute.
Laura: That's so freaking cool!
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty dope.
Sam: I can do that, too? I didn't know that. Well, not that spell, but with anything.
Matt: All right, so constitution save on him. (laughs) No. Do damage. 12.
Marisha: 16. That's 23 plus... 30 damage. Radiant damage. (lightning noise)
Matt: As he's standing in the rain, shaking, and looking at his friend, and looking at you, Keyleth steps into frame and goes, (boom). And before he can go, "Wait!" and there's just this scattering of ash that was once was his body. His armor is left intact and just tumbles to the ground in this pile. You see smoke sizzling off the now-heated armor. There's no sign of his physical body anymore, just a smattering of mud that the ash has now mixed with in the rain outside. Melt with prejudice, okay.
Travis: Got one guy left.
Matt: Now as you guys are all gathering around, we'll say from a roleplaying standpoint, as there is no real immediate threat to you; there is one guard left, who has currently one broken ankle and one missing lower half of his left leg, on the ground, looking at you all, hyperventilating and trying to back away, like (panting).
Travis: Time to call the Sandman.
Marisha: Since I'm outside on the threshold of the house, can I see where Scanlan might have lit up the other house yet?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 17?
Matt: 17? You can see a little bit of a dark stream in the distance. You can't tell if it's a nearby chimney or if it is the symbol of Scanlan. The rainstorm does make it a little hard to see, at this point, and through the adrenaline pumping in your system, and the fact that you just disintegrated two individuals in a short period of time. You're also wrestling with the morality of that and dealing with what you just did, so your concentration doesn't enable you to notice anything yet.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Who's got questions for Peg-Leg over here?
Liam: I do. I hop down off the balcony and walk up by Grog.
Taliesin: I'm going to start exploring the upstairs.
Marisha: I stay standing outside just staring out into the distance, waiting for Scanlan's cue.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: When you see my cue, attack. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I know. Which is what we were technically supposed to do.
Laura: No, we said we were waiting 30 seconds and then going in.
Sam: That was a terrible plan.
Travis: Greatest plan we've ever had. You were amazing.
Laura: You know what? You were amazing, we killed them, it was great.
Travis: I hold my hammer over his other knee and I go, "Look, we can work on you one limb at a time, or you can be very truthful and my friend can end it all very, very quickly."
Matt: (panting) "What do you want?"
Liam: There's no question, this is a bad situation you're in right now. We're not looking for you at all. I'm happy to knock you out and leave you in a closet here and lock it. If you want to help me find the Briarwoods, I really want to know where the Briarwoods are. Not you. Just the people you work for.
Matt: He looks around at the rest of the group, sees you walk up the stairs. (panting) "They're in the bloody castle, where else would they be?"
Travis: In? Or under?
Liam: That's a good question.
Matt: "I don't know. I don't know. They spend equal parts in both, as far as I know."
Laura: I peek around my brother and go, "Isn't there anyone else in the house?"
Matt: "No."
Laura: If you're lying, you'll pay.
Matt: "All of us who were here, we were waiting for you."
Laura: "Got it." I go upstairs with Percy.
Taliesin: That mist is probably following me around at this point, isn't it?
Matt: The black smoke, you mean?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah. The black smoke is slowly trailing behind you. With each step you take, it licks the back of your boots.
Taliesin: Oh, boy. Okay.
Liam: Is there anything else you can tell me in regards to back doors or secrets that your bosses don't want us to know? I mean, really, this is the time to talk, right now.
Travis: Anything you use to identify each other?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation check. With advantage because he has--
Sam: One leg?
Marisha: One leg?
Matt: He's bleeding out right now. Wait, no, he's not bleeding out. He's bleeding, but it's a trickle because of the cauterization.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives you a look and says, "Look. We've all been working for the Briarwoods. They mean well. They have big plans, I know that. I don't know the details of it. They don't tell us. But we're keeping guard on them. We were supposed to stop this insurrection. These people. We rounded up folks. We were given basic descriptions and we hung people against the Sun Tree as a warning. We hoped it wouldn't come to any sort of conflict, that you would take that as a means that you weren't supposed to be here. But then we all saw what happened. What happened to Sir Kerrion and his house, and that meant that you were here and that you meant business, so Tylieri and Vedmeyer, we waited for a signal. And we heard that you were planning an attack, so we set up guards here and prepared, and sure enough, you showed up. Which let us know that our contacts are good, and we thought that would be enough. We didn't realize you'd be walking in with whatever the fuck this thing is. I don't even know what you are." And he looks genuinely frightened at the fact that you, with all of these bolts sticking out of your body, are still grinning above him. "Nothing should have survived that ambush."
Liam: Let's back this up a little bit. You hung people from the Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah, as a warning."
Liam: "Where I saw that child?" I slit his throat.
Matt: (extended choking sounds) With a wet gurgle, the life expires from his body, a pool beginning to form on the tile below him.
Travis: Nicely done, Vax.
Liam: Piece of shit.
Laura: So Percy and I are upstairs alone?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Can I check his body?
Matt: (laughs) You begin rummaging through the body. You're keeping an eye out. Make another perception check.
Laura: I go upstairs, and I get Percy up against a wall. I turn around and slam him against a wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: This is sexy.
Marisha: 27.
Laura: And I look him straight in the eye--
Sam: And kiss him.
Laura: And I say, "Are you all right?"
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Look me in the eye, Percy.
Taliesin: I feel cruel, but in control. This is controllable, at the moment.
Laura: "All right." I'm insight-checking him.
Matt: Go for it. Roll insight.
Laura: Shit, just shit. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: What's your charisma modifier?
Taliesin: My charisma modifier is two.
Matt: Okay. He's hard to read right now. His focus is divided amongst your intensity and trying to answer your question. The pause in his throat isn't because he's thinking, it's because he grasps the words to describe it, but there is a quiver to it, and you can see his hands are still shaking a little bit. And as you look down at his hands, you can also see the smoke is still slowly swirling his ankle.
Taliesin: I'm fine, for now. I'll let you know. You'll know if I'm not.
Laura: I will.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I follow behind him closely.
Taliesin: Let's keep looking.
Matt: Okay. You start seeing, now, the dark plume of smoke in the distance. Scanlan has apparently and effectively set the signal. You also do notice, as you're looking out, other people have left their homes now--
Marisha: And I cast my Skywrite spell-- ew, I just spit-- and I use the smoke in the distance and as it's rising up into the sky, start drawing out the de Rolo family crest in the smoke.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the plume of smoke and filter into the dark rain clouds and you make the smoke go to a thicker, thicker black and take the next few moments to begin sculpting in the air until eventually we have a very well-defined de Rolo crest now staring down at the entire city of Whitestone.
Sam: Oh! Something's happening! Something's happening in the sky!
Marisha: That's me.
Sam: I think it's a magic wielder of some sort. Something-- I must flee! (laughter)
Matt: All right. Investigation checks from both of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did I find anything on Smash-Face?
Liam: (sighs) That's what you rolled the last time.
Laura: I know!
Taliesin: 16.
Laura: I've got to put this one away for a while.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a nine.
Matt: Okay. The two of you take a while upstairs looking about the rooms. You manage to acquire from just some of the local bits of cabinets and dust, you gather about 230 gold pieces.
Laura: 230?
Matt: Just loose gold pieces that are around. There is a nice jewelry box that seems to contain most of the jewels and gems that this individual likes.
Laura: I'm going to take the whole jewelry box and sort through it later.
Matt: Okay. So say a box of Tylieri's jewelry would be what you've marked down.
Taliesin: Tylieri family jewels. (laughter)
Taliesin: That won't be confusing at all.
Matt: There you go. You do notice, however, that's all you're able to find for the most part, other than some few bits of clothing and outfit. The master bedroom has no bed.
Laura: Does he sleep in a coffin?
Taliesin: We're going to finish searching downstairs and then find the entrance to the--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'd like to wind my way up there, as well.
Matt: Okay, as you make your way up there you notice them stepping out.
Liam: Yeah. I'm still curious. I want to go have a look as well.
Matt: Go for it. Investigation.
Laura: That's better, thank you.
Liam: 16.
Matt: 16? You look through the room. Most everything of interest has already been picked clean. This room also doesn't seem to see much use other than the clothing that's in there. This room is used for dressing and presentational purposes but other than that, as a bedroom, it's pretty useless. As you guys go downstairs, we'll say for the sake of brevity you take a little bit of time to start looking through. You know you're a little pressed for time because you can feel the energy in the town begin to rise and you start hearing noises. You keeping an eye out?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: The people that rush into the rooms are now rushing back out, some of them wearing leather tunics and small bits of armor, their weapons gathered, and they're forming small bands.
Marisha: I come over the speakers once again, the ear pieces. "I think it's time to go. Whenever you guys are ready, I want to light this bitch up."
Travis: We need to check all the rooms that go downstairs first.
Marisha: All right, quick.
Travis: "Got an empty house." I run out to the door to the left. To the uncovered areas.
Matt: Okay. You go over to this hallway. You eventually smash the door, doesn't take too long. It leads into what looks like a small study or some sort of an office room. A big blue rug, a desk with a chair, some papers strewn about.
Travis: Can I grab the rug and yank it?
Matt: Yeah, pull the rug off, reveals a hatch.
Travis: (excited shouting) I found a hatch!
Laura: (cries out in pain) No need to yell!
Travis: Oh sorry. (quieter) I found a hatch.
Taliesin: Quick, I just want to do a quick round of the downstairs room before going to the hatch.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you find what looks to be a general sitting area, a music room, or a place where you would host guests. Also in fair disuse. And then beyond that, you find a room that's pretty bland, with a staircase that leads down into what was once servants' quarters that has been converted into a torture room.
Laura: Oh, lovely.
Matt: It's a little nicer in its presentation and tools than the duergar torture room that you encountered in the Underdark, but this looks to be like Tylieri had a definite interest in entertaining unwanted guests.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: Vax or Vex, will you come check this hatch for boobies? (laughter)
Liam: I jog on down.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. That's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, it does not appear to be trapped.
Travis: No boobies.
Liam: Okay. You want to open that, big guy?
Travis: Yeah! (growls)
Matt: (vroom) The hatch comes up. There is no ladder; it's just a ten-foot drop down into a basement.
Travis: Okay, I jump.
Matt: Land down there. A 20 foot by 20 foot room. It's very musty. However, you do see in the far corner there is a pad of fresh earth set up, and there is a dark box.
Travis: Um.
Matt: About eight feet long.
Liam: I hear him say "Um," and I jump down, too. With the Flametongue dagger out for light.
Matt: Okay. The room lights up a little bit and you can see across the way there is a not super-detailed, but a fairly well-crafted coffin on the opposite side of the room.
Travis: Ooh! I bet there's treasure in there!
Liam: You might be right. Yeah, let's go have a look.
Laura: Is there treasure? Did you find treasure?
Liam: "Hold, please." Perception check the coffin. That's a 20.
Matt: Okay. The coffin does not appear to be trapped?
Travis: Can I open it?
Marisha: He said that with a question mark.
Matt: It's always fun to do that.
Travis: Well, should I just smash it?
Liam: I really feel like this could be--
Laura: Smash it!
Travis: Three, two. Grog smashes.
Liam: I kick it off with the end of my foot. Little bit. Or try to.
Matt: Okay. (boof) The lid flies off and then slams on the ground. A smell hits you that's just like musty old mildewed earth. The inside of the coffin is, it's lined with like a fine purplish velvet material, the smell quickly fades. It looks like there are some small baubles in there, keepsakes. There is what looks to be a cape or a cloak that is laid across the bottom of this for comfort.
Liam: Roll it up. Put it into my satchel. I'm going to take a dagger out and I want to cut all the way up through that purple velvet. Just see, just in case.
Matt: Okay. You cut through the purple velvet. Rummage through underneath. It appears to be the back of the box.
Taliesin: I'm going to check his desk upstairs for anything interesting.
Matt: Okay. Want to make an investigation check?
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: As you're rummaging through the notes in the desk, a lot of them are ledgers involving the trade in and out of the city. He has his hands dabbling in elements of the timber trade, elements of the actual trade of whitestone. He talks about the-- and you understand, the reason that Whitestone itself is-- the stone that's mined here is so popular for construction and architecture and other elements is the stone that these mountains are made of, when properly prepared, there is a faint bit of residuum that is naturally ingrained in the rock here. No one really knows how it came about, but whatever it is, while it is not inherently magical, it makes it a little bit easier, faster, and cheaper to enchant the stone. So when it comes to, you know, enchanting a teleportation circle permanently somewhere or for traps or things-- not actual objects but actually enchanting anything made of stonework. It's easier to enchant, and that's why the whitestone of this area is sought after and a good trade element. So there's notes about that. But the stone trade has been halted, all stone has continued to be mined, but it's not being transported.
Travis: Is the desk made out of the stone?
Matt: No, there's just notes about it. So all the whitestone that is being mined is not being exported. It's being kept here, somewhere.
Laura: They're making something big.
Taliesin: They're making something big.
Liam: I think we need to get out of here.
Travis: I was going to ask, are you good with the coffin?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. I smash the shit out of it, in an effort to see what's underneath.
Matt: Okay. You take about 30 seconds of extreme violence against the wooden coffin, killing it into chunks and blocks. You get the feeling that this may have been the place the mist was trying to get to. But it did not make its journey. It got scattered by druid Sunbeam and destroyed, and the coffin is left in ruins. You do-- even you, Grog-- absorb the fact that when a vampire goes to mist form, you get the feeling that this is the home it needs to come to, to try and survive.
Travis: Not anymore.
Matt: Not anymore. Not that one.
Marisha: Do I see anyone coming?
Matt: Oh. You see another zombie giant coming up the way. You can see people attacking it, it's just thrashing them about, but this one seems less bothered by the group and is now moving towards a specific area, moving towards the fiery plume in the distance. They're all gathering in that direction.
Marisha: But no one seems to be rushing towards this house?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Travis: This one's not on fire. Yet.
Matt: All right, you all gather, you can hear the rainstorm itself is coming down in sheets. What do you want to do?
Travis: Light this candle!
Laura: Should we light this on fire, too?
Taliesin: Burn it to the ground.
Marisha: "Everyone out." And I start casting a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: We're out by now.
Marisha: Everyone out.
Matt: You guys all step out into the rain (whooshes) pouring down. What bits of guard blood that have been pressed against you washes off.
Travis: Aw.
Marisha: I peek in this foyer. And just (boof), right in the middle, and take a minute to move it all around.
Matt: A Flaming Sphere begins to corkscrew around this room, up over the banister, up to the upper area, and like an artist, you paint this entire room with flame until the entire interior of this main foyer is just an inferno. You can hear the flames licking and the light is very bright. You end up backing up and you can see people, unarmored folk in nearby homes that are pressed up against their windows watching this happen and whispering to each other. The children, those that are kept guarded and are not part of this rebellion, they are watching this with smiles.
Marisha: Okay, I think that's good enough. Let's go.
Taliesin: Head back to the curiosity shop.
Laura: Yeah, sneaky, stealthing.
Matt: Okay. As you guys run off into the alley behind--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace I cast on all of us.
Matt: Okay. How many more spells do you have at that level? Because you used it several times today.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine with Pass Without a Trace. That's a 1st-level. 2nd-level, but I'm fine.
Taliesin: Back to the alcove, then?
Matt: You guys all dart off into the alley under the cover of the shadows of the storm and the rainfall, to head towards the alcove, and we'll go ahead and take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: A quick break, I know I always say that, I'm not going to say five minutes, but.
Sam: This one's a real quick break.
Matt: We'll take it real quick because we want to try and get through as much of the story before we get to Critmas.
Laura: Critmas!
Liam: Critmas! Crimmas.
Taliesin: Oh dear god.
Travis: It's going to be a thing.
Matt: Which is going to, which is going to take some time tonight. Be back here in a few minutes guys, we'll see you in a sec.
Travis: Pizza! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Jumping back into the chaos, the party has scattered back into the rainstorm. I would like everyone to make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh, right. Plus ten for everybody.
Matt: Plus ten.
Liam: I did all right.
Taliesin: I rolled my disadvantage.
Travis: Does it matter on a one?
Matt: All right.
Travis: Ten?
Matt: Total ten?
Travis: Total ten. 11.
Laura: 11, technically.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 29.
Liam: 43.
Sam: I'm not there.
Travis: 43?
Matt: Well, you're making your own stealth, though. You're invisible, so just roll twice.
Sam: Natural 20.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Okay. So making up for the bounding chaos that is Grog throughout the city, you manage to still make your way largely as a group stealthed to-- are you heading to the alcove, you said?
Taliesin: That's where we had our little crash-base set up, right?
Matt: Correct. All right. You make your way to the alcove. As you're darting through, you can see in the distance small pocketed sounds of yells and the occasional sound of some sort of large-scale crumbling or crashing of wood and stone. Occasionally, darting past the streets, you see militant occupants of Whitestone: armored, rushing through, shouting orders to each other, some coming back wounded and helping their friends back. The midday rebellion has definitely started, and you get the sense that the initial surprise has been effective, but the longer this runs, the longer this wears on, the more and more of a body count this will be.
Travis: Seeing the chaos, can I get the Dust of Tracelessness and start trying to sprinkle it behind us?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Guys, we should do something.
Laura: I know, we really should.
Sam: Am I with these guys yet?
Matt: You have not, but you all meet up back at the alcove, communicating over your earpieces. You make your way to the front of the building. The doors are closed and locked.
Liam: The alcove?
Travis: Closed and locked?
Liam: I'll see about that. I'm going to check the door.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is ten. 23.
Matt: Okay. Seems to be a fairly simple lock.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Look for an ambush around. Can we look around?
Laura: Yeah, perceive it?
Travis: Rooftops? Sides of the building?
Matt: Make a perception check, guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: Not you, you haven't gotten there yet.
Liam: 20.
Travis: I actually rolled a 17.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 24.
Laura: 26.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, there doesn't appear to be any set ambush or anybody else here. You do hear the soft sound of pacing footsteps in the interior.
Laura: Should we knock on the door?
Travis: Canvass the building.
Liam: I can get in there and see who that is. I can go in, yeah.
Laura: They're right on the inside.
Liam: I thought it was upstairs, or you said right on the other side of the door?
Laura: Right on the other side of the door.
Marisha: Oh, for crying out loud. I push past them I just go, Jordana! Jordana, it's us!
Matt: Okay, there's a pause and a voice goes, "Who's us?"
Laura: Oh. Crazy grandma!
Marisha: And Vox Machina. (quietly) Does she know we're called that?
Laura: No. I don't know. (louder) Crazy grandma was staying with you. Crazy peasants.
Marisha: Allies.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Son of a-- nine?
Laura: Can I help?
Laura: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma can help!
Matt: I'll say since you're backing her failure up, go ahead and make it with disadvantage.
Marisha: Hey, you don't have to call it-- that sounds so sad when you say it like that.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. There's a pause. "Crazy grandma? Come in." You hear the sound of a locking sound and the door opens up ever-so-slightly. A very, very dimly lit interior, there's a small lantern, a hooded lantern across the room. Other than that, you see the shadow of Jordana as she ushers you all in out of the rain.
Laura: So, hey guess what? It's started.
Matt: "Yeah, apparently." She closes the door behind you, looks out the window that has the curtains closed and goes, "Okay. So. It's underway. It's not safe to be here right now."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Did anyone see you come in?"
Laura: No, no.
Matt: "Good. Who are you?"
Laura: "Oh. Well." How about Seeming? This whole time, have we looked like crazy peasants during the battle?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: We dropped it.
Laura: We dropped it?
Matt: You dropped Seeming before all of this.
Laura: Okay, just making sure Trinket wasn't a donkey that killed the--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: That would've been intense and awesome.
Matt: That would've been amazing. Donkey eating a vampire head? Aw, man.
Liam: This is hard to believe, but this is crazy grandma.
Laura: "I'm crazy grandma." I do a crazy eye thing just to show her.
Sam: Am I there, Matt?
Matt: You've just now gotten to that point, you see the door closing as you get there.
Sam: Hello. Hi. How'd it go?
Marisha: Good work, by the way! That was awesome! I mean, I saw the fire, I don't know what you did.
Laura: So it went well?
Sam: I set fire to the place, some shit went down, dinosaurs were harmed, but I know you got the smoke signal and used that to attack.
Marisha: The de Rolos have dinosaurs?
Sam: No, it was me. It's all good, though. I caused a ruckus, that's all I was supposed to do.
Travis: That's it, yeah.
Matt: "What is going on?"
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: We may have just started a revolution.
Marisha: Does he look familiar to you?
Liam: You don't recognize us, it's not safe to walk these streets for outsiders, so we were using a little bit of trickery. This is us. We're the same people you were dealing with before.
Travis: Vox Machina.
Laura: We just need to rest.
Matt: "Okay. You can rest here, but how long?"
Laura: Until we're healed, and then we'll go.
Liam: Overnight.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel like we should get word out to somebody, though, because--
Sam: To what? To hold the revolution?
Laura: I feel like everybody's going to die before we even get to the castle!
Marisha: That's the thing. I don't know if this is the time to rest.
Laura: But we don't have any spells.
Marisha: I'm okay. We can maybe make do.
Laura: I can't make do.
Travis: You might be cool, but we're fucked.
Taliesin: How about we stay here until 4 00, 5 00 in the morning--
Marisha: What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, I'd say you're close to three in the afternoon.
Laura: How do we tell the people to like hold off?
Sam: We need to briefly quell the rebellion?
Marisha: We started something. We can't stop it now.
Taliesin: We're going to be indoors. It doesn't matter what time we go to attack the castle.
Sam: Let's spread word. We can spread word. Let's find a few--
Laura: Can we send off a message?
Marisha: We sparked a hope in people. We now have innocent peasants, people who are not fighters--
Sam: Can you Skywrite something like "attack tomorrow" or "hold"?
Laura: What if we all take off in separate directions and we tell all the peasants we find that are fighting the time that we're going to attack?
Travis: Aren't there a bunch of zombie stone giants walking around?
Laura: Well yeah, we'll have to be sneaky about it, but we'll spread the rumors around. I look at Jordana. Joanna?
Matt: Jordana.
Laura: Jordana. And I say, can you get word out to people?
Matt: "To a few, maybe. I don't want to go outside right now."
Laura: I don't blame you, dear.
Taliesin: Let's let her stay. I say we just rest up and we attack tonight.
Travis: Tonight?
Marisha: What if there isn't a town to defend tonight?
Travis: Aren't they stronger then?
Taliesin: It's going to be indoors, anyway.
Sam: First of all, it's raining outside. It's daytime. There's no vampires out there right now, right? They don't like water, do they?
Laura: No, they don't like running water, in fact they hate running water! I didn't think about that.
Marisha: It's a lot of running water, though. I think they're all right with rain.
Travis: Yeah, they said a river is what the... right?
Sam: I'm sure they don't like it. In any case, the only thing that our rebels are rebelling against right now are six zombie giants, one of whom I'm pretty sure they killed already. Did I see them?
Matt: Best you could see, that group was doing pretty well and was hacking it down. Lost a few of their number in the process.
Marisha: Did we ever get a count of how many zombie giants there were?
Sam: There were six.
Matt: There were six that you saw while you were doing your overall flight.
Laura: What, so we go out and fight zombie giants?
Sam: No, but maybe we could--
Marisha: Why not? We are the most capable people in this town right now.
Laura: Well. We could go fight zombie giants and then tell everybody to wait.
Travis: Nah, it's going to fuck us. We've got to rest.
Marisha: Why don't we take a short rest, heal up a bit, get back out there, take down some giants. What do you guys say?
Sam: I admire this fire in your eyes, but it's so stupid.
Laura: What if we run out and tell people to stop fucking fighting and wait until tomorrow?
Liam: They won't. The giants are going to keep smashing them.
Sam: What time did he say it was?
Taliesin: It's about three. We could just do a round of the front courtyard and see what's going on.
Laura: Fuck! Fine.
Taliesin: Try and sleep through the night.
Laura: All right. We fight until we absolutely can't fight anymore.
Travis: What about the people who absolutely need a short rest at the minimum stay.
Liam: We stay for an hour.
Taliesin: We're short-resting right now.
Liam: Rest for an hour.
Marisha: This is going to go on for a while, but the longer we wait indoors, the more people are going to die, and if we're killing people to try and save the masses-- which is how I'm justifying this whole thing, by the way-- I feel like we can't leave the masses to their own devices.
Sam: Wait a second, what about that, what about that cleric, the religious man that you've talked to. Could he get a message out to everybody? What's his name?
Laura: At this point, though, it's chaos.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We literally lit the fire and we can't stop it now.
Sam: Archibald? Is that his name?
Travis: Yeah, they're standing up for themselves.
Taliesin: We also, somebody-- there's the point that somebody is informing on us.
Marisha: Someone is informing on us.
Sam: What are you talking about, why?
Taliesin: They were ready for us. They knew we were coming.
Sam: Of course they knew we were coming, we killed one of their--
Laura: They said there was an informant. They said that there was an informant when we were there.
Travis: Who did?
Laura: That guard. He said our contacts were right. Our informant was correct. Somebody is informing on us. It could be you.
Liam: I insight-check this woman.
Matt: Go ahead and roll insight.
Liam: 14.
Laura: Can I say it? Because I just said, "It could be you." Can I do the same thing?
Matt: Sure, go ahead.
Laura: All right. That's terrible. Okay. So.
Sam: What do you want to know?
Matt: Best that you can tell, she just looks genuinely scared and is uncomfortable with your presence right now but is letting it happen. She's still getting over the fact that you guys look entirely different than when you first talked to her about staying here.
Laura: Well, short rest and then we head out? We do some attacks and--
Liam: I've never fought a zombie giant before.
Laura: No, but everybody else is doing it. Those peasants are doing it.
Liam: That's what I'm saying. Let's see what we're up against. Let's take a breather and let's go pick one off.
Marisha: Jordana, do you have any books here on zombie giants?
Matt: "For the most part, necromancy is not studied in this town. At least, we never had to deal with it until recently, and we haven't had the opportunity to really study since."
Marisha: Well, I mean, zombie combined with giants. We've fought zombies and we've fought giants, so I'm assuming it with a vague--
Travis: What?
Laura: We keep our distance.
Taliesin: How long does it take to recharge Hex, by the way?
Matt: You need a long rest.
Travis: How many Sunbeam hadoukens do you have left, Keyleth?
Marisha: How many hadoukens? As in Sunbeams? I'm done on Sunbeams.
Sam: We need to rest.
Travis: If we get a short rest, how many do you get?
Marisha: I'm done. None.
Laura: We need a long rest to get spells.
Marisha: However, if I short rest, I actually haven't burnt any of my animal forms here recently and I can water elemental up, which would also permanently kill them. So I have other defenses that could still take down vampires if we encounter another one. I'm more concerned about these giants right now.
Travis: That's what I'm talking about. They're vampires.
Marisha: No, they're zombies. They're undead.
Laura: They're zombies.
Liam: They're undead.
Travis: Those are two different things, huh?
Matt: They are two very different things.
Travis: Grog learns. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what's the plan?
Laura: We short rest and get back out.
Liam: We take a short rest and then exterminate.
Sam: Wait, join the rebellion or ride around town telling everyone, "quell?"
Marisha: We're taking down these damn giants. These giants are killing people left and right; we watched them crush people on our way here.
Taliesin: We tell them that they take cover during the night.
Travis: I'm going to roll four hit dice.
Matt: Yeah, you guys go ahead, use your hit dice to heal up while you're taking your short rest for those who've taken damage.
Laura: Oh, Trinket. Can you heal Trinket?
Marisha: I can.
Laura: Heal him so much. Does Trinket get... oh, he does get hit dice.
Matt: Trinket technically does not. Trinket requires--
Laura: It says he does. It's written down.
Matt: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Also, another strange question  what creates initiative? Initiative is your dexterity modifier?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So with me, it's my dexterity modifier. Plus two.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm also currently wearing a Headband of Initiative, which I'd forgotten about.
Matt: Which...?
Taliesin: Gives me plus two to my initiative.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Oh, dear god almighty. Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Percy, Percy, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't mean to be doing this.
Matt: No, it's great. Just glad you didn't take the Alertness feat. Then things would have gotten stupid.
Laura: Are you healing Trinket?
Marisha: How much more does he need?
Laura: He's at 36. He needs 24 more.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to be using the Hat of Disguise just because it's probably safe. Does anybody want a Headband of Initiative?
Laura: Yeah. Do you not need it?
Taliesin: I can't wear two things on my head.
Laura: I don't have anything on my head.
Taliesin: So you've got plus two to your initiative, and I'm losing plus two to my initiative. It's called a Headband of Initiative.
Marisha: You already have an eight to your initiative.
Liam: It's very mystical.
Travis: How much time do we have before the sun that is being blocked by the rainclouds goes down?
Matt: Well, you guys are taking a short rest, about 30 minutes to an hour, so you have about two and a half, three hours before it goes down entirely.
Taliesin: That should give us enough time to do a quick tour. We already know their walking route, and I'm sure that the people are putting up a fight.
Marisha: I'm going to give him a level two Cure Wounds.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So do 2d8 plus ten.
Laura: Me?
Marisha: Sure. Me or you. Whoever feels more comfortable.
Laura: I'll do it. It was good.
Matt: During this rest, if you wanted to spend some time with that cape--
Liam: I do. I'm going to sniff it and shake it out.
Matt: For the most part, it doesn't appear to be enchanted.
Sam: No, I can sing a Song of Rest for all of us.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Sam: It gives us all 1d6. That's pretty weak.
Marisha: No, but that's...
Laura: No, it's fine. He's got extra hit points; don't worry about it.
Marisha: Well, Song of Rest just happens, right? Do you get that for free? You might as well, if you don't burn anything.
Sam: Okay. (sings) Health! We need some now. Health! Not just anybody. Health! You know you need someone.
All: (sings) Health!
Matt: That's not trademarked at all. I love it. All right, so you guys have rested up. Through the rest, you occasionally hear voices run by, yelling. As you guys get toward the end of your rest, you hear the (stomping) large heavy footfalls heading nearby. (groaning, crash) A loud, heavy impact, and you hear some short cheers outside.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Oh, he died. That's two down. Splash two.
Travis: Right out front, we hear it?
Matt: Out front, a little ways off. Not immediately.
Sam: Do we have horses? We don't have any horses, do we?
Laura: No.
Liam: They died.
Matt: Yeah, they got eaten by harpies.
Travis: Should we go outside and see how they're doing?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's check it out.
Travis: We go out front.
Liam: Time to kill some giant undead.
Matt: Okay. Jordana lets you guys out, locks behind her.
Marisha: Do we want to split up?
Taliesin: No, let's keep together.
Laura: Actually, before we go, I ask, do you have any holy symbols at all in here?
Matt: "I'm sorry, no."
Laura: Nothing?
Matt: "No. All those were kept in either of the two temples here."
Laura: Do you have anything magic that could help me?
Matt: "I already gave you everything of magic that I had here."
Laura: Oh, right. I forgot we took it.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: Shit. All right, thank you.
Travis: Once we're outside, how far away is that giant that was felled?
Matt: As you step outside and look, it's about 60 feet off, near one of the big crossroads near this area. And a zombie giant has been completely felled down, and there are three people now that are currently in the process of hacking its head off just to make sure. It's a group of about seven people that live here. They're all looking pretty messed up, but they're all eager and adrenaline-driven, they're all hacking away, then stopping and taking a breath (breathes heavily). You hear in the distance, (thunder crack) bolt of lightning coming down from the storm, and as it echoes, everyone shakes for a second, look at each other, (cheers) give a cheer of victory. They all hop off the body of the zombie giant and begin darting further in towards the center of the city.
Marisha: I look up. Is my de Rolo symbol still in the sky?
Matt: It's there. It's dissipating slowly, but it's still there. It's moved a little bit off-axis with the storm.
Travis: So that's it for the big houses, right? Just the castle.
Taliesin: Just the castle.
Sam: Except we haven't killed the members of one of the houses. By the way, my Song of Rest is a d8.
Laura: Awesome.
Sam: But we haven't killed the last one. Now, the one that you guys killed. What's his name again, Tylieri?
Matt: Tylieri.
Sam: He was a vampire.
All: Yes.
Sam: Because Sylas killed him. Right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: And then made him a vampire.
Taliesin: One would assume.
Sam: Didn't he hang him on the Sun Tree?
Laura: What? No. What? What are you talking about?
Sam: I don't know. Didn't that guy that we meet...
Matt: You do recall, actually, when you were interrogating the driver of the Briarwoods. Tylieri was the master of the driver Desmond, who beat him and subjugated him to various forms of torture and abuse before Lord Briarwood took Desmond and, to try and show extension of faith, revealed to Desmond Tylieri hanging from the Sun Tree. That was true.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: And then he became a vampire. Is that where they're spawning?
Laura: No. Maybe he was already a vampire and he hung him from the tree just to show--
Sam: That doesn't seem right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the Sun Tree, why don't we?
Laura: Let's head that direction.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Something to us about how when people die in this town. The guy you talked to at the bar?
Sam: Yes, we talked to a guy at the bar. What about him?
Marisha: He said when people die here they don't die.
Sam: Well, yes, we know that, yes.
Laura: They come back.
Liam: They could be-- yes, that could apply, too.
Marisha: I think this whole damn town-- I think the whole land is cursed. Is what I think.
Travis: I think that's--
Laura: Probably pretty fair.
Travis: Should we go to the tree?
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Just to see--
Laura: We'll make our way through the town and look for giants as we make our way to the tree.
Marisha: Let's look for giants. Let's go giant-hunting.
Matt: Okay. All right, so from the Alcove, you guys head in a southwestern motion, keeping off the main paths best you can. The main chaos seems to have died down a little bit in this area of the town. You come across another body of a zombie giant, surrounded by what looks like eight bodies of civilians of the town.
Laura: Are they all dead, or are they injured?
Matt: No, they are all very dead. Two of which are torn in half and just tossed to different sides, one appears to be half-eaten, and the rest are just smashed. But whatever troop was with them managed to take the zombie giant down. Eventually, you make your way to the center of the town square where the Sun Tree is and there is, across the way on the opposite side, what appears to be, in mid-struggle, one zombie giant that has a series of spears or javelins sticking out of its torso. It's currently swatting at a group of individuals that have torches in the rain, still trying to get up towards it and push it backward. The Sun Tree, at a glance-- roll a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: One. There's a tree!
Sam: Four.
Marisha: I rolled a 19, so 29?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Laura: If my passive perception's higher than my roll--
Matt: Active perception and passive perception-- passive is more something to keep track when you're not actively perceiving. So. Grog?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you pick this out in the rain, and it's hard to see, but from this angle, you see what looks to be eight ropes, currently, just dangling free from the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: The tree is the spawning spot.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Or maybe one of them.
Travis: Or maybe they cut them down.
Sam: We've got to cut down this tree.
Laura: Does it look like the ropes have been cut?
Matt: You can go closer to inspect it if you want.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're hearing in the distance the (roars) the battle's still raging about 65, 70 feet from you. You get up behind the tree and you take the ropes and inspect it. All the ropes are very finely cut.
Laura: Oh. They were cut. They cut them down.
Travis: They cut their dead down.
Marisha: Okay, so the nooses are gone.
Matt: Yeah. And you do see, there are a number. This close, you can see there are loops of rope all over the tree: some very old and weathered and aged, some of them are torn, some of them are cut, but the fresh ones that are the longest currently and that are placed closest to where the bodies were originally there are all very cleanly cut.
Laura: Can we spin around and look and see if there's anything around that looks like-- or look at tracking and see if it looks like somebody cut them down or if they fell on their own?
Matt: You glance around real fast and you can see to the south there is still the battle raging between the zombie giant and the crew of individuals, but you look back where you guys were from, and you see a large series of shapes stepping through the rain, coming from the direction you guys were.
Liam: I think they cut them down just like Tylieri. I think that this is where they hang them to ripen, and then when they're ready they pluck them off the tree and set them on their way.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you, keeping your eyes forward as he's saying this in your ear, you can see, as the light of the town is slowly beginning to vanish into a sunset--
Marisha: Is it still raining?
Matt: It is still raining. You see ahead of you, coming from the central roadway into the square of the town, what you can only surmise to be anywhere from 30 to 50 armored skeletal entities that are pouring from the north.
Marisha: Okay. I climb the Sun Tree.
Sam: Wait, what? We've got to get out of here!
Marisha: I'm climbing the Sun Tree.
Matt: Climbing the Sun Tree. All right. You guys see Keyleth scurry up the Sun Tree.
Sam: I blow my Horn of Fog to create a smokescreen. I don't know what the fuck she's doing.
Matt: Okay. (foghorn sound) The slow horn-blow comes out, and this fog begins to fill the area between this marching skeletal army and the Sun Tree where you guys currently are. Looking over your shoulder, you can see the zombie giant finishes smashing the last individual in that crew, picks it up and jams it into its jagged giant teeth.
Marisha: So there's a big army coming down, filtering down a street.
Matt: Down the street towards you.
Marisha: How far away?
Matt: You can't tell now. There's just fog along the way.
Marisha: I can't tell how far away they are right now?
Matt: No, you can't see them.
Marisha: I can't see them?
Matt: No, because Scanlan just created a whole bunch of fog between the two of you. The moment you saw, they may be about a hundred or so feet from you.
Liam: Keyleth, tell us what you're thinking, because the rest of us are taking this time to go.
Travis: You engage, they'll follow, we go, we fight another day, we sleep in the rafters and wait until daybreak.
Liam: Who are you?
Marisha: I might be able to do something.
Laura: What is it? Say it!
Marisha: I can do a big ice storm or do something to take all these fuckers out at once.
Travis: All 30 to 50 of them? Kill them all?
Marisha: It's a big range.
Liam: No. Keyleth, we've got to go.
Taliesin: I say we let her hit them, and we run.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you drop the fog just a bit?
Sam: Nope, not by magic.
Matt: He can't control it.
Laura: It's on the ground. You can probably see above it. Fog is low.
Matt: Well, the fog this creates is a magical fog that obscures an entire area. If you climbed to the very top of the tree, you might be able to get a little bit of a visual.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to climb as high as I can.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Laura: I'm going to climb up after her.
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: 11. Acrobatics or athletics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You make your way up to the very precarious top of the branches. You can feel the brittleness of it as the tree itself, its life force is withered over time and some of it cracks and some of the actual bark of the tree twists off in your grip as you get to the very top. You can look just over the bank of fog that Scanlan has created and you can see beyond that. The number of undead from this angle, what was initially like 30 probably pushes closer to about a hundred.
Marisha: Okay. And they're like a hundred feet away?
Matt: Starting about a hundred feet away, slowly marching towards you.
Marisha: Right where they are, I'm going to start a little ahead of where they originate, I'm going to start making an ice storm. I'm pushing all the way back to where-- just right down these fuckers.
Liam: I'm also just trying to stay underneath her as best I can.
Laura: Stop looking up her skirt, brother.
Liam: Is she in a skirt?
Sam: She's been wearing a dress this whole time?
Liam: I thought she was covered in leaves.
Taliesin: Stop looking up her fig leaf.
Matt: All right. What's the damage on that? Is it 2d8 bludgeoning and 2d8--
Marisha: They take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for both. And it's a save for half, right?
Taliesin: Inspiration?
Sam: Oh. Well. I didn't do it.
Marisha: 2d8 bludgeoning, that's seven bludgeoning... 4d6. Not great at all. Four, five, six, seven, eight.
Matt: Total of eight. Eight plus... what was the other one?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Seven, okay.
Marisha: And it's difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. So the first area. Suddenly you see some of the clouds above you begin to funnel downward, and a few bolts of electricity (crackle) through it. As the funnel hits, it grows dark, and then all of a sudden this cold wind begins to swirl around it. And with that, the cloud almost seems to tear open within itself and a sheet of jagged ice and sleet begins to pour downward into the center of this undead horde. As it does, you can see probably a good 25, 30 of these are just blown apart, bone shards scattered around and you can see bits of rusted metal weapons and armor thrown left and right. The ice then coalesces over the floor of this area and some of the skeletons just slip, but they keep marching forward. It definitely took a chunk, but as it continues pushing forward--
Marisha: Now we can run.
Laura: Good job. I grab the back of her shirt and yank her towards me.
Matt: You guys make your way down the tree. As you get to the bottom of the tree, the zombie giant has taken notice of the sudden flashing of light and the movement in the tree and is bounding towards the tree after you guys.
Laura: Are we running?
Travis: Are we going to the Alcove or going to the treeline?
Taliesin: I say we go to the treeline, and I say that you take a couple shots as we're heading--
Laura: I'm definitely doing that, yes. I'm going to shoot at the giant as we're running. Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark, turning around, looking at the giant.
Marisha: As she says that, I'm going to go ahead and start casting my Call Lightning spell.
Matt: Okay. So you land and you cast Call Lightning. The fog that you created, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Has formed up. You start seeing shapes; these terrifying skeletal faces begin to appear through the fog as the rest of the army begins to push through. The clouds coalescing above Keyleth as you get your Call Lightning ready, you marking the zombie giant, you guys begin bolting out of the way. Trinket comes running up behind you, Vex, and picks you up onto his back, and you guys begin rushing off toward the treeline-- to the west or the east?
Laura: Can I shoot him?
Marisha: Yeah, as I turn around, I Call Lightning on the giant.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: And it's cloudy, so I get how much more?
Matt: I don't know, how much do you get more on that? Call Lightning would be...
Sam: While you decide, which way are we going, Percy? West or east?
Matt: 3d10. It does an additional d10. It does 4d10.
Laura: And I'm going to shoot him through my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel as we're going away, too.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So the passage to the castle I'm aware of is to the west, and then the one that Stonefell mentioned is to the east?
Travis: Do we go to the treeline by the castle?
Matt: No, the one Stonefell mentioned was the same.
Taliesin: Was the same?
Matt: It wasn't Stonefell, it was Vouk.
Taliesin: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: But yeah. He was referring to the same one.
Taliesin: Treeline to the west so that we can attack first thing.
Laura: 22. Twice.
Matt: 22 hits.
Laura: And then three on the last one.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Laura: Well, it's technically 14 on the last one.
Matt: For him? Still hits.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: It's a big target. Big target, lot of hit points.
Marisha: And as she's brewing up her bow, I'm behind her and just bring down the bolt for 32 damage.
Matt: Damn. (lightning sound) You can see the bolt strikes the front of the zombie giant right as it starts swinging after you guys. The bolt hits its shoulder and blasts a chunk of its shoulder blade off. You see bone shards fire behind, and there's a giant piece of its torso now missing where the bolt hit. (groans) Stumbles back onto its back foot and catches itself, almost toppling over.
Marisha: Just start backing up. "Vex?"
Matt: It starts lumbering forward again as Vex releases her arrow, which splits into three.
Marisha: Vex?
Laura: 54 points of damage.
Marisha: Kill it!
Matt: Nice! (impact sounds) All the arrows blasting into its body, you can see they sink in and burst on the inside. There's a little, a dull glow as this burst of electrical energy hits from underneath its sickly zombified flesh. At which point, there's a slight delay before it (explosion sound) bubbles forth and a bit of its internal liquid just spews out like a boil. You can see it's definitely taking damage, and it keeps pushing forward. Yeah, it's still moving towards you guys.
Liam: How far away is it?
Taliesin: For gods' sakes!
Matt: It's about ten feet from you guys right now.
Taliesin: I pull out Bad News. I'm shooting it with Bad News, and I'm going for an aimed shot to the legs.
Matt: Okay. The moment it would take for you to stop and pull out Bad News, by the way, the moment you guys are turning around to attack it, it has gotten within range to hit, so this is all happening simultaneously, so it's going to get two strikes as you guys get your attacks, as well.
Marisha: What are you doing?
Matt: So. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Liam: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 27 and an 18.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: I got 28.
Matt: Okay. And against Percy, that is a 17 and a 20.
Taliesin: 17 misses. The 20 hits.
Matt: Okay. You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage as its fist comes down and (whack) slams into your side just as Bad News fires off and your daggers go (dagger sounds) towards it.
Liam: Keen Dagger, Flametongue, combined 20 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: And as soon as I'm able, I'm backing up and bringing down another lightning bolt.
Laura: Well, I've got another attack. That was just one attack that I did.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Sam: You need your spells. We need to hide. We need to run.
Marisha: It's okay, this is a concentration spell. I can keep doing it. I'm not blowing spells on it.
Taliesin: 22 points of damage, plus he's knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. Through the daggers--
Taliesin: Oh, he can make a con saving throw, though.
Matt: It doesn't matter. It still manages to keep its zombie form, though it seems like every single hit you're taking chunks off its body, but it continues to push through the damage until eventually it swings at you with the hit, Bad News goes off as it blasts through the center of its torso and takes out the back of its spine. It can't keep its physical form together, and as its body lunges forward, you throw both of your daggers, which go (thoonk thoonk) into each of its eyes. It falls forward. The torso seems to roll on impact and come after you like a slow-moving boulder for a few feet, but since you're all moving forward, you manage to outrun it, just barely keeping out of the way. The legs walk on their own for two more steps before it just falls forward into the mud, relieving all its intestines into the rain-soaked ground.
Sam: Let's get out of here!
Marisha: Go, go, go. Run!
Laura: Pass Without a Trace!
Travis: Aggressive flower girl.
Marisha: Do I see any other-- as we're running through--
Laura: Just run, Keyleth!
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the arm and I just pull and run.
Matt: You guys go running back and as you're looking over your shoulder you can see the skeletal army swarming the center of the square and pouring into the streets. It seems that the Briarwoods had their own reserve anti-riot campaign at the ready.
Laura: Oh, are they going to take out everybody?
Marisha: We can't go, we can't go!
Sam: We have to go. We have nothing left.
Matt: And with that, we're going to conclude tonight's session. (groaning)
Matt: We'll be returning next week on that note.
Travis: (laughs) You son of a bitch, I love it.
Matt: All right, so we're going to take a little break here while we set up for Critmas. Quick one, very quick, we'll be back here in just a few minutes, for those who want to hang in and watch how ridiculously amazing this community is.
Laura: Oh my gosh. There's like, there's a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, you guys are crazy.
Liam: Buckle up!
Matt: All right, quick break. See you in a second.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [no audio]
Liam: I said a bad word. I got the soap.
Matt: That's called karma. First and foremost, we're going to get through our announcements for the evening so we can hop into the game. First off, tonight's awesome sponsor returning to us is Backblaze.
Sam: Yeah, are we good, guys? Are we good? What's going on over there? There's lots of people pulling out their hair.
Offscreen: I think we're having sound issues.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Sam: A lot of people doing this. (panicked sounds)
Travis: Out of sync, is what they're saying.
Offscreen: All right, Twitch has sound.
Sam: Twitch has sound? We're good to go?
Matt: All righty. So Sam.
Sam: Hi. You know, Backblaze is one of our top two favorite sponsors. (laughter)
Sam: We love them to death. They love us. They are Critters. In fact, coming up later, you should tune in to the break to see their newest ad. It's made for Critters by a Critter. Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. I actually use it. All my shit's backed up. Tonight, I prepared a word game for all of you to compete. You have to buzz in. You have to give me the answer. I can give you two clues, like two words, and you buzz in and tell me what the words are. Here's a hint. Here's a clue: all the answers are the same. Okay, so like, for instance, if I were to say, the rear part of your chest and what a fire does--
Laura: Backblaze.
Sam: Backblaze, that's right. One point for Laura. Okay. Here the game begins. The opposite color of white, and the topmost part of a helicopter.
Travis: Black blades! (laughter)
Sam: Classical composer Johann Sebastian, and a hairstyle made popular by Pippi Longstocking.
Laura: Bach braids!
Sam: Laura Bailey. Two points.
Marisha: Is there a buzzer system?
Sam: You just have to say it. Pages of paper bound together and a climbing or rappel technique.
Travis: Binder rappel!
Laura: Brad! No.
Travis: Book rappel. Book belay. Book belay! (laughs) I'm the smartest man alive!
Sam: Is it two-to-two right now?
Laura: I thought pages binded together. I was going to say brad.
Sam: Okay, this is not a real game. I invented this on the drive over! Okay, one more. You know what? You guys aren't playing anymore. This is between Laura and Travis. You know what? I'm going to do two more, just because I love them. Popular Ben Folds Five song, and the abrasive sound a donkey makes.
Liam: Brick bray!
Sam: Brick bray, yes! One more. One more. To get stoned and to get stoned. It's bake blaze. Anyway, Bakeblaze is an unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs. It can backup fanart, fanfic, music, photos, videos, drawings, documents, all of your data. You can restore by mail. If you crash, they'll send you a hard drive. It's amazing. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, Bakeblaze, for your sponsorship. All right. Let me get through the next few announcements really quick, then. You guys got to see a video before this that Geek and Sundry put together. It was a fun weekend shoot to talk about the game Masquerada. I talked about it in previous episodes, but it's an awesome PC RPG. I am so in love with the process of us putting this together. It's a great story, fantastic cast, incredible writing, and very much hearkens to the isometric, Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment-style RPG format of the early 2000s. I highly recommend it. You should check it out. I think it's in Steam now, and hope you like it. Next up, my first episode of the new GM Tips series is out today. It goes a little behind my screen, and gives some ideas as to how you can set up your own GM circumstance and experience. Mind you, most of it's just fluff. You don't need any of that to run a game. You can just have books, dice, paper, and pens, and you're good to go. But these are just suggestions and an example of the things that I do to run my game smoothly, and you should check it out if you'd like it. New episodes will be coming out every Wednesday on Alpha, I suppose, and then on Thursdays coming out on YouTube and the website proper.
Travis: Is it pronounced GM tips, or gmmm tips?
Matt: Gmmm tips. They are now. It is now Matthew Mercer's Gmmm Tips. Thank you, Travis. Disadvantage. (laughter)
Matt: So check that out. Also, my last announcement for me. There's a project up on Kickstarter right now called Open Legend RPG. It's a cool new RPG system. Both myself and Ed Greenwood, the creator of Faerun and the Forgotten Realms, are contributing to this project. It looks pretty cool, people involved are really nice, and go ahead and check it out, see if it's your jam. And if it is, you should go ahead and help support it, so check it out. It's Open Legend RPG. That's all my announcements. Does anybody else have anything they want to talk about?
Laura: What about our Halloween costume competition?
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: I've been seeing some of them. It's Critical Costumes, is the hashtag, right?
Sam: #CriticalCostumes. You explained the competition?
Laura: Yeah. Next week, I think, is where we're stopping. Halloween will be the last day?
Marisha: On Halloween.
Laura: Halloween's the last day to submit, and then we're all just going to look at all your costumes and just decide who we like.
Marisha: I will say I had a cat dress up as my character, so the bar is pretty high.
Laura: I saw a really amazing Vex today. I'm just saying, I may be biased.
Sam: So just to be clear, the winners are not going to be announced next week. It's the week after.
Matt: No, the week after. The first Thursday of November, we'll be announcing the winners.
Sam: We don't know what the prizes are. But it will include my shirts.
Liam: Your sweaty shirts.
Laura: But not that shirt.
Sam: Yeah, this is my shirt. Forever.
Matt: One of these days, you're going to wake up, put a shirt on, and the universe is going to fold in on you. I'm excited. All righty. Anything else? All right, then. That being the case, let's go ahead and dive down into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Marisha: --balanced breakfast!
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. I just physically ordered the other torch, so that'll be fixed soon. Because sometimes you just got to do it yourself. Anyway, welcome back. So to continue from where we left off for tonight's episode of Critical Role, Vox Machina, our heroic players and characters, in fighting their way across the land of Tal'Dorei against the Chrome Conclave, a gathering of ancient chromatic dragons that have torn the current civilization asunder. They've gathered a number of artifacts of old called the Vestiges of Divergence and recently made allies with one of these dragons, Raishan, the green dragon of the conclave, apparently interested in revolting against the conclave's leader, Thordak the Cinder King. A tentative alliance has been forged and to prove both the stalwartness of that alliance, as well as to further your agenda against the conclave, you all traveled back to Wildemount, to the ruins of Draconia. With the help of the Ravenites you set a trap for Vorugal, the Frigid Doom. You summoned, using your single Gate scroll, from the Abyss, Yenk the Goristro, a great, powerful siege demon and caused it to battle with the white dragon. Partway through, the encounter got more intense, you all rushed into the fray. Got the crap kicked out of you in a lot of cases but when all was said and done, with the aid of Raishan, you felled Vorugal. The final shot being landed by Vex'ahlia herself.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You guys have now taken a moment. You've discussed with Raishan to meet back in Whitestone, after which she reverted form and vanished. And you've now begun to collect your spoils and gather what you can from the battlefield at this moment. So that's where we pick up this week. What would you like to do?
Liam: Man, we've gotta find Larkin.
Laura: Did you have dragon bits you wanted to gather?
Marisha: I did, very much so.
Taliesin: And some Yenk, I imagine.
Marisha: A little bit of Yenk, a little bit of dragon.
Laura: I got a little Yenk blood already.
Matt: You did.
Liam: Brazen, guys.
Matt: All right, so, you're heading to the dragon or Yenk first?
Marisha: Dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you head to the dragon. Okay. So you guys head over there. You now see partially elements of the wall that had crumbled in on Vorugal's body. You see now, emerging from the center of the scales in the chest as it lays on its back, slain, its throat torn out by Raishan, a piercing tree begins to burrow its way through the torso of the dragon and bloom outwards. Waiting for that process to finish, you bring out your carving dagger and--
Marisha: I patiently wait for the tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I don't want to interrupt. That's rude.
Matt: It grows pretty fast as part of the enchantment of Fenthras. So, that brief pause completed, you go to town with your blade on the dragon's corpse. Let's go ahead and make a check on this. This would be--
Marisha: Nature, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: With advantage. Oh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28, okay. It'll take you the better part of about an hour to really harvest everything you want from this that's usable, and that's with aid from Scanlan, because it's a very big dragon, and that's a pretty small blade. So you begin that process.
Laura: I can help. I want to go up and carve a bear onto the tree growing out of Vorugal.
Taliesin: I may lend my cut-dragon-like-butter blade to this whole process.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I just pull off a scale? A single scale. Is that really hard to do?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Two.
Matt: You spend the next minute and a half going (grunting sounds). It's not budging.
Sam: It's actually three.
Matt: Oh, the next minute and 20 seconds going (grunting sounds).
Sam: Great.
Matt: You do manage to found a couple loose scales on the ground nearby after you've thoroughly embarrassed yourself.
Sam: I'll grab one and then I'll immediately start yelling for Tooma. (yelling) Tooma!
Matt: Okay, while he's doing that, what are you guys doing?
Travis: Right, so the dragon's got booty, right?
Laura: Yeah, like a lot.
Travis: So I look over and they're working on the dragon bits. Everything's cool? Yenk is like melting into the snow, right, because he's like a hell fiend or whatever?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running towards the lair.
Laura: Grog!
Sam: I'm going to go with.
Matt: Grog's already run off. Scanlan's following.
Sam: I'm going to Polymorph into an eagle.
Laura: Fucking fuck! Do you guys have this?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Give me a claw. I want a claw to wear around my neck.
Marisha: You're going to be like Mr. T.
Laura: I want something to wear around my neck. Fucking something, all right!
Taliesin: We'll find something.
Laura: I'll take off on the broom after Grog.
Liam: Just scooping up Pike into a bit of a piggy back ride and carrying her inside and we're going to rest.
Matt: Okay. She's thoroughly hurt, but you still have the entrance to the mansion. Yeah, so you guys pull into there to rest for the moment. While Grog, as you're running, this eagle comes up to your side, is gaining on you a bit. As you come over the top of this one little ridge area, as the ravine begins to widen and head towards the lair portion that Vorugal was using, you see before you a group of about 22 or so armored dragonborn that are currently jogging up the ramp in your direction. As soon as you cross over the top they come to a slower point, with their weapons out, and you see one of them raise its hand. You recognize Skork, who you met earlier, who goes, "We've come to aid you!"
Travis: I'm still raging using Persistent Rage and I point over my shoulder and yell, Dragon that way! And I keep running past them.
Matt: All right! They pick up their weapons and keep running past you as you [whoosh] through them, the eagle following closely after.
Sam: Is Tooma with them?
Matt: Tooma is not with them, no.
Laura: I followed too. I am following as well.
Matt: Yeah, you coast up behind, you begin catching up to Grog and the wayward eagle. You're the fastest of everything right now.
Sam: I'm following him.
Matt: So you're staying back at same speed. Okay. As you guys begin carving, you begin hearing the footsteps approaching of numerous dragonborn. The rest of you guys continue down the path. You see the icy throne, if you will, of where Vorugal had placed as the new lair on this northern portion of the ravine. You guys that are staying behind, as you're carving your way into the dragon, all of a sudden you hear the footsteps and a bunch of these dragonborn, armored, with scavenged pieces, leather hide with metallic bits of armor. Weapons, definitely not of the highest degree from what you can tell, though some are ornate and seemingly unused, maybe scavenged from the fall of Draconia. They approach and slow their jog and look over at the destroyed corpse of the dragon.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Things went well.
Marisha: Man, how long of a jog is that?
Matt: They all look confused at each other and start talking to each other in a language you don't understand.
Marisha: Man, ooh, Vex isn't here.
Taliesin: No. All good. Good.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: They nod and Skork gives a respectful nod and they all approach the dragon's corpse and start hacking into it.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, no. Hold on.
Taliesin: No. I'm going to point at all-- you all, sun goes down, all of us drink back there. Go back. Everything's fine.
Matt: Skork takes two steps forward and goes, "I understand this speak."
Taliesin: Oh, why didn't you say something? You're standing there making us very nervous.
Matt: (disgruntled grunt) "Look. We have to come to aid you in the battle as promised. You have seemingly done well without our presence. So let's all harvest the uses of what remains of this beast."
Taliesin: I'm fair with that, all right. Harvest gently. We're trying to keep as much of it--
Marisha: Yes, I'm working right here on this area and Vex wants a claw.
Matt: "Take what you wish. We are interested in hide and meat."
Taliesin: And we are interested in scale, tooth, and claw, and maybe some eyeballs, so that works out very well.
Marisha: And blood.
Matt: "Perhaps some teeth and claws as well. We shall trade." (speaks Draconic) All of them rush up and start hacking into the soft portions of the underbelly, where it's been exposed from where you guys have left large wounds and such and basically start to carve huge bits of dragon meat off the body.
Taliesin: Mind the tree. Mind the tree.
Matt: One of them was going for the tree and stops like-- And then looks very confused that the tree wasn't piercing through the dragon, but was rooted inside of it. They all take a moment to start carving around it. It's a very awkward. They don't know what the hell happened and it looks very strange from an outsider's perspective, but they're trying to adjust best they can.
Travis: New town square will be built around it.
Matt: In the meantime, the three of you guys coast down towards the lair. You can still see all the ice spires that are jutting out from portions of the snow, the various dragonborn corpses still adorning a number of the spires. As you begin to approach the throne of Vorugal, you can see there's a group of about 15 or so dragonborn currently there that are starting to climb up and get to that portion to inspect. You see, first, before anyone else does, Vex, that one of them appears to be Tooma, who is walking with this gnarled staff that she keeps to her side. And they're all approaching and climbing up the sides of the throne to get to the top.
Laura: I shout out, don't go up there!
Matt: You shout that and there's a moment of pause. Then, all of them turn and look in your direction.
Laura: I fly down close to Tooma and say quietly, Thordak has means of seeing through the stones up there. If you go up top, it's possible he'll be able to know that Vorugal has fallen. He might already know.
Matt: "This is good to know." (speaks Draconic) And the dragonborn around slowly pull backwards. You understand her saying, "Hold off. Words of warning." They all pull back and gather around you, and stand, awaiting what this conversation is going to entail as Tooma steps forward to you. "So am I to understand, then, that the dragon has fallen?"
Laura: (laughing) Yes.
Sam: I'll drop my form and throw the scale in front of her. It's done. There's your fucking dragon.
Matt: She looks over at the rest of the people who are all looking towards her for confirmation. She goes, "You came to us with words. You stood behind them. You displayed honor and honesty, things we find rare in supply outside of our people. Us, the Ravenites, survivors of chain and frost, are now truly free. We thank you."
Laura: And we thank you.
Sam: But we'll need something more than just thanks. We have two requests to make of you. One, this is not the final fight. There will be more, and unlike this fight, we would expect your aid in the next one. Is that something you can guarantee us?
Matt: "I am curious as to what you require from us."
Sam: We don't know yet, but you have many men, and they seem like good fighters, so we may call upon you in the future.
Matt: "Against what foe?"
Laura: Thordak the Ancient. He was commander of all of these dragons.
Matt: You see her face immediately goes from that calm, welcoming, elated expression she had a moment ago to this guarded, retracted position where she shifts her weight onto the back leg and--
Laura: You are not beholden to us. We ask this of your own free will. All of Tal'Dorei is at risk.
Matt: "We are not an army. We wish to help in this fight, for we had a stake in it, both of us. This was a mutual arrangement. You owe us nothing. We owe you nothing. But we are not ready to continue the fight immediately with a more dangerous foe than this one."
Sam: Hopefully, it won't be immediately. And might I remind you that you did not help us in this fight. We did it all by ourselves.
Matt: "Who do you think arranged, through previous conversation, to send the dragon your way into the trap that you had sprung? At my suggestion of the place of proper, and most conventional and helpful circumstances?"
Laura: It's true, Scanlan, they did help a lot in that regard.
Matt: "We may not have the might to finish the dragon--"
Sam: You told us that you would have men there to help us, and there was nothing. We almost died.
Matt: "We sent men your way!"
Sam: You knew when the fight was.
Matt: "We knew when to begin the fight, but we do not have means of travelling as fast as a dragon!"
Travis: I'm running around like a cracked-out PCP addict in the background. Just looking on the ground for booty, that's all.
Matt: Perception check.
Travis: One. (laughter)
Matt: There is snow and ice and it's pissing you off!
Travis: I'm doing the dog thing.
Matt: More snow. More and more snow. In the middle of this conversation, some of it starts spattering the side of Vex. You're like, "Stop it!" Angrily rage-looting nothing. (laughs)
Laura: Draconia has had a history of separating itself from the rest of Tal'Dorei. This is an opportunity for you to welcome other communities, to become part of the rest of the world.
Matt: "You are right. [no audio] And from this, I think we could try to rebuild, a new home for the dragonborn of Wildemount. Learn from the mistakes of our predecessors and our oppressors. We are no majestic mage nation by any means, but we can learn."
Laura: You are strong.
Matt: "They are strong. My time is nearly up. But what time I have left, I fully intend to make sure that there is a future for my people. For the Ravenites."
Sam: One more request, before we go. Once we're long gone, you can feel free to inspect this hill where the dragon slept, and be very careful in disarming any traps that you might find there. I would ask you one favor for us: we lost a friend in this fight, a dragonborn. He's buried near here. We'll tell you where. We would like a proper tomb for him on this hill, where the dragon slept. Could you build a statue, a fine statue, a handsome statue of Tiberius Stormwind, and bury him underneath it. And on the pedestal, could you please write, "I encourage peace."
Matt: She looks over at one of the nearby dragonborn. "This is Korsa. He is our finest stonesmith. I will see to it that it is done."
Sam: Teach your people of him, your offspring, that he was a brave dragonborn that wanted to unify all of your peoples.
Matt: "This can be done. (sighs) This mound represents the spoils of the remains of Draconia the dragon greedily stole, hoarded, and forced us to gather at the base of its icy seat. This will be the beginning of our new nation, and with this, we will make sure this statue comes to bear."
Sam: Good luck.
Travis: Where the fuck is it?! That's all you hear me say. (laughter)
Sam: What are you looking for?
Travis: Help me look!
Sam: For what? What are we looking for?
Travis: Just dig! (laughter)
Travis: Can I make another perception check, please?
Matt: No.
Travis: No?!
Matt: You can, Scanlan.
Sam: What am I looking for? Grog, what am I looking for?
Travis: We're looking for that booty.
Sam: Booty? Just dragon booty? It would be up where the dragon sleeps, not down here.
Laura: There's some under the ice right here.
Sam: All right, I will peer down into the ice below us with my 21 perception.
Matt: Okay. You glance down, and after pushing some of the snow out of the way, it's amazing that Grog didn't see this at all, but not really when you think about it. Encased in this pedestal that Vorugal had taken as a perch, beneath multiple feet of thick, locked ice, you see an incredible amount of hoarded gold, silver, platinum glittering as bits of light break through the overhead clouds, as the sleet is still raining down in places. Bits of it gleam and shift and shimmer. You can see finely crafted knick-knacks and statues and gems and antiqued metals all buried deep beneath this platform. It looks to be pieces of ornate armor and weaponry, all sorts of a random assortment of items that are locked beneath feet of ice, right there before you.
Sam: Nothing there, Grog. Sorry.
Travis: No! It has to be here somewhere!
Sam: (whispering) Just look right there, friend.
Travis: What?
Sam: (whispering) Right there.
Travis: Where? What?
Sam: He's my BFF.
Travis: I see it?
Matt: Oh yeah, once he points it out, you immediately clarify and the red haze that was covering your eyes suddenly fades and you see shiny.
Travis: Can I use the siege portion of the Titanstone Knuckles and start smacking the shit out of this ice trying to get down there?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Just like (smashing noises).
Matt: Yeah. (laughs)
Travis: I deal double damage against objects or structures.
Matt: Yeah, and as you start, each punch, the ice (splintering noise) more cracks begin to spider out. An incredible feat of strength and you can see the dragonborn take a few steps back at this view, and Tooma is almost intrigued at this point, staring with this grin across her face as this symbolic destruction of what represented Vorugal's lording over their entire life is being ripped apart by this half-giant madman. A few more punches through and a whole portion slides off and you have to move out of the way. You knock it aside with your fist and keep punching through and eventually you get about, over the next ten or 15 minutes, breaking through enough of the ice that you start hitting (clanging), starting to hit the actual outskirts of this large pile of gold pieces.
Laura: Wait, Grog. Can I check for any traps or is it like totally fine? Because I've been here before and it's not pleasant.
Travis: I really wouldn't mind.
Laura: Investigation? 18?
Matt: Okay, glancing about best you can in the vicinity, you don't see any traps.
Laura: What about the gemstones? Those are up high. I'm staying away from those.
Sam: We're outside the perimeter of the gemstones or the the main portion of the lair, right?
Matt: Yeah, the orbs are embedded in the top restful area. The actual hoard is hidden, locked beneath the ice at the base of this large platform, so you're essentially punching through the bottom portion. Much like any sandcastle, the further you go, the less structural integrity it has. You're starting to make headway into releasing and finding access to some of the horde yourself.
Travis: We need heat, and more than my wee urine can generate.
Sam: I can give us a little bit of fire?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, or get Keyleth over here.
Laura: Do you have dragon's breath?
Matt: She points to two of them and brings them over and two of the dragonborn step forward and release this torrent of flame into the area that you've already carved out.
Sam: Ooh, they can do that?
Matt: Yeah, it only lasts a few seconds and it causes a portion of it to melt back, but it's still extremely strong ice and it didn't have as much of an impact as you hoped it would've. This is very, very sturdy white dragon-conjured, ice-protected walls.
Laura: Just keep on punching it, Grog.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Just punch it. You're doing some good damage.
Travis: But no fireballs?
Sam: I have a fireball. I'll send a fireball over there. Back up a little bit.
Travis: Why? What if I want to be close?
Sam: Well, you'll get burned.
Liam: You're way down by 101 hit points, though.
Travis: I know. Yeah, I'm still up in the three digits. Let's make it exciting.
Sam: I'm not going to burn you, Grog. Just take ten feet.
Travis: All right, all right! Ten feet!
Sam: All right, I'll send a wand of fireballs down. I don't know, is that magic actually hot when it goes off?
Matt: Yeah, it's hot and it's an explosion. It's not just fire. It's an explosion. So it detonates from the inside of that small concave path that you had punched through and as it hits and detonates you can see the ice further crack. The ice begins to crack even further and portions of it, you see a bit of snow bank that had gathered at the top shakes free and off the side, revealing some of the upper platform.
Sam: We don't want to make too much of a disturbance here.
Laura: No, we don't.
Sam: Let's just take some stuff on the outside.
Travis: Is there any free platinum or gold or little bits I can start to put in my hands?
Matt: Yeah, you can start scooping bits.
Laura: You might want to ask Tooma if she has a problem with you taking all of Draconia's gold.
Travis: You saw what his face did, didn't you? Tooma, we are about to unsheathe and reveal a great fortune, of which we have very little interest because honestly it weighs us down. We're, like, plenty loaded already. However, it is a tradition to take little bits here and there as keepsakes.
Matt: "The spoils here were largely collected from the wreckage of our captors and much of the gold here was earned through our blood and turmoil. However, we were able to free ourselves and have access to this fortune a great deal thanks to your aid. We are more than willing to divide this between your folk and ours."
Travis: That sounds most generous. Shall we look for specifically interesting little bits, or just grab the platinum?
Sam: Just grab whatever's closest and leave.
Travis: Are there any interesting-looking weapons or unique items that are out of the ordinary?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Any looking-magically thingies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yes! Minus two. 17.
Sam: I will look for weapons of any sort. Ooh, 30. Investigation, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: 16.
Matt: (laughing) Do you want to add your bardic inspiration dice to that to be a dick?
Laura: Inspire me!
Sam: Did you suck or something?
Laura: Yeah, I only got 16.
Sam: Okay, I will add my bardic inspiration. I will sing to her. (singing) Something in the way I wink, inspires you like no other gnome can. Something makes you stop and think, how did he get so handsome? How did he get so suave?
Laura: Six extra points, so 22.
Matt: All right, there you go. Now Critical Role owes a royalty to the Beatles. All right, so, Grog, you find a painted gold war mask that looks really cool and nasty with the lower jaw. You're like, yes and you can put it on.
Travis: Yep, in fact, I lick it knowing that it's cold and I stick it to my face.
Matt: Okay. Your tongue sticks to the mask.
Travis: Fuck! And I rip it off.
Matt: You rip it off, all right. You take a point of damage. And your tongue is pounding with pain (throbbing) as the top layer of skin has been torn off your tongue. But the mask is still yours. You do also find a really beautiful black stone. It's really well cut and it's about that big and it's really pretty and dark and awesome.
Travis: I love stones. I'm a fucking fan.
Matt: And a whole shitton of gold and platinum. You, looking through, you find a beautiful reddish ruby gem that has this slightly gold refraction in the center of it that's somewhat symmetrical, it looks otherworldly almost. It's beautiful. You see deeper within the actual hoard a ship's mast that was plated with gold that has been jammed in the center of the hoard, wreckage that was dragged here and included in the hoard. You do also see, amongst some of the gold, a small vial with liquid that is unaffected by the freezing temperatures around it.
Laura: What color is the liquid?
Matt: The liquid is-- let me look that up.
Travis: This is my favourite part, getting new shit.
Matt: It is like a thick syrupy metallic, like a liquid iron, a reddish metallic tint to it.
Travis: I had an idea until reddish, but I don't know anymore.
Matt: And you find a pair of boots that are made from a very thick, dark brown hide.
Laura: Another boots of haste! For sure!
Travis: They're probably like elephant strength boots.
Laura: Definitely boots of haste! Pair of boots out of brown leather, you said?
Matt: Yeah, a dark brown leather, not very elaborate in their design, but they're well made and seemingly have braved the cold weather well enough.
Taliesin: They're Boots of Taste that you have.
Travis: I appreciate well-made boots.
Liam: They're Uggs.
Taliesin: They're Uggs.
Travis: Do we have an approximation of the gold and platinum?
Matt: We'll get to that in a second. Sam!
Sam: I'm sorry, who?
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Whoa! What just happened?
Matt: You find amongst this a platinum bracelet set with a gorgeous sapphire that looks like it's probably worth quite a bit. You also find another unbroken vial amongst a series of other vials that did break in the process of being hoarded here, the liquid spilled out. There's one unbroken vial. This one is a yellowish fluid with black swirls that shift on their own inside the vial's contents. As you shake it, you see they move at a faster speed and then slow down in a reverse direction. It's a very interesting pattern.
Taliesin: Lava lamp.
Matt: Kind of. Underneath that vial, you see a very beautiful--
Laura: Ooh, sheets of paper!
Travis: I love this shit. It's like walking into a Toys 'R' Us. It's the fucking best. It's like, "Which way do I go?!"
Liam: Find the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
Sam: That was easy!
Matt: There you go! You find a gold and platinum band that is two separate bands that are woven together like a braid in a band.
Sam: Like a back braid?
Matt: Kind of. Other than that, it looks nice. There's no other defining markings on it. Looks like it would be worth quite a bit. You do, also, as you rolled ridiculously high, in pulling the ring out and the vial, you glance over and a handle is embedded in a large part of the gold. You go and grab it and it's actually a pretty big handle once you get your gnomish hand on it. You pull and you pull forth a very beautiful platinum greatsword. It has a series of small symbols carved along the base of the blade on each side. The handle comes a gradual upward curve. It looks beautiful, ornamental, like something you'd see in a temple as part of a centerpiece. But it's weighted properly for a greatsword and is far too big for you to ever possibly muster in battle.
Sam: I can't use this, so I'll just leave it.
Travis: Wait! Let's not be hasty! My god, it's beautiful!
Sam: Do you want it?
Travis: I'm very emotional about this right now. Can I check it for traps?
Sam: Check it for traps.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: It is a natural 20, oh my god.
Matt: You have never been so sure in your life that this sword: totally not trapped.
Taliesin: I'm so hoping it talks to you now, I'm so hoping it starts talking to you.
Travis: 'Tis clean.
Sam: 'Tis clean?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: You hold it, I can't hold it, it's too heavy. It weighs as much as I do.
Laura: How's it feel, Grog?
Travis: Feels like money, money, money.
Laura: Speaking of money, money, money.
Matt: As you begin pulling out these materials, a series of the other Ravenites start gathering gold, filling sacks and having to pass them off. You see now two of them are pulling two big carts over and are loading up cash in the area. This is going to push your bag of holding.
Travis: That's why I said we can't take that much.
Laura: But if it's platinum, it'll help.
Marisha: More bang for our buck.
Sam: What can we lose from the bag of holding?
Travis: I'm very emotional about some of this.
Matt: You get about 20 minutes of gathering gold and platinum pieces from the section you have access to. You could get more, if you continue to dig beneath, probably. You manage to pull roughly, between the three of you, 18,000 gold pieces and about 12,000 platinum pieces. (yelling)
Travis: Forget the dragons, let's go buy real estate.
Matt: That's a third of what's in the hoard right now.
Liam: Park Place, motherfucker!
Travis: Build a fucking water park, let's go!
Laura: We don't need any more than-- This is really nice.
Taliesin: Let's build a condominium.
Liam: Condos in Marquet.
Marisha: Parking garage, that's where it's at.
Laura: How many gold is a platinum?
Matt: For the gold to platinum transition here--
Travis: It's a lot. Scrooge McDuck over here is fucking swimming in that shit.
Sam: With Brexit, it's not worth as much any more.
Matt: Ten gold pieces per platinum.
Laura: How many?
Sam: Ten gold pieces per platinum. So that's another 120 grand. Grog. Vex. We don't need to tell the others about this
Laura: They don't need to know. No!
Sam: We could go to a warm place, the three of us, and live out the rest of our days.
Travis: We'll build a bank. It'll just be us.
Sam: They'll never find us. We have the Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: I'm tempted. This is amazing.
Travis: Right. We kill Vex after the first month.
Laura: Wait, I can hear you.
Travis: I was joking.
Sam: We might need her to restart civilization.
Travis: True, true.
Laura: Oh, you know what? Let's go back. You lost me. I'm out. (laughter)
Liam: Meanwhile, for the last twenty minutes, I've been combing blood out of Pike's hair, and we've been having god talk, and as I put little fun buns in Pike's hair I say, "You know, sometimes I feel like she is right there with me. I ask questions and I know the answers, but most of the time I don't know anything. Does the balance ever shift?"
Matt: "No, not really. It's part of what's great about it, is you put your trust into them and everything turns out okay."
Liam: That is so cool.
Matt: "You saw her, she punched a dragon for me!"
Liam: We've got to find Larkin though, what do we do about Larkin?
Laura: Okay, all right.
Liam: You're not here!
Matt: "I didn't like Larkin very much. It's probably for the best."
Liam: Aye, but he's out here on his own in the cold. Ravenites everywhere!
Matt: "Dwarves are made of hardy stuff, I'm sure he'll be okay."
Liam: You're probably right. Let me even you off.
Matt: (pained) "Thank you."
Marisha: What did we find? (laughter)
Sam: Ten dragon scales, the end.
Matt: All right, come back to you guys. So Vorugal is butchered in the center of the snow here. Strangely, as you begin to carve, the air, as freezing as it is, actual touch on the skin of Vorugal is colder, and there's a few moments where your fingers begin to adhere to the cold and you have to pull back a bit. But you do manage to carve from the hide, if you can carry it properly, about 150 pounds of dragon hide.
Marisha: Oh jeez. Oh boy.
Laura: How much?
Taliesin: 150 pounds.
Laura: We got 40 pounds of black dragonhide in the Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Well we now apparently have 150 pounds.
Taliesin: We're going to have to fill the Whitestone coffers with some of this stuff when we get back.
Sam: Grog is dumping stuff out of our Bag of Holding.
Travis: So one black studded dwarven armor suit, because Pike's the only one that wears full armor. There's another full set of regular plate armor. That's going too. There's a totally decomposed orc head. A brain chunk, two dark elf heads, one random arm, a piece of bulette armor.
Liam: That shit has been festering for months!
Travis: Twelve beef jerky strips are going.
Taliesin: I was saving that!
Matt: As you're doing this, Tooma is watching you, going--
Travis: By the way, this is totally up for grabs, anytime you want. You say something to me and we'll work it out.
Matt: (speaks Draconic) Another dragonborn walks over and picks up the beef jerky strips, hands them to Tooma, and Tooma keeps watching you all, chewing on one.
Liam: They're starving.
Travis: Those are super fresh. (laughter)
Travis: I'm throwing out a greatsword and replacing the platinum greatsword in its spot so that should make enough weight out. Bye, black studded dwarven armor. That was the first thing in the bag of holding.
Sam: By the way, excellent note-taking and keeping track of what's been in the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah, that's great.
Matt: Well done.
Travis: Half of that body part stuff came out as gelatinous poo.
Matt: Yeah, it's the gamiest of gamey meat you've ever touched.
Travis: Just strings of-- You pull it up and you got to wrap it up in the string and toss it.
Matt: It is why I love the word "slough." (disgusted groaning)
Matt: You guys pull away portions of that, Kima helping out where she can. The sweat beads on her forehead; even among the cold exterior, she's a workhorse. You also manage to pry from Vorugal's mouth 20 individual dragon teeth that are harvestable outside of the ones the other Ravenites take for themselves. You manage to get six dragon talons pulled from the whole body, and about-- let's see, with all the destruction of the outside, and there is this creeping ice that's beginning to freeze the body from the inside, post-death-- the hide includes the scales, you have to pull off the scales and destroy the hide, and any other organs? You said the eyes, you were thinking about taking?
Marisha: Blood. Eyes.
Matt: Do you have any more empty vials?
Taliesin: Empty vials? I'm out of vials.
Laura: Did you take any healing potions? If you did you'd have an empty healing potion vial.
Taliesin: In theory then, I have three empty vials because I did have three healing potions that I've used.
Matt: We'll say you go ahead and recork three vials of white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Anything else?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to go sit down for a little while, and breathe.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to go into the mansion as well.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go ahead and join Vax and Pike. Kima comes and joins you as well, to rest for a moment, while the rest of the Ravenites begin tearing off pieces of Vorugal's body, leaving the ribcage, the spine. They pull most of the organs out of it, but the tree itself is rooted into the ribcage and the roots reach down and burrow into the ground beneath it. It's left this really interesting sculpture that they've torn everything away from. At this point now, the Ravenites have descended upon the interior of the hoard, and they're hacking away at bits of ice to open up more of the space beneath, while keeping a very careful eye to make sure the structure remains intact. You guys have gathered what you decided to take from the hoard, and are doing what?
Travis: Scanlan. Vex. We should disable the orbs, right?
Laura: I don't know how to.
Travis: Just beat the shit out of them.
Sam: Wouldn't that alert Thordak?
Travis: We don't want to taunt him first?
Laura: I'd rather him not know, right now, that Vorugal's dead because--
Sam: He would instantly know that we're not in our home base, he could launch an attack on that place.
Laura: Yeah. Maybe let's not do that just yet.
Travis: But what if he comes here?
Laura: Well if he does, hopefully they'll be inside their caves? I don't think he's going to leave Emon to come check out what's going on with Vorugal, unless he knows that Vorugal's dead.
Travis: All right. Shall we check in with the other members first, before we biggity-bounce?
Laura: Well, let's go back to the mansion. Maybe we can destroy it on the way out, if we feel necessary.
Travis: What about that big golden mast? You think there's a golden ship under there?
Laura: What if there's a skyship in here?
Sam: I assume it wouldn't fly very well, but all right.
Laura: Maybe that's how the Ravenites can get to Emon, if they can help us?
Travis: It was made of gold, right?
Matt: Gold plating around it. There are portions of it where you can see the wooden mast with large bands of gold.
Laura: Did it look like airship or normal ship?
Matt: It was hard to tell. From what you could tell, it is a mast. The airships you've seen do not have masts, since they do not use the wind.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So it was most likely a sea-faring ship, and was torn asunder, from a great distance and then dragged here as part of the hoard by Vorugal.
Sam: What are we going to do with a mast?
Laura: I have no idea. Maybe on the way out we can see if it's uncovered any more.
Sam: We'll stick a Google Maps pin here. We'll always know it's here, because when we come visit Tiberius' grave, we'll also leave some flowers and take a mast with us.
Laura: They've been working on this for a while now, is it possible to wiggle my way in and check out the mast now?
Matt: Sure, make an investigation check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You push past some of the Ravenite workers, their shoulders don't give and you have to squeeze through. As you get there, the upper part is still locked in ice, and the lower part is locked in ice. For how much they've carved through already, is the central portion, but what you can see is a wooden mast with large, thick bands of gold around it that are ornamental. You can see within them carvings and designs of a language you don't really understand-- actually, what languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal and Draconic.
Matt: You do not recognize this language, but it appears to be ornamental, and that whatever ship this belonged to was a prized ship of either a navy or merchant fleet. Based on some of the marks on it, it looks like it was grabbed and broken off a ship. Looking down below, there is a portion of a ship that is beneath it as well. Much deeper, maybe another 25 feet of solid ice below you with the rest of this hoard. There's a portion of this ship that was dragged here by Vorugal.
Laura: That's crazy. It's a ship! I'm coming back out.
Sam: All right. Let's go back to the main group and tell them what we've discovered.
Matt: As you're hustling your way up the ravine to the east, you pass by a number of Ravenites coming by with large sacks, and chunks of dragon meat draped over them. You can see the meat itself is freezing the air and shoulders of those that are carrying it. The essence of the dragon's ice-built form is causing them to constantly shift it because it's starting to stick to their armor, and you see icicles beginning to form at the outside of these large dragon-meat haunches that they're carrying.
Travis: When you dry-age meat like that, salt it first, then hang it. Just a pro tip.
Matt: (speaking Draconic). Keeps walking, doesn't seem to understand you.
Travis: Really bad sinus problems.
Matt: Eventually you make your way back to Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and gather the rest of the party. Percy, Kima, Keyleth and Vax are all there, resting and eagerly awaiting your return.
Taliesin: I've got to try and fix my guns.
Matt: Okay, make some tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Is this a misfire check or a tinkering check, since I'm not in combat?
Matt: These are tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's proficiency bonus, dex roll. Ooh, 28!
Matt: That's your Animus?
Taliesin: Yep, that's fine.
Matt: I believe Bad News was also?
Taliesin: Yup. 26.
Matt: 26 is fine. You manage to get Bad News functioning again in the workshop below. And Retort was okay, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort's fine.
Matt: So as you all return and gather around--
Marisha: Keyleth has laid out the Vorgual spoils like she got back from a yard sale.
Matt: Which, by the way, is a macabre view as you walk in, and there's this smear of dark purple dragon blood, and long, haphazardly carved chunks of dragon hide, almost like the preset green lawn rectangles that roll out and smeared across the center of the foyer.
Laura: I drop the Bag of Colding next to Keyleth.
Marisha: Grog, can you help me see how much we can shove in here?
Travis: Shit, yeah.
Marisha: Here, maybe like a sleeping bag, and I'll sit on it and you can wrap it up?
Travis: Yeah, good deal.
Marisha: Okay, we'll do that. Try and shove as much as we can. (squishing)
Matt: When it's finally wound up, it won't fit within the Bag of Colding. The Bag of Colding is the size of a relatively large satchel. The dragon hide, rolled up, is about that big around, what you managed to carve off.
Laura: Ah, shit. What do we do?
Liam: Can we make Percy some dragonborn armor right now, somehow, so he can be all white, all over?
Taliesin: Wow, that would be a thing, wouldn't it?
Travis: How much do you think that roll weighs?
Matt: About 150 pounds.
Laura: Oh jeez. We can't carry that.
Travis: I could drag it behind me for a little bit.
Liam: Scanlan, do you have a room here?
Sam: A room?
Liam: For cold things? You have everything here, do you have a chilly room?
Sam: Sure, in the kitchen there's a chilly room. The mansion will expire in 12 hours though.
Laura: We just got to go through the tree, yo. That's it.
Sam: We could bring it into the kitchen for now.
Travis: Can we get everything else into the Bag of Colding, besides the roll of hide?
Matt: The teeth and those things can be put in the Bag of Holding. The only thing that needs to be preserved is the hide, until it's treated.
Laura: What about the blood?
Matt: The blood's been capped. That should probably be put in there.
Marisha: Three vials of dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Yeah, mark three vials of white dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: And we have six talons.
Matt: The talons themselves are large claws that have been removed.
Marisha: Okay, so we have six talons, 20 teeth and 150 pounds of hide.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Word.
Travis: We got so much bling. We're stupid rich.
Sam: A lot of things that we don't know what they are.
Liam: What's that mask?
Travis: I take the mask, and like Jim Carrey in The Mask, I stick it to my face and (yells).
Liam: Do you feel anything? What's it doing?
Matt: Okay, I need you to-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Matt: It is chilly against your skin.
Travis: I feel like it's making me fall in love with the first person I look-- Vax!
Liam: Oh, you don't want to fuck with this. Are you sure?
Travis: No, you're right, I don't.
Liam: Maybe just a little bit. (laughter)
Travis: I take the mask off and put it in the bag of holding. But we got this! And I hold up the big-ass platinum greatsword.
Liam: Whoa.
Laura: Can anyone identify things in our group?
Taliesin: Do I recognize the text on it? Celestial?
Matt: Celestial, yes, you do.
Laura: Oh, you can read it!
Sam: When did you learn Celestial?
Taliesin: I was a very lonely child.
Liam: It's like Latin in the world of D&D.
Travis: It's like, covered with prunes, up and down the blade.
Liam: Priss, what's it say?
Laura: Are you calling him a priss?
Liam: (laughing) Yeah.
Matt: Looking across the symbols, they are specifically symbols speaking of creation, devotion, the power of a deity's love and the unity between god and creation. It is a very religious and holy text across the blade, both sides.
Taliesin: This is some sort of paladin sword. It's a holy weapon of some kind.
Laura: Oh, I bet Kima would want the shit out of that.
Travis: Oh yeah, is Kima here?
Matt: She's right now in the process, in the kitchen, of massaging some of the bruising and wounds she took from the battle.
Sam: Got some meat tenderizer on that?
Liam: Couple of chickens on it?
Travis: Stop what you're doing. I want you to get your hands on this big, beautiful bastard. And I hand her the greatsword.
Matt: "Where the heck did you get this?"
Travis: I could tell you, but I don't remember.
Matt: "Give me a little bit of time, I need to see if I can make this part of my communion. Hold on a second." And she walks away, staring at the blade. Without leaving her eyes from the scrolling on the side, walks quietly past all of you in the center of the foyer, sits down with it and starts meditating over the blade.
Travis: I walk over and go, "Before you hit anything with it, you come talk to--"
Matt: (shushing)
Travis: I leave.
Taliesin: Anything else interesting?
Laura: I found a jewel. It's red. It looks pretty neato.
Taliesin: How were the dragonborn about us taking some of their--
Laura: They were great about it actually, they were quite generous.
Taliesin: Anything else we should go back for, as well?
Travis: There was possibly a giant gold ship, underneath.
Taliesin: There was a what?
Sam: Gold mast, underneath the hoard. And also, much more gold and platinum that we can't possibly carry.
Laura: Wait, it had runes on it as well. Do they look similar to the runes that were on Greg-- Grog's sword?
Matt: No, the symbols on the side of weapon look like an ancient text, they're laid in a very ceremonial format. The text that you saw on the side of the mast looked more like an engraving.
Laura: Did it look fluid?
Matt: It was fluid.
Taliesin: There's a ship in the dragon's collection?
Laura: Yes. I don't know if it was an entire ship, but it was a ship.
Liam: So you didn't go in, you saw it?
Laura: Well I got down, but most of it was still frozen.
Taliesin: I think this would be a really good idea, before we left. If a dragon grabbed a ship, it was probably filled with something interesting. It got his attention and he kept it.
Marisha: It could take days to potentially melt the ice, right?
Taliesin: The ice is already melting.
Liam: Keek, you could probably melt your way in there in 24 hours.
Marisha: And I also have this. My new toy.
Laura: We should check that out before we go.
Sam: Are we in any danger staying here, leaving our special hidey place unprotected?
Taliesin: It's not like anyone can get in here.
Sam: No, I'm talking about your homeland. Leaving it unguarded.
Taliesin: It's as guarded as it's going to be right now.
Sam: We know that Raishan's out there, doing something.
Taliesin: She was doing something previously. I don't think that anything awful is going to happen.
Travis: I also took this little keepsake. I call it Stoneblack.
Sam: Because it's a black stone?
Travis: Well don't fucking break it down like that.
Laura: It's so neat.
Marisha: Does it look fancy? Is it magic?
Sam: Why don't you Detect Magic, whoever can Detect Magic?
Marisha: I can't. Wait, can I? No, I can't.
Sam: I can look at it and see if it looks magical.
Matt: Yeah, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh, 20!
Matt: It is not magical. However, your keen bardic eye, looking at the gem, it is a very rare gem. It is worth quite a bit.
Sam: Platinum zirconia.
Matt: It's actually a black sapphire, an extremely rare gem. It runs in the market anywhere between four to six thousand gold.
Travis: So anyway, I got rid of my old saltlick rock and now I've got Stoneblack here to take its place. Do you have a pet rock?
Sam: No.
Travis: Oh my god. I sleep with it, I put it under my back and it gets all the knots out.
Liam: That is the cutest.
Sam: Do you paint a face on it, or anything?
Marisha: I've actually had a lot of rocks that are friends.
Laura: Oh, that's great. You can make little clothes for it.
Marisha: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of friends growing up.
Travis: Sometimes I carry it in my armpit to keep it warm. You don't need to know about that.
Sam: That's very maternal.
Laura: Oh, and these boots!
Sam: Leather boots, could be anything.
Laura: Are they magic, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh sure, I'll look at those. Wow, 24! Arcana check, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. They're very simple leather boots, there's no real ornamentation beyond being functional boots. As you take a moment to look at them, there is a faint shimmer to the leather itself. When the light hits it, the brown gives way to a slight purplish undertone. It looks to have some sort of enchantment.
Laura: Does it seem evil or good?
Sam: I have no idea. However, they look fancy.
Taliesin: They are interesting, and I'm indifferent to such things.
Laura: I want to put one on.
Sam: Go ahead, put one on, what could happen? We're in a safe place.
Laura: I just want to see what it does.
Sam: Wait, what if it's single use only?
Travis: Well, now's a good time.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: It's a boot, it's probably made for multiple uses.
Matt: You can take a short rest and take time with the item to figure out what it could do, if you want to.
Marisha: I attune to my staff.
Matt: Okay, so you attune to your staff. What are you unattuning from?
Marisha: Currently my Ring of Protection.
Laura: Oh, that's painful.
Sam: AC down!
Matt: So all your saves are down by two, your AC is down by two, for now. Good to know.
Sam: By the way, we have two unused Ring of Protections that we can trade for things. I have one that I haven't used in months.
Matt: Like Stone of Jordans now. It's the thing you trade. Props to you if you know what that reference was. What do you guys want to do? Do you want to take a short rest to try and figure things out?
All: Sure.
Matt: Kima's focusing on the sword, you're focusing on the boots.
Travis: I'm focusing on the war mask.
Matt: Who else is doing what?
Taliesin: Is there other things?
Laura: Here's a beautiful red gem. It looks special.
Taliesin: Does this actually look like a special gem?
Matt: Which gem is this?
Laura: The red beautiful gem you told me about.
Matt: Oh, the ruby. It looks very pretty.
Sam: I've got a vial with yellow and black swirly stuff in it.
Taliesin: That requires somebody who knows things.
Sam: I'll look at that.
Marisha: Can I do a check on the potion since I've got alchemy training?
Matt: You know what? Yeah, if you wanted to take a look.
Taliesin: There's some bracelets and such, I thought I'd take a look.
Sam: I have a gold and platinum band with braids.
Taliesin: Ah, I'll take a look at the back-blades.
Sam: The back-blades. That's nice.
Matt: So Keyleth was taking a look at the potions?
Laura: What about the bracelet, you also had a bracelet with a sapphire?
Sam: I just gave it to back-blades over here.
Laura: No, you had a ring and you had a bracelet.
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet which I assumed was just fancy and pretty. Here, look at that one too, Percy.
Taliesin: I think I can only handle one of these, but we'll find out what happens.
Matt: All right, so as you guys make a short rest. Keyleth, you identify both potions, one of which is a Potion of Speed.
Marisha: That's what I thought it was. The yellow one?
Matt: Yep. The other is a Potion of Invulnerability.
Sam: What does it do? Read it! Out loud, with your mouth.
Marisha: For one minute after you drink this potion, you have resistance to all damage.
Liam: God-mode!
Marisha: The potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron.
Travis: So you half all damage.
Matt: Half all damage for a minute.
Laura: That is so insane.
Marisha: And then Potion of Speed  when you drink this potion, you gain the effects of Haste spell for one minute.
Laura: I'm putting that in the party inventory.
Sam: No, no, no. Hand it out to somebody. Oh, that one should go in the party inventory.
Marisha: Which one, the Potion of Speed?
Laura: The Potion of Invulnerability, so we can decide later.
Liam: That's for a very special day.
Sam: Grog could take the speed.
Marisha: Yeah, do you want to take the speed potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, sure, I won't use it.
Marisha: Give the invulnerability to Laura.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: All right, the boots. To you, Vex.
Taliesin: So many things.
Laura: Is it Boots of Haste? (yells) Oh my god, this is so crazy, because I was about to learn a spell, for somebody, but these take care of that. These are Boots of Feral Leaping. When you wear these boots you can instill your leaps with incredible bursts of power! As a bonus action you can attempt to leap. Make a strength check with a DC of 16. If you are successful you leap either 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally.
Sam: (meowing)
Travis: Do you have to attune to them?
Laura: It doesn't say!
Matt: Yeah, those aren't attunement. (cheering)
Laura: There you go Grog. You need those.
Travis: Does anyone want the Potion of Speed? I don't want it to be just my Christmas. That's amazing!
Sam: Anyone need the Potion of Speed?
Matt: If you fail the check though, you fall prone where you stand.
Laura: Oh, that's important.
Matt: Strength check, so you'll probably be okay.
Liam: Most of the time, but once in awhile--
Matt: Once in a while banana peel.
Laura: I have a question, because the spell that I was going to take, because I still have one spell that I haven't learned yet, is Jump, which triples your jump for one minute. So if I did that, would that triple that as well? Or would it just be Grog's normal jump?
Matt: That magic would override the spell, based on the enchantment. It's two different magical forces affecting the same thing. The Jump spell is part of the enchantment that boot was crafted around.
Laura: Oh, so that's perfect.
Matt: The platinum band is not magical.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: But it is worth quite a bit, actually. The platinum band is worth about 2500 gold.
Taliesin: That's a magic all its own.
Matt: And the ring, who had the ring?
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet?
Matt: The platinum bracelet was what he looked at right now. That's worth 2500.
Sam: Oh wait, the gold platinum band? The band was a ring? Got it.
Matt: You have the ring?
Sam: Yes I do. Oh, it's a thing! I'm stuck here. Oh god.
Travis: The cube shrinks to half its size.
Liam: A centimeter.
Sam: It's a Ring of Invisibility. While wearing this ring you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell or until you get Backblaze. I don't need this.
Liam: Does it say attunement on it?
Matt: It does require attunement. It's a legendary item, meaning it's extremely rare. You know how you use a spell, and once you do something the spell's gone? That, while you're wearing it-- you can turn back invisible for another action. As many times as you want, for as long as you wear it. So situationally, it can be very useful, if you're trying to do infiltration or something.
Sam: You can pop out, cast a spell and pop back. But not a bonus action.
Matt: No. It's less of a combat benefit, necessarily, in some situations it may be.
Liam: Like going to a white dragon lair.
Marisha: Who wants to keep it?
Laura: Stealthy people need it, probably.
Matt: Kima is happy.
Travis: Kima is happy?
Matt: Kima is very happy.
Marisha: What'd she get?
Laura: Did you just give away something amazing?
Sam: We can always take it back.
Matt: As she stands up she takes the blade and swings it. It hits the ground, and when she hits you can see a spark of divine energy from the impact. She looks at her maul and goes, "Sorry, old friend. You'll find a good new home. But I'd say this Holy Avenger is going to do me quite well."
Marisha: What's it do, Kima?
Matt: To give you specifics, it requires attunement by a paladin.
Laura: Oh, so it has to be a paladin.
Matt: Only really Vax or her could attune to it. It's plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls. Hitting a fiend or undead, the creature takes an additional 2d10 radiant damage on every hit. While you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a 10ft radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects.
Travis: Kima is now an associate member of Vox Machina.
Sam: Provisional.
Travis: Provisional, yeah. That's amazing. So the maul-- Kima, because I want to respect your weapon, what does the maul do?
Matt: "Oh, you want the maul?"
Travis: What? No, I'm just saying, what it does, or does it just beat the shit out of people beautifully by itself?
Matt: "It's my Holy Thunder Maul. It deals additional thunder damage when I hit something. That's about it."
Travis: Cool. You want me to hold onto it for you, or are you cool?
Matt: (thunk) I'm good for now.
Travis: Boss. Total boss moment.
Laura: She can do 100 push-ups.
Travis: That's true. Enjoy that.
Matt: "Oh, I shall."
Marisha: I run downstairs to the training area with my staff.
Travis: Anything from the war mask?
Matt: No, but it is worth 750 gold.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: I'll unlock its secrets. Wear him down.
Sam: Well, if we're ever invited to a Masquerad-- is that how you say it?
Matt: No, but continue please.
Taliesin: Paper faces on parad.
Travis: Can I get a description of it?
Matt: Yeah, it resembles the Maori warrior masks with the big open mouth, the tongue sticking out, the two pronged teeth coming up from underneath. It's a war mask, it's meant to inspire fear and give you an ominous presence on the battlefield.
Sam: Is it platinum?
Matt: It's gold. Old, very old.
Sam: Does it go with his hat?
Matt: If you were to attach it some way, it would look very interesting.
Taliesin: Would you like me to attach the mask to your fine hat?
Liam: To the back of his head.
Laura: Ooh, to the back of it.
Liam: So they don't know if he's going or coming.
Taliesin: All right, bring it downstairs.
Marisha: They're both metal, right? I can help you by heating metal, actually.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just do this.
Travis: Can you also put my title on the inside?
Taliesin: Your what?
Travis: My title.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course.
Marisha: I'm going to go test this out, and I'll meet you in the workshop. I'll be right back.
Travis: Wait! Are you going downstairs?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see what this does.
Travis: Can I come with you?
Taliesin: We're all going downstairs.
Marisha: It's a free mansion, man.
Liam: You want to have a drink with me?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: So while you guys go downstairs, you two are going to the dining area?
Laura: Is there a lounge in the mansion, is there a bar?
Sam: There's mostly lounges in the mansion.
Liam: Is there an aerated wine cellar? (laughter)
Sam: It's constantly aerating. (swirling)
Sam: Inside joke. I'm being teased right now for owning and using a wine aerator.
Travis: Whoever sold you that and said it was an aerator is laughing their happy asses off.
Sam: I appreciate fine things, and I'm not going to apologize for that.
Travis: Some guy broke that off of his kid's toys and was like "It's an aerator!"
Laura: So yes, that's where we'll go. We're going to go to the wine room.
Matt: All right, you guys find your way to the wine room. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: A whole lot of nothing. I'll go down and watch the show, I guess. I'll watch the training show.
Matt: All right, you four head down to the training room. Kima comes down to watch as well. Pike comes down, eager to watch what this new artifact does. You head down to the training area. You have the big sandpit that's cordoned off with the wooden outskirts, you have the various dummies set up in certain ways, you have the portion of the room that has the armor stand on the side, the weapon stand. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Ooh-hoo. Okay. All right. Everyone stay back. I'm going to start by casting the lowest level of spell out of it, see what it does.
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: Apparently a Fireball.
Matt: Okay. At where?
Marisha: Whatever is further in the sandpit. I told everyone to stand back.
Matt: Everyone stays back. Furthest part of the sandpit is going to be one of the various combat dummies. So you launch-- put the staff down, you guys watch as in the centerpiece at the top, where that one gem is hovering and slowly rotating in place, the gem begins to glow bright red from its soft bluish-green composure. As it hits bright red, this beam of familiar red arcane energy streaks forward, hits it and detonates into a shaking explosion, destroying the wooden dummy and singeing the one immediately left to it.
Travis: Whoa. Cool.
Marisha: Did you see that, Grog?
Travis: Yeah. Really nice.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Travis: Was that the biggest thing it does?
Matt: So that's three charges off.
Laura: How many charges are there?
Marisha: 20, and they recharge at the top of a day. They recharge 1d6 plus four.
Laura: Oh. How many recharge a day?
Marisha: 1d6 plus four.
Travis: So five to ten. Five to eleven.
Marisha: Because I've been really excited about this one, I'm going to point at the other dummy and cast Chain Lightning.
Matt: Okay. As you do, you watch as this giant bolt of electrical energy arcs off the same place on the staff, hits the dummy and the dummy immediately bursts into flames from the energy hitting the wood, and then arcs off and hits the two others. Suddenly the dummies are partially blown apart on one side, the charred section slowly smoldering as smoke pours up, and you can see bits of the electrical energy going (crackling) through the remainder of the wooden dummy.
Marisha: Grog. Did you see that?
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing. I kind of want to get out there for whatever you do next.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah, just to see how much damage it does. Wait, can you use this in Minxie form too?
Marisha: Hmm, I don't think so.
Travis: No, you think so, or you don't?
Marisha: I can try this though! Hang on, wait, that was five charges. No sorry, six charges. Burning through all the charges, but I don't care.
Travis: Do you have another one you want to do?
Marisha: Watch this Grog, watch this. I'm going to do Conjure Elemental.
Matt: Okay, and which elemental are you going to conjure?
Marisha: What elemental?
Travis: Earth, big!
Marisha: Earth!
Matt: You watch as she slams the staff in the ground and you feel this quaking, and the sandpit behind her begins to slowly billow and rise up. As the sand falls away from underneath, you see, standing behind and looming over Keyleth, this giant, cracked stone earth elemental, very much like the form she often takes, standing behind her. Its eyes flash up with a bright green glow and it sits there, awaiting her command.
Marisha: Then I do a bonus action and I also turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: That's right, because you got your forms back at a short rest.
Marisha: Yes I did.
Matt: So now she turns into the same form. There's now two elementals there.
Sam: Fight, fight, fight!
Marisha: Then we walk by and we Top Gun each other.
Matt: Each slam itself causes the air around to (cracking) like a small thunderwave in its own right.
Marisha: Then we both turn and look at Grog.
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Then I punch Grog in the face!
Liam: Yes!
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: That's not a spell attack, is it?
Marisha: That was for me!
Matt: And for the other elemental, what's your bonus? As an earth elemental, what's your attack bonus? Because the other elemental is going to punch him at the same time too.
Marisha: He gets a plus eight.
Matt: Plus eight? That's a 16, that does not. So here's what happens. In slow motion, Grog stands there with a big grin on his face, and both fists go (slamming) and glide off, no impact. And you're still dumbfounded and enjoying the moment.
Travis: Keyleth.
Marisha: (gruffly) I did that on purpose.
Travis: Can I understand what she's saying?
Matt: No, you hear (rockslide crashing).
Sam: Wow, she can become far-sighted earth elementals. (laughter)
Sam: Amazing.
Marisha: Okay, I drop my form to hear what Grog has to say.
Travis: That sucked. That was the worst one of all of them.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Did it hurt you when we punched you?
Travis: No, like-- wait, is the beard all right?
Matt: The beard is fine.
Travis: Yeah, okay, no. It's all good. Does it do anything else than whiff?
Marisha: Well. And I tell the elemental to--
Taliesin: No, it does nothing else.
Laura: Nothing.
Marisha: Attack Grog again.
Travis: Let me turn around.
Matt: That is an 18.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: It doesn't miss, what it does is it hits you and you're like (slamming). You barely felt it.
Marisha: How was that?
Travis: Oh man, yeah. Really, whew. Stout.
Marisha: Really? Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. I'm questioning my faith now.
Marisha: Man, this staff is so powerful.
Travis: Yeah, sure is.
Marisha: Jeez, wow.
Travis: Not that I want to feel any more damage after that hurricane of pain, but does it do anything else?
Marisha: I can keep burning the fucking charges.
Matt: By the way, you've now burned 14 charges.
Marisha: Yes, I know.
Travis: Give me one really big one.
Marisha: Goddamn it. I hope we're not fighting anything so I can recharge these.
Laura: It's going to be like three days for her to get them back.
Sam: Does this thing protect you at all?
Marisha: No, it's a damage-dealer.
Laura: Don't do any more. Don't waste any more, Marisha. Don't do it.
Liam: You're not there.
Laura: That's why I said Marisha.
Marisha: I'm going to wait. I'm going to see. I'm going to save some action. Real fast, just in case-- and I whack him with the staff.
Travis: Like Rafiki?
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20. Add your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Marisha: My strength and my-- Let's see, 18. No wait, 19!
Matt: 19. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: 20.
All: Aww.
Matt: Whack!
Travis: (melodramatic groaning) Oh, the pain of-- what's this thing called? Confires! It hurts so much.
Marisha: Wow, really?
Travis: I feel the reflux-- the conflux.
Marisha: Oh, it gave you acid reflux?
Travis: Yeah, it's real bad. I have to leave because I feel like I might toss.
Marisha: That's good to know. It induces sickness?
Travis: Yeah, I feel like I'm going to cry too.
Marisha: Okay, good to know, all right, thank you.
Travis: And I leave, holding my forehead and laughing. Small, little laugh.
Marisha: I'm good for now.
Matt: Percy, you're going to the workshop, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, grabbing the helmets and here, I'm going to borrow you.
Marisha: And now I go.
Matt: So you guys go and do that. In the meantime, both of you find your way to Scanlan's wine room. (aerating noises and laughter)
Liam: I don't know what any of these are; do you know what's good and what's bad?
Laura: Pick the one that looks the fanciest.
Liam: You were better at that than I am.
Laura: I go to the corner-- the highest shelf, I don't fucking know. These are probably all fake wine anyway. I fly up and grab the one on the highest shelf and fly back down.
Matt: You grab it, look at the label. It's a Pinot Noir, and the title of the brand says Le White Meat.
Laura: Oh no, it's chicken wine. Fuck.
Travis: Oh no, is it really?
Laura: Whatever, we'll drink it anyway. It's going to be disgusting.
Taliesin: There's actually a drink called Cock Ale, which is brewed in a dead chicken.
Travis: Of course you would know that.
Matt: No, it's regular red wine. But definitely is labelled with a chicken on it.
Laura: That's funny.
Liam: I'm grabbing a random Two Buck Chuck next to me on the wall.
Matt: Same label. They're all the same wine.
Liam: Hey, hey, hey. To Vex'ahlia, the dragon slayer.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Liam: (slamming) Oh shite, we should do it for real.
Laura: Oh yeah, right, what's up?
Liam: Oh man, I'm proud of you.
Laura: Thanks!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Is that all you wanted to say?
Liam: No.
Laura: I didn't think so.
Liam: Well, that's three of five.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know if we're all going to live, but I think that collectively we might actually pull it off.
Laura: I think we have a good shot of it.
Liam: Yeah. Almost bit it, out there.
Laura: Yeah, I noticed.
Liam: Again.
Laura: Yes. Scary.
Liam: Can I have a hug?
Laura: I'm glad you're not dead.
Liam: Yeah, old news. We've done it before, we'll do it again. Hey, do you want to try jumping around with those boots?
Laura: Oh, I gave them to Grog.
Liam: You want to try to jump around anyway?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: What can you do? How high can you go?
Laura: I jump. It's a jump. A normal little jump.
Liam: It's good, yeah.
Laura: Why?
Liam: No reason, I'm procrastinating.
Laura: Oh, yeah. So tell me what you're procrastinating about?
Liam: How long are you going to torture yourself for?
Laura: Oh, you fuck. (laughing) What? (muffled) What are you even talking about right now? Do you want to see how high I can jump now? So high. I get on my broom and I fly up to the ceiling.
Liam: Push out the wings. No, I can't!
Matt: Yeah, you already used it.
Liam: Will you come down here and talk to me?
Laura: (groans) Fine, fine! Hi.
Liam: Yeah. What are you doing?
Laura: I don't know! I don't-- what?
Liam: You know I've known for a while? It's all over your face, I've known you since you were a baby, I've known for a while.
Laura: Okay. (nervous laughter)
Liam: I've almost died. You have died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: He died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What are you fucking doing, Vex?
Laura: (sighs) It's just timing, you know? It's all timing.
Liam: Timing could have you dead in the ground tomorrow.
Laura: This is true.
Liam: And do you know something? Hey.
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: He leads with this. Not with that.
Laura: His collarbone?
Liam: Yeah. Fucking smart-ass. Maybe he'll surprise you, but I don't know.
Laura: I think he isn't thinking that way at all, and honestly--
Liam: (snorts) You're a dummy. I'm the dummy, why are you such a dummy?
Laura: I don't know, darling. It seems so trivial. Doesn't it?
Liam: What the fuck do we have in this world except for moments with each other? That's all we've got.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I want you to have some happiness in your life.
Laura: I do have happiness!
Liam: I want you to have a little more. There's no reason to hold back. Why?
Laura: Wouldn't it be so awkward though?
Liam: Who cares? You know what's awkward?
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: A life not lived.
Laura: Hey, I'm living a life. I've got Trinket. I've got you, sometimes, when you're not with Keyleth.
Liam: Listen, you're my sister, and I love you very much, and I know a lot about you, and I can help you in a lot of ways. But not every way.
Laura: I know.
Liam: There are facets of you that have nothing to do with me.
Laura: Very few.
Liam: I want you to be happy, and we all could be dead in a week. You know that.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm a fucking idiot. I don't know anything.
Laura: (laughing) I want you to remember that you just said that.
Liam: I never forget it. Ever. In the game or out of the game, Laura.
Laura: Oh, don't!
Liam: It's a short life we got. I'm not going to tell you what to do, but I won't tell you what to do. I do want you to be happy.
Laura: Thank you. And I'll try.
Liam: And on a side note-- he's a little fucked up.
Laura: Oh, I know.
Liam: And he only listens to you.
Laura: Well, that's not true.
Liam: Yes it is.
Laura: No!
Liam: Who does he listen to?
Laura: Keyleth. They're like, so close.
Liam: Yeah, they enjoy each other's company, I know that, but you're really the only one who he listens to. So I need you to-- he has impulses. He has impulse control. I have impulse control.
Laura: Yes you do!
Liam: He has a different kind of impulse control.
Laura: Okay. You want me to control him then. Get him under my thumb. Bring him to the light, just a little bit?
Liam: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: I know what you're talking about.
Liam: I take another bottle of wine and I (gulps).
Laura: (laughing) I thank you.
Liam: Am I drunk, am I at disadvantage now, if do the whole bottle?
Matt: In a minute you will be, yeah.
Liam: Grab another bottle.
Laura: Hm? Glug glug glug? Well, all right.
Liam: (groans) I want to go see some fireballs get shot, I'll see you later!
Laura: Okay, have fun.
Liam: Woo!
Matt: As Vax sloppily leaves the room, you're left in quiet, by yourself with your--
Liam: (booming) And I walk away!
Laura: I pop Trinket out, cast Speak with Animals and have a nice fun conversation with him.
Matt: We're going to go ahead and take a break here, come back here in a minute, use the restroom.
Marisha: Aw, we haven't done shit!
Matt: That's not true. You've discussed the spoils from your last major story bit, so we'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, fill up on drinks. Stay tuned and we'll see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone and welcome back to Critical Role! After a barrage of delightful phrases that were just shouted at me. It's great.
Travis: Love you, Matt!
Matt: Love you too, guys. I do want to say real fast that our wonderful Kiki Day, who made a number of other Vestiges--
Laura: Fenthras!
Matt: Made Fenthras, made--
Marisha: And the Spire!
Matt: Made the Spire of Conflux, which you can see on Marisha's twitter right now?
Marisha: Geek & Sundry's twitter.
Matt: Geek & Sundry's twitter. As well as making me a belt buckle that I'm going to be wearing at Blizzcon. (yelling)
Matt: That's fucking fantastic.
Travis: That's a badass motherfucking belt.
Matt: (McCree voice) Just saying.
Liam: (Oprah voice) Spire of Conflux!
Matt: (McCree voice) Now I've got a reason to go ahead and wear myself a tucked-in shirt. (normal voice) Anyway, let's get into the game. You guys, finishing those scenes. Taking a short rest. You roll your hit dice to heal up a bit. What more do you wish to accomplish? What's your next plan of action, Vox Machina?
Taliesin: I say we pack up all of our things and raid a ship.
Laura: And then head back to Whitestone. I mean-- Oh, no, we're fine in here.
Sam: Are we?
Laura: Are we?
Marisha: Do you want to rest before we do that?
Taliesin: I say we--
Sam: We have to rest. We're all severely injured.
Taliesin: Well, some of us, yes. I say we take a night, we hit the ship and then head home.
Liam: It's good wine!
Laura: Oh, he's drunk.
Marisha: You guys got into the wine?!
Sam: Did you aerate it first?
Liam: How do you do that?
Sam: If you don't have an aerator, you can put it in a mason jar and shake it up a bit.
Liam: We just drank it out of the bottle.
Sam: Well, that's just pedestrian, really.
Laura: You have so many.
Taliesin: Put some ice in it, keep it cold.
Marisha: Are we still melting a mask to a helmet?
Taliesin: We had a little bit of metallurgy to do.
Matt: Make a tinkering check, and this, actually, make--
Marisha: I help him with my Heat Metal spell like a soldering iron.
Matt: Okay! That being the case, it's going to help with the metal's pliability. Go ahead and make your regular dex-based.
Taliesin: Regular dex-based? All right.
Matt: Would make it strength-based for the metal, but the Heat Metal is helping you with that.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That's a 26.
Matt: 26? Yeah, without an issue you manage to apply the mask onto the back of the helmet after looking at some brief glances at the shape of Grog's head, making sure that it has a hinge so if he leans forward, it doesn't restrict or press into his back if he looks up. It is a functional backmask onto his delightful pointed helmet.
Taliesin: I've also carved, in Elven, in the inside, "Kick Me."
Matt: On the inside of the mask?
Taliesin: Yeah. So it's there.
Marisha: It's magnificent.
Taliesin: I think so.
Marisha: Shall we present it to him?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Marisha: I feel like we should go at this with a little bit of theatricality. Just because it's so much fun to fuck with Grog.
Taliesin: I know!
Marisha: How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Oh! I turn into an elephant. Get on my back!
Taliesin: Did you say that before turning into an elephant?
Marisha: Yes, I do! Get on my back!
Liam: (elephant sound)
Taliesin: For god's sake, Vax, stop aerating more wine! We've had enough! You've had enough!
Matt: Sam is so over it.
Taliesin: No, never!
Marisha: Percy's on my back and I'm an elephant holding the mask while we go find Grog.
Matt: Well, first you get to the doorway of the workshop.
Marisha: It's a temporary fucking mansion. I bust through.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: I don't know how to-- Will you put this in dice jail for me?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. What do I roll for a--
Matt: Look it up. You add your strength modifier as an elephant.
Marisha: Well, I don't know what an elephant's stats are!
Matt: I'm going to find it right now. I'm going to find for you what an elephant's stats are! Just going to go look it up for you!
Marisha: Well, I rolled a two!
Matt: You rolled a what, a two?
Marisha: Yeah, a two.
Sam: It's not going to work!
Marisha: I'm a fucking elephant and it's a door!
Matt: It's plus six because it has a strength of 22 because it's a goddamn elephant. So eight. You (slam). It lurches ever so slightly, but that is a very strong doorway. It's almost like the arcane nature of Scanlan's magic makes a good home.
Marisha: Can I try it again?
Matt: You hit it again. Make another strength check.
Marisha: That's much better! 16 total!
Matt: 16. It causes some of the plaster to crack. Doesn't get that much further, but you're starting to get a serious headache.
Travis: Are we hearing this? Are we hearing a massive commotion?
Matt: You're starting to hear it now. There's this low, general slamming sound in the mansion.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Yeah, do you hear that?
Sam: I do. Doesn't sound right.
Laura: Should we go find out?
Sam: I pull out Mythcarver and run down the stairs!
Travis: I take out the bloodaxe and I follow him!
Matt: Another strength check.
Marisha: They get better with each time. 19!
Matt: 19. The door gets knocked partially off of its hinges and the frame is now slightly bent forward. The wood is splintered and the stone has more cracks into it. The headache is now pounding.
Marisha: I should have thought about this!
Matt: You guys hear another, even louder slam this time. As you rush down to the outside of Percy's workshop you see some crazed, large, shifting gray movement of some creature, on the other side of the doorway.
Travis: Jesus! Scanlan, is this one yours?
Sam: No. It's definitely an intruder.
Travis: Then we fucking kill it! We race forward and attack.
Matt: All right, both of you guys roll a--
Liam: Wait, is Percy still riding?
Matt: You don't see Percy, because Percy's above you!
Taliesin: Am I aware of this happening? At all, I don't see them at all?
Matt: No, because you're inside the workshop and you're above the doorframe she's slamming into.
Travis: 23.
Sam: One.
Matt: So Scanlan, you go running with Mythcarver in the air, and as you go to strike, Grog shoves you out of the way, in the middle of his angry grab and you go skidding across the ground, Mythcarver spinning out of your grasp across the floor. Are you making a single attack or are you doing a full round of attacks on this beast?
Travis: This is a giant beast, I'm giving it what for!
Matt: So roll another attack, are you raging for this?
Travis: No, I'm not raging. (laughing) 24.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks, non-rage damage.
Marisha: No, go with it. Go with it.
Travis: 20 points, four points of necrotic.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: I know, I don't hit lightly.
Sam: Elephant's going to die.
Travis: 22 points of damage.
Matt: You take 42 points of damage from your maximum of 76 hit points as an elephant, as all of a sudden, what little bit of vision you have through the pounding headache, you glance through in time to see Grog's form (roaring) run up and slam his axe into you twice.
Marisha: How much damage?
Matt: 42.
Marisha: What's my form?
Matt: 76.
Marisha: I fucking headbutt him, I'm going to gorge him! Let's go!
Matt: You're going to gorge him?
Travis: Scanlan!
Sam: Careful Grog, it has some protection magic on it. It threw me across the room! (laughter)
Matt: All right, Marisha. I would like you to roll for a gore attack against Grog.
Laura: This is ridiculous.
Marisha: What do I add? I don't have a stat.
Matt: Plus eight.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? No, I don't think that hits you. So you go ahead and try and gore Grog, and Grog ducks right beneath the two giant ivory horns.
Marisha: Do I knock down the doorway a little bit more?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay. 20 total.
Matt: With that, as you duck below, the elephant slams through the archway, sending stone and pieces of wood flying, and stumbles past. You duck down to try and the avoid the attack, going underneath the elephant as it begins to stomp over you into the room. You see this as you spin around. The elephant bursts in, and it is very much an elephant, you can see now, with Percy on top being dragged through the rubble.
Taliesin: I'm thankfully wearing a helmet.
Sam: It's got Percival!
Travis: Roll off! Roll off, Percy!
Taliesin: (deadpan) Oh help. Help, please.
Travis: He's so weak he can barely speak!
Sam: We must kill this elephant.
Travis: We must destroy this beast!
Matt: Scanlan and Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: We got to kill this thing.
Travis: Yeah, you go. Come on.
Sam: I will throw a Wand of Fireballs at it.
Matt: How many charges does it have left?
Sam: Oh, plenty. I have only used one of seven.
Matt: But each time you use it-- okay. Not quite how it works, I don't think.
Liam: Just look at the shirt, Matt, just look at his shirt.
Matt: Oh, you're right. One charge is a third level spell, I misunderstood. So you launch your Fireball, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Oh wait, what is the damage? It's 8d6. Got it.
Matt: 8d6. Keyleth, I need you to roll a d20 minus one.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Rolling your die! Wait, a d20 minus one? (laughing) Six total. Goddamn it Gil.
Matt: Okay. Percy, I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad, that's 18.
Matt: Okay, what was the damage you said?
Sam: 26.
Matt: I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw, with advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: I'm still wearing my cloak, so do they get disadvantage on attacks against me? Because I'm in the Cloak of Displacement.
Sam: You're an elephant though.
Taliesin: You're an elephant in the Cloak of Displacement.
Marisha: But whenever I Beast Shape I absorb my items.
Matt: That would have been something to mention earlier, so going forward the attacks will have disadvantage, but you have to remember that for it to have an effect.
Marisha: But they're just now rolling.
Matt: He hasn't attacked yet, he's rolling because a Fireball just blew up in his face!
Travis: I got a natural 20, so I'm good.
Matt: So that's half damage to you. You said it was 26 damage?
Sam: 26.
Matt: So 13 points of fire damage to Percy and Grog, and a full 26 points of fire damage to you. That puts you at a total of 42 plus 26, so 68. You're still up. The elephant that's now storming through the center-- hold on, I have to go with the battle music for this now.
Sam: Where's your battle map?
Matt: --storming through the center of the foyer, is now spinning around, flames exploding, engulfing Percy, Grog. The elephant is now covered in blood and scrapes. That finishes your go. Grog, you're up.
Sam: Before I'm done I'm going to inspire Grog and say: Grog, remember. They never forget! (laughter)
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration.
Travis: Thank you. I'll take two strikes at the elephant's ass. That's a one.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Oh. Well, that's a one, so.
Matt: I know. You still have the second attack.
Travis: That's a two.
Marisha: (heavy footsteps)
Matt: So as you go--
Laura: Wait, it's not a two!
Travis: So the second one was 16, the first one was a 15.
Matt: It still hits. You rolled a two and it still hits because its AC is 12. It's very big and easy to hit. Go ahead and roll damage on the next attack.
Travis: Oh, nice. What a joy!
Taliesin: It's not hard to hit an elephant.
Liam: Can we also say that the two winos have come down to watch?
Laura: Yeah, we're staring from the top of the stairs at all of it happening.
Travis: The first one is 20, with four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: You only hit with one.
Travis: Oh, that's right.
Matt: How much was that, 20 points?
Travis: Yeah, 20.
Matt: Okay, so Keyleth, you yourself take 12 points of damage. As your axe swings through and slams into the elephant, the elephant's form suddenly vanishes, as your axe cleaves through Keyleth a little bit, causing her to fall back and catch herself.
Laura: Is Percy still on her back, piggy-backing?
Matt: In a second, Percy goes (thud) on the ground next to you.
Marisha: (pained noise)
Travis: Percy, you've been riding Raishan! Die, evil witch!
Laura: Grog! It's Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, Grog, thank you! That elephant ate me! You saved me!
Travis: I did?
Marisha: You did.
Travis: Sometimes I don't know if you guys would live without me. I'm really glad I'm around, sometimes.
Taliesin: I can't imagine it. I legitimately cannot imagine it.
Travis: Ooh, is that my helmet?!
Taliesin: It is!
Liam: Ayy, Fredrickstein the Science Guy, nice job! Look at that! That is beautiful.
Laura: (whispering) He's drunk.
Marisha: The elephant ate this too.
Taliesin: It's Dr. Fredrickstein, please.
Travis: Is there poo on it?
Marisha: No, it's good.
Taliesin: It's clean. It's perfectly reasonable.
Travis: Ooh, the mask's on the back. Did you write on the inside like I said?
Taliesin: It is engraved in Elven on the inside, it's lovely.
Travis: It looks like writing. What's it--
Taliesin: It's your title, sir.
Travis: --is that? What language?
Laura: Oh, that? It's Elvish.
Travis: Oh, it's Elvish? So not everybody knows what my title is.
Taliesin: It's meant to be secret.
Travis: Very smart. Did you see my title?
Laura: I did, it's impressive.
Marisha: I wrote it down.
Taliesin: Did you? Oh dear.
Marisha: I knew it was going to be handy.
Travis: I will put on the new mask slash horned helm.
Matt: It feels impressive.
Travis: Does it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Actually, because now the mask is facing the back, right? Can I fucking turn it around and put the mask on the front, with the horn sticking out the back like a big Nike swoosh?
Matt: You can. It's not as comfortable, but it definitely feels badass.
Travis: (muffled) I don't feel like this is the best--
Taliesin: You sound very intimidating.
Liam: He got polymorphed into De Niro. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Sam: I feel like I'm going to have to write some house rules from now on.
Taliesin: It'd be good to have a list of things to ignore, I agree.
Liam: You need some of those blue guys with an aerator at all times down in those cellars.
Sam: Blue man group?
Liam: One of your blue guys! The blue guys! That disappears with this place--
Sam: My hundreds of--? There's no guys here. They're all female servants. I don't know how many times I need to say this.
Liam: Well, nobody farted in our wine tonight. We had to drink it regular.
Sam: I am sorry for your loss, because it's really excellent once you let it breathe and open up.
Liam: It's pretty good right now.
Travis: Well, now that I got my helmet, are we going down to the ship?
Taliesin: I propose that we have an evening's rest. In the morning--
Liam: We should go now.
Laura: No. Maybe you need to rest.
Taliesin: No, I think we need an evening's rest.
Liam: I have 25 hit points. I'm fine!
Laura: Yeah. Well, Pike is resting because she was hurt quite badly.
Liam: Yeah, but did you see her fun buns, though? I did those.
Laura: I didn't.
Taliesin: You did her fun buns?
Liam: Yeah, I pulled little fun buns--
Taliesin: Oh! Okay! That's good--
Liam: What do you think I meant?
Taliesin: I didn't think anything, I'm going up.
Liam: What else does fun buns mean except for little, cute, little hairballs on your hair?
Sam: I'll give you a book later.
Laura: Oh, yeah! You have a book?
Sam: I have a few. I have a library.
Liam: Oh, gosh! Neither Vax nor Liam knew there was anything other than little cute hair buns-- Fun buns. What is a "fun bun" besides a fun bun?
Matt: Ask Larkin.
Liam: You guys! We got to find Larkin!
Matt: Okay. All right, so you guys take your long rest. You regain your spells, you're all full hit points, you regain half your max hit dice. So if you spent more than half of your hit dice, you still--
Laura: Do we keep our hit dice from our Heroes' Feast? If we never got rid of them? Or are they gone?
Matt: No. By the time you'd wake up, they'd be gone, probably.
Liam: Can you use the hit-- never mind.
Sam: When they wake up in the morning, Vax has a bill under his door for three bottles of wine. And Vex for one bottle. And Keyleth for a construction bill of 5,000 gold pieces.
Laura: I promptly rip the fuck out of my bill.
Marisha: I think it's a scam, and I throw it away.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It is a scam. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Well-rested. A fresher day. The mansion, growing fairly close to probably expending the rest of its magic. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: Let's pack our things, head down and take a look at that pirate ship, then head home. Well, that ship. I don't know if it has pirate symbols, but I'm very excited.
Marisha: So wait, do we need things-- how far under the ice is it?
Taliesin: Probably a bit. Having the ability to melt some ice would probably be helpful. Also, you're going to have to do the tree teleport and possibly we want to deal with reforestation of some kind.
Marisha: Reforestation. Oh, sure because the Ice Age wiped out--
Taliesin: We have to go out like Captain EO. It's a thing.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Just throwing this out there, is there anything to gain by going up to the dragon lair and communicating with Thordak? Is there anything we want to say to him?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Misdirection? Taunting? Anything?
Travis: Like, you suck. You can find us at the Glintshore?
Liam: We don't even want to take an hour for me to slip this on and go see if there's anything of value?
Sam: Up in the lair?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: You can do that while we look at the ship.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Sam: But don't go alone. You can still get hit with traps.
Liam: I can look for those. I do like buddies to go. Do you need to go to the boat?
Taliesin: It's all in the same place.
Laura: Yeah. It's all in the same place.
Sam: I can hover above you or something.
Travis: Let's jauntily head over.
Taliesin: If there's a problem, we can call the others. We won't be that far away.
Liam: All right. Ooh! I slip Whisper into my pack and I put this ring on.
Sam: (whispers) Ooh! Precious!
Laura: Right, so you have to attune to that.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Travis: Nasty woman.
Liam: (Gollum voice) She's a nasty woman! (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, I may need a ringtone later.
Matt: Yeah. All right, great. So you guys have put yourselves together. Kima and Pike joined you downstairs in the foyer. You make your way back out into the ravine just as the magic of the mansion fades. There you can see most of the dragon bones picked entirely off the corpse of Vorugal, except for the ribcage, still remaining as a landmark of the battle that took place with a central tree still sprouting from the top of it.
Laura: Is it any bigger?
Matt: No, the magic of Fenthras creates the tree and it stays that size as it sprouts. Who knows if over time it may grow? You haven't had the time to really tell. You guys make your way--
Marisha: I didn't know you are an artist.
Laura: It's quite lovely, isn't it?
Marisha: It's pretty amazing, yes. I appreciate this.
Laura: You're welcome. I did it for you, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Certainly adds something, doesn't it? To the whole valley. It's quite nice.
Travis: Yeah. Green.
Matt: The weather has cleared up. There's breaks in the clouds. It's still mostly cloud-covered, but you do see glimpses of blue sky here and there. Still cold, still see your breath out in the air. But the temperature does feel slightly warmer than it was the day before. You begin to walk down to the ravine center on the north side of the ravine where Vorugal's lair once resided. You can see hundreds of footprints, up and down, through the snow, through the ravine; looks like there's been a lot of foot traffic to and from while you guys were resting. You make your way to the ice throne of Vorugal and you see a portion of it has collapsed inward. But you also see a lot of foot traffic around, most of the ice spires that remained up there have been broken. The remaining Draconian corpses that were adorning them were taken down, or aren't in sight. And you can see there are a few remaining dragonborn Ravenites that are stepping in and out of the cavern-like chamber that you largely punched through and they continued to excavate it into the night.
Taliesin: If you could let them know that we're going to make one last venture into the ship and then we'll be on our way.
Laura: I walk up to one of the guys going in, and say in Draconic, have you unearthed the giant ship yet?
Matt: He looks for a second and says, "It is nothing for us. But we've worked around it." He points down, and you can see the portion of it that has collapsed, filled in part at the side and shoveled out in these large chunks of ice that are sitting outside of this cavern area. Parts of the ship have been moved around-- it looks like it's been somewhat damaged. It's not a full ship. It's a large portion of a ship. It looks like in whatever battle or attack that Vorugal took this ship, it destroyed a huge portion of it in doing so and took the rest of it with it, in pieces. And it is a very pretty ship. It looks like it may have been the jewel of a navy somewhere. And here it resides. However, it does appear like the ship has seen many moons since it was originally taken, if that makes any sense. Like, it wasn't brought directly here. It looks like almost a keepsake that Vorugal has moved from lair to lair.
Liam: (whispers) Oh, that's legit!
Matt: Has some sort of sentimental value.
Laura: Oh, wow! It had some engraving on it. You speak a lot of languages, right?
Taliesin: Well. I speak a couple of languages, I read a couple.
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Does it look familiar?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Taliesin: Celestial, Elven, Common.
Marisha: Sylvan, Primordial, Druidic, Elven.
Travis: Giant, Common.
Sam: Gnomish. That's it.
Matt: You don't even know Common. No one has understood you this entire game!
Laura: Pike speaks Dwarvish.
Matt: Pike does pick up on it. It is Dwarvish text.
Travis: I speak Dwarvish, but I can't read.
Matt: That is a problem.
Travis: I have a belt, yeah.
Matt: It is Dwarven, and as Pike begins reading around it, this-- it's the name of the ship across the mast, which is "The Floebreaker." This ship appears to have been, at least in some way, shape, or form, designed as a means of travelling through very far north icy regions, meant to break through elements of heavy glacier flows and such. The construction of it, as you get closer to the actual bit of the ship that is there, you can see it's very heavily reinforced with metal and has a very rigid structure to it. The fine scrolling that you saw before, it looks to be partially filled with ice at times. So as soon as it broke away, you could see it's actually more of a harsh, broken Dwarvish runic writing to it. The ship has definitely seen a lot of wear and tear. That's about as much you can make out of it.
Laura: Can we get inside of it? Is there anything to see inside of it?
Matt: You can attempt to climb inside if you want to.
Marisha: How much is exposed right now?
Matt: Just the top of the deck, and where the mast connects to the-- that portion is still frozen into the upper part of the throne. There is no entrance immediately visible, but you can break through some more ice or try to break through the actual deck to get there.
Marisha: I cast a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay. A flaming ball begins to roll on the bridge of the ship.
Marisha: Where does it look like the most convenient entrance? With ice and stuff?
Matt: Maybe four feet away from where the ice begins. You can see there is one broken portion of the ship deck, maybe about a three-foot, four-foot hole that you could melt towards if you wanted to.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to concentrate my Flaming Sphere on that and start melting it.
Matt: Okay. It's taking a while. About how long does the spell last, the Flaming Sphere?
Marisha: About a minute, I think?
Laura: (hums the Jeopardy theme)
Matt: All right, Flaming Sphere, up to a minute, yeah. The spell expires, the minute done, and you've managed to melt maybe three inches into the ice?
Laura: Grog, go punch it.
Marisha: How much was it?
Matt: About four feet of ice.
Marisha: Oh, fuck that.
Travis: Ugh! I got it.
Marisha: I step back.
Travis: And I start going Rocky-ribcage on this big piece of meat.
Matt: Okay, make your strength check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. He continues to punch, and punch, and punch, and each one you see the ice crack, pieces of it break away. You get quite a ways to punching through towards the direction that you are currently melting before a lot of the ice crumbles and falls and almost buries you for a second. But you knock it away and pull yourself out of it as you do, scooping the shards that occupied the space where you were and get out of the way.
Marisha: I cast a Gust cantrip over top of him to keep ice from falling on him.
Laura: I hope there's really something in here.
Marisha: Me too.
Matt: Keeps punching. You get to one point, and you hit, and you hear a (dull impact). You watch a crack spider up to the top of the throne.
Travis: I think we need to go.
Matt: Portion of the throne above you is now starting to crack and fall onto the side.
Travis: I start running out of there.
Laura: We should get out. Let's go.
Marisha: I also back out.
Matt: Okay. I need the three of you who are closest to it to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Travis: Can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping?
Matt: You have advantage on dexterity, though. You'll be fine.
Liam: I could've hanged back, but I've been meaning to say this whole time that I was creeping around the thrones, I'm just going to throw that out, that I'm up there.
Matt: Okay, so you see this happening. A portion of it, like a whole half side of it has cracked and is sliding down into the cavern that has been excavated by your party and the Ravenites.
Liam: So if I'm almost on it, should I be making a dex save as well?
Matt: If you're almost on it--
Liam: I was going to poke around and look around it.
Matt: Only half of it's collapsing, I'll say sure. Go for it. You who offers me to let you make a dexterity saving throw, yes. I will take it.
Laura: Really? Did you really do that?
Liam: I rolled a one, but I have lots of Luck left. And now I'm fine.
Travis: I'm not.
Liam: So that's a 26.
Matt: So yeah. You manage to leap off and tumble in the snow to the bottom and don't have to worry about it. Travis?
Travis: Eight. With advantage.
Laura: 29.
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: 19. But I burned a Resolve.
Matt: So as you guys dart out, Grog and Keyleth unfortunately are left a little bit behind. You both are pummelled with chunks of hard ice and jagged points of broken frost there, dealing 13 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage to both of you. And you find yourselves partially buried in the ice that cracks off it. You see most of Keyleth's body is currently buried, just her head and arms are out. And Grog, you're about up to your waist now in broken ice and snow. And you're like, (grunts), and pull yourself out.
Travis: Look at Keyleth's arm.
Laura: Yeah, I see it. Can you get her out?
Travis: Okay. I start moving the ice and pull her out.
Matt: You pull Keyleth out.
Marisha: (coughing)
Travis: That didn't go well.
Taliesin: Let's burrow straight into the side, I think, to be on the safe side. Let's stop melting ice.
Laura: Isn't it buried completely at this point?
Matt: At this point, the entire excavation portion-- by the way, as you guys came back, most of the gold and platinum that was in there has been completely removed by the Ravenites over time. And this whole area that has been excavated so carefully left it in a precarious place. Those physical hits by Grog sent that whole south side of the throne to collapse inwards. So it's partially collapsed. There's a large pile of ice, rock and snow. And it's not very accessible from the current standpoint.
Laura: Maybe it was one of Vorugal's first kills or something? And it's sentimental?
Taliesin: I don't know, I'm irritated by it.
Liam: I think it might have given him a little bit of juice when he was at home.
Marisha: Do you think it has some sort of icy-like--
Liam: Extra ability when he was here, maybe.
Marisha: I could try, and maybe now that the ice is broken I can melt it through it easier?
Liam: Why would a dragon keep a boat?
Taliesin: Why would he?
Travis: Maybe his woobie, you know--?
Laura: Like a blankie.
Liam: Yeah. You know about that, Percy?
Marisha: Some people like collecting ships, you know? Maybe he's a nautical kind of guy.
Travis: Yeah, guns and ships.
Laura: He was a nautical kind of guy.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Travis: (hums the intro of "Alexander Hamilton")
Liam: While we're all standing here with our thumbs in our butts, could I look around and see if I see a little stone, a little palantir?
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Sam: Where are you standing?
Liam: Ugh, Luck again. Jeepers creepers.
Laura: He's up top.
Sam: If he's up top, I would have been up there with him, too.
Liam: 26.
Sam: I'm a crow. Circling around, watching him from above.
Liam: I'm invisible.
Sam: Well, I'm watching the area.
Matt: All right. What did you roll? 26? Yeah. You see within the north side of the throne, there are two orbs embedded in the ice, about a foot beneath the surface. Previously you saw more.
Liam: In the past, in other locations, you mean?
Matt: No, meaning when you guys first came to this when he wasn't there, you saw three stones. You now see two. But half of the throne has collapsed as well.
Liam: And how far down are they under the ice?
Matt: About a foot, a foot and a half from the surface.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I'm going to go find my sister.
Laura: (groans) It's--
Liam: Hey! I'm invisible! Here I am.
Laura: Hi.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Did you see it? It collapsed.
Liam: Yes, I saw it. I dodged out of the way.
Laura: Good.
Liam: I'm right here.
Laura: I know! I'm looking at you.
Liam: Yes, but I'm invisible.
Laura: I'm looking in your direction.
Liam: Boop!
Laura: Ugh, goddamn it.
Liam: Remember those little round seeing stones?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: There's a couple under the ice over there. Now, I was invisible so I don't--
Laura: You saw them under the ice?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You saw a couple under the ice?
Liam: A couple under the ice, a foot or two away.
Laura: Where were the other ones?
Liam: I didn't see any other ones.
Laura: Were they there before it collapsed?
Liam: I don't know. I was standing right beneath the throne when the throne collapsed. Then I found them.
Laura: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Liam: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Matt: One of them was, yeah.
Liam: One of them was, yeah.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Fuck!
Travis: Fuck!
Liam: Fucking--
Sam: (caws)
Marisha: Hold on, did we maybe get-- is Thordak going to-- we should go.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Percy, want to leave a mark anymore?
Laura: We should tell Tooma that--
Taliesin: We left one.
Laura: I go find Tooma.
Matt: The handful of dragonborn that were there, after the collapse, were walking back to the internal cavern area. As you head back, a large portion of Ravenites have all come out of their caves, and right now are in the process of scouring the ruins. Some of them are putting armaments away. Tooma is out there, currently conversing with a number of the other community leaders that are deciding what the next steps are.
Marisha: I approach Tooma. (clears throat) Tooma, it's time that we make our departure very soon.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: I want to thank you so much for everything that you provided and everything that your people have done.
Matt: "I wish to thank you for your sticking to your word."
Marisha: Of course. I would love to help and leave some parting gift in any way that I can.
Matt: "The riches from the hoard will provide enough for us. You need not worry."
Marisha: What was your land like before Vorugal got here? I know it wasn't as icy and as frigid.
Matt: "It was without snow. We are at the south side of Wildemount. I hope this fades with time, we are not bound for snow people."
Marisha: I can attempt to maybe revitalize your plant life as much as I can before I leave.
Matt: "You can do this?"
Marisha: I can.
Matt: "By all means. We would appreciate it."
Marisha: You have a good, strong people and I want to see your recovery. Just like I hope the same with mine.
Matt: "Me too."
Marisha: Anything that I can do.
Laura: Tooma?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: You know the stones we talked about?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yeah, they got jostled.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: It looks like that ice wasn't super-strong, and it collapsed.
Taliesin: The ice was going to collapse eventually, anyway.
Matt: "What does this mean?"
Laura: Not sure exactly.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: But you should keep an eye on the sky. If you see something red, maybe hide. Just for a while. Thordak doesn't know what was here. But if he realizes Vorugal's been killed, he'll come looking. Potentially.
Matt: "But you're going to kill this Thordak, yes?"
Laura: Oh, yeah! With your help, I think. Just in case he comes before we get to him.
Matt: "You should get to him quickly, then."
Laura: Good plan.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: The whole time she's been talking, her braid has been going like a magical jump rope because I'm standing here doing this with it.
Laura: Not. The time.
Taliesin: If you find something--
Laura: (whispers) Fucking dick! Stop it!
Taliesin: If you find an ice weapon in that ship beneath the throne-- anything magical, some sort of ice power, we may need it. That may be useful.
Matt: "Keep in mind for it."
Marisha: I go up to the group. Percy, Vax, I need to take time with this, so are you all all right spending the rest of the day here while I help them?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. I ascend to the top of the ravine and I start meditating, and I cast Plant Growth.
Laura: We all need to go up there anyway because that's where the trees are that we're going to transport through, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We make our way to the top of the ravine as well.
Matt: What level is Plant Growth?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: 3rd-level. Gotcha.
Marisha: And I'm doing the eight-hour--
Laura: Eight hours!
Matt: Boy, guys!
Sam: Super boring day for us.
Marisha: Yep. Sorry.
Taliesin: God, I want to get in that ship!
Marisha: I start doing that and revitalizing their landscape as close to what it was before, giving their-- [no audio]
Matt: It affects all normal plants within a hundred-foot radius. So you have a very specific portion that you revitalize in the ravine.
Marisha: Okay. Well, I talked to Tooma and find out where she--
Matt: Actually, no, all plants in a half-mile radius are--
Marisha: That's what I thought, yeah. In the eight hour one that's like, crazy.
Matt: I should have kept reading. Okay, so yeah. You talk to her about it, and she tells you, "The ravine itself does not have the nutrients to support crops, but we had farmland right above the ravine."
Marisha: All right. Do you plan to still reside there?
Matt: "Once the snow melts, yes."
Marisha: I'll do what I can. And I go there.
Matt: Okay. You get there, and through the use of your elemental magics, you easily cast aside the snow. And from underneath, you can see where once there was a heavy amount of cropland that has all died off because of the recent freeze that came with Vorugal. You take the eight hours to concentrate and as you, do you enrich the land. You can watch as many of these dead seeds come to life with green once more. Suddenly, you see sprouting bits of delicious cabbages and other forms of produce begin to spring to life and grow nutrient rich. As this happens, you can see a few of the Ravenites who followed you to watch this are taken aback and excitedly rush down to tell the rest of the people. The rest of you are bored out of your mind for the next eight hours.
Travis: Kima and I are sparring.
Sam: Challenge Vax to a peeing in the snow contest.
Matt: He's had a lot of wine.
Liam: Oh yeah, that was last night.
Laura: So you're pretty hungover, you don't have a lot.
Sam: Distance and accuracy.
Liam: (sings a fanfare) I've brought one from your house.
Sam: It's gone.
Laura: It disappeared.
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: Yes, as you reach for it, there's nothing there.
Laura: That's amazing.
Matt: So you guys have fun sparring for a while, you beat the crap out of each other off and on for a few hours and you both feel good about it. When the eight hours have finished, you guys reconvene.
Liam: V-A-X. Your turn.
Marisha: Vax is shorter than Scanlan.
Travis: Cursive, baby.
Matt: I want both of you guys to make performance checks
Sam: Okay. Performance for peeing in the snow.
Laura: Oh, what what. He's got a really high modifier, though.
Liam: Oh, I'm sure he'll win.
Taliesin: No, you're going to win.
Sam: Not good.
Liam: No, even at his lowest it'll be higher I bet.
Sam: 18.
Liam: 21.
Matt: You want to add your d12?
Liam: Zorro.
Matt: You can add your own bardic inspiration.
Liam: Yeah, if he thinks of it.
Sam: It's a fair fight.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Sam: This is a fair fight.
Matt: It is close, but as much as your cursive writing was on point, it was impressive that Vax was capable of cursive drawing the X, stopping and then crossing the X.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: It stings when you stop.
Sam: That's impressive, but you know my wang is built for power, not accuracy.
Laura: As soon as the cube comes out  can I talk to you, do you mind stepping away?
Travis: With the cube out?
Sam: You talking to me?
Laura: No, not you.
Taliesin: Sure, yeah, I'm going to do nothing but stare at that bloody ship if I don't, so sure.
Laura: How are you, after dying?
Taliesin: I'm trying really hard not to think about it, actually. I don't know, honestly. There hasn't been a lot of time to process.
Laura: No, there hasn't. It's a lot in a few days.
Taliesin: I would say it would be nice to be going home, except I know what we're going home to. So there's going to be no relief.
Laura: No, not for a while, I don't think.
Taliesin: That creature hanging around.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, death was not pleasant.
Laura: No. I have to tell you something
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Do you know what Fenthras means?
Taliesin: I don't, actually.
Laura: It comes from the Elvish words, I'm surprised. Growth and protection.
Taliesin: I would've eventually looked it up. It's the sort of terribly boring thing I would do.
Laura: It's odd that Saundor had it for so long, since he was quite the opposite of that, don't you think?
Taliesin: I tend to think that many people tend to exalt the exact opposite of what they are.
Laura: Yes. I don't know, I think he focused for so long on the betrayal of his love, on all of the horrible things within himself that caused that, that he became the physical embodiment of it. And I think he was trying to do the same thing to me. Even though I refused him, I could feel those seeds being planted. Self-doubt and loathing echoing in my mind every night. Reliving every wrong that people have done to me and everything I have done.
Taliesin: I recently-- I will say, before death-- had a bit of an epiphany, and have been trying-- not always succeeding, but trying-- not to dwell on such things.
Laura: That's actually what I wanted to talk to you about. In the fight with Ripley.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Your last words to her were, "I forgive you."
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: It was such a surprise.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I pull out Fenthras and I show him what I've carved onto it, it's "sinaeth." Do you know that word?
Taliesin: How common is that word?
Matt: You know the word.
Taliesin: I would know the word.
Laura: It's forgive.
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: I carved this on Fenthras because that's the key, isn't it? It's the only way to really grow.
Taliesin: I think so. I'm trying. It's the only thing I've tried that's made any sense so far. And it felt very liberating, it felt good, it felt perfect. And it wasn't about her. It was just about me. Honestly, that was really the thing that I noticed, was I didn't say it to make her feel better, I didn't say it to give her any peace. I came to that feeling before running into her. I didn't know if it would be true when I saw her, but I feel like so much of my energy had been such a waste. And worse than a waste, it had been twisted in the wrong direction. And it's too late for a lot of things. There are things I cannot take back and things that I have done that will forever be terrible, but that's not the point, I suppose.
Laura: It isn't. Whoever that boy was that created those things, that suffered such horrors that he felt they were justified? You have to forgive him, too. Because everything you've suffered and endured and created in that time has made you into the person you are now. And you have a brilliant mind. And any darkness that might cloud your vision on occasion, the fact that you found it within yourself to forgive her means that it will never overtake you.
Taliesin: Thank you. I would like to think we're all better than we think we are. Except maybe your brother. I think he's just a mess.
Laura: He's terrible, isn't he? Just the worst.
Taliesin: Is he in here?
Laura: Maybe, he's probably hiding somewhere.
Taliesin: Shouldn't have given him that ring. Thank you. I know I have to forgive myself. I'm not quite there yet, but I can see a path. I like where we are and what we're doing. I think that we're the right people in the right place and the right time.
Laura: I agree. And this engraving is a reminder that every time I attack, it's not out of vengeance.
Taliesin: I would be horrified if you were taking yourself too seriously.
Laura: Never. Did you see the bear that I carved on the tree? It's quite lovely.
Taliesin: It was quite lovely. I don't know if the tree is quite as happy with it, but I was quite impressed.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: That's all.
Taliesin: What room are we in, out of curiosity?
Laura: There's no room, we're in the woods.
Taliesin: Oh, no room, we're in the woods. Yeah, all right. As I walk away, I walk up. I kiss her. So we'll talk later. And I walk away.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh shit!
Matt: And it's ten o'clock. We're going to go ahead and end today's session.
Taliesin: Bam, motherfuckers! Bam!
Travis: (singing) Go on and kiss the girl.
Laura: Oh man, oh man.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching! That episode had a lot of interesting moments.
Sam: We had an elephant fight. (laughter)
Matt: The spoils of war.
Travis: A whole bunch of new shit.
Liam: Look at our signatures in the snow, that's fucking beautiful!
Taliesin: There was pissing, there was kissing, there was everything!
Sam: Pissing and kissing.
Taliesin: Pissing and Kissing is the title.
Marisha: That's a good title.
Matt: That is not going to be the title.
Liam: I shit it.
Taliesin: You're welcome, Internet.
Matt: Well then. We'll get ourselves to rest for the evening. You guys do the same, thank you for hanging in there. Once again, amazing community, we love you guys so much, all the support you have. Make sure to dig into all the awesome charities that we support, and you guys support as well. We're continuously getting messages from them, blown away by the generosity of the Critter and Team Hooman community, so thank you guys so much for your support on those.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze.
All: Thanks, Backblaze!
Travis: That amazing commercial. They're always so good.
Matt: I guess until next week, guys. Is it Thursday yet? See you then.
Travis: Oh shit, man!

[END OF EPISODE]