The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hey, everyone. Sorry about that little issue there. But thank you for your patience. I appreciate that. Going back over what had transpired previously. So the party was hired to go into Kraghammer seeking Lady Kima of Vord, who is a renowned folk hero, a halfling paladin of much renown, following Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon of justice and good, who went on a vision quest, apparently seeing some sort of evil brewing beneath Kraghammer, and went on her own to seek it and destroy it. Hasn't been seen for many weeks-- months, even -- since. And so the party has then gone into Kraghammer to attempt to locate her. After some conversing, some brawling, some interesting circumstances, they found information that she disappeared into the Mithril mines just underneath the lower circle of Kraghammer. They've since battled a few creatures, apparently these strange monstrosities are coming out of the mines recently. And they've had dwarven miners being taken and disappearing. They charged into the mines, found one of the series of tunnels that had broken into the mines from some other source, encountered a few umber hulks, were ambushed by some duergar, which are subterranean, dark, ashen grey--
Travis: Dickholes.
Matt: -- messed-up dwarves and an intellect devourer, which proceeded to blast Grog, reduce his intelligence to zero, and leave him catatonic and brain-dead.
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: And that's where we left off. But we'll pick up that in a second. Let's go ahead and continue our introductions. We had Taliesin, now we have Marisha--
Marisha: Yes! Hello, I am Marisha Ray, and I am Keyleth of the Air Ashari tribe. And I am the Circle of the Moon druid. Level nine.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: Orion?
Orion: Hi! I am Orion Acaba. And I play Tiberius Stormwind, the dragonborn sorcerer. Level nine. Super badass.
Travis: Scaly.
Sam: Oh hi, I am Sam Riegel. I play Scanlan Shorthalt, the level nine bard gnome, who is the handsomest and most charming of the group. (all laugh)
Travis: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: Yeah. Esquire.
Laura: The third.
Matt: Yes, the third.
Laura: Hi! Oh, my brother is extra, extra stealth right now.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: But I play Vex'ahlia, who is a half-elf ranger, and I have an amazing--
Sam: Ranger!
Laura: -- companion bear named Trinket, who is basically the coolest ever. And he's good at everything he does. I'm okay. But he's excellent.
Matt: He's really, really good. Yeah.
Travis: I'm Grog Strongjaw. I'm a goliath barbarian, level nine.
Laura: Oh, I didn't say that. Level nine.
Travis: I have an intelligence of six normally, but now it's negative two.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: And my brain is made of applesauce.
Laura: Poor Grog!
Matt: Liam, who is not here yet, but will be here shortly but--
Travis: He's peeing.
Matt: He is peeing, and what's--
Orion: Oh my god.
Travis: On a tree.
Matt: And when he returns we'll get to his introduction as well.
Travis: Stealthily.
Matt: And Ashley Johnson, who has missed the last couple of games because she's been filming, when she returns will be playing Pike.
Laura: Hey!
Taliesin: Hey!
Matt: Who is a cleric. Our gnome cleric. Liam's arrived! Huzzah!
Laura: We're just introducing ourselves, that's all.
Matt: Exactly! It's okay, we've had technical difficulties, so.
Orion: Oh, hey, he made the introductions, folks.
Laura: Oh, hi, Mark, welcome to the game.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: Before we start too, just a couple quick announcements. A couple cool games that have come out recently that some of us have been involved with. Today was the launch of Pillars of Eternity, a completely awesome kind of successor to Baldur's Gate. Both me and Liam are part of that as well. Those who are playing through, I voice Aloth and Adair. Liam, if you remember any characters you voiced in it.
Liam: The guy.
Matt: The guy.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: He voices the guy. We're scattered throughout the game so just-- If you can't get enough of us here, you'll be really hating our voices by playing through that. And then also, Orion--
Orion: Oh, yeah. On a more radder note, Final Fantasy Type-0-- you should play-- is out also. I play Nine. In that.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: And Matthew Mercer plays Trey in it as well.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I thought seven ate nine.
Laura: We're all pimping our shizz.
Orion: Seven does maybe eat nine. Who knows?
Matt: Oh.
Liam: I'm a dad.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm a dad.
Orion: Who knows, but it's definitely a different take on any Final Fantasy you've ever played. And as a fan, I'm excited, so check it out, too.
Matt: Yeah, it's legit awesome. So a lot of cool, exciting things.
Liam: Also, this one's in Tales from the Borderlands being awesome.
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Episode two just came out.
Matt: That's right! Congrats!
Laura: Yes.
Sam: And I'll be playing at the Laugh Barn in St. Louis. (all laugh)
Orion: Every Tuesday.
Sam: Three. Three nights. Three nights sold out.
Orion: Three nights.
Sam: Opening for Carrot Top.
Orion: Check it out.
Matt: All right. Well, guys, let's go get down to brass tacks. So, last we left off, in a subterranean cavern with a deep underground river flowing through it. Pitch darkness. You managed to survive a conflict with two umber hulks, thanks to Polymorph and some good tactics. However, Grog then charged headlong towards a light source-- turned out to be a campfire across the way-- where he walked into an ambush by a few duergar which began shooting him with crossbow bolts. And an intellect devourer made him brain-dead. You guys--
Laura: He's got nobody to blame but himself.
Matt: Kind of, that's okay. Grog owns it-- as you can see by his glasses. So. (all laugh)
Marisha: I love those.
Matt: So. We're beginning now as Grog has collapsed, face down on the ground, drooling.
Liam: The future's so bright.
Matt: The last of the duergar have been blown off the cliff or destroyed. You all rush in, and find Grog not moving, not responding, not anything.
Travis: Somebody pretty give me CPR.
Laura: Don't talk.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Grog! Grog, can you hear us?
Laura: I rush down--
Sam: Can you feel us near you?
Laura: -- and slap him on the face a few times.
Matt: You slap him.
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: You slap him.
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: You slap him. No response.
Sam: Someone, quick! Draw a dick on his face!
Marisha: I also bend down and slap him a few times. (all laugh)
Marisha: And then I say, I knew it wouldn't work. I just-- Dammit, Grog!
Taliesin: I'm going to actually try a crude medical examination to see if I can--
Sam: Ooh, investigation check?
Travis: So here's your numbers.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And yes! This is nice. 19.
Matt: A 19 on the medicine?
Taliesin: On the medicine, yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: You leave my prostate alone. (all laugh)
Taliesin: After I palpate the region.
Matt: A thorough goliath cavity search later--
Marisha: Ohh.
Matt: You find some stray gold pieces.
Liam: There's where that pony went!
Taliesin: That's a very deep belly button you have there, my god!
Matt: The goliath physicality's a little difficult.
Liam: Found the troll dick!
Laura: Ohh.
Matt: Looking over him, and there's very little physical damage to him. He shrugs it off pretty easily. There's no notable sign or anything other than the fact that his eyes aren't reacting to anything. It looks like he is catatonic.
Taliesin: No bleeding from the ear? No bleeding from the nose?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: I'm going to go take a look at the remnants of the brain creature.
Matt: All right. What bits of the currently thawing chunks of it-- blasted apart by Tiberius' Glacial Blast-- It appears to be tougher than normal, but very similar to gray matter in appearance and texture. Other than these strange, kind of reddish-brown bestial legs that were once attached to its mid-section are now blown apart and cast to the ground. The whole texture seems very slimy and rubbery.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: And it's much larger than any natural brain should be. It's probably-- When it was all in one piece, it would have been roughly about the size of a small dog.
Laura: Do any of us know anything about magic that could heal him? Like any spells.
Matt: Do you?
Laura: I mean--
Marisha: I think I might--
Orion: It's clear that when that brain thing hit Grog with his zapper thing, that it rendered him unconscious. I would assume that it is a magical creature, just based on the attack alone.
Laura: Thank you, Tiberius.
Marisha: Anything we should know?
Sam: Excellent assessment, Tiberius.
Laura: Thank you.
Orion: Quite right.
Taliesin: He got zapped and now he's unconscious.
Sam: A shorter way of saying the same thing.
Laura: Maybe we should try-- Does anybody have any healing? I know Pike isn't here, but--
Marisha: I--
Orion: You have something, don't you?
Marisha: I think I have a spell. That might be able to help. I don't know it right now though. We'd have to take a break. I'd have to pull out my books and relearn it. It takes some time.
Liam: How much time do you need?
Marisha: Need to sleep on it.
Laura: How-- Can we--
Travis: As they talk, Grog slowly flatulates. (all laugh)
Travis: (fart sound)
Sam: It happens, it's natural.
Matt: It's terrible.
Laura: Oh! It's another-- What is it? An ass cloud? Is that what it was?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Poo. Poo cloud.
Laura: Lovely.
Liam: Everybody make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Yeah, a constitution saving--
Orion: How many entrances-- How many ways or edges where we are? Because it's like at the center, anyway--
Matt: Yeah, you're currently basically on the precipice of a large cavern that has multiple layers as the river kind of cascades off into multiple waterfalls. As far as you can see-- which isn't far good because there's no other light source beyond you guys-- the cavern just continues indefinitely for a good 60 feet and then just vanishes into darkness.
Laura: Well, maybe we should sleep. Try to camp for the time--
Sam: Well, we'll need to form a perimeter and someone will have to stand guard--
Matt: Well, currently you're holding a barely alive duergar hostage.
Laura: (gasps) Oh! Right! I forgot about that!
Sam: Oh, we gotta interrogate.
Laura: We gotta interrogate him! Her.
Laura: It.
Sam: It.
Matt: It's a female.
Liam: Female.
Laura: And I can speak its language.
Matt: You do.
Liam: Hers.
Matt: You speak Undercommon.
Laura: Hers.
Matt: First thing you note, too  it is female, and it takes a moment to register that because she is also bald on top.
Liam: It. Terrible.
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: Nasty, pale, kind of sunken face. Eyes are completely clouded over and white, no pupils. Teeth are kind of yellow and gnarled and sharp.
Sam: How close to death's door is she?
Liam: What's this?
Laura: What?
Liam: Thank you, sir.
Marisha: Oh my gosh.
Laura: Oh, thank you, wonderful people!
Crew: There's more coming, this is the vegan pizza.
Orion: Whoa!
Laura: What?
Orion: Where's it coming?
Laura: Thank you, chat room!
Travis: Thank you, chat room.
Orion: Chat room!
Sam: Chat room? Chat room bought us a pizza?
Marisha: Thanks, guys!
Matt: You guys are awesome! Thank you so much!
Liam: You knew I liked jalapenos.
Laura: Vegan pizza? Are you kidding me?
Marisha: And donuts!
Matt: Oh yeah.
Taliesin: Pizza made it.
Laura: Look at those chocolate cakes! Oh.
Orion: (laughs) Oh.
Sam: All right, all right. This creature is very injured. I think we need to heal her just enough--
Laura: Heal her?
Sam: Just enough.
Liam: Not so fast, not so fast.
Laura: We'll heal her after she talks.
Liam: Is she unconscious?
Sam: Why don't you make that bargain then--
Liam: I've got dagger to her throat and I'm hold-- She's bald?
Matt: Bald, yes.
Liam: All right, so I've got an arm around the top of her forehead in--
Matt: (hisses)
Laura: Don't kill her. I need her.
Liam: She's not unconscious, right?
Matt: No.
Laura: I got up--
Matt: She's got a huge shoulder wound.
Liam: All right, I call my sister over. I'll hold her, you talk.
Laura: What did you do to our friend?
Matt: "I didn't do anything. That was the brain's work." (chuckles)
Laura: What did the brain work do to our friend?
Marisha: Brain twerk?
Matt: "Took care of your friend. He's gone now. He's all dead inside. Kaputski."
Laura: What are you here for?
Matt: "Just creating a mess."
Laura: What should I fucking ask her? I say that in our language, not-- (all laugh)
Laura: What should I ask?
Taliesin: How do we fix it?
Laura: How do we-- (lowers voice) How do we fix it?
Taliesin: There you go.
Matt: "Bury your dead weight."
Liam: I press the blade a little tighter.
Matt: "Ugh! Gah!"
Liam: Dig in. Maybe one hit point worth of--
Laura: No, no! She's only got one hit point left.
Liam: She's only got one?
Matt: She's got one hit point.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Don't do that! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Is she bleeding?
Matt: Profusely. From the shoulder.
Taliesin: Oh! In that case, I'm going to cauterize the wounds. There's more than one way to make someone talk!
Laura: Ugh.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot my gun off-- get it nice and hot right at the tip and start cauterizing the wounds.
Matt: Okay so (gunshot). And the flash goes off. The sound of blast echoes throughout the entirety of the cavern. You can hear (echoing gunshot) cascade off.
Marisha: A little warning next time!
Matt: He takes the barrel, slams it into the shoulder and the sizzling sound as she reaches back in pain. Make an intimidation check.
Taliesin: I'm intimidated.
Laura: What should we ask her?
Taliesin: Aha ha! 21!
Matt: 21? All right. She's now, like, breathing heavy.
Orion: I'm using my Mage Hand to poke her in the face.
Matt: She's trying to move her face out of the way but she can't seem to avoid the mystical arcane finger pokes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Look, we haven't got all day. How do we fix it--
Laura: Who do you work for?
Taliesin: And who do you work for?
Matt: "You fell, surface-slime. You've already fallen, and the Master's gathered the sheep. You shall all be harvested for K'varn!"
Orion: Ah, is he a farmer?
Sam: You can't understand her. Only she can.
Laura: You can't understand!
Orion: Oh.
Laura: Who is K'varn? Does anybody know?
Sam: No, is that a thing? Is that a person?
Laura: I don't know. I don't know. I've got--
Taliesin: Can I roll history on that or is that--?
Laura: Who is K'varn?
Orion: The Carvers!
Matt: You can roll history, if you like.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Argh, who is K'varn?
Matt: "K'varn is the one that rules these caverns. The one who guides us to take the surface back!"
Laura: To take the surface back?
Taliesin: A 14 in history wouldn't do anything?
Matt: No.
Laura: Is K'varn the one making creepy zombie monsters?
Matt: "K'varn likes to tinker with the fleshlings, yes."
Laura: Where is K'varn located? Point the direction.
Matt: Looks over her shoulder back towards the darker part of the cavern where you guys haven't traversed. "Deep. Deep."
Sam: What is K'varn?
Laura: What. Is. K'varn?
Matt: "You'll see."
Laura: No, you'll tell me now.
Travis: Good question.
Laura: I slap her across the face.
Matt: Argh!
Laura: Lightly! Not enough to make her lose a hit point.
Orion: I poke her more! (all laugh)
Marisha: It's like a Three Stooges act.
Matt: "My life is already forfeit."
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: "I'm just relishing your faces, for they will be gnarled and twisted soon enough!"
Laura: Break her legs. Leave her here.
Matt: You break her--
Laura: Heal her. Maybe we should heal her--
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: And let her lay there. Is that evil? That's pretty evil.
Travis: What's your alignment? I mean--
Laura: My alignment. I'm good.
Taliesin: She did just help--
Marisha: Wait! Ask her if she's seen Nostoc. Or if they've seen--
Laura: Oh yes!
Marisha: Or, yeah, if they've seen our paladin friend. Our little--
Taliesin: Lady Kima.
Marisha: Lady Kima!
Laura: Before we end your life, tell us, have you seen a small halfling?
Matt: You see a moment of recognition in the female duergar's face, and it's-- "There was a halfling, aye. She was foolish enough to come down here alone. She's dead now."
Sam: (gasps)
Matt: "We've taken her life and it was delicious."
Liam: I drag her to her feet. Walk her over to the edge of the cliff where the water is, and hold her. Knife still at her neck. Tell this one: Now's her last chance to give us anything useful to lead to her boss, I guess.
Laura: All right. It's your last chance. Give us something useful? And we'll end this painlessly. Don't, and we'll make you suffer.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Laura: All right. Ooh, my new dice! Ooh! C'mon, baby!
Liam: I'm going to assist her by taking my other dagger and letting it drip poison down the blade.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: Advantage? Advantage?
Laura: Intimidation of 14?
Liam: Assist?
Matt: Go ahead and roll dice.
Liam: Me?
Matt: You, yes.
Laura: (squeaky voice) To assist me?
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19. Okay, go ahead and roll again.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Drip drip drip drip drip.
Matt: I'm giving you the advantage on the roll because he has a blade to her now.
Laura: Oh, okay. Okay, still 14.
Matt: Still 14.
Laura: I should've rolled my other one. To see. Just to see.
Matt: She laughs and says "Your friend's dead! All is lost! You came for nothing!"
Sam: Can I tell if she's lying? Is it--
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: Insight check? Oop. No. (laughs)
Laura: Okay, can I see if she's lying?
Matt: You can also make an insight check as well.
Laura: All right, cool.
Liam: I can't understand what the-- What the hell's she saying?
Laura: Okay, that's way better! 24!
Matt: 24. She is definitively lying through her teeth.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Just to hurt you.
Laura: Yes! We know you're lying! (all laugh)
Matt: "What?"
Laura: Yes! I don't know what else to ask her, guys. I don't know what else to ask her.
Travis: What are goblins afraid of?
Matt: She looks at you for a second, goes, "Regardless, we have her. She's down below. And, soon enough, you'll see. You'll see what shall become of this halfling."
Laura: We'll rescue her! And we're going to kill your god! (all laugh)
Liam: I did it, I did it.
Matt: An ichor spray comes across.
Sam: Ugh!
Laura: That was the worst thing.
Taliesin: The most awkward throat-slitting I've ever heard of.
Sam: That was very fast.
Marisha: We're going to kill your god. Wait.
Taliesin: Wait.
Marisha: Fuck it, just go with it! (all laugh)
Marisha: Commit!
Matt: As the body goes limp in your hands, you kinda let it tumble over the waterfall.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Good times. Good times, guys.
Matt: Um, now you guys are standing over Grog in this kind of makeshift--
Liam: It's a little sticky, slimy?
Matt: -- camp site. The embers of the fire kinda going low.
Liam: I'm starved.
Taliesin: Well, she's researching--
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Should we keep-- I'm going to keep watch.
Liam: Absolutely.
Laura: With Trinket.
Sam: We need to--
Marisha: Do we have any idea what time it is?
Matt: At this point? It's at some point in the evening.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Let's rest. Let's set up a perimeter and take turns standing guard. I'm going to go to the next cavern over to where we killed those umber hulks?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Take one of the umber hulk heads and put it on a stick.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Right out front of where we're-- Of where we're camping as sort of a warning to others.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I want to check out--
Laura: How about this?
Orion: How many cavern entrances are there from where we're camping?
Matt: From where you are? (creepy music sound effect)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: There are where you came in through--
Orion: Right.
Matt: Strange things afoot echo in the silence. There's the entrance you came in. Across the way, there appears to be another cavern that you can kinda see the entrance to. Those are the only proper openings into this giant chamber. Otherwise there's just the giant, over-arching cave that you guys are just getting into. Just pushing through, so--
Marisha: I'm gonna take the first watch--
Laura: Oh, you are! Okay.
Marisha: I still have a lot of reading to do, and I can go ahead-- I'm gonna go ahead and cast-- Make sure everybody's in! Everybody's in.
Laura: Wait, wait! I want to check the bodies of the other guys before the--
Sam: What are you casting? What are you about to cast?
Matt: Duergar?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Anti-Life Shell?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigative check.
Marisha: A shell that keeps in anything from coming in.
Sam: Oh. Great. Well, before you do that, hold on.
Laura: A 20?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you pull roughly 125 gold pieces between the three corpses of the duergar. Well, two corpses because one of them is gone. It washed downstream.
Laura: Right.
Liam: She had all the good things.
Laura: She had a lot of good stuff on her.
Matt: Yeah. You do, however, find on one of them a gnarled implement of some kind, whether it be scavenged or not. It's of a strange, like almost bleached bone ivory that comes to a point at one end.
Orion: Ooh.
Sam: Let's look at it. (laughs)
Matt: It is pretty.
Laura: Ooh, let me see, let me see.
Orion: An artifact we can bring back to--
Sam: Can I take a look at it and--
Liam: Give it to Tiberius. He'll try anything.
Marisha: (laughs) He'll try anything.
Sam: History or-- or arcane?
Orion: I like trying things.
Matt: Go ahead and roll arcana.
Sam: Arcana. No! (laughs)
Marisha: (laughs) Oh, Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan, it is a very pretty something.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24. Want to hand it over to him?
Orion: Yes, I--
Sam: Ooh!
Laura: What is it?
Sam: Nothing.
Orion: Wonderful, this is. Wonderful. Magic Missiles, of course.
Marisha: (laughs)
Sam: It sends out magic missiles!
Laura: What!
Orion: This one has seven charges. While holding it, you, you can use an action to expend one or more of its charges to cast the Magic Missile spell from it. For one charge, you cast the first-level version of the spell. You can increase the spell slot by one for each level by each additional charge you expend. The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll a d20. On a one, the wand crumples into ashes and then--
Liam: This all seems very technical.
Laura: Yes, that's awesome--
Sam: Basically it shoots out six missiles and then it--
Laura: Awesome!
Travis: Isn't that a famous, like--
Marisha: It goes pew pew!
Laura: I'm glad we killed them before they used that on us.
Liam: Yes, it's pretty standard.
Taliesin: It's a pew pew stick.
Liam: Pretty standard.
Marisha: It's a pew pew stick!
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Cool!
Orion: Would anybody like to tinker? I mean, I learned this when I was 12. (all laugh)
Laura: No, you're unconscious.
Orion: Oh, I'll hold onto it--
Laura: Well, yeah. Yeah.
Liam: I think Grog may have soiled himself a little. We should probably get Keyleth on the books.
Laura: Take a nap so that, maybe--
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Make sure everyone's in and close by, and get done with everything.
Laura: Okay, she's gonna--
Liam: Keyleth, you need to study, so we'll take first watch.
Marisha: I'm gonna take you guys--
Laura: Oh, that's true, you should study while we watch.
Liam: You can't study and watch.
Marisha: I'm gonna cast Anti-Life Shell. That way everyone at least gets one good hour of sleep.
Laura: Oh, good! I like it!
Liam: All right, let's take a nap.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You go ahead and you eventually find one of the corpses of the umber hulk. It takes you a good 25 minutes to eventually carve through its relatively thick hide, chitinous exterior. You put the head on a makeshift spike, and it is now there on display.
Sam: Yes, as a warning to others.
Matt: You feel accomplished.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: You head back. Keyleth--
Taliesin: Terrible taxidermy attempt.
Matt: -- as you are taking first watch, you notice that the campsite that the duergar were using, where you guys are currently resting for the evening, it's been there for a while and it looks like the duergar have repurposed it. The fire-- the stones that were set up around the actual fire pit have probably been there for quite some time, and were set up very uniformly and very well placed. Right above you, on one of the stone walls, you see what appears to be a strange, very well carved symbol. Hard to recognize it. Go ahead and make a religion check.
Laura: Oh, man.
Marisha: Ugh, wish Pike were here.
Liam: Yes, we wish Pike was here.
Laura: Pike's missing everything! (sobs)
Taliesin: Very much.
Orion: Yes. We miss you!
Marisha: Eight?
Liam: Come back, little gnome!
Matt: It's just a really interesting carving on the wall just right above where you guys are currently residing--
Taliesin: Ampersand.
Marisha: So pretty!
Matt: Not quite catching your attention, but it seems to have some significance. And it's fresh, it's not like an ancient symbol that's been there, it maybe could have been there for more than a week or two.
Marisha: I go ahead and I take a piece of paper from my spellbook, and I take a piece of charcoal, and I just scroll over top of it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: To get an imprint of it.
Matt: Okay, it's very big. It's like four feet by three feet.
Marisha: I take a few pieces of paper, and I kind of glue them together- (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: -- and then I get a really big one, and then I roll it up.
Matt: All right. All right, you guys begin to set up for the next watch. After the first hour--
Marisha: And I have my Anti-Life Shell up.
Matt: Yep, Anti-Life Shell eventually fades, first hour without any impact or issue.
Marisha: Who is taking the next watch?
Laura: Oh, we are.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. The next few hours go by without incident.
Laura: That's nice. Can I look around and see-- I mean, no! In our area! I'm not gonna wander off, but just to see if I see any kind of anything interesting. I mean, if this is a really old area that I've noticed, it's old, can I see anything cool and old around us?
Matt: Well, there's a lot of mineral deposits. This place in particular, it's definitely, because of the heavy river flow for a long time, a lot of the area near the river itself, very smooth stone. A lot of kind of accumulated deposits of various elements. You also catch the strange carved symbol right atop your guys' camp.
Laura: Okay. So I tap my brother and go, look at this. Do you know anything about religion?
Liam: (sighs) Well, let me see.
Laura: Let me see. (all laugh)
Liam: Well, I seem to know fuck-all about it. Ten.
Laura: Oh, me too! I know shit about it.
Matt: It's a very fancy symbol.
Laura: It's a really pretty symbol.
Matt: You guys finish your watch--
Liam: I really wish Pike was here.
Marisha: Just, the party is taking turns being like, so pretty!
Laura: I know!
Sam: Where was that symbol?
Laura: On a rock.
Marisha: It's above our--
Matt: It's on one of the large cave surfaces near where you guys are camping.
Laura: I don't see any cool sparkly things in the mineral deposits? None of that?
Matt: Nothing catches your attention--
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: --- at the moment, no, unfortunately.
Liam: All about the bling.
Laura: I am about the bling.
Marisha: How's it going over there, Grog?
Matt: You finish your watch without issue.
Marisha: It's good.
Matt: Next up watch, this is the last, third, and final watch you guys are now going through.
Orion: Oh, all right.
Sam: I'll come with Tiberius as well.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, we'll all go.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. The three of you guys keep watch. After they're napping. Occasionally you have to adjust Grog, 'cause you're not sure if he's still breathing.
Orion: I'll roll for the--
Travis: What?
Sam: Not sure if he's still breathing?
Orion: I'm gonna do an intelligence, right?
Matt: To make sure he's still--
Laura: What?
Marisha: Religion. Religion.
Matt: Religion.
Orion: 20.
Laura: Oh my god, what if you could die while we're sleeping?
Matt: Right now, you just rolled?
Orion: Well, 18 plus two.
Matt: Oh, okay.
Orion: What's that?
Matt: You are familiar with this symbol specifically because of your background. That is the symbol of Bahamut. It is the symbol of the Platinum Dragon.
Laura: Ooh!
Matt: And you ascertain it was probably--
Orion: Oh, it looks like this!
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Oh, interesting.
Matt: And it was probably used as part of some sort of a protection ritual.
Laura: What was the name of the bad guy that she said?
Matt: K'varn.
Orion: I tell everybody that. Well, that I'm with.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: Using the thing you wrote.
Laura: K'varn.
Matt: K'varn.
Laura: I'm gonna guess that's how you spell it.
Orion: It seems it's a protective symbol of sorts, but it's of Bahamut, which is a good thing.
Laura: K'vah? I thought it was K'varn.
Sam: It's a good thing?
Orion: Bahamut is the essentially nicer deity of the two between him and Tiamat, which is a total asshole, but--
Sam: Well that must be why Lady Kima came down here.
Orion: Right. So she must have camped here, put this symbol up for protection.
Matt: As you are having this discussion, you feel a slight rumble in the ground.
Travis: Fucked up now.
Marisha: Oh no.
Matt: Some of the rocks nearby, the loose pebbles, begin to vibrate and move around.
Orion: Oh dear.
Sam: Grog's probably farting again.
Orion: No, I don't think-- I think we should alert the others.
Sam: All right.
Laura: We're waking up, we're waking up. Don't worry, we are gonna heal you.
Orion: How far are we from everybody? We're just like--
Matt: You guys are all clustered in the small camp.
Orion: Oh.
Sam: Let's quietly wake them, and I will go peer into the darkness and see if I can see them.
Orion: Rumbling is never a good thing, Scanlan.
Laura: Something's rumbling? I wasn't paying attention.
Matt: Do you still have your light source up, Light, or you just, the campfire?
Orion: Just the campfire.
Matt: Yeah, you are-- outside of just, maybe 15, 20 feet, you see nothing. It's pitch black.
Taliesin: Let's wake everybody up, and then we'll get to work--
Laura: On healing Grog?
Taliesin: -- on Grog, and go see what that is.
Laura: I'm not awake yet.
Taliesin: Is all this going at the same time?
Sam: Is the rumbling continuous, or is it just one little rumble?
Matt: A few moments pass, the rumbling has subsided.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Orion: Oh, it stopped.
Sam: Oh, easy!
Laura: So we're awake.
Marisha: Okay, but let's--
Laura: Let's heal this guy. Can you heal him?
Marisha: Am I awake? Are we awake? Did you wake me up?
Laura: Are we awake?
Orion: I do Prestidigitation and wake everybody up--
Laura: (grunts) Awake.
Orion: -- with a little spritz of water in the face.
Matt: Okay, all wake up--
Orion: Everybody get up!
Sam: Like the flower, the flower trick?
Marisha: Why water? Why would you do that?
Orion: Yeah.
Marisha: Why couldn't you just touch me?
Taliesin: Magic bukkake.
Orion: Because it's--
Laura: Ah, that was a good nap!
Liam: Stupid lizard.
Marisha: Ugh.
Laura: I think Grog farted again.
Orion: I do it again, and clean everybody up.
Marisha: Stop!
Orion: Sorry. sorry! It's off. I--
Sam: Something terrible is brewing.
Laura: Keyleth-- no, what?
Sam: How is everyone feeling? Do we need to heal? Everyone?
Laura: We need to heal this guy.
Sam: No, what about us? How are we feeling?
Liam: Well, we all just slept, so we're fine.
Laura: We're fine! Heal this guy!
Marisha: I'm okay.
Sam: Are we okay?
Matt: You've all slept for the evening--
Orion: Oh, awesome.
Matt: --and from the points of your unused--
Laura: Grog, just wait a little bit longer.
Matt: -- healing dice, you're pretty much all at max health, so.
Laura: You'll be okay.
Marisha: Okay, do we wanna stay here? Do we wanna do this here?
Laura: Yeah! Do it here!
Taliesin: Do this here.
Orion: There was a rumble. Okay, we need to get Grog, the others, and--
Laura: How long will this take, Keyleth?
Marisha: Tiberius-- I don't know. But I want us to be as safe as we can. Tiberius, can you lift us up on your pillars, or like, encase us in, or something? Make us a room?
Orion: I was just about to do that!
Marisha: Make us a room?
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: Yes? Okay.
Orion: But everybody hates when I do that.
Sam: Are you gonna cast a spell now?
Marisha: We're gonna do this.
Sam: Okay, I'd like to give her a little inspirational song.
Marisha: Yes, if you could.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Scanlan, give me some nice meditation, some--
Sam: Okay, some, like, yoga music?
Marisha: Some, like, pure moods. Yes! Yes.
Laura: Trinket gives her a massage beforehand to loosen her up.
Marisha: I go ahead--
Sam: (sings) You know you got to cure Grog.
Marisha: I go ahead and light some incense.
Orion: Wonderful tune.
Marisha: Scanlan. Scanlan, do you still have that deity, that little idol of Pike?
Sam: I do have my idol of Pike, yes!
Marisha: Can we just have that out just so I have her energy.
Sam: Oh, of course!
Marisha: Just feel like I need her.
Sam: I take out the idol of Pike that I keep always close to my loins, and I hold it tightly, and warmly--
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: -- and caress it a little.
Orion: Give it to her.
Matt: It is momentarily distracting, but eventually you phase it out. All right, so as you guys-- (all laugh)
Orion: Did you want my hand or the statue?
Matt: You take a bit of earth from a pouch that you keep of your--
Orion: Statue.
Matt: -- home tribe where you grew up. You scattered some of it around Grog, who is now laid on his back, whose arms and legs, all equally stretched out.
Travis: Naked.
Matt: No. You're still clothed. (all laugh)
Marisha: Let's not go there. No need to be naked.
Laura: There's coffee next to you.
Matt: As this is the first time you've attempted a magic of this type, you close your eyes and take in the earth's essence. As a druid, being connected to nature is where you draw your divine energy. You kind of--
Marisha: I'm so nervous.
Matt: -- almost take from the vibration of the nearby caverns that you felt, and come in tune with the way the earth, the planet itself shifts and moves, you--
Liam: You got this, Keyleth! You got this!
Laura: You can do this Keyleth! You can do this!
Marisha: I'm literally shaking.
Matt: You use that to give constitutional strength to the physical form of Grog in hopes of restoring him.
Marisha: Okay, I just kind of lay my hands on his forehead.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Sam: You know, I know Grog very well, and he might enjoy, or be inspired by, a kiss of a female. I'm just saying, just the gentle kiss of a female lips on his might rouse him.
Orion: Ooh, Vex!
Sam: I've seen it many times.
Orion: You should plant one on him.
Sam: Vex? Get in there! Get in there! (all laugh)
Matt: As Vex awkwardly fumbles over the--
Laura: I think it helped.
Matt: -- the overtly sized goliath-
Laura: Stop it.
Travis: Not all dead.
Matt: Go ahead and--
Liam: Just upstairs.
Marisha: Do I get an inspiration die from him or anything?
Matt: You do, yes.
Marisha: Okay. What am I rolling? What do I do?
Matt: Roll a d20, add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Do I get to assist since I gave him a kiss?
Matt: No assistance on this. This only affects a d20 roll.
Sam: d20.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: It's a wisdom modifier.
Sam: Let's do this, man.
Liam: Save Grog!
Laura: Save Grog. Save Grog!
Sam: For the chat room.
Marisha: Gah. Nauseous. No.
Matt: What'd you roll? What'd you roll?
Laura: No!
Marisha: Where's the inspiration die? Where's the inspiration die?
Orion: Didn't you get advantage on that?
Marisha: It's a d8, right?
Matt: It's a d8.
Marisha: Do I get advantage on this, since I'm taking time?
Laura: Yes!
Matt: As is, yes, yeah, you have advantage on the roll, yeah!
Marisha: I do have advantage on this?
Laura: Come on, Keyleth! Keyleth, Keyleth, Keyleth!
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, that's much better!
Laura: What? What was it?
Marisha: I'm still gonna do the inspiration dice, just in casies. Okay, that's good.
Taliesin: That's good.
Marisha: Okay, so.
Matt: What's the total?
Marisha: 17 plus 12.
Matt: Plus 12?
Marisha: Plus six, plus six with my wisdom modifier. My heart is pounding. So that's 30? No, 29.
Matt: 29, that should be enough.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: So, (laughs), in this circumstance, you complete the ritual. There's a brief glow of all the--
Marisha: Ah, I'm still shaking.
Matt: The dirt that you'd scattered around Grog, and you can see his form kind of take in a deeper breath. His chest expands, and as it does, his eyes, which currently stare off in space, begin to clarify and crystallize and his brow quivers for a second, and you see a little bit of life return to his face.
Travis: Ugh. Kittens. Ugh. Nachos. Ugh.
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: Grog?
Matt: Grog, your sight focuses as the party is gathered around you, looking down upon your currently stretched out physical form in a cavern. You're very confused.
Liam: Welcome back, big guy.
Travis: I thought I was in algebra class again for a second there. (all laugh)
Marisha: Grog!
Sam: You're alive!
Orion: Why are you all cheering?
Laura: Good job, Keyleth!
Orion: Why did you run out and destroy nothing? Look what you did. You were giving me crap about the lightning. Don't ever do that again.
Travis: Sorry, who woke me up from my sleep? (electronic beep)
Laura: Oh, Siri did, apparently.
Orion: It was a group effort really, but Keyleth did an amazing job.
Travis: Keyleth? I run over and I give Keyleth a big ol' bear hug, squeezing maybe a bit too tight.
Marisha: Ow.
Laura: I think he shit himself while he was unconscious, so that's gotta smell really wonderful.
Travis: I smell better than I ever have before.
Marisha: Just glad you're all right, Grog. Really glad you're awake.
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding and I get the cask of ale and my goblet, and I pour a little goblet of ale and I give it to Keyleth.
Marisha: To Grog!
All: To Grog!
Travis: To me! (all laugh)
Matt: As a note too, just so you guys are aware, 20 is the stat cap for normal physical stats, however magical items can then bump that up higher. Just answering a chat room question.
Laura: Right.
Sam: I don't even know what that means. Question or the answer.
Matt: That's okay. Don't worry about it.
Sam: Hey. How is he doing, how is he feeling?
Travis: I'm so glad you had advantage on that.
Sam: Grog, how are you feeling?
Orion: Yes!
Sam: How is he feeling?
Travis: My intelligence is-- What is it now?
Matt: It's back to normal.
Marisha: At like the gym and you need some alcohol, after that.
Travis: It's six, so--
Sam: Right where it should be.
Travis: I feel right as rain. What are we killing? (all laugh)
Liam: Brains, apparently.
Sam: How many fingers is this?
Travis: Three.
Sam: Perfect.
Marisha: Good, he's back, you guys. He's back.
Travis: Blue, oh no, hold on.
Marisha: Good.
Travis: Square!
Orion: I saunter over to Keyleth. That was mighty impressive.
Marisha: Oh, thank you.
Orion: That was amazing.
Marisha: I had Pike in mind. I channeled her energy.
Sam: It's true, it was quite astounding. I have a little chub on.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: (laughs) So do I, for some reason.
Laura: You're welcome.
Marisha: Yeah well, that's a bit of a side effect.
Travis: It must be the morning.
Marisha: That's part of the Greater Restoration, a few things get restored.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: God bless you.
Liam: Do you remember anything about a kiss in your dreams while you were asleep?
Travis: Well, my cheeks are sort of sore for some reason, as if they've been slapped repeatedly by a bunch of twats, and then I've got this one little wet mark right here where I got a kiss and it smells like half-elvish spit.
Liam: Oh, that was Trinket. Trinket helped with the spell. Gave you a kiss and helped wake you up.
Laura: Oh, why didn't I have Trinket--
Taliesin: And several slaps.
Matt: At which point you look over and Trinket is there off to the side, notably excited that you're moving again. (bear noises)
Laura: Aw.
Matt: Comes over and nuzzles up against you for a moment.
Travis: Oh Trinket, you big ol' furball. Trinket noogie.
Laura: (laughs)
Travis: Can we go kill something now?
Laura: Well shit, I guess we should. I think we are all healed up.
Matt: You guys all healed overnight.
Laura: Did he heal while he was unconscious?
Matt: You did not get an opportunity to use any of your stuff, so you're currently still at the hit points you were, plus you naturally healed just from the evening's rest.
Travis: Oh, I did?
Matt: Four hit points.
Sam: Let's do some Grog healing. You don't have your healing dice, right?
Travis: I do.
Sam: I'm gonna sing a song of rest for you, so that'll add 1d6 to your healing rolls.
Travis: Yes! 11 plus-- All right. 12. Great.
Laura: How many d12s do you get to roll? You can roll four of them if you need to.
Travis: (counts)
Matt: You can roll up to nine.
Laura: You can roll up to nine dice.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: Whatever your level is, that's how many dice you can use.
Travis: Nipple tassels! That's way better. (all laugh)
Matt: But that's for the day. Once you've used those nine hit dice to heal yourself naturally, you are maxed out outside of magical healing or potions.
Travis: I've used two.
Sam: Shall we tarry on, everyone?
Liam: Yes, I have a feeling these tunnels are going to suck majorly, but we have nowhere to go but down, so--
Laura: So we know which tunnel she pointed towards?
Matt: She pointed towards the rest of the cavern, which you have just stepped into.
Laura: Can I use tracking and see if I can not only see where the majority of tracks lead to, but see if I can spot the halfling Kima's tracks.
Matt: Lady Kima. Go ahead and make a survival check.
Laura: Survival?
Matt: Which you have advantage on simply for tracking depending on what you're tracking.
Laura: I do!
Matt: What are your favored enemies?
Laura: My favored enemies are dragons and demons.
Matt: So you would not have advantage on this.
Laura: Ah, screw that
Matt: That's okay. What did you roll?
Laura: Oh, but I do. Wait. My favored terrain is the Underdark.
Matt: Okay. All right. For that, I will go ahead and give you advantage on that. This is technically considered the crust of the Underdark.
Laura: That doesn't count if it rolls onto a phone?
Liam: I think that's in this book.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, I think it's chapter four.
Laura: 19 is what I rolled.
Matt: 19. Okay. As you guys begin to move, you can find, like, there is this waterfall. Which you can hear in the distance, there are a number of cascading, crashing water sounds. So you imagine there are multiple layers as this cavern descends down into the darkness. What are you using for a light source, by the way?
Liam: Tiberius, yeah?
Sam: Tiberius, hit us.
Orion: What's happening?
Sam: Light
Travis: Oh, ah. (all laugh)
Matt: The cavern comes alive with bright white light.
Travis: Oh, right. Sunglasses.
Matt: Using that, you take a while and you begin to just keep tabs on the surface area of this cavern as you begin to move further down. You find some portions where you can climb down to the lower levels. The first thing you notice is there are definitive signs of struggle or intense running towards the direction that you came from. Meaning things were seemingly either fleeing or heading that direction very quickly. Some of them appear to be more recent than others. You also begin to see a few partially decomposed corpses of various goblinoid creatures. You find two goblins just slain, just cut open, and off to the side you see some of the skin is pulled tight against the bone as a lot of it is just rotting from the cave itself. Not a very great smell. There have been small pockets of struggle the more you progress down this way. You also find some drag marks that are similar to what you saw back in the mines, and as you move forward and the light begins to open up, you can see small pockets of that red stone that's used to light a bunch of Kraghammer. You can start seeing elements of it embedded in the walls of the cavern ahead and just faintly giving this reddish glow and the outline of some shapes. You begin to step into the outskirts about 60 feet ahead of what looks like a series of huts, small stone structures cobbled together with small stone and stacked on each other. Simple driftwood and broken pieces of scavenged material put into small buildings. It's a very kinda ramshackle village underground.
Sam: Let's burn it down.
Liam: I am stealthing. I roll stealth.
Laura: Oh, okay, I'm gonna stealth too.
Liam: Natural 20.
Marisha: Woohoo!
Laura: Natural 20. Oh, that really didn't count.
Liam: Just roll on your phone a couple times and then off to the side.
Laura: They all sucked, so.
Liam: And you said that the red crystals on the wall are glowing somewhat?
Matt: Yeah, it's a certain amount of crystal that this mountain range seems to naturally produce that just inherently.
Liam: Enough to give the half-elves vision in low light?
Matt: It seems such. At the point where you're close to it. Currently you have to use his light source to see much of anything. This village doesn't have any, but near the walls and the edges of the cavern you can see the gentle outline of this whole size of it. It's immense.
Taliesin: Does it seem that there are signs of life?
Matt: From this view, you don't see any movement.
Liam: I am starting to creep along the ground towards the nearest building and press up against the wall and see if I can-- I'm just going to listen.
Laura: I rolled a 16, is that enough to actually stealth?
Matt: That's up to you.
Laura: No.
Marisha: I'm going to let the twins stealth ahead.
Matt: You guys stealth ahead. The two of you follow each other, and you get to the outskirts, and you can now see in the center of this, a number of the buildings and huts have been smashed or destroyed. You can see more and more of these goblin corpses strewn across the ground. You can see some of these tents seem to have rags or something stuffed into one that's not too far ahead of you. There's two goblins near you, apparently slashed open. Similar wounds. It's just from the first glance stepping forward.
Liam: None of them alive, that we can tell?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: We can't see any movement anywhere?
Matt: Not from this perspective. You guys moved ahead and you barely have any light source of your own. You're having to deal with just the outskirts of his light spell.
Laura: And none of that red light is lighting any of this?
Matt: Not in the center of the village. Those are only towards the outside walls of the cavern.
Liam: So we're in the dark.
Laura: Can I go up and see if I can get one of those little red rocks?
Matt: You can walk off to the side. So you take a few minutes to walk off to the very edge of the cavern. The rock is less of an actual stone that you can pull, more than it's a cluster of-- almost like a vein of the stone in the actual wall. It would take a while for you to actually hack it out of the side. It can be done, but it will take you a while.
Laura: Nah. I don't want to waste the time.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What do you think, should I do it?
Liam: No.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Travis: (laughs) No.
Liam: But we're in pitch black here, and we can't really see what's going on. I think we need--
Laura: A lantern.
Liam: And Tiberius.
Laura: (whispers) Tiberius.
Liam: Wait, hold on. Tiberius, will you bring the party up?
Orion: Oh yes, of course, we'll be right there.
Laura: Does anybody know-- have we told anybody at home what that actually is?
Matt: Okay, so as you guys are aware, one of the magical items that was designed by Tiberius early in the campaign are essentially these gem enchanted earrings that activate as a Message spell between a few party members. He made a few of them.
Liam: It was five total. Why don't we nail down who that is. It's the twins.
Laura: We both have one.
Liam: You.
Orion: You have one. He has one. She has one.
Liam: He's pretty sneaky. All right.
Sam: And we can send and receive messages or just receive?
Matt: You're essentially whispering into each other's ears.
Orion: They're like walkie-talkies.
Laura: It's like a walkie-talkie.
Matt: But it only works within a certain range.
Sam: Is it like a Madonna microphone?
Matt: A straight up with a big ol'--
Orion: I think it's like 500 feet.
Matt: 500 feet is the maximum length. So. You guys approach slowly, the light source opens up, and you see now a multitude of goblin bodies strewn about the open area of this village. You can see there are actually piles of corpses stuffed into some of these huts in the sides that aren't goblin. You can see what looks like a few small dwarven bodies piled up on the side. As you kinda glance over you look, some of them are partially eaten like they have been stripped for meat.
Laura: Ew.
Travis: What?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Check that building?
Matt: As you look through the building, there are piles of bone, sinew, and metal at this point. The dwarven bodies are mostly decomposed entirely, what remnants have not been stripped off it for food.
Liam: Anything useful in the pile?
Matt: As far as what you guys can tell, you discover two things. One of the dwarves has a set of very very finely crafted leather armor.
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: To pull it off the corpse is going to destroy it and going to be a not very interesting affair.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: But it does look to have survived the horrible conditions under here. You also note specifically, Vex, that not the dwarven corpses, but a number of the goblin corpses you come across, some of them have a uniform wound. A number of these goblin corpses have this terrible puncture wound in the skull.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: In the forehead there. Just an opening wound about that big around.
Laura: You didn't notice that, that's how unperceptive you are.
Liam: My sister, everybody.
Matt: And for each one of these wounds-- for as much flesh is on these goblins, there doesn't appear to be anything inside.
Laura: It sucked their brains out. Whatever it was.
Matt: It's very possible.
Travis: I know what that feels like.
Orion: Ooh, brain suckers.
Travis: Are we with you?
Laura: No, you're not, you're still hanging out--
Sam: We've come back.
Travis: Did you put your finger in the hole?
Laura: I'm going to put my finger in the hole.
Orion: I sauntered up 'cause--
Sam: You sauntered up.
Orion: You guys are sticking to the darkness?
Matt: Your finger goes inside, you reach around. There are elements of brain matter within there but even that has become very gelatinous.
Travis: Oatmeal.
Matt: Partially decomposed in its own right, almost like a slime. But sure enough, the inside of the cranium itself is mostly vacant.
Laura: Lovely. Trinket, no, he's not with us.
Matt: Trinket is back with the party.
Marisha: So we can only assume that, what was his name?
Sam: Should we rejoin our fellows?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I guess it seems like it's safe enough, right? Around here right now?
Travis: We come running up.
Orion: We do.
Sam: Traipsing, we traipse up.
Travis: Skipping.
Laura: As silently as possible, you come running up.
Travis: (sings)
Sam: What's going on, guys?
Laura: Brain suckers, something that sucks brains.
Sam: As long as they are sucking it out of goblins, I'm good with that.
Liam: My sister doesn't remember, but one of our instructors in Syngorn used to tell us of a creature, I'm not sure what they're called, but--
Laura: I don't think I was in that class, actually.
Liam: Mm. A creature that steals its victims' minds and digests them, reaches right in and takes them out.
Orion: I'm assuming it's got to be a much smaller, mutated version of our brain-on-legs friend.
Liam: I think it's much worse.
Marisha: Yeah. Much worse.
Laura: Much worse?
Liam: Much worse.
Orion: Yeah.
Liam: I think the brain was a scout or some sort of pet.
Marisha: Well, we also have this K'varn, who is experimenting on all those creatures, so we can't even attest for any of this.
Laura: Exactly.
Orion: That's true.
Travis: I take a few steps back.
Taliesin: It could just be parts of one.
Marisha: Yeah, parts of one. It could be a hodge-podge of everything
Taliesin: A dragon, goblin drained, brained--
Laura: (gasps) What if K'varn is a dragon? What if-- oh wait, I don't know anything about that. What was that symbol anyway, Tiberius?
Orion: That was a symbol of Bahamut, and it was a protection thing that I'm sure she put up to protect herself.
Laura: Oh. So it was a good symbol?
Orion: It was, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You recall that Lady Kima was, specifically, a paladin of Bahamut.
Laura: Oh! So she probably did that.
Marisha: So she's been here.
Matt: That camp seems to have been hers while she was traipsing through the tunnels.
Laura: I understand.
Taliesin: Ah!
Liam: I just think we should proceed with caution. Our teachers spoke about this thing, said that it was a being of the mind. I think our trouble with Grog could just be the beginning. We need to proceed very carefully.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: I have two potions of fox's cunning. Could I drink one of those, since there's a giant brain-bitch wondering around the camp?
Marisha: That's for your wisdom.
Sam: How long do they last?
Laura: You could make yourself smarter?
Travis: But it don't last very long.
Matt: Fox's cunning would give you benefit, I believe, to--
Marisha: Intelligence.
Matt: I mean, essentially--
Marisha: It would be Enhance Ability, essentially.
Matt: It would be Enhance Ability for wisdom, I'm pretty sure.
Marisha: I'll tell you. I think it's wisdom.
Travis: Not intelligence?
Marisha: No, no, no, it's intelligence.
Matt: It's intelligence? Okay, there you go.
Marisha: Because I think it's like owl's wisdom for wisdom.
Matt: Right, no, you're correct. So essentially it would be an Enhance Ability for intelligence, yes.
Laura: How long does it last?
Matt: Oh, for the potion's effect? That would be anywhere from four to eight hours, you're not quite sure.
Laura: Maybe you should wait until we come across something.
Travis: All right, but if it's too late--
Marisha: Yeah, you have advantage on intelligence checks.
Travis: Intelligence checks? All right.
Liam: Just don't go running off into the dark again.
Laura: Yeah, let us lead the way, or whoever's smart. I'm really smart, how smart are you?
Liam: Not smart enough, apparently.
Marisha: So it wouldn't necessarily--
Travis: It wouldn't make my intelligence higher?
Marisha: It wouldn't make your intelligence higher, and it wouldn't necessarily help with your vulnerability.
Travis: All right, never mind.
Liam: He's smart.
Laura: Who's our smartest person? Who has the highest intelligence here?
Liam: What are these scores you keep talking about? I don't know what anybody's talking about.
Orion: It's okay, Vax. I don't know what a lot of people are talking about all of the time.
Taliesin: IRL?
Travis: Yeah, whoever's the smartest should be in the front.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm sitting at 16.
Travis: 14.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 16.
Marisha: Well it's about, like, having high-- it's not necessarily being smart, it's about having resistance to willpower.
Laura: But if they take you down-- if they take down your intelligence, then whoever has higher intelligence--
Marisha: Right.
Sam: No one's going to take down our intelligence, we're too strong and we're too awesome.
Laura: I don't want another catatonic-- all right.
Orion: And we know what we're going into.
Laura: All right!
Marisha: Well, we sort of know what we're going into.
Travis: Does that mean we get to run into a fight?
Laura: Oh no, this music sounds very fighty.
Marisha: Hang on.
Sam: Or festive.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: Okay, so here's my question.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: So we've already fought two things where we can't look at them and they mess with our heads.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: So is there something we can do going forward--
Laura: To like boost our willpower or something?
Marisha: Or like--
Taliesin: You want Magneto's helmet? What you want is Magneto's helmet.
Marisha: I like Magneto's helmet! Or even if we--
Taliesin: I haven't built Magneto's helmet.
Marisha: Do we have a bunch of mirrors? Or where we can look through things with reflections.
Laura: (gasps) I gave you some mirrors! Do you remember?
Liam: I have mirrors.
Travis: We do have a big dressing mirror.
Liam: But that's more for--
Laura: For looking around corners?
Liam: I don't know if that's going to help.
Laura: It could help!
Orion: I could make a mirror.
Liam: Yes, I have them, of course. I always, I always have them, they were a gift.
Travis: We have one mirror in the bag of holding.
Laura: That's good!
Orion: With like an ice-type of thing--
Laura: We could put a mirror--
Marisha: Kind of like a Medusa's gaze thing. You know, where you like look in the reflection.
Liam: But that's a Gorgon. That's talking about the gaze--
Marisha: Right.
Liam: We're talking about the mind, I think.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: I have a whip! And a forgery kit. (all laugh)
Marisha: It would just be about making us less vulnerable to the mind--
Liam: Could you forge some professor hats for us all? (all laugh)
Laura: So what, our option is to keep moving forward, then?
Sam: Yes, just be cautious, that's all we can do.
Liam: That's all we can do.
Taliesin: That's all we can do.
Laura: All right.
Travis: We move forward.
Sam: What do you want to do, you want go back?
Laura: As quietly as possible, to keep moving forward.
Taliesin: It's difficult to prepare for what we're not prepared for.
Laura: And on the lookout for anything in this ramshackle town.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: I mean, I can cast Enhance Ability to help our willpower? Or our will.
Matt: So you leave behind the pile of dwarven corpses, you leave behind the goblin corpses with the wounds and start seeing more of a pattern.
Liam: And if I may, I suggest Tiberius, you work your Light spell, and Vex'ahlia and I scout ahead about 60 or 70 feet, so that we can see in the dim light, catch anything coming, using your magic.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: And I light up the hooded lantern we have in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay. So you put the hood on and light that up, very good. Leaving the leather armor behind?
Laura: Oh well, I thought you said it would get ruined if we took it?
Liam: And it was dwarf-sized.
Matt: No, it would be nasty pulling it off a corpse.
Laura: Oh, well then, fuck it, let's pull it off.
Liam: Isn't it dwarf-sized? Or is armor also shrink and expand?
Laura: It's magical. Possibly.
Matt: It's dwarf-sized.
Liam: Magical.
Orion: It's fine. I cast Prestidigitation and clean it all up.
Laura: I take it.
Matt: Okay, so you shake off the element--
Laura: All the goo.
Matt: -- the remaining elements of the dwarven corpse. Just falls off out of the armor. You have to kind of shake it and eventually all of it escapes--
Laura: Yes. Thank you!
Taliesin: Dwarven corpse.
Liam: It's like pulled pork.
Laura: Mm.
Matt: Make an arcana check. It does have a magical aura.
Laura: (gasps) What is it?
Orion: Nice. 20.
Matt: All right. It appears to be a simple but powerful enchantment. It is a pair of studded leather armor with a +2 enchantment.
Laura: +2 enchantment to what?
Sam: +2 enchantment?
Matt: To your AC.
Liam: If I try to pull on the sleeve, does it come up to my elbow or does it stretch out and fit?
Matt: It comes up to your elbow and then, given a moment, it fits to your form.
Laura: Ooh, yeah!
Liam: That's nice.
Laura: Go take that studded leather armor, brother!
Liam: I'll take this, hold on. Thank you. I go into the smelly corpse hut and start to change my armor.
Laura: What did you get? Let me see that.
Sam: So wait, does he get a bigger or higher AC? What is that?
Matt: Yes, it is considered-- it works as studded leather armor, but that gives him a +2 bonus to his armor class on top of that.
Sam: Wow, that's huge!
Laura: Yeah, so he just took it.
Sam: I'll take it.
Laura: He already took it.
Marisha: Hey, dungeon master? Asking as the dungeon master.
Matt: Yes?
Marisha: If I cast Owl's Wisdom on people, it gives people advantage on wisdom checks. Would that count on saving throws against willpower?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Not checks, specifically.
Marisha: Would it help anything?
Matt: I mean--
Marisha: Would, would any advantage to wisdom under Enhance Ability help some?
Matt: Let me double-check it.
Sam: I'll give you all dice before we go in.
Laura: Some of these-- I remember we rolled charisma saving throws, though, for the umbers. They were charisma.
Marisha: Right. And for the brains it was versus willpower.
Sam: While the DM looks this up, everyone, subscribe to the Geek and Sundry twitch channel! Support the show, support the channel.
Marisha: Yeah! And don't forget about our charity, 826LA, which helps children be literate and write stories well.
Orion: It makes them smarter in the head.
Sam: And keep sending us food. (all laugh)
Travis: We like food.
Sam: And more presents.
Liam: If you want a thousand years--
Zac: There's more food on the way, so don't ask them for more.
Marisha: What?
Orion: Oh, no!
Travis: No food!
Taliesin: No more food.
Sam: No more food.
Matt: Yeah, we have enough food, guys, thank you.
Liam: If you want a thousand years of D&D, we've got to pay the overheads, so please, subscribe!
Orion: It's true!
Matt: So yeah, unfortunately it helps ability checks, those are not considered saving throws.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: I don't know if I have anything.
Taliesin: We'll be all right, we'll be all right.
Orion: As we start to walk, I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: You cast Stoneskin on yourself? All right, Stoneskin's on you, Tiberius.
Liam: Once you've got the dwarf gunk off, it's rather nice.
Laura: Oh yeah?
Liam: Yes, it's supple.
Sam: All right, shall we keep on keeping on?
Taliesin: Let's go.
Laura: Let's go, let's keep on moving!
Marisha: Let's get it done.
Orion: (sings) Keep on keeping on.
Matt: You guys keep pushing forward.
Orion: Is that what we're going to do?
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right, as you begin to press through the goblin ghost town--
Travis: We've got to get it closer than that.
Laura: I'm still tracking, looking for anything interesting.
Matt: Which you do, you catch, off in the distance, another faint moving light source.
Laura: Oh shit! Hey, everybody, calm down.
Sam: Huh?
Laura: Sh! There's something moving in the distance.
Matt: Everyone roll a stealth check.
Travis: Stealth check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh god, roll a stealth check. (gasps) Natural 20!
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Nice!
Liam: 30.
Marisha: 15.
Orion: 11.
Sam: 20.
Taliesin: 12.
Travis: (softly) Six.
Matt: Okay, as you all buckle down and be as quiet as you can--
Laura: You rolled a six? He rolled a six.
Matt: You begin to see--
Sam: (whispers) Grog rolled a six.
Liam: (whispers) Stay put, you asshole.
Matt: No, noted, that's okay, that's okay. It's a group check, in which case people offset each other's difficulty.
Travis: Yay, bell curve.
Matt: So you seem to be comfortable in the stillness of the moment. Best you can see in the distance, you see figures shifting, moving away from you.
Laura: (whispers) Sh, figures!
Matt: Many figures. A fairly large group of seeming to be humanoid figures, moving steadily away from you.
Laura: Can we scout ahead? We're both really super stealth, can we like--
Liam: Yeah, we're gonna start kinda quickly dash after them.
Matt: Yeah, using your same stealth rolls, you push forward.
Travis: Humanoid figures, you say?
Liam: Could mean anything.
Matt: Yes, best you could tell. As you guys start reaching the outskirts of the opposite side of this small, goblin village that has been completely sundered, you see a cliff, but a large cliff. The actual surface here comes to a very direct end and seems to just disappear into a dark abyss. There is a singular, ten-foot-wide rope bridge, that is bolted into the side of this cliff and stretches out across this giant crevasse, for what-- you can't see the other side.
Travis: Awesome!
Laura: This feels like The Descent, I don't like this, you guys.
Matt: It very much has that kind of a feel. It just goes on a for a good 60, 70 feet, and then darkness. And you can see what looks to be a cluster of about 12 to 13 duergar--
Laura: (whispers) Oh no.
Matt: -- making their way in lines of two across this bridge. Amongst them, they have, chained up, three dwarf miners that they are also dragging across the bridge.
Sam: We have to save those ones.
Travis: Just cut the bridge
Sam: No, no!
Laura: What do the miners look like? Are they-- are they docile, or are they-- do they seem to be fighting back?
Matt: They don't appear to put up much of a fight in their current circumstance.
Liam: How wide is the bridge?
Matt: Ten feet.
Liam: Ten feet? That means two people wide.
Laura: Grog goes by himself. Yes.
Liam: But if we go out there, it's going to be close combat.
Travis: (whispers) We have a flying carpet.
Liam: You can't get to the ones at the back.
Laura: I mean how many are there? Like ten or so?
Liam: 12. 12 I count.
Matt: From what you can see it looks about 12-ish
Laura: And they have a light source with them so we can definitely see them?
Matt: They do, it's a very faint light. It's like a small cluster of the red stone that's been mined and put into a spherical element and is hanging from a chain like a lantern.
Laura: We have two options. We can fight them.
Liam: We could fight now.
Laura: Or follow them.
Travis: Follow.
Laura: I think we follow them.
Marisha: Do I see any-- are there any bats?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: If we follow them on the bridge, won't they feel it bouncing?
Marisha: I failed.
Laura: We gotta wait 'til they cross it, Scanlan.
Sam: We can't see the end of it.
Liam: I grab my ear and, Keyleth, I heard you through Tiberius' earring, why don't you just become a bat and follow along?
Laura: She's trying to do that.
Marisha: I was gonna see if they're in the--
Liam: You've never seen a bat in the woods?
Matt: Best you can tell, and from your knowledge of bats and their existence, they generally live in caverns that have readily available openings to the outside world, where they do their nocturnal hunting. This is a very, very deep cavern that does not have easy access to the surface. Bats are probably not a good chance in this cavern.
Laura: I've got an idea. I run back to Grog, stealthed. I get our flying carpet.
Matt: A hand suddenly mysteriously reaches into the bag.
Travis: (sputters)
Laura: Gimme the carpet.
Travis: What?
Laura: The carpet. Gimme the carpet.
Sam: Just you? You're gonna go on the carpet alone?
Laura: And him. we can both go on the carpet.
Sam: What if something happens?
Laura: We just gotta see where they're going! We'll come back and get you.
Sam: I'm coming with you.
Laura: All right, Scanlan.
Travis: I give them her carpet, but I also tie the endless rope thread around.
Laura: Oh yeah. Okay, so we have an endless rope with us.
Liam: Now we're a kite.
Matt: You pull out the carpet and lay it out. At this point in time, they're a little over halfway across the bridge.
Laura: Okay, so we--
Matt: Which, you can see it swaying in a very uncomfortable way.
Laura: Scanlan, you better be stealthed.
Matt: You hear the stretching of ropes.
Laura: Oh, you can hear the rope?
Matt: As you hear the rope just tense as the bridge is slowly swaying. So you guys lay out the carpet. The two of you get on?
Laura: And Scanlan.
Liam: And Scanlan.
Liam: I grab Scanlan by the scruff of his neck.
Matt: The three of you guys hop on, and it's probably big enough for the three of you. It's about the right size.
Sam: Shotgun.
Matt: The carpet begins to lift off, and you kind of will it towards-- Are you going straight over the bridge or are you taking a side route?
Laura: We're going next to the bridge.
Liam: Side and up. 'Cause they can look sideways.
Laura: I think we should go down below the bridge.
Liam: If you're on a bridge, you're looking down at your feet.
Sam: Let's go above them.
Laura: All right, fine, fuck it, go above them.
Matt: Okay so you guys, you take up over. First off, the three of you guys make a stealth check.
Laura: I thought we were still stealthed?
Matt: Maneuvering on a flying carpet is a different type of locomotion.
Taliesin: We have a flying carpet, by the way. That's a thing.
Sam: Not great. 13.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Were you guys trying to stealth? Is that what happened?
Matt: So, as soon as you reach the edge of the crevasse, immediately the air itself is warmer. And there's actually a bit of a strange breeze blowing up from underneath this giant crevasse. And you look down and you can see, faintly, light sources. Long, thin, trickling streams of what looks like molten rock.
Travis: Shit.
Sam: Way down below.
Matt: Way down below.
Travis: That's a ways.
Matt: It's at least a thousand feet down.
Sam: We don't want to fall.
Matt: Don't fall, it's very bad. The air itself has a very sulfurous smell. There's a lot of various strange chemical scents that's a bit pungent to the nose. There's a lot of chemical reactions that are causing this atmosphere. It's a little difficult to take any air at first. You have to get adjusted. It is a very, very deep cavern below. When you look behind, you can see the river that's been cascading through this cavern goes rocketing off the edge and disappears into the darkness below. Are you keeping your distance or--
Laura: Keeping a good distance.
Liam: Distance, because they have a light source, so we want to follow that.
Laura: Yeah, so we need to stay kind of out of it but see it.
Matt: Okay. You guys push forward, keeping at a safe distance. You eventually follow them across the crevasse, and you can see now them entering what looks like a shanty town of tents and small stone structures. Better built than the goblin village that was previously there, but it looks almost like a temporary or pseudo-temporary series of homes for the duergar in this section. There's a bunch of military tents and cloth pup tents put up in sections. You can see some easy-to-construct one- or two-day constructions of stone buildings. Very square, very rigid and dwarven in their design, more for utility that any sort of visual presentation or beauty.
Liam: This is a temporary war camp.
Laura: It is.
Matt: There are also a series of these-
Liam: Yes!
Matt: -- of these redstone--
Laura: Good dialogue!
Matt: Yeah, it's legit guys. A series of these redstone torches that they were holding, or these lanterns, are hung up all throughout the village on these giant poles that have been placed in areas to give a little bit of an occasional light source throughout this entire camp.
Laura: About how many people does it look like-- I mean, how big is this camp?
Matt: How big, the camp?
Liam: How many buildings?
Matt: At a first glance, you can only check out elements of it from your distance, you're only making out shapes from how far back you guys are without actually getting inside. You gather you've probably seen throughout, just this portion that you've come into, anywhere from 30 to 40 duergar moving through, as well as a few larger shapes.
Laura: (whispers) Oh, shit.
Matt: You swear you catch one or two other very large humanoid hulking figures just (thudding noises)
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: Stepping through the camp.
Liam: How are we gonna get through this?
Laura: How are we-- what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do?
Sam: The view up here is beautiful!
Laura: (sings) A whole new world.
Marisha: (whispers) Hey, hey, what do you guys see?
Orion: Scanlan, what's going on?
Laura: (whispers) Okay, so--
Sam: Is the range? How are--
Matt: The range is getting a little broken, you can hear--
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The words are coming through but--
Marisha: You're cutting out. I can't hear you
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I think--
Laura: Well, one of us.
Sam: We'll update you soon.
Laura: Well, one of us. Let's put down.
Liam: Put down?
Travis: In the volcano?
Laura: No no no, how are we, like--
Travis: Just go straight down.
Laura: At a place where we can land the carpet and stand around.
Sam: They'll probably see us.
Laura: Or should we go back?
Liam: We're past the chasm at this point or still afloat?
Matt: You've just now crested--
Liam: The other side.
Matt: The crevasse the other side. And you're feeling uncomfortable pushing further forward because you're now starting to get a lot more eyes in your vicinity.
Laura: Okay, are there any-- does it look like-- do we see any cavern openings in the vicinity? Does it look like there's any?
Matt: Looking around, there are no side caverns, this is actually a pretty smooth cavern that kind of circles around where this camp is built, there is one large tunnel entrance on the opposite side that continues past.
Laura: But they're blocking it? Or--
Matt: You can't see anything beyond the fact that the tunnel-- the walls kind of convene. You can see a little bit of a tunnel opening and just darkness beyond that.
Liam: So, bridge to land, and then a tunnel.
Matt: A tunnel on the other side, and where the land starts there's a giant portion of the cavern that continues and then closes off, kind of pinches, to the entrance to where the camp is.
Laura: How far away is the camp from that?
Matt: The camp is completely filling this side of the cross. It's blocking pretty much the whole.
Laura: Oh, so we can't get to that.
Matt: Not without going through or over the city.
Laura: What about--
Liam: So it's bridge, town, tunnel.
Sam: Tunnel.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Do we see any closer-- Under the bridge, are there any openings underneath the bridge that look like--
Matt: Do you want to swoop down and check?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you swoop down and--
Liam: (whoosh)
Matt: --the rock there--
Laura: (whoosh)
Matt: (whoosh) -- the warm air is still kinda bothering you in general.
Liam: (makes farting noise)
Laura: Excuse me.
Matt: You find yourself kinda taking your cloak and putting it over your mouth just to get the scent out. The side of the rock surface is worn through what looks like maybe a possible river that also came from the other side that has since dried out, so you can see there is, while no water on this side of the crevasse, a lot of the stone has been smoothed just through rapid water running for thousands of years possibly. But there are no visible openings or other additional caverns on this rock surface
Laura: What are we gonna do?
Travis: (whispers) Are they still on--
Sam: Okay, listen. Leave me behind, I'll follow the party with the hostages, I'll see where they go. Don't worry, I'll be invisible. Go back, tell our fellows, get them across the bridge, and we'll meet here in about an hour.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Scanlan!
Travis: I like it.
Sam: What? I'm super brave and hung, come on, let's do this. (all laugh)
Laura: All right, I'm down. Should we do it?
Liam: All right.
Laura: We drop him off.
Sam: I turn invisible.
Travis: (sings) Scanlan, the best bard.
Sam: And I'm gonna just hang behind the party that's got the hostage dwarves, and just kinda see where they go.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Should one of us protect him?
Travis: Do you activate hung at the same time?
Sam: Don't have to activate.
Liam: He's invisible, though.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: I mean, we can't go invisible, we can't be as like--
Liam: No.
Sam: It's passive.
Marisha: It's a racial bonus.
Laura: He's sneaky, we can't be as invisible as him. All right.
Sam: Yeah but I might make-- I might snap twigs.
Liam: Last question. Where are the people, the figures we were following? Did they finish the bridge at this point?
Matt: They're long past the bridge, they're inside the city proper at this point.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Okay, so then I'll stay by the edge of the bridge, you go back. Scanlan, go ahead, I'll wait for you here, if there's trouble.
Sam: Ding-a-ling-a-ling!
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Got it.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I go back, thanks.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: Thanks for sending me back. I go back.
Liam: Go get the others.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Scanlan. As you go ahead, make your way in towards the city, go ahead and make a stealth check with advantage.
Travis: C'mon, buddy.
Sam: 16. 18!
Matt: 18, okay. You push, kind of falling behind the main group, and they're heading towards this kind of, more or less a loose thoroughfare in the center of this town. You can see a few duergar coming out and kind of inspecting as they enter, speaking in a language you don't understand, asking questions, some of them are coming out and slapping the dwarf captives as they go across, or spitting on them. The dwarves look very broken and unhappy with the circumstance, but brimming with anger. You see a couple of them are, like true dwarves, they haven't given in to it, they're just looking for an option or a moment to get some vengeance. They're stripped of all armor and weaponry. They're brought through some of the alleys and paths between these pup tents and these stone structures. You can see, there are some of the hulking figures, there are two trolls wandering amongst these duergar.
Travis: Yes! (whispers) Trolls!
Matt: Now, you've encountered trolls before, but these trolls--
Laura: (gasps) Yeah we have.
Matt: -- also have a similar, pupil-less, clouded over, white-eye appearance--
Sam: Ooh! They're slave trolls!
Matt: As you begin to follow them further in, you manage to see two ogres that are currently stationed across this main open center location in this campsite. And both of these ogres also have the same, pupil-less, white, glazed-over look to their eyes. And they're both just kind of glancing about. The rest of the duergar are in the process of constructing other tents. Some of them look like they're actually in the process of forging weaponry. It feels like it's a war camp. It's definitely preparing for something. However, in the center of this main area, you do see, there is a wooden platform, about 20 foot by 20 foot, that is raised up, and you see a group of about six duergar that are all wearing very intricate, black iron plate armor. And they're all just sitting on the outskirts of this platform.
Sam: White eyes?
Matt: All the duergar seem to have that natural look to their eyes as well.
Travis: Shit.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: As the party you've been following enters the center of this vicinity, make another stealth check, with advantage.
Sam: Gah. 19.
Matt: All right. You kind of step off to the side, a duergar steps out of one of the tents near you, and you just barely manage to pull out of the way without making any sort of squeak or noise. He goes by. (sniffs)
Travis: Oh god!
Laura: Oh god!
Liam: Careful, Bilbo!
Matt: And begins stepping out, looking intently for something, but right past you, by inches, as he walks past. You look over again, to the camp, and you can now see, toward the very back end of this open midsection, by this platform, there is one large, stone construct. It looks like a makeshift barracks has been placed there, with double stone doors that are currently opened, and you can see two figures stepping out of the stairs that lead into these barracks, heading towards the main platform. They step up onto the platform. One of which is a very, very well-decorated duergar, who's wearing similar blackened plate armor as the other kind of elite guard that you saw surrounding this platform, but with gold and silver scrolling on it, a long, tattered, dark, dark purple cape, and has a nasty scar across the cheek that leads into this kind of gnarled, grey beard. As it steps forward, you can see, sheathed off to its back in a large scabbard, a gargantuan-- for a dwarf especially-- two-handed sword that should be unwieldy for a creature of its size. But nevertheless looks dangerous and a creature next to it is--
Laura: (whispers) We can't fight these guys.
Matt: -- not so small, not dwarven. Actually, very tall, lanky, long, black and purple robes, a hood, obscuring its features, stepping roughly two feet behind it as they both step on to the platform to address the rest of the guard and the approaching party of duergar dwarves you've been following. You can see some conversation happening, but you're too far away to really make out anything that's being said, do you want to move closer?
Sam: Do I speak their language?
Matt: Do you speak Undercommon?
Sam: Nope!
Matt: Then you-- it all sounds gibberish to you!
Sam: Then, no thank you. (laughs)
Matt: Okay. But you see some conversation happening. This seemingly officious duergar, this general that steps out and commands the attention in the room, makes a few gestures, shouts out to amongst the other nearby. Not quite sure, but you get the idea he's giving orders or directions. The war party then begins to pull the slaves back away, and--
Sam: The captives? Okay.
Matt: The captives. Begins pulling them away toward another section on the side. As it does, the tall, lanky figure, which you now get the sense that it's not really walking. It's just kind of drifting--
Sam: (apprehensive sound)
Matt: -- holds its hand out. This long, long finger and lanky hand, and as it does, every single duergar in the vicinity, whatever it was doing, stops in place, and all turn and look at it, as one.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: At which point, this creature brings its fingers in a beckoning gesture, loosely in your direction.
Sam: I'm wearing my ring of mind-shielding, by the way.
Matt: For a split second, you feel your heart at your throat, and the entire back of your body stands on pins and needles as one of the duergar carrying one of the captives begins to pull one of the dwarven captives back towards the platform. As it does, the dwarf, who is giving kind of a fight and looks nervous, looks over at the figure and its arms go limp to its side, and it begins to walk out of its own volition, taking two, three steps. Steps onto the platform and approaches this tall, lanky figure with the hood and long robes behind it. As it does, its hand reaches out and caresses the side of this dwarf's face. This dwarf seems to have given up all sense of fight or any sort of conflict and just stares up into this darkened hood. As the tall, lanky creature reaches out with both hands and pulls the dwarf forward, you see these terrible purple tentacles come writhing out of the front of the hood, wrapping around the head of the dwarf, pulling it into it. As the hood falls back, you see this horrible smooth, purplish-blue hairless head, these sunken yellowish-green eyes as the tentacles wrap around the dwarf's head and pulls it into its mouth. There's a brief struggle, and then the dwarf's arms fall limp to its side. At which point, the tentacles unravel from its head, the creature pulls back, a bit of ichor and dwarf blood dripping from what looks like a lamprey's toothy maw, and then thrusts the body to the ground, with a thud as it falls lifeless to the ground.
Sam: Poor son of a bitch.
Matt: A horrible, bored hole in its forehead. The creature then draws its hood back up, releases its hand in a cursory fashion, and all the duergar whip back around and continue the motions they were previously going towards. As the two dwarven captives that now remain look completely stunned, their faces white with fear as they are being dragged off in this state. The tall, lanky figure gives a nod to the duergar general, who gives a nod as well, then to turn around and walk back.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: Worst show ever. Okay. That was one of the captives. Do I see where the other captives were taken?
Matt: The two other captives, you follow them? They both are pulled to-- essentially to a western side. If you look overhead, this is where the barrack building is, this is where you entered and this is the main area. They are pulled off to the western side here. They are taken to a large tent. As they are pulled in, they close it behind them. You can hear some muffles and some growling from the inside of the tent.
Sam: Okay. I assume bad things are happening in there, I don't need to see it, right? I think I'll just kind of-- is there anything--
Matt: Do you speak Dwarven?
Sam: No, oh, no, do I? What do I speak? Where does it say? Shit.
Matt: Should be on the lower left-hand of your player sheet.
Laura: Did you choose languages?
Sam: I play a shawm. No, I just speak Common and Gnome.
Matt: You hear what sounds like guttural Dwarvish being shouted angrily, cursing from the interior, and a few other dwarven voices also joining in-- more than two. You hear some horrible, sick thuds and some impacts and some cries of pain. And eventually, the five duergar dragging the captives walk out, carrying cudgels at their side, still dripping with fresh blood. They kind of go amongst their own business from there.
Sam: Okay. I think I'll go back to my fellows. There's nothing I can see-- that door doesn't lock-- does it lock by any chance?
Matt: It's just an opening tent.
Sam: Open tent. There's nothing lying around, none of that black armor lying around or anything? Any extra things --
Matt: Not on the street.
Sam: Okay, I think I will just make back for my friends, then.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh, god.
Sam: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage. (all laugh)
Sam: 21.
Matt: You maneuver your way out back the way you came, best you can, remembering-- you get disoriented in general trying to find your way out. Go ahead and make a survival check.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Survival check, so plus zero. 17.
Matt: 17.
Laura: That's a good roll, yo.
Matt: Okay, you take a moment, orient yourself, looking about the cavern. This is a very confusing network, and the passages you've gone-- you paid more attention to what's happening--
Sam: It's like Venice.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. You nearly get lost twice, but eventually find your way back to the southern-portion entrance of this war camp. You can just see the crevasse and you start getting the familiar scent of that sulfurous wind that was billowing out from underneath. You step out a few more feet, and you can see the edge of the bridge where the rest of you have finally come to converge on the other side of the crevasse.
Laura: Ooh!
Sam: Whoa. I am going to tell you everything that just happened, in detail, in real time. (all laugh)
Laura: Maybe he can tell us while we are taking a bathroom break?
Matt: You know what, let's go ahead and take this moment to have a bathroom break, guys, as sort of the halfway mark.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: We will continue this in just a moment. In the meantime, take a rest, take ten or 11 minutes. We are going to play our character backgrounds for those who haven't seen it. We will be back here in about ten minutes, guys.
Marisha: What are we going to do?
Travis: We are gonna fight the shit out of them.
Liam: We're going to risk it all. [break] [no audio]
Matt: -- for her as well, so look forward to that some point in the near future. As we left off, the party had just reconvened on the other side of this gargantuan crevasse in the Underdark, after Scanlan had stealthed into the duergar war camp, witnessed a number of dwarven captives being taken somewhere, however, one of which was devoured by some strange creature. Left brainless and dead on the platform in the center, outside of a giant barracks-type building. You reconvened and expressed all of this information to the party.
Sam: And that's when I came back to see you guys. (all laugh)
Travis: Great.
Taliesin: Wonderfully detailed.
Laura: What are we going to do?
Marisha: I give Scanlan some water from my water skin.
Liam: You are a brave little fellow.
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: Has anyone come across these creatures before? These weird tentacle brain guys?
Marisha: I've heard rumors of those. Can we make a check for those?
Orion: It sounds like it would be a mind flayer, of sorts.
Laura: A mind flayer?
Orion: A mind flayer or mind slayer, I'm not too sure.
Sam: What is that?
Orion: I'm pretty sure it flays your mind. I'm never encountered one myself, so I have no idea, really. Oh, right, let me check my books.
Matt: Intelligence.
Orion: 14.
Matt: You probably call it a mind flayer.
Orion: It says right here, mind flayer. The rest is all inked up. I got water on it. (all laugh)
Travis: How big was this mind flayer, was he like 20 feet tall, Scanlan?
Sam: He was tall, I mean everyone looks 20 feet tall to me, I'm a gnome.
Travis: Was he bigger than me?
Sam: He was bigger than you by a little?
Matt: No, roughly a little shorter than him. But taller than most.
Sam: He carried himself big. He was lanky.
Travis: Let's go fuck him up.
Laura: No, Grog!
Travis: What?
Laura: Do you want to be unconscious again? We have to be careful here.
Travis: It was rather restful.
Laura: How many dwarves did it sound like there were locked in that prison cell?
Sam: Several?
Marisha: Did you see Lady Kima?
Sam: No sign of Lady Kima at all, just a bunch of dwarves being held against their will, and then one by one being brain sucked by Mr. Lanky Man.
Travis: And those two big trolls.
Orion: Percy, could you take a look at this?
Sam: Two big trolls, and ogres, don't forget ogres, there's ogres too.
Travis: There are ogres?
Sam: Yes, there were two big ogres as well. And duergar aplenty-- maybe four dozen or so, three dozen?
Liam: Spread throughout the city, throughout this little camp, Scanlan.
Sam: Wandering. Yes.
Travis: You know my tactic.
Taliesin: Would it be a nature check to actually think if I never learned about this in school?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Taliesin: This would be an intelligence check?
Travis: We should use the volcano as part of our strategy. Like Moses--
Sam: There's a volcano?
Travis: Well no, the pit--
Sam: Oh the lava, down below?
Travis: Yeah, there's a shitload of that.
Marisha: Can I meditate to see if I know anything about this--
Liam: This seems to match up with the tales that my instructor, master Tharendril, told me about back in Syngorn. I wonder if I remember something. If only I had a small polyhedral to roll-- Wow!
Laura: Holy moly, you guys.
Travis: Oh, shitcakes.
Taliesin: It's a stack of pizzas.
Matt: Why are you guys so awesome?
Laura: You guys are amazing!
Marisha: Yeah, what the hell?
Sam: Do they know the address here? That's kinda creepy.
Laura: Ah, thank you! I was wanting some ice tea!
Marisha: Thanks chat room!
Sam: Thanks chat room!
Liam: Thanks! Thank you, long list.
Travis: May your list be ever long, with your-- list.
Matt: So, best you can ascertain, you've never heard the term mind flayer. But in your people you've heard stories and tales growing up about something referred to as an illithid.
Travis: A what?
Sam: An illithid?
Marisha: An illithid.
Matt: A nasty entity, from beyond.
Marisha: Illithid, with a D or a T?
Matt: With a D. As far as you know, all that you've heard, is that they were considered ghost stories, as a kid, to keep you from wandering dark caves and spaces. They would take your minds, and you thought this whole time that that was just a fable. That it was just a tale. But you do know that they normally aren't solitary; they usually keep company of a colony.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Fudge.
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: But I've never heard them called a mind flayer, but I guess they could be called a mind flayer. But we call them Illithids. I didn't know they were real, though.
Laura: What do we do?
Travis: Why don't we-- Listen, when my Herd used to wander through the trees and we came upon a force that was greater than our own, we used the landscape to our ad-van-tage, so why don't we provoke an attack? And then retreat over the bridge.
Sam: And have them all jump over the edge of the cliff?
Travis: You said they were all gray-eyed, right?
Laura: At least they'll have to go one at a time, or two at a time across the bridge.
Marisha: But Scanlan, didn't you also say that they were, like, levitating?
Travis: What?
Matt: The one lengthy creature.
Sam: The one lengthy creature was levitating.
Laura: Well, I mean, can he fly, or can he levitate?
Sam: Well yes, but I think what Grog is talking about is the bulk of the fighting force, getting them to follow us over the bridge and then cutting the bridge.
Travis: Yeah, like in 300. Which was a great puppet show I saw.
Orion: Oh Grog, I heard that, where they used 300 puppets!
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: It's amazing!
Laura: Okay, I like this plan.
Liam: What if all but a couple of us snuck into one of these buildings and waited and a couple of us made a stink and got a significant number of them to chase across the bridge.
Sam: That's a good idea.
Liam: But then how could we cut the bridge behind? We have a flying carpet so we can go back and forth, but we could drop a significant number of them down into the lava.
Marisha: Can we have Tiberius standing there to just Firebolt it?
Travis: What's the bridge made of?
Sam: Do you want the rope?
Orion: Wait a minute. We want to bait them, is that what we're trying to do?
Sam: No, we want to drop the bridge and have them fall to their deaths.
Laura: Or, Scanlan--
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Or, what if you let off a stink bomb in the middle of the camp?
Sam: Well, they would run willy-nilly!
Laura: Some of them would try to leave across the bridge.
Sam: Well remember, there's a tunnel on the other side of camp. They could run that way as well.
Liam: It's also a huge, and your stink-cloud is only, you know, 20 or 30 feet across.
Sam: 20 feet.
Travis: "Only".
Orion: How long is the bridge?
Matt: The bridge, now that you've traversed it, it's ten feet wide, and runs about a little over 200 feet or 250 feet in length.
Sam: You can get a lot of them on that bridge and then cut it.
Orion: True.
Travis: Makes their numbers count for nothing.
Marisha: I think I've heard that one. That puppet show.
Sam: I like that idea.
Orion: I think I might have a solution.
Laura: Yes, Tiberius? Speak your mind.
Orion: I think it's about time I used these.
Travis: Oh shit.
Orion: For non-combat things. I think we should create a diversion, but let me do it. I can use my deck of illusions to generate any kind of number of sorts of creatures or whatever that I can control. I can simply toss one out, I believe 50 feet ahead of me, and control it and get their attention. I can draw them back through the bridge, using the illusions, taunting them along the way. They, of course, will give chase, because they are (chuckles) idiots. And, as soon as we get enough, we can all-- you can hack away at the bridge all you like, Grog. We could both burn it, we could hack and burn.
Travis: What kind of creatures can you make?
Orion: Well, that's all up to the deck.
Sam: It's up to the deck, or it's up to you?
Orion: It's up to the deck.
Laura: Let's try it!
Sam: So, what if it's a scary thing that scares them away?
Orion: If I generate something such as-- as exquisite as a red dragon, say, I'm sure somebody like the mindfellows-- If they do flee, the camp will be empty and we can search it and free the slaves. If not, they will give chase and they will come and bait it. Either way, it works in our favor.
Travis: Can I test something real quick? If I pull out the magic carpet or I take it back from whoever the fuck had it, and I stand on it, does it hold me up or do I sink?
Matt: You get on top of the carpet and you will it to begin to shift, and the carpet around you lifts, but you are anchoring it to the ground.
Travis: So this is a big problem.
Laura: But you've got Feather Fall. You've got Feather Fall! Is that still a thing?
Travis: Yeah, which just slows my fall. It doesn't take me across.
Sam: That might not be a thing anymore.
Orion: I do have Feather Fall.
Laura: But Levitate or something-- but we could tie a rope to you and it can--
Liam: It makes him lighter, yeah.
Laura: -- it makes you really light, and we can just drag you behind us. Yeah, it'll work.
Sam: Why do we need to float Grog?
Travis: If we cut the bridge.
Laura: In case we destroy the bridge.
Sam: Oh.
Orion: Oh, don't worry about that, Grog. I'll just cast Fly on you, because I can fly.
Travis: You can just Fly me?
Orion: Yes. We can both fly.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: And you can Fly Trinket, too?
Orion: Of course, the bear.
Laura: Of course.
Travis: I'm down for doing this.
Laura: Let's do it! Do it!
Marisha: Flying from the--
Orion: We have ways across.
Marisha: Okay, okay, hang on, hang on.
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. Are we--
Marisha: So, let's have a failsafe in case a few get across the bridge.
Sam: Let's also recap which plan we're going with. One of us creating a diversion and running away, or these mystical, magical--
Travis: I like the mystical, magical--
Sam: -- weird dragon creatures. What if they scare them the other way?
Taliesin: It would have to be pretty scary. And then, hey, that works.
Orion: I just said, the path would be clear.
Sam: What if--
Liam: Well, are we scaring them or are we luring them?
Sam: Also, might I remind--
Orion: It's all up to the deck.
Sam: We're luring them. And also, might I remind you all, that they're being mind controlled by this, what, illithid--
Travis: Davy Jones.
Laura: I feel like we should try to--
Marisha: Illithid.
Sam: And if the illithid recognizes that your--
Laura: Wait, wait!
Sam: -- your things are false, then he's not going to send his men--
Laura: That's true.
Sam: -- off to chase them.
Taliesin: Or he may send them to kill whoever is creating the illusion.
Orion: Exactly.
Sam: However, if we were-- hm.
Orion: Either way, they're coming for us.
Laura: Maybe we could create a distraction and bring them away from the tunnel's entrance and we can just sneak around them. No?
Orion: I mean, did you see a way to do that?
Sam: What? To sneak through the village to the tunnel? No! Not all seven of us. And a bear. Are you crazy? (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no, he's trying to kill us. All right.
Travis: I'll stay on this side of the bridge, who wants to go be a distraction? Who wants to be the bait? Who's real fast?
Sam: Wait, are we doing his bait or are we doing a real bait?
Travis: I don't--
Orion: We can try both.
Travis: What if you cast something big and they turn it against us? That could suck.
Orion: Oh!
Sam: It's fake. It's just a hologram.
Laura: It's not--
Orion: It's an illusion that I control.
Travis: How about we throw one of those and send--
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: How about 50/50 it? One fake, one real. One of us, one of the cards.
Liam: I'll go.
Travis: Somebody be Gambit and throw that bitch.
Marisha: We really just need someone to keep them from running through that tunnel.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: We need some way to keep them from coming-- going--
Laura: Can you send a card that looks like a dragon on the other side, in the tunnel, and then they run towards us.
Marisha: Oh, oh, oh! Wait, wait.
Travis: What's wrong with them running away from us?
Sam: Oh, snap.
Marisha: I actually have a spell, while I was reading through my book last night, catching up on spells that I kinda forgot about. I learned something called Hallucinatory Terrain, where I can make the entire terrain look like whatever I want.
Sam: Other terrain or an animal?
Marisha: Other terrain.
Travis: They're mind controlled--
Marisha: What I can do, is--
Laura: You can make the chasm look like it's solid ground!
Sam: Can you make the chasm look like it's solid ground?
Travis: Ooh!
Marisha: I can make the chasm look like it's solid ground--
Sam: Can she do this?
Matt: She can try.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: I like it!
Marisha: I can make the tunnel across the way look like it's caved in.
Laura: Make the big chasm look like solid ground. They'll fall off the edge!
Taliesin: That's a great plan.
Liam: That's a great idea, but let's--
Orion: I'll throw the illusion on the fake lands.
Liam: -- let's stack the deck, all right? I'm still gonna be live bait, because I have an inkling that that thing, whatever it is, with the tentacles on its face--
Sam: Is gonna see through that.
Liam: -- is going to see through it. So if we've got one real half-elf in the mix, he'll focus on me. So I'll take the flying carpet and tie it around my back.
Laura: You better run fast and not get taken!
Liam: I have boots of haste.
Marisha: Are you good with hauling ass?
Liam: Mm?
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Okay. As long as you can haul ass.
Travis: All right.
Liam: So I take the rug from Grog--
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I'm gonna roll it up and I tie it, I have a rope to tie it to my back.
Laura: It's a big rug on your back.
Travis: Saddle up, let's do it.
Matt: It's a very big rug.
Liam: Is it?
Matt: What's your strength?
Liam: It is--
Laura: It's a big-ass rug.
Sam: Wait.
Liam: 14?
Laura: It'd be like carrying a--
Matt: It won't be cumbersome, necessarily.
Marisha: Before Liam-- before Vax leaves--
Sam: Wait! Might I interject? I'm so sorry.
Marisha: Go ahead.
Sam: You guys-- You and you will be hauling ass away from the charging horde--
Laura: You? You're not--
Travis: No, no--
Laura: No, just him.
Travis: I'm staying on our side of the bridge.
Sam: On our side.
Travis: Our side.
Laura: But he's got a rug, he's got the flying carpet.
Taliesin: So we're gonna make them hallucinate--
Sam: So, when you get all the way to the other side of the bridge, then we're gonna chop.
Travis: No.
Laura: No, we're gonna chop it when they start coming across the bridge. We're hoping that they're gonna just fall off the edge instead.
Orion: Run off the bridge--
Travis: They go, (yells)
Sam: Which side are we gonna chop it on? Our side or their side?
Travis: Once he gets back to our side.
Laura: Our side!
Sam: Okay.
Travis: (yells) They come back, everybody falls in--
Liam: What's the bridge made of? Is it just rope and wood?
Sam: Rope.
Matt: From what it looks like, it is rope and stone platforms.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: On both sides?
Matt: Like slats, slats of stone, that then the rope is tied around.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: It's a very, very thick, hefty twine.
Laura: He can cut through that.
Travis: All right. So Tiberius and Vax are going over.
Laura: All right!
Travis: Do it.
Marisha: Before Vax leaves, I just put my hands on his shoulders, and I cast Enhance Ability on him, and give you a dexterity boost.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: I'm also going to sing a little song--
Marisha: So you have advantage on all dex rolls.
Sam: -- for both of them--
Liam: So what's the boost? How high is it?
Sam: -- to inspire them.
Marisha: You have the advantage--
Liam: Advantage.
Marisha: -- on all dex rolls.
Liam: On all dex rolls. All right.
Marisha: If that comes to that.
Liam: That's great, because that's how I attack.
Matt: Well, advantage on dex ability checks.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ability checks.
Matt: Like acrobatics, things like that, sleight of hand, stealth.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Is Scanlan singing?
Sam: Oh, yes, I'll sing an inspiration song for both of them.
Matt: Okay, so--
Sam: (sings) Hey baby, hey baby, hey!
Liam: But we need to--
Sam: (sings) Dwarves say. Dwarves say. (all laugh)
Sam: (sings) Hey baby, hey baby, hey! On to the bridge and fall down. (all laugh)
Matt: All right! So.
Travis: Was that Gwen Stefani?
Laura: All right! (laughs)
Matt: So, inspiration dice to Vax, and who else?
Marisha: I hope this works.
Matt: Vax and who else? Gets inspiration dice? Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'm sorry, these two-- Grog and Vax.
Matt: Okay. So both of you guys have a d8 of inspiration dice you can spend.
Sam: Oh! Are you going too?
Laura: Yeah, no, Grog isn't going, Tiberius is going.
Sam: I'm sorry. Tiberius and Vax, then.
Matt: Okay. There you go.
Travis: You could have gave it to me.
Liam: But, Tiberius, walk on a bit behind me, and I'm gonna walk up to the edge of town, and I'm gonna chat.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh my god. What if you-- What!
Matt: So, before this happens, where's everyone placed? You guys--
Liam: Yeah, where are you guys--
Laura: Oh my God.
Matt: You guys are across the bridge.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Where's the rest of you?
Taliesin: I'm gonna set up on our side of the bridge, I'm gonna set up the Bad News gun and get ready to train it on whatever might try and come across.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Are there any big rock formations that I can sort of use as a shelter and kind of stay behind that but also peek around?
Matt: About 20 feet off from the edge, on the goblin side, there is one outcropping of, like, a large stalagmite that you could probably get behind.
Laura: Oh, on the goblin side?
Matt: On the goblin side. Oh, do you wanna be on their side?
Laura: I want to be on our side.
Matt: Your side, meaning the side that the war camp is on.
Laura: No. I thought we were all on the other side of the bridge.
Sam: We're gonna stay on the side that doesn't have all the bad guys on it.
Matt: Right. There's the goblin side, which is where you guys first went through, there's the bridge, and then there's the war camp side.
Laura: Goblin side.
Travis: Goblin side.
Matt: All right. So you're on-- Goblin side for you, Goblin side for Grog--
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Goblin side for Percy, setting up the Bad News, your crazy gun.
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Laura: You're on the war camp side
Taliesin: Gonna be great.
Matt: And Scanlan as well.
Liam: Right, and I'm gonna run that, but you guys are all going back to--
Laura: We're on the goblin side.
Liam: The safer side. The further side.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm gonna be-- Can I be like halfway in between on the bridge? Is that a bad idea?
Matt: You can do that. It's up to you.
Travis: Go for it! You can fly.
Laura: Can she fly?
Matt: Turn into birds.
Marisha: I can turn into a bird.
Matt: She's a druid.
Laura: Oh! You can turn into a bird!
Travis: Yeah. She's fine.
Laura: How long does your spell cast? I mean, your spell last?
Travis: (snickers)
Laura: Shut up.
Marisha: My-- which one?
Laura: Your illusion spell.
Marisha: It's a concentration thing. So, as long as I can keep it up.
Laura: So, maybe you should do that--
Marisha: Oh. Yeah, for up to 30-- 24 hours, actually. It's not a concentration spell.
Laura: So, how far does it reach?
Marisha: 300 feet.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: 150 square feet.
Matt: Right. Okay.
Liam: Just needs to--
Marisha: And it looks, sounds--
Liam: -- work around the edge of the bridge.
Marisha: -- smells, like some other sort of natural terrain.
Matt: So, what are you going to make the terrain look like? What is your alteration?
Marisha: So, what I'm doing, whenever we-- can I make it look like there's a cave-in happening through the tunnel?
Laura: (whispers) Wait! No! Make it look like it's really far--
Liam: Keyleth, what if you fudged it so the cliff--
Marisha: Well, that's what I'm gonna do.
Liam: -- looked like it went 30 feet further out.
Marisha: Yeah. What I'm gonna do, I just want the terrain to look, on my side--
Liam: Close to what they're used to.
Marisha: I want the terrain to look exactly like what it is, but I just wanna stretch it out a little bit, so it looks like they've got, like, an extra running space.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Liam: Yeah, so if it looks too different--
Matt: So like an additional 40 or so feet out from the actual--
Marisha: Yes. Of actual, yes. Like the bridge is an extra 40 feet away.
Matt: Okay. The actual ceiling is maybe about 120 feet up, so it might be a little hard to do that, and cause a cave-in-type illusion.
Marisha: Okay. Then I'll do that. Then I'm gonna just-- you know what, I'm gonna stay on the opposite side of the bridge, and I'm gonna focus on making that illusion.
Matt: Okay. Cool. So you go ahead and you cast Hallucinatory Terrain--
Marisha: Yep.
Laura: (yells)
Matt: You now see an additional 40 feet of the cliff stretching out--
Laura: It looks very realistic.
Marisha: Thank you!
Matt: And you can actually see that the bridge looks attached to it, it's a very, very convincing illusion. And you kind of have to remind yourself that it's an illusion, just so you don't fall for it either!
Marisha: Yes, be careful guys, please be careful!
Matt: All right. So you're kind of chilling in the middle of the bridge?
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Matt: All right. The rest of you are--
Marisha: All right, I'm on the outside of the bridge.
Matt: -- on the other side-- outside of the bridge.
Marisha: I'm out with them.
Matt: Okay. So you're off the bridge now.
Marisha: Gone. Yeah.
Matt: All right. So now, Tiberius, Vax, you guys walk across the bridge, keeping grip both side rails, feeling it rock to and fro from the continuous warm bellowing of wind up from the cavern beneath you. Eventually you bring your way across. What looks like you should be stepping on terrain is still the bridge, and it takes you a minute to adjust to the fact that you're still going across the bridge, but it looks like rocky terrain. Eventually you make it to the other side and you grab purchase on stone. Looking ahead of you, you can see about 60 feet ahead of you the outskirts of the war camp.
Liam: Okay. Tiberius, you wait here, ready to run. I take Tiberius by the arm like this. Vox Machina.
Orion: Vox Machina. (all laugh)
Liam: Okay. So I stealthily walk up to the closing distance to the edge of town and I stand there. I click my boots of haste together.
Laura: Oh god.
Orion: As he runs off I cast Greater Invisibility on myself.
Matt: All right.
Orion: I cast Fly on myself and I hover.
Matt: Both of those are concentration spells.
Orion: Fuck!
Matt: You can only have one of those up at any given point in time.
Orion: I'll cast Fly, then.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: So you're now floating up. Okay.
Liam: Okay.
Orion: And I'm at enough edge to where her illusions are, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: But over the bridge just in case I fall.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Okay, all right. So you're now just kinda hovering above the bridge now. You--
Liam: I just clicked the boots.
Matt: You feel the sudden surge of magical energy through your body like adrenaline just pumping into your system.
Liam: And I cry out full voice, listen up, you walking prawn, doom has come for you today. Step forth, you slimy bastard.
Laura: Oh fuck. (all laugh)
Orion: As he does that I toss out three cards.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh gosh.
Liam: Your trolls can't save you.
Orion: Right at the rim of where the illusion stops.
Laura: I will find you.
Liam: No matter how far or how long.
Matt: Been awhile since you've used those. (laughs) All right. Oh, okay. You shuffled these, right?
Travis: We should call this a rim job.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: All right. This will be very, very interesting.
Liam: Oh Jesus.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Sam: You got your dice?
Travis: Sure it is.
Liam: It's a great plan.
Sam: Use your dice.
Marisha: Are you convincing yourself or are you--
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Travis: We're on the safe side with Bad News and me.
Taliesin: We're fine.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm with you guys. We're fine.
Matt: So currently one of the cards bursts and you can see rising up from its energy this awful-looking humanoid skeletal undead creature with long golden red robes, with this gnarled gold crown and these glowing blue eyes and just pure arcane energy across this horribly gnarled skeletal face.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: There stands this hideous-looking lich cackling to itself.
Orion: Ah, the ace of spades-- two of spades, it changed, dammit. Looking at Pathfinder right now. (all laugh)
Orion: Two of spades.
Liam: Tiberius, can we hit it and quit it?
Laura: What are the other ones?
Matt: The other one (poof) and you see before you a kind of --
Orion: Flip them over, they have good graphics on the cover.
Matt: It's nice. Through the smoke, you see what looks like some sort of a human kind of long, long-fighting warrior, grizzled, ready to fight, has a big old longsword out, armored up in scalemail, one eye is kinda wounded, and he just kinda sits there and growls with his blade ready. The third card. From the smoke appears a red-skinned dragonborn with long blue robes and a staff with a glowing beam of light on it.
Travis: Yes.
Orion: Oh. It must be a joker.
Matt: You see an exact duplicate of Tiberius now standing there as the three illusions stand. (all laugh)
Travis: Outstanding.
Marisha: That's perfect.
Matt: Your cards are now spent, correct?
Orion: Uh, no, they exist until I dispel them.
Matt: Right, but I mean the actual cards don't go back in the deck.
Orion: Yes, they do.
Matt: They do, okay. All right, never mind. Okay. As you shout out, the card illusion appears. You see about five or six duergar kind of look out from a nearby tent and go-- and then start running toward the center of the town.
Marisha: Come here, bitches
Matt: About 20 seconds pass. And then you start hearing this (boom boom boom boom). It sounds like a drum beat.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: Cut the rope, cut the rope.
Laura: Not yet, not yet, not yet.
Sam: Leave Vax there, let's go. (all laugh)
Matt: At this point, you now see about 16 duergar come running out from the center of town, armored, weapons drawn, a few with crossbows, two trolls and an ogre charging out. You see the ogres holding this giant-- it looks like a stone slab for one of its clubs, and the two trolls just come with their claws open, rushing right towards you and the illusions.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Liam: I start flipping--
Orion: I command the lich to start doing one of his glowy spells, and, like, through him, I go: (whispers) Come for us, your death awaits. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I flip the double birds and start walking backwards a little bit.
Sam: Oh yes, that's even better!
Marisha: Just watch your step!
Liam: Yes, straight back.
Orion: I command the soldier to start swinging his sword.
Matt: As you're stepping back, four of the duergar immediately take, using their inertia, pull and release javelins in your direction.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Oh god!
Matt: All right, what's your AC?
Laura: Oh gosh.
Liam: My AC is 19.
Matt: All right, you take two javelins--
Liam: I'm gonna use Uncanny Dodge. For anything I can see, I can dodge for half damage, if I need to.
Matt: All right, good to know. The first one strikes you in the torso for a total of 11 damage.
Liam: Shit, okay.
Orion: Oh.
Matt: The other hits you for a total of eight damage.
Liam: Is that the halved or--?
Orion: Total.
Matt: No, well, you can choose to half one. It's up to you, you choose which one. Probably the higher one.
Liam: Okay, so, it was 11 and eight?
Matt: So it would be six.
Liam: Okay, six and eight, okay, 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage with these just javelins hitting you like, oh, that's right. They have range! (all laugh)
Liam: Right, I knew this was coming.
Laura: Right!
Matt: You can immediately see one of the trolls goes and just lunges forward and slashes the lich, just passing through its form.
Orion: He lunges at the lich?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: Sweet!
Matt: It went through, it kinda loses its footing for a second, stops and kinda looks angry, turns and starts slashing at it again.
Laura: Run! Run away!
Sam: -- fake ground.
Orion: And I'm like--
Marisha: Yeah, isn't he on the fake ground? The lich?
Orion: Yes, yeah, he's like right at the edge.
Matt: Yeah, right at the precipice.
Orion: I can't throw my card on the fake ground. They'd fall.
Matt: Yeah, so the troll kind of steps forward--
Orion: They're right at the edge, though.
Matt: -- and the troll turns around and starts slashing. The other one goes right for the veteran. And (laughs) goes running right off the edge.
Laura: (gasps)
All: Yes!
Sam: The troll?
Matt: That was the troll, just (falling sounds). The ogre goes running forward, right towards you.
Orion: I command the--
Liam: Yes?
Matt: Just their speed, they're just the first ones to get there. Duergar have tiny legs.
Liam: (high-pitched voice) Where's the roll for initiative, man?
Laura: You're already back, you're at the bridge!
Matt: This is what I'm saying, what are you doing? This is your reactionary part. We're just taking-- this isn't a battle, this is--
Liam: Yeah, I'm backing it up, I'm running, man.
Matt: All right, so you go charging back onto the bridge. As you go running, all right, both trolls and the ogre have just gone off the side.
Laura: Badass! (all cheer)
Matt: You hear them screaming as they tumble into the darkness.
Liam: I'm laughing as I run.
Travis: Didn't occur to me that there is a bridge--
Matt: About four duergar also go spilling over the side, screaming as they tumble into the darkness.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: The rest of them stop, kind of look around and--
Sam: This was a great plan!
Orion: I start-- as that's happening, I start to pull back and float away and I'm commanding all of my guys to come through the bridge. Because I can command them within 30 feet. So they're now, they're all within 30 feet of me, retreating as well.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, you can now see some of the members of the duergar that are now at the edge are some of the elite guard, with the blackened armor you saw. They both kinda step forward and put their foot out, feeling for purchase, give a nod, pull out their swords, and start hacking at the bridge immediately.
Sam: (gasps) Oh shit.
Laura: Shit.
Taliesin: All right, I'm taking a shot.
Laura: Can we-- does our aim reach? Our ranged attacks, do they reach?
Sam: (whispers) You, fly?
Travis: No, he's got it.
Laura: Do ranged attacks reach?
Matt: From this distance, it's gonna be a serious penalty.
Taliesin: I'm not!
Matt: You don't, because you--
Taliesin: I'm taking that shot, because I can shoot forever.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: (gunshot)
Liam: I'm untying the carpet quickly. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god and all that is holy.
Marisha: (groans) Oh, no.
Taliesin: Misfire, I gotta--
Laura: I can at least try, right?
Matt: Go ahead and roll. As you-- You're at disadvantage.
Laura: Fail so hard.
Matt: As your arrow (shooting sound) off, you (gun misfiring sound) and there's a slight delay, and you wonder, why isn't it working? And this horrible explosion sound bursts out as you can now see, black and red smoke pouring out of the front of the barrel of Bad News, and it burns your hands for a second and you're like, ah, shit, take a second to--
Taliesin: All right, so I gotta stop and clean.
Matt: Yeah, however, because you are unable to halt that, both of those duergar take shots at the bridge.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Matt: Both hit with their swords.
Marisha: Are you on the carpet, Vax?
Travis: He's getting it out.
Liam: I don't know, I said I was.
Laura: Get on it, now.
Matt: As you're running and pulling the carpet out--
Liam: Yes!
Matt: -- the bridge is cut clean--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: -- and begins to fall out from under you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You go pulling out the--
Liam: Acrobatics check?
Marisha: Use them dex saves!
Matt: This is gonna go ahead and be a dex check now.
Marisha: You've got advantage!
Matt: You do.
Laura: Oh, good.
Liam: Okay, good, because the first roll was a one. The second roll was a 19.
Orion: Yes!
Liam: Plus! Plus, plus, plus nine is 28.
Travis: Oh my god! You almost died!
Matt: All right. You pull out the carpet. As you're going to set it down, as you feel the bridge beginning to like, give out from under you, you feel this creepy sensation pushing towards the back of your head.
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: Mm-hm.
Matt: You guys, looking across, you can see now a familiar cloaked figure has emerged. (all gasp)
Sam: Oh shit!
Liam: I drew him out.
Laura: Clean your gun, clean your gun!
Taliesin: I'm cleaning my gun.
Matt: Go ahead and make a willpower saving throw.
Travis: Get your bow ready.
Laura: I am, I'm ready, it's too far!
Liam: I survive a free fall and you hit me with that right after? Yeah, will save?
Matt: Willpower save.
Liam: So that's-- what is it, I've never done that? That's--
Matt: It's at the top of your sheet of your stats, above your stats, on the right of your stats. Oh, it's your wisdom saving.
Liam: Wisdom, okay.
Matt: Wisdom.
Liam: Ow, not very good. Seven.
Matt: Seven.
Laura: No!
Matt: As you are running, you get the carpet out, you leap onto it and your whole sense and awareness of your surroundings just fades from you. You just feel your entire body going numb for a second and you just feel yourself falling.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Laura: Fly down! Get him! Get him!
Matt: Falling back.
Orion: Oh! Oh bother! Shoo! I go get him!
Liam: 29 dex save right down the toilet.
Matt: You go and swoop down, fly. You manage to--
Orion: Is he conscious?
Matt: He is just staring up at this moment.
Orion: Very good. I go just to touch him, I am not trying to pull him up.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What? Try to grab him! Try to grab him!
Liam: Fly, he can fly me.
Sam: He is falling!
Orion: He is falling. Fly!
Liam: Like Superman.
Matt: You cast Fly on him? All right!
Orion: Now fly, damn it.
Matt: He is still just kind of standing there, not doing anything. As you finish casting the Fly spell, your Fly spell dissipates because it's a concentration spell and you can have one at a given time.
Orion: Wait, you're unconscious?
Liam: I don't know what I am.
Orion: I ask right now, is he--
Marisha: He's like catatonic.
Orion: He is, okay. Then I don't do that, because you can't fly yourself, so I do grab him, this time.
Matt: Okay, you grab him as his whole weight goes onto you. What's your strength?
Orion: Oh my god.
Liam: It has been nice knowing you, ladies and gentlemen.
Orion: 12.
Laura: No, no, no.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: Come on, Tiberius.
Laura: Can we see this all happening off to the side?
Sam: Plus eight.
Laura: Keyleth!
Taliesin: It's happening very fast.
Liam: Oh, shit, can I use--
Orion: It's a 21.
Matt: 21? You rush down, diving, you grab the back of his armor. As you yank up on him, you manage to just pull him across and get him to the other edge. The flying carpet, however, has plummeted down in--
All: No!
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Laura: You lost our flying carpet, you unconscious bastard!
Matt: However, Tiberius swoops up. You guys just see them both plummet into darkness and then flying up at the edge of the crevasse on your side, Tiberius clutching your brother, currently just staring off into space and dropping him down with a dull sound.
Laura: Vax!
Matt: The bridge slaps onto the side of the cavern.
Liam: Mawp.
Laura: And I run over to Vax.
Liam: Mawp.
Laura: And I'm like trying to figure out what's wrong with him.
Travis: The magic carpet is done?
Matt: It just disappeared into the darkness below.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: (tearfully) I have to erase it.
Marisha: Bye, carpet.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: That was our ticket across the chasm.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: I loved that carpet, damn it.
Matt: About a minute passes or so, you come back to your senses.
Laura: Oh, good.
Liam: I got to get the carpet. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Can I clean my gun?
Orion: I slap him with Mage Hand. Snap out of it!
Liam: What happened? What happened?
Travis: Wait, do we leave or--
Laura: No, wait--
Taliesin: They are still across there, aren't they?
Matt: You can see across the way that there are a bunch of them just standing at the edge.
Taliesin: I wanna take a shot at the--
Laura: At the--
Liam: Noodle-face, yeah.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: Oh, man!
Sam: You can see them and they control you.
Laura: Right in the noggin.
Liam: Shoot it in the eye, man.
Orion: Not from that distance, I don't think. His sniper rifle goes far.
Taliesin: Hm, that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll the damage. Across the way you can hear the resounding (gunshot).
Taliesin: Ah, yeah! That don't suck! 20 points of damage.
Matt: 20 points of damage! Nice. You just see this blast of red and flame across the way and the figure is just knocked off its feet, about ten feet back. (all laugh)
Laura: Can you shoot him again?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: It's just a carnival game for Percy at this point.
Matt: At this point in time you can now see the duergar looking up and backing away from the cliff side.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You come to the bridge, which is just dangling off the side now.
Liam: We're on the goblin side, now?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're on the goblin side and the bridge is just dangling down into darkness.
Taliesin: That felt pretty good, too.
Liam: Who wants to have a picnic?
Orion: I mean, seriously.
Marisha: So how many (monster sounds) are over there ?
Matt: You only saw the one.
Marisha: And how many duergar left? How many--
Orion: Yes, how many are left after all that?
Marisha: After they fell into--
Matt: After all that, you saw a few more kind of filter out from the town, you have probably about 25 visible at that moment that have all backed.
Taliesin: I'm going to hang on him visually and I'm gonna wait to take another shot until he tries to stand up again.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So if he tries to stand up again, I want to shoot him again.
Laura: But wait, you can shoot him while he's on the ground! Can't you?
Taliesin: That's so much more fun to wait.
Matt: You can shoot him, but it's at disadvantage to shoot someone who's prone.
Laura: He's on the ground?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Technically, he's got cover. And it's funnier to just wait.
Matt: A moment passes and he kind of drifts back up. Take another shot.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Marisha: Come on, Percy.
Liam: Come on, baby.
Taliesin: He's such an asshole.
Marisha: Like fish in a barrel.
Liam: Come on, Von Rolo!
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? Unfortunately, it does not hit.
Liam: (ricochet noise)
Matt: At that distance, with the darkness, it's very hard to get your bead on him at that point. So you (gunshot), fires off, you can now see it drift away--
Laura: Fudge!
Matt: -- and all the rest of the duergar are now retreating into the city.
Taliesin: Man!
Laura: What're you gonna do? All of our shit's gone.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Okay. What're we gonna do? Leave?
Laura: Maybe we can-- can we walk up and see--
Orion: Let's take a short rest.
Laura: -- if we can find another bridge?
Orion: While we're figuring this out.
Matt: If you want to. Okay. So you walk over to the edge, and you kind of look across to the sides. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll assist.
Laura: Oh, 20!
Liam: 20.
Taliesin: Never mind!
Laura: No, no assistance needed.
Matt: Natural 20?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Never mind.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Plus--
Laura: Plus my perception?
Liam: (high-pitched) Natural 20 motherfucker!
Laura: My perception is six.
Liam: (high-pitched) Automatic win!
Matt: You glance over the side-- (all laugh)
Matt: -- and looking down, you can see the bridge is just kind of like drifting from the air that's flowing, and you can just see the-- and it's not like the whole bottom floor is all lava, there's just streaks of it pouring down from whatever the interior of this lower chasm is. You see, at the edge of the rope break, which goes down for a good 150, 200 feet or so, dangling, and there's a tiny little flicker of material--
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: -- wrapped up in the ropes of the rope bridge.
Laura: Oh my god.
Travis: It's the carpet!
Sam: Material? It's the carpet!
Matt: It's the carpet! It seems to be the carpet.
Taliesin: Okay. We have an infinite rope!
Marisha: Oh! Go!
Laura: We have infinite rope! I'm gonna tie it to myself--
Orion: Wait, hold on a second--
Taliesin: We're gonna lower you down.
Orion: Is it still-- it's just at the end of the-- all the way down there?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Orion: So I fly down there--
Laura: No-- aww.
Orion: -- and go get it!
Sam: Yeah, that makes sense.
Laura: Oh, all right.
Orion: It's still in effect!
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: Okay, watch out for that warm air, whatever that was.
Matt: So.
Orion: Ooh. You're right. I take out an empty bottle while I do this.
Matt: All right. You glide down along the base of the cut rope bridge, and there, just barely hanging on by just haphazardly falling and tangling itself in the ropes is the flying carpet. As you float down, you now get a little bit of a better view, as your staff is lit, you can see, about another 150 feet down below you, a little bit of a reflection of your light. It's currently just kind of rippling and shifting.
Laura: (gasps) It's water down there?
Marisha: It's water?
Sam: It's water?
Matt: It appears to be some sort of water surface below you. About 150 feet down.
Sam: I thought there was lava--
Travis: I run and jump off the cliff!
Matt: There are streaks of lava--
Laura: No you don't.
Matt: -- pouring, like from the ceiling and portions of the wall--
Travis: Yep, and I jumped all the way down.
Laura: It's 1000 feet down.
Matt: -- but it's all just kind of pouring down and pooling at the edges and then cooling.
Laura: It's 1000 feet.
Liam: That's a big belly flop.
Travis: I have great form in mid-air.
Sam: So there, it's a river--
Orion: And you don't know this yet.
Laura: Do you want to die?
Matt: And you can see the waterfall, it's cascading over the side--
Travis: It's water.
Laura: You're being incredibly childish. Don't do that.
Matt: -- is currently rushing past you at about 30 feet to your right, and it seems to be splashing into this pool below.
Laura: Don't. Dive. 1000 fucking feet.
Orion: Waterfall. Ah! I retrieve the magic carpet.
Matt: You grab the magic carpet, you roll it up, make your way back up to the surface.
Marisha: Carpet!
Orion: Ah, here you are. By the way, cool stuff down there. It's actually not lava, it's water! Aha. Believe it or not.
Laura: Water? How far down from the bridge?
Orion: It's about 150 feet from the bridge, but it's about 1000 feet down all the way. We could traverse down, somehow, and I think it would be a nice place to go explore.
Sam: Place to go explore?
Orion: Especially because we have nothing else to do, and--
Sam: Well, we could go to the camp and go kick some--
Laura: Well, look, we know-- we can't get over there.
Sam: But we have a carpet now!
Orion: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Yeah, but we go over one at a time and then we're waiting for--
Marisha: Ah, fly me down with you.
Laura: The thing is--
Sam: The three of us can fly.
Marisha: Tiberius and I are going to fly down.
Laura: The thing is, we know that--
Marisha: On the carpet.
Laura: -- deeper down is where they've gone.
Marisha: Yes. That's true.
Laura: So probably it'd be best to go down. We could have avoided all of this bullshit if we'd just have known--
Liam: But we didn't know, and if there's--
Marisha: I don't wanna fight, I don't wanna fight that guy.
Liam: -- if there's more than one of them these, though, he's gone boodle-oodle-ooo to his friends right now, I mean--
Laura: Right.
Liam: -- if we can it'd be good to put this guy in the ground.
Sam: I'm all for going--
Marisha: I don't know. Okay, take me down--
Sam: There's a tunnel back there--
Marisha: Hang on, let me, let's go see, let's go see.
Sam: -- back, past that village, that they're protecting.
Orion: Well, I'm still flying, you can take-- Percy, would you like to come?
Taliesin: Oh, all right.
Marisha: I've-- to ride the carpet down to the bottom with Percy and Tiberius.
Orion: Well, I-- whoever's going down should be on the carpet, 'cause I can still fly.
Marisha: Right.
Orion: So, I don't need it.
Marisha: Me and Percy are on the carpet.
Matt: All right, so the two of you get on the carpet, you drift down, and you begin to make your way down this giant crevasse. As you get down, the air gets warmer and warmer, and you begin to see as you come down, a good 600 feet now at this point, into this much larger space than the one you guys are currently above. It's like a giant, triangular, open cavern down here. It kind of funnels up into where the bridge was.
Marisha: Do I see any tunnels, or areas that look like it leads someplace of interest?
Matt: As you look down, there is definitely a large pool of water that leads off into a few other underground rivers that spill off into the mountainside itself. There are sections of the wall where lava is pouring out, where there seems to be some sort of a vent or some sort of opening into some magma reserve, and there are about three of them that are pouring out, and kind of drifting down. One of them is pooling and cooling as it hits the water, and it's just kind of this perpetually glowing mass of slow-growing rock. There also appears to be one that is just continuing to flow that leads, kind of, back in the direction where you guys came, but underneath. There's one big lava pool that is spilling, and then kind of giving a little bit of light to the inside of a tunnel that continues further down at a decline. The opposite side--
Sam: Lava tunnels? What, are you crazy?
Marisha: I keep going.
Sam: Sorry, yes?
Matt: That's okay.
Marisha: Are you done?
Matt: On the opposite side, you can see there's a small outcropping and a smaller waterfall that is pouring out of the side of the mountain, like another sea is now meeting the river underneath, and that is just kind of cascading out from the side of the rock, dropping about 30 or 40 feet, and hitting the edge of the rock pool.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: On Cthulhu's side, you're talking about?
Matt: On Cthulhu's side. Yeah.
Orion: I think we should--
Marisha: I say, Tiberius, give me some light?
Orion: Oh!
Marisha: And I take-- and I cast Control Water, and I just take the pool-- the water in the bottom of the pool, and I bend it, and I part the pool, and I take it and I cascade it all the way up, following the lava flows.
Matt: Okay. Just so you're aware, the pool is about 600 feet across. (all laugh)
Marisha: I can part seas with this.
Matt: Right. So you can part elements of it, but like, it is a large, large, large body of water.
Marisha: Oh, okay, okay. Well I'm taking-- okay. I don't necessarily part it, but I take the water, and I draw it up, cascading along the edges following all the lava streams going into the tunnels.
Matt: Okay, another thing you notice, is there are two trolls and an ogre currently trying to stay afloat, as one of them just (sucking sound) gets pulled under the water.
Laura: Gets pulled under?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: (yells)
Matt: You begin moving the water to the sides and you begin to cool some of the lava flows.
Orion: Oh, that's awesome.
Matt: You can see the glowing red magma begin to cool to a dark black and become solid. As it does you can see parts of it crack, as the magma's still pushing out. But you're definitely staunching the flow.
Marisha: I'm gonna kind of push it, you said there was a tunnel kind of going up into Cthulhu side?
Matt: Yeah, there is a tunnel that seemed-- the opening leads to the back, and there's a waterfall that is pouring out from that side.
Orion: Waterfall.
Marisha: There's a waterfall.
Matt: Waterfall.
Orion: Not a lava fall.
Matt: The lava flow is going down the opposite direction.
Marisha: But there's like a tunnel kind of carving out that way?
Matt: Yeah. Like a large opening that continues further down.
Marisha: Okay, I take all of the water, and I really just concentrate, and I gather just a big tube, and I push it down that tunnel.
Matt: Okay, so the best-- the water that you gather from this, you force into a quick geyser in that direction. As it sprays across the front, you can see it begins to cool some of the magma. It's a pretty hefty flow, you manage to slow it, and you do cool parts of it, but it's gonna be difficult and take you a while, if you're just constantly pushing water on it, to give the flow any sort of serious stop. You notice the lava flow doesn't coat the entire floor of the tunnel, just a side of it. It's almost like there's some portion of it that is walkable, adjacent to the lava.
Orion: We can also go in the not-lava cave, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm sorry, that lava cave just looks important.
Orion: I know. Because of the lava.
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Let's go tell the others what we've found, and then we'll come back and decide which way to go.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Sometimes a lava cave is just a lava cave.
Orion: I fly back up.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Guys. Blah-blah-blah-blah.
Sam: So here's my thoughts.
Matt: The other troll. (sucking sound) Pulled beneath the surface.
Sam: Yeah, so, I don't wanna go down there--
Marisha: Also, it looks like there's something eating those trolls.
Sam: -- there's things pulling trolls. Yeah, let's not go down there where there's things eating trolls! Why don't we just--
Orion: In the water?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: Yeah. In the giant water pool in the bottom.
Laura: Wait, but we're gonna have to go down eventually, so.
Liam: Maybe.
Sam: Why?
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Why do we have to go down there, there's nothing that we need down there!
Orion: But across the way is a 25-man battle with a huge, nasty boss.
Sam: There's seven of us and one of us is Grog!
Laura: Well, everybody keeps saying that everything is deeper and deeper, so I think we're gonna have to go--
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: -- deep down. Eventually.
Marisha: I agree with Vex on this one.
Liam: Well, hold on.
Sam: Deep into the tunnels.
Liam: All those assholes are still standing on the edge across there. Do we have-- we've flown out of a falling tower before, we were all able to do it, can we just fly up and over those shitheads and go towards the tunnel?
Orion: Not with the eye of that mind flayer.
Laura: Yeah. It can grab us.
Marisha: Yeah, look what it did to you!
Orion: I don't trust it.
Laura: Exactly.
Liam: Can't we go 150 feet in the air, and--
Laura: The tunnel doesn't go that high.
Marisha: I think you were at least 150 feet across that bridge when he did that to you.
Laura: Yeah. It can grab us from there.
Sam: We can try--
Liam: I was on the bridge when that happened--
Matt: You were on the bridge when that happened, you were--
Liam: -- and fell down. I wasn't way above.
Marisha: But the bridge was like 250 feet across, right?
Matt: Right. You were about, loosely, 80 feet across when it got you.
Liam: When it got me.
Orion: So its range is probably like 100 feet.
Liam: And you said it's 150-ish feet in here, though, to the ceiling?
Matt: To the ceiling it's about 150 feet, yeah.
Liam: We can go--
Laura: But the tunnel, oh--
Taliesin: They have ranged weapons as well.
Laura: (quietly) I think we should go down!
Sam: But what is down there?
Travis: If we don't find out.
Laura: Kima!
Travis: You can drop me like a depth charge.
Sam: But there's no sign of anything intelligent down there, other than something that's eating trolls underwater. It could be just giant whales down there! We have no idea! There's no sign of humans at all! It's lava and death animals!
Laura: Maybe, okay. If I go down there--
Orion: There's more like tunnels, that go further--
Laura: -- and look in one of the tunnels--
Marisha: Tunnels that go deeper!
Laura: -- can I look in one of the tunnels and see if I find tracks? If I do, can we go that way?
Sam: How're you gonna go in the tunnels?
Laura: I've got a flying carpet!
Sam: There's lava!
Laura: There's tunnels that don't have lava flowing into them.
Sam: If you burn--
Marisha: And I can control water for at least an hour.
Orion: There's, so, down there, there's a big pool of water--
Marisha: It lasts a while.
Orion: -- a tunnel going towards the mind flayer side, with no lava--
Laura: Exactly!
Orion: -- and then there's another cave with lava--
Laura: There is a tunnel that we can walk in.
Orion: -- that we can go, going away from him.
Taliesin: Let's see if there's anything resembling tracks--
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: I'll go with Vex that-a-way. I can cool lava as we go.
Laura: Please, Scanlan, let me look for tracks. Please?
Sam: Tracks in a river?
Laura: Tracks in a tunnel.
Sam: It's not that kind of a tunnel!
Laura: It is!
Sam: There's water flowing in it!
Matt: There is, on-- Okay. In a giant cavern, there is, towards the side where you guys kind of entered, underneath where you first came in--
Laura: Yes.
Matt: -- there is a descending, large tunnel, of which there are a series of lava flows that kind of pool into one river of lava that covers half of that path down--
Laura: Okay.
Liam: In the direction of goblin town.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Towards the other side, the--
Liam: The Cthulhu side.
Matt: The cavern ends and there is a waterfall pouring out of the side of the wall--
Sam: Can't go in there.
Matt: -- that just kind of flows down--
Sam: Oh, so there's a cavern opening?
Matt: No, no. There is a-- there-- well, there is essentially a hole where water is pouring out of.
Sam: Can't go in there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go in there!
Taliesin: But we can go in the one with lava.
Sam: There's water pouring out of it!
Marisha: I can make that stop happening.
Sam: But what would we find in a tunnel with water pouring out of it? It's not like anything lives up there!
Marisha: I'm just-- I would much rather face random beasts who are just random beasts, than mind flayers who can suck my brain out.
Taliesin: There would be no random beasts, though, it's just nothing but plumbing.
Liam: Yes, but Kima did not fall prey to random beasts, she fell prey to these shits.
Laura: All right, fine! Let's do whatever you guys want to do.
Marisha: I think-- I don't think a boss battle-- I don't think we can fight this guy and win!
Travis: Vote. Vote. For fuck's sake, vote. Put it to a vote.
Liam: Vote, yes.
Sam: All right. All in favor of going to the duergar village and facing the giant fucker.
Liam: Up and over, up and over!
Sam: Or up and over. Or at least getting past it. That direction. That's four of us.
Travis: That's four.
Sam: All in favor of going into the lava flows, to find something.
Laura: Water holes!
Liam: Water holes or fire holes?
Marisha: Water holes!
Sam: Mm. Mm.
Marisha: Tiberius, you haven't voted!
Orion: A Draconian does not vote.
Travis: What are you, Switzerland? C'mon.
Laura: It's four against us anyway.
Marisha: A Draconian-- you come from a political family!
Laura: We gotta go that way.
Orion: Well, I don't vote. I don't believe in our system. Anyway, that's none of your business.
Sam: Are you a communist? (all laugh)
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Liam: Now. Tiberius can fly, Keyleth is an eagle who can carry a gnome, and maybe my sister?
Laura: Ugh, no.
Liam: And that leaves Percy and Grog and I on the flying carpet. Can it hold our weight? Let's give it a little test?
Laura: And Trinket!
Marisha: Okay, well, if this doesn't work, we're going to the tunnel.
Matt: The flying carpet can't carry Grog on his own.
Laura: No, then I can't carry Grog.
Taliesin: You can, on the other hand, use--
Marisha: Can't-- wait, wait, wait. Why can't, why can't Vex and I just, at least, go check it out before we do this?
Liam: You lost the vote, Keyleth. You lost the vote.
Marisha: (sighs)
Laura: I think we should go.
Liam: Feather Fall--
Marisha: Let's do it! Fuck it!
Laura: Going!
Marisha: They don't control us!
Laura: We're going.
Marisha: Let's do it. We're going.
Matt: All right, So, what, you ladies hop on the flying carpet?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: The fellowship has broken.
Matt: (laughs) So, as you guys are discussing this--
Sam: Wait, you're stealing our flying carpet? (all laugh)
Matt: The two ladies have leaped on the flying carpet--
Marisha: We're just checking it out! We're coming back! We're coming back.
Laura: We're coming back!
Orion: Throw a red one! Throw a red one.
Marisha: Just wait ten god damn minutes.
Matt: They shout, as they disappear, into the darkness below the cavern.
Liam: The mind flayer isn't on pause!
Laura: Okay, I could, I have, wait! I have a--
Orion: That was gonna go right in my mouth!
Laura: I have a lantern.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. Cause I have a dungeoneering kit.
Taliesin: Oh, cool! Yellow.
Matt: All right. So you pull out your lantern, as the two of you are going down towards the water--
Laura: Part the water!
Matt: -- the rest of you kind of stand at the edge of the crevasse going, 'Uh...'
Orion: I follow. I follow.
Laura: Part the water!
Marisha: I take the river flow, where the water's flow is coming out of this waterfall--
Liam: Meanwhile the mind flayer's saying, (gravelly voice) 'I haven't got all day.'
Marisha: -- and I reverse it.
Matt: All right. So as you guys float down--
Orion: I follow.
Matt: -- the two trolls that were missing-- the ogre is not anywhere to be seen.
Travis: Fly, you fools!
Liam: (laughs)
Matt: -- there's just a slight ripple in the water's surface.
Laura: We don't wanna land, we just wanna go towards the tunnel.
Matt: Right. As you staunch the water supply of this waterfall, it just kind of holds it in place, with enough of a force that the water coming out is being balanced by the force you're putting back on it, it's just kind of holding it there.
Laura: Can you lower the water, so we can fly--
Matt: However, as the water vanishes, beneath where the waterfall was, you can see an actual small tunnel that's carved into the rock--
Laura: Fuck all y'all bitches!
Taliesin: Whoa. (laughs)
Liam: Well, wanna go down?
Laura: Let's go in there!
Travis: That doesn't do anything yet! We don't know!
Laura: Let's go into the tunnel.
Sam: Meanwhile, back up top, I'm saying, they're not gonna find anything. They're not gonna find any tunnels. (all laugh)
Travis: Yeah, I'm agreeing with Scanlan, and I am mooning off the cliff's face.
Laura: So I'm stealthing, let's stealth? Let's be very quiet.
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Hold on.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Can you turn into an animal?
Orion: I fly back up to tell them what's going on.
Marisha: Oh, I can! I go into a black panther form.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Scanlan, remember when we had women in this party?
Laura: Okay, and I stealth.
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: Okay, both of you guys roll stealth.
Marisha: Panthers have, like, advantage on stealth, something like that?
Matt: They have advantage on stealth check. Yeah.
Orion: You guys are just in further then?
Marisha: 16. 13. So 16 plus whatever--
Matt: Plus your dex.
Laura: 15.
Marisha: -- the dex of the panther is.
Laura: Plus, oh.
Marisha: No, it's whatever the dex-- it's gonna be like--
Orion: Oh.
Taliesin: (sings) The dex of the panther--
Marisha: It's gonna be like 20 or something like that.
Matt: All right. You guys move-- are you staying on the carpet?
Laura: No, we're like hopping down off the carpet, and I just want to look around for tracks!
Marisha: Plus four.
Orion: I take the carpet--
Marisha: No, plus six.
Orion: -- and then I bring it up, while I tell them all that stuff.
Matt: Okay, so you go back down--
Laura: What! You took our carpet?
Orion: Oh yes, because they need it to get down here as well.
Laura: Oh, we're going-- okay, you guys are joining us. All right.
Orion: I was--
Marisha: No, we were scouting.
Laura: I'm just looking for tracks right now, Tiberius.
Orion: Yeah and I followed you, saw what was going on, took your carpet, and I'm giving it back to them.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: So as you guys are--
Marisha: You can't take our carpet, we're on the carpet.
Orion: Oh, I thought you guys hopped off.
Matt: No, you guys stepped off the carpet, she said, and you transformed, began stealthing in.
Marisha: Oh, that's right. We did transform. Okay, sure, you can take the carpet.
Matt: As you're doing that you turn around and see Tiberius had rolled the carpet and is currently taking it away.
Laura: You motherfucker.
Matt: So you guys are on the bottom of this crevasse and Tiberius disappears into the darkness. Okay, well, go ahead and roll-- this would be survival for tracking? Just to get an idea for anything around you see.
Laura: 16.
Matt: You do see some scratches into the mud of the surface there that lead into a tunnel. You see drag marks, you see footprints, and that's the best you can make out at this in this point in time. But the footprints appear to be dwarven, or dwarf-sized in nature.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see what the scratch marks look like? If they look like any type of beast I might recognize.
Matt: The scratch marks are across the ground, it looks just like fingers being pulled through.
Marisha: Any type of residue, any type of slime?
Matt: No that you can tell, no.
Laura: Can we see where the tunnel leads?
Matt: From what you can see, there's no light source in there.
Laura: We have the light, remember, when I--
Matt: So you take a lantern and put it inside. The tunnel goes back about 25 feet and then stops. It's just a little alcove. You see within the tunnel a series of skeletons or bodies that are partially decomposed.
Taliesin: Oh. God.
Matt: And you see what looks like a pile of rags in the corner.
Travis: Go check it out.
Laura: So we can either run or loot. What should we do?
Travis: No, go check it out, ladies.
Sam: They're not gonna find anything.
Marisha: They're telling us not to be stupid because we don't have support. Should we be stupid?
Travis: Grog says yes.
Laura: Oh, I'm so scared, but okay, here's the thing, I remember another situation very similar to this.
Orion: It was terrible.
Laura: And it was the lair of one of those umber hulks.
Marisha: Right. Why don't we just go back maybe to the entrance of the--
Liam: Vex'ahlia, what is going on down there?
Travis: No no no no. Be thorough. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh brother, I think we found the lair of the umber hulk
Travis: Are you sure?
Laura: Oh, pretty damn sure.
Matt: It's very-- well, the actual tunnel is maybe about five to eight feet across and it would not be able to fit an umber hulk.
Laura: Oh, really? Can I go along the walls very stealthily and see if I can find any opening, anything else?
Matt: As you step inside and put your hands across the walls--
Taliesin: Oh God. Oh.
Laura: Oh God. Oh.
Matt: --what you do notice is, the walls are solid. This appears to have been carved out over time. And as you move in, you begin to see the rags, and the pile of rags is less a pile of rags and more some sort of humanoid curled up in on the inside. Unconscious, asleep, or dead. Not moving.
Marisha: What is she-- what do they look like?
Matt: You can't tell from here. It's just like kind of curled over in the corner.
Travis: Go in there.
Taliesin: I'd like to roll a save against smugness really quickly. Can I save against smugness? I feel a wave of smugness in here.
Matt: I think you might. You're not saved against smugness, Percy.
Laura: Keyleth, I think you should turn into an eagle. Can she turn into something big enough that can carry me?
Matt: She can. Yeah. A giant eagle, I believe you can.
Laura: What if you turn into something big enough that it can carry me, I hop on your back and we throw something at it? And then fly away. (all laugh)
Matt: While you guys are having this conversation, 'cause you're talking to each other--
Laura: Fuck. We were talking really quietly.
Matt: -- the thing in the corner kind of rouses and shoots up out of sudden fear movement, looking about. You see, dressed in rags-- you guys are seeing this for the first time, but it's familiar. Smooth head, purplish and blue in color, a series of tentacles in its mouth. A giant scar drawn across one of its eyes, and it looks filthy, and it looks desperate. And just looks at the two of you and you hear a sudden voice in your minds.
Laura: Oh fuck!
Matt: No movement, just conversation, saying, "What, who are you?"
Marisha: I drop to my knees and I look at him and just say, it's okay, we're friends.
Matt: He puts up a hand like this and you see there's a flicker of arcane energy and a barrier appears between you and this creature. And just looks.
Marisha: I take my Druidcraft and I just make a little flower.
Laura: Oh my God. (all laugh)
Marisha: And there's a pretty little tulip and I lay it at the edge of the barrier.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. (all laugh)
Matt: With disadvantage.
Marisha: With disadvantage? Okay. Nine.
Matt: Okay, nine total?
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: I'm not a very charismatic person.
Matt: It holds its place, and the voice again hits your mind and says, "How did you find me? What is your purpose here?"
Orion: I fly back down.
Travis: No, no, no!
Laura: We don't mean to disturb you, great sire.
Matt: "You will die if you try anything."
Laura: We're not going to!
Matt: "I will not fall here, I will not die here."
Laura: We mean to help you! We mean to find our way out, and find our friend. That's all.
Marisha: We don't want to die either.
Laura: Please. Who did this to you? We can help you.
Marisha: Let's not die together.
Matt: You can see as you get a better look at it, it definitely has a large scar across part of its face, and it looks to be wearing remnants of a robe similar to what Scanlan was describing. However, it is tattered, it's dirtied, sullied by the elements and god knows what other liquids. It also has this strange kind of metallic skull cap that's currently placed around its head. And it just, "Leave me in peace, then, or give me a reason not to slay you where you stand."
Liam: (whispers) Revenge.
Laura: We can help you get revenge against your brethren who did this to you.
Matt: There's a slight change in mood, you just feel. "Revenge?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Travis: Roll the shit out of that new dice.
Marisha: Come on, Vex.
Laura: 19?
Orion: Yes!
Matt: The barrier flickers and dissipates. It reaches over and grabs what looks like a gnarled stick. Pulls itself up onto its legs, now what looked like a small minuscule creature is now, even in his terrible hunched form, is standing extremely tall, like scraping the top of this maybe eight-foot-tall ceiling in this tunnel.
Marisha: (meekly) Hi.
Matt: It takes a step forward and says, "Revenge? You speak of revenge. This is a language I wish to know very well."
Marisha: You found the right motley crew. (all laugh)
Laura: Should we bring it with us?
Marisha: Would you like to come with us?
Laura: To leave this cavern?
Marisha: Meet our friends? We have friends.
Matt: It kind of gives you both a look and you hear this-- There's a slight lurching to it as it gives this horrible guttural-- (low chuckle) "Friends? That's a word I haven't heard in a long time. Not one I take to heart, but allies, in time, that I can understand. Take me to your allies."
Laura: Tiberius?
Orion: Mm, yes?
Laura: Maybe you can send that fucking carpet back down. (all laugh)
Orion: I'll be right there, I was trying to get the rest of the party here, but everyone's being buttholes. I fly back down with the carpet.
Matt: You come down with the carpet. At the edge of this opening, you see Keyleth, you see Vex, both emerge with a horrible tentacle-faced gnarled being with a staff coming out with them.
Orion: Hello?
Marisha: Tiberius--
Orion: Oh, did you make a friend?
Marisha: We did! See! Friends!
Orion: Wonderful!
Marisha: This is-- What's your name?
Matt: Looks about to you, then looks at Tiberius and says, ignoring your question, "You have persuasion to the arcane."
Orion: Yes, I'm a sorcerer! I do all kinds of fun things with the arcane!
Matt: "We shall talk."
Orion: Very good, I'm always willing to learn. Seems you are very powerful.
Matt: "My name... Clarota."
All: Clarota.
Marisha: Can we call you Clarence for short?
Matt: "No!" (all laugh)
Marisha: Okay! Clar-ota
All: Clarota.
Liam: Sounds Spanish.
Laura: Please, join us on the carpet.
Sam: Can he fit on the carpet?
Liam: He is very thin.
Laura: She can fly.
Marisha: I'll fly.
Orion: The rest of our allies are up.
Matt: He carefully steps on the carpet, once again like its tentacles are (slithering noises).
Laura: I keep a distance.
Matt: Moving around, its mouth and its eyes are constantly darting, it looks extremely nervous and almost like a cornered animal that's just barely being coaxed onto this journey. You see with each step it takes there a slight flicker of arcane energy at the tip of its fingers, like it's just prepared for anything to go terribly wrong. It steps onto the carpet and goes, "Take me to your allies."
Orion: Ah yes, we have wonderful allies!
Marisha: You can even maybe call them friends, even?
Laura: Not just yet!
Matt: It crosses its legs and sits on the carpet, holding its staff to its chest on the far corner staring at all of you and says, "Go. Now."
Laura: Hold on tight.
Matt: You guys make your way up to the top, eventually you see the carpet (whoosh) over the edge of the crevasse, come down to a rest, as your party has now brought with you the stuff of nightmares. (all laugh)
Sam: That is the thing I saw in the village!
Laura: Hold on! Hold on!
Travis: What is that? Oh my god!
Matt: At which point, it's leapt off at this point, hovering about and you can see this crackle of fire in its hand and it goes, (panicked noises)
Laura: No! No!
Orion: I'm standing between them, like, it's okay! These are the allies we speak of!
Laura: Peace, friends! We are ourselves!
Orion: Grog, don't do anything!
Laura: We are not controlled.
Orion: Don't use a whip, Scanlan, sing a friendly song as he is our friend-- ally. To the guy. Ally. He is-- He's in a little spot of trouble and we are going to help him get revenge, or something of the sort.
Sam: He's a friend? Help--
Orion: He prefers--
Matt: "Ally."
Laura: Ally.
Sam: Ally.
Marisha: Ally.
Sam: Ally.
Taliesin: Ally?
Travis: What's on your head?
Matt: He kind of gives you this keen look of, huh, the least person I expected to ask a question. (all laugh)
Matt: It kind of hobbles forward with its gnarled staff, and says, "I was cast out from my hive. I was cursed with the mark of the arcane. My people see that as an ill omen. I was discarded, left to die."
Laura: Let's destroy your hive.
Matt: "No."
Laura: No?
Matt: "You see, the hive is sick. The mind that keeps us safe is no longer its own."
Orion: Oh?
Matt: "One, an alien one, has come and taken the mind hostage, it has taken my people as its own playthings. I was able to escape its mental grasp." It reaches up and taps the metal on its head.
Laura: Oh! Tinfoil hat!
Marisha: Magneto helmet!
Taliesin: Magneto helmet!
Marisha: This is the guy we've needed this whole time!
Matt: "My people will not so easily escape its grasp, they are now under the control of this creature."
Marisha: So if we did it--
Sam: If we find this creature, we might be able to free your hive as well.
Matt: "That would be why I wish to have your alliance."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Help me free our hivemind, free my people."
Travis: (whispers) Sense motive.
Laura: Oh yeah, can we sense motive on him?
Matt: (laughs) You definitely can!
Laura: Oh gosh.
Travis: I would do it, but--
Marisha: We should also have him help us in your--
Matt: I would put this in a group sense motive right now.
Taliesin: Yeah! All right!
Matt: Everyone roll!
Orion: I rolled 14.
Laura: I rolled-- what do we add to it?
Matt: Sense motive in this would be your insight, sorry. Pathfinder to Fifth Edition!
Laura: Insight? 24.
Marisha: 18?
Travis: 16.
Orion: 14.
Taliesin: Natural one.
Laura: (laughs) Four?
Liam: Four.
Travis: 16!
Sam: 13.
Travis: (happy scream) 16! (all laugh)
Matt: Okay!
Sam: You're a people person!
Matt: Through your intense grasping this creature's disposition, best you can, as alien and unfamiliar as its mannerisms and speech and interests may be, you get the feeling that it's speaking out of desperation and it's speaking out of genuine interest. You've piqued it with the hint of revenge, you've piqued it with the idea of alliance as opposed to being alone. You get the feeling that it speaks the truth. It genuinely is asking for your help in freeing its people from whatever is influencing their current actions.
Laura: Clarota... (laughs)
Sam: What's his name?
Laura: Cla-ro-ta?
Matt: Clarota.
Sam: Can we just call him Clarence? (all laugh)
Liam: (Jimmy Stewart voice) Clarence, Clarence!
Taliesin: Clara. It could be a she.
Laura: We are very interested in being allies with you. Might we have your word that upon defeating this creature, we will be safe?
Sam: And as a symbol of our dedication to you, I'd love to play you just a little bit of a song that might heal some of those wounds and scrapes that you seem to have all over your body.
Matt: He gives you the dirtiest look you've ever received.
Travis: (whispers) It was because of the arcane!
Sam: It's a pretty good song!
Matt: Make a persuasion check. (all laugh)
Liam: Come on, Burt Reynolds!
Sam: Hm. Ooh! 17. (all laugh)
Matt: He takes a sudden step forward towards you, his tentacles-- (slithering noises)
Laura: Ew, ugh!
Matt: "Play this song."
Travis: Break out the--
Laura: It better be good!
Sam: (sings) When I get that feeling, I want Clarota healing. Clarota healing is something that's good for you. Ooh ooh ooh. (sings embellished melisma)
Laura: Clarota's dancing, I can see it!
Matt: Make a persuasion check-- no, a performance check.
Sam: A performance check! 18!
Matt: 18. (all laugh)
Matt: In spite of itself, it stands there still glaring at you, but out of the corner of your eye you swear you see its toe tapping. (all laugh)
Matt: It then kind of-- its tentacles withdraw in such a way that gets you kind of off-put and the song comes to a halt. "I'd not heard a song. I shall call upon you for more in the future."
Laura: Oh!
Sam: There's many more where that came from!
Matt: "Now we talk about how we can kill K'varn."
Laura: K'varn!
Laura: Yes!
Sam: Yes!
Marisha: Yes! Let's talk about that.
Sam: End scene!
Matt: And that's where we're going to go ahead and end it for today, guys. (all cheer)
Matt: That went very interestingly! We'll pick up from that point.
Marisha: Sorry we had to rebel, you guys.
Laura: Yeah sorry about that, you guys. Sorry!
Marisha: Sorry! It was for a good cause!
Liam: Thank you for rebelling, and staking out on your own!
Matt: You've acquired for the moment a very curious ally. Yeah, this will be an interesting branching point for next week.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Travis: We should get some damn hats.
Laura: I know! We should get him to make us hats!
Marisha: We definitely need one for Grog. We have to get him to make us hats for Grog.
Travis: Why me?
Matt: (laughs) I hope you guys enjoyed that! No combat. You guys avoided quite a few possibilities for battle and that makes for an interesting dynamic. So well done! You've killed a crap ton of duergar.
Liam: Trolls.
Matt: And a couple trolls and an ogre, by sending them off a cliff! It was a pretty eventful evening!
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So yeah, so guys, thank you so much for watching! Also, as a reminder, there is Dwarven Forge that's been doing an amazing kickstarter for its next set. I was a supporter for all of Dwarven Forge's kickstarters and I'm looking forward to being able to break out some of those dungeon tiles in this game in the near future. But if you haven't checked it out yet, I recommend it! Go and see if you can back it. Those guys are awesome, the quality of their work is great! All of you DMs out there that wanna run some seriously legit dungeon setups for your miniatures and battle circumstances, it's highly recommended. So go check that out. I know I've already backed it, so come join me! And (evil voice) one of us, one of us! Anyway, does anyone else have something they wanna talk about for the evening, guys?
Zac: I do.
Matt: Zac! What's up, buddy?
Zac: Thanks for tuning in, guys. I wanted to bring up International Tabletop Day.
Matt: Yes! Yes! Let's do that!
Zac: It's coming up on April 11th. We're going to be live-streaming Tabletop Day from here in this studio. Probably not as complicated a setup as this, but similar of a set up. For those of you that have not registered yet for International Tabletop Day, go to the website tabletopday.com or org, I could be saying it wrong, the chat room will let you know.
Marisha: Just google it.
Zac: Google it!
Matt: Angelfire.tabletopday.com
Zac: I knew you were testing my knowledge! You're saying it wrong, you're saying it wrong. I'm not an actor, dammit! So go check that out. We're still looking for a lot of countries to have representation, so if you're overseas, go to the website, let your local retailers know about it, sign up, and get in on the fun! It's going to be a blast. We're going to have this whole building stacked to the brim with people! Board games, live streaming the whole thing. Get in on it. It's going to be a lot of fun!
Matt: Yeah, do it!
Zac: So I think that's pretty much it, thanks so much guys.
Matt: Yeah, no worries, I think next week we're gonna try and do a Q&A after the game. So we'll stay for an hour or more after.
Zac: Subs only!
Matt: Subs only! You get to hang out.
Zac: Subs only, so if you want to ask questions next week after the show, make sure you subscribe.
Matt: Yes! Do it!
Zac: Do it. Yeah, that's pretty much it, man.
Matt: Hell yeah, awesome! Well, thanks again, guys, for tuning in to Critical Role. Spread the love, tell your friends about it, all come back and join in the story, and we'll have more fun next week, so. See you next Thursday. (all cheer)
Zac: Tune in tomorrow for So You Don't Have To, where Becca and Hector play the worst games they can find so you don't have to. And then Gather your Party, where we play board games with our friends, and it's gonna be a lot of fun.
Matt: Hell yeah.
Zac: All right, I'm gonna-- you guys can talk amongst yourselves, I gotta run. I'm the only person here so I'm gonna run back, turn off the stream. Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.
Matt: (laughs) This guy, this guy. Guys, thanks again, have a wonderful night, we'll see you soon.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone. Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice-actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons-- crazy, fun, nerdy times. So we are unfortunately missing Travis Willingham again this evening, because he's a pussy and had to go see Avengers tonight, so feel free to let him know on Twitter. But anyway, we have a really fun, action-packed adventure-- as if last week's wasn't tension enough. Let's see how the rest of the group manages to recover from their climactic battle at the top of Emberhold. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you an intro and some of the character backgrounds before we come back. [dramatic music]
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (knife scraping) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods; she preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. While we are missing Travis, it's totally fine, Avengers is a fantastic film. It's a wonderful film and hope he doesn't spoil anything for us in his return, but he is missed. Travis, we miss you. We'll have you back next week, hopefully.
Orion: I'm going to spoil the movie for everybody they win!
Taliesin: But do they?
Laura: But do they?
Matt: I don't know. It's Joss Whedon (laughs)
Orion: I didn't say who 'they' were.
Matt: Oh, that's true. All right, so, welcome everyone. For those of you who's this the first time, (laughs) buckle up for some interesting-- So we're a bunch of voice actors who play Dungeons & Dragons and this is our campaign we've been running for a while. To give you a little heads-up on the story so far, the party was hired to find an individual named Lady Kima, and she is a halfling paladin. The platinum dragon Bahamut is her deity
Sam: And we found her!
Matt: You did. I was going to get to that. (all laugh)
Matt: So they went seeking her in caverns beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer. After much fighting and surviving, they manage to find their way to a duergar fortress called Emberhold, where they found Lady Kima captive beneath. They released her and then, using her help, assaulted the throne room at the top and managed to slay King Murghol of the duergar. However, in the process, Grog, our intrepid barbarian, was kidnapped by the queen mage before she could be slain, who then also disintegrated a portion of the roof, letting an entire cavalcade of molten rock into the fortress. The party then had to make a heated escape. However, a number of the party members, due to the gaze of the two basilisks that were kept in the throne room as pets, Lady Kima and our Tiberius Stormwind, our dragonborn sorcerer, are currently stone. Dragging them out of the fortress as the magma began to fill the interior, a very deft escape was made, aside from Vax unfortunately getting his foot temporarily submerged in the lava, taking some serious damage to his foot. The party manage to make their way outside of the Emberhold proper, and you've all taken a moment to breathe at this point, realizing that thankfully, for the most part, you've all survived. Aside from the missing party member and a few in a state of flux at the moment. So, picking up there where we left off. You're all breathing heavily. The sincerity of the battle has just come over you. The adrenaline's still pumping through your system.
Laura: Your foot is melted off.
Liam: It's kind of there (groans).
Matt: Mostly. There's some... You can see four of the five toes.
Laura: Oh, that's not bad. It's four out of five.
Matt: About three and a half.
Liam: Did I lose the big or the small?
Matt: (laughs) This would be the small.
Ashley: Oh, you can do without the pinkie.
Marisha: Your balance is probably a little wonky.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit.
Liam: Clears that athlete's foot, though. Gone.
Matt: Sure enough.
Sam: Is anyone following us? Can we do a quick check around and just see?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Perception check? Starting it off with a 19.
Matt: Glancing around, you start hearing various duergar screams from above as the individuals that were still inside the fortress are in the process of trying to get out, or in the process of slowly melting in the molten rock. What you do also notice is that off towards the bottom base of the stronghold, a number of duergar that reside in the buildings that surround the exterior of Emberhold proper are mounting arms and charging up towards the stronghold to give aid to wherever this seeming, loud shouting and screaming is coming from
Laura: Can they see us?
Marisha: Does anyone seem to be paying attention to us?
Matt: No, they're far enough away where you don't think it's an issue, and you're off to the side, for the moment. But you do see probably close to 30 to 40 duergar are currently swarming out the small city, making their way towards Emberhold.
Marisha: So right now they're focused on the chaos of the temple?
Matt: From what you can see.
Sam: We should get out of here.
Laura: There was a path further down that led further on into the tunnels. I think we should follow that.
Marisha: Well, hang on. Grog can't be far, right?
Sam: He could be in another dimension.
Marisha: No, he can only be a thousand feet away.
Sam: Says who?
Marisha: They used the spell Dimension Door that Tiberius has.
Laura: So we hope he used Dimension Door.
Sam: I have a spell that can go to another dimension (chuckles).
Marisha: Well, I remember the gods on high telling us last week that we recognized the spell that was used.
Sam: By the way, this is the best conversation we've ever had with Tiberius. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, Tiberius.
Marisha: Aw man, I feel that comes back to bite us in the ass later (nervous laugh) because he is still conscious, right?
Matt: No.
Laura: He has no idea what's happening.
Matt: He's in darkness. He can't hear. He's not conscious.
Sam: If Grog is close, we still need to get out of the way of these 30 people. So let's go hide.
Laura: We still need to hide. And heal.
Taliesin: Let's at least follow the path, find a place where we can hide, and recuperate.
Laura: Around the corner or something. Can we stealth further down?
Matt: You can try to. You currently are carrying two large solid stone statues with you, so it's definitely possible, but you're going to have to come up with a creative way of doing so.
Taliesin: Grog had the rug, didn't he?
Matt: Grog had the entire bag of holding.
Taliesin: Shit!
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Pass Without a Trace on the party.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Percy, I think you and I are on Tiberius duty.
Taliesin: Yes. (sighs) Okay.
Sam: If we do not move, will this 30 duergar mass hit us at some point?
Matt: You can find out.
Sam: Oh, Jesus (laughs)
Orion: It's like asking the future.
Laura: Can I use my robe of infinite twine, which I have on my person in another game before. Because it's connected to my rope. Can I use that and tie it around Kima and hook it to Trinket so he can drag Kima along?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Matt: So I will say for this circumstance as you guys are preparing this: casting the spell, beginning dragging the stone. The group make an initiative check.
Sam: We took too much time!
Laura: We should just run.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Yeah, you have some flashing, there we go.
Marisha: That's been a kind die to you.
Matt: So, 20 plus whatever your initiative modifier is.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: 27.
Marisha: 13.
Orion: Who cares.
Sam: Ten.
Ashley: 12.
Laura: 17.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Distract them. Get them away from us.
Matt: You guys begin to drag the stone, or (chuckles) your two stone companions across the jagged obsidian floor in this deep, dark cavern. The heat from the nearby lava fall is still causing you to sweat profusely, and you're sore from the previous battle you just endured. Those of you who are wounded, you can feel the stretch of the muscles and tearing of what sinew has taken damage in the process. As you begin to pull, parallel to this duct of lava that pours off the side of Emberhold, you keep low so that you aren't actually blocking the light source, which would be a very keen visual to anything that's looking in that direction from a distance, but you slowly make your way across. At this point, the duergar have not been able to get there before you guys move off from the side, so they haven't caught up to the position you were previously, but they're beginning to swarm around the sides, and you see them yelling at each other and shouting commands. Some of them are starting to grab large rocks and fill in areas of the stronghold. Some of them you can see are robed individuals begin casting spells. You can see portions of other stone walls beginning to mount up and try and block the flow from the interior and exterior of Emberhold. However, you guys are still within eyesight, technically, of any duergar on that side of the fortress, so I'm going to ask everyone now to make a stealth check. Those that are pulling the statues with disadvantage.
Laura: So that's Trinket.
Orion: Plus ten.
Laura: But we all add plus ten?
Matt: Correct. To the final roll.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I have a question. If I have advantage for other reasons-- I have a cloak of elvenkind which gives me advantage-- does the advantage and disadvantage cancel out into one?
Matt: They do. Your foot being wounded, though, is a disadvantage right now.
Liam: Right.
Matt: So that then goes back down to disadvantage.
Sam: Can't win with this guy.
Matt: Just for this circumstance, unfortunately. You're dragging a statue with a partially melted foot right now.
Taliesin: Liam, it doesn't matter.
Marisha: You still have plus ten to the roll because Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: So?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Plus the ten?
Sam: That's including the ten.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: 11.
Ashley: 20. That's my low roll.
Laura: That's 20 for Trinket and 29 for me.
Liam: 25.
Matt: All right, so you keep hunched low, slowly (stone grinding noise) dragging these stone obelisks of individuals across the jagged floor. You seemingly do so without any of the duergars' eyes catching you through the low light of the cavern. Partially due to the fact that you guys are doing a pretty decent job and partially the fact they're more obsessed that the central piece of their fortress right now is essentially about to be completely filled with molten rock. About 20, 25 minutes or so, you manage to pull just past where the lava flow dips down into what looks like a small opening in the flooring, and you are past the immediate heat of the magma river. You are now pressed up against the wall of the cavern as it begins to twist around and head downward, further deeper into this subterranean mountainous space. You're all beaten, you're all sore, and currently, what do you want to do?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you cover the entrance to where we are to give us a little bit more of a stealthy--
Marisha: No.
Laura: No more spells?
Marisha: I am exhausted. I can't do anything else right now.
Liam: And what's the terrain? Is it just flat out out in the open to see, or is it scoured with ins and outs? Peaks and valleys?
Matt: It's the same type of topography you've encountered when you first entered this giant cavern. So you can see large, crooked black spires of obsidian rock shooting up and curving towards the ceiling. It's all over the place.
Marisha: I can make another Hallucinatory Terrain. I can do that still.
Laura: Okay, maybe you can make it--
Marisha: Can I make it to where it just looks like a wall?
Matt: How long does it last?
Marisha: I think Hallucinatory Terrain lasts an hour, if I think about it. Books, books, where's my book?
Laura: Can I look around and and see if there's anywhere that looks like we could hide, tuck in between rocks or something where we wouldn't be visible?
Taliesin: Please.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception.
Laura: Oh wait, I get an advantage.
Matt: Because you are in the Underdark, correct.
Laura: 20.
Marisha: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 24 hours!
Taliesin: Put a lava flow in front of us.
Sam: But you have to be concentrating the whole time. And you can't. You can't go to sleep.
Laura: 20.
Matt: As she's glancing at that, you make your way about ten minutes away from the area where the rest of the group is currently gathered, keeping a very very close eye on the topography of the wall of the cavern as it slowly curves around and further in that direction. You do manage to find portions of the wall that jut out and leave these small pockets. They themselves might not be super safe for a long period of time, but they give you a little bit of--
Laura: Cover.
Matt: Little bit of cover, depending on how well you were to dress. You might be able to see few individuals discovering you if you were to stay there.
Laura: Okay. Let's do that.
Marisha: It's not a concentration spell. It just takes a minute to cast and it lasts for 24 hours. So I'm going to go ahead and cast it and make it look like there's just a wall with another lava flow that's come out, and is starting to happen.
Matt: Okay, so as you walk back to notify the party, you watch as a portion of the mountain seemingly out of nowhere, extends, and a lava flow appears, pouring out of the wall.
Marisha: Wait, was someone not inside?
Sam: No, we're all in.
Matt: She was out and about while you did this.
Laura: I was searching for another place to hide.
Liam: It's fine. It's an illusion. Vax pokes his head through the illusionary lava and goes, We're in here.
Laura: Oh! Lovely.
Matt: So your heart rate eventually normalizes. You do have a decent pocket of space here that as long as nothing attempts to walk into the wall, you should be okay to rest here.
Taliesin: So we have some time. Let's regroup.
Laura: I think we should probably--
Taliesin: Sleep in shifts.
Marisha: Wait, here's what I'm afraid of. If we sleep we could lose Grog's trail. He could be nearby right now.
Taliesin: We're not much use to anyone right now.
Sam: Let's just make a decision right now to leave Grog and continue on.
Ashley: No!
Sam: Let's just forget about him. He was a good friend.
Laura: What?!
Sam: We'll have a toast to him.
Laura: Scanlan!
Ashley: Scanlan!
Sam: We'll sing about songs of his memory.
Marisha: You are shitting with us, right?!
Sam: Within a few days we'll forget he ever existed.
Taliesin: Scanlan, no one else wants to go to a whorehouse with you. You'll be going to whorehouses alone.
Sam: All right, fine.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Here's another option. My foot hurts, but I'm not too bad. How are you?
Laura: (sighs) I'm okay.
Liam: We could go look.
Laura: Or maybe I can use my tracking and see if I can catch a scent. Grog does smell.
Marisha: I can use my beast sense; that is one more thing I can still do. I could theoretically-- We could use Trinket.
Liam: We need to undo the stone that has taken over Tiberius and Kima.
Taliesin: Do I have the necessary tools to synthesize a potion out of the basilisk blood?
Matt: You can certainly try. It's a very ramshackle set-up. You do not have an alchemical set, but you can certainly attempt to, using a small fire, a couple of your general smelting tools you use for your metal work. You could attempt to distill it down, but that would be a combination of a tinkering roll on your point, followed up by somebody else's medicine roll to attempt to properly prepare it.
Laura: Are all of Tiberius's things stone with him?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Tiberius and cast Greater Restoration on him.
Matt: Okay. So as you're having this discussion. Tiberius, you briefly go from this moment in the heat of combat where you feel your muscles intensify and tensing up and not answering to your mind's command as you look up angrily at a series of duergar that have just been blown up by a fireball, to cold taking yourself. And as the cold fades, you are now in the center of a gargantuan cavern surrounded by all of your friends. You guys watch as Tiberius's form fades in through the stone.
Marisha: Tiberius!
Ashley: Tiberius!
Laura: Good job Pike!
Sam: I was so worried about you!
Taliesin: Or we could cast a spell. That also works well.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) What the hell is going on?
Ashley: I didn't know if that was going to work.
Marisha: But that the only time you can do that, right?
Laura: Wait, she can't do that again? You can't do it again for Kima.
Ashley: I have another 5th level now, so I could do it again.
Laura: And once we rest, you'll have it again?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Whoa. What happened to all the other little dwarves?
Sam: You don't have to do the accent anymore.
Laura: You probably should keep your voice down, Tiberius.
Orion: Well, this is just how I sound.
Ashley: No. We already got through. We're on the other side. You don't have to act like a god anymore.
Laura: Grog is missing, actually.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Oh, great.
Laura: And the queen took him.
Sam: Are you stuck like this?
Orion: No, I could change back anytime I want, but I really like how I look. (all laugh)
Ashley: Are we going to rest?
Sam: Wait, but what about Kima?
Marisha: We have to find Grog!
Laura: We have to find Grog but we have no spells. If we do find him, we can't do anything!
Sam: Can you unstone Kima now or?
Ashley: I can, but then I wouldn't have another 5th level.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Clarota, what do you think we should do?
Matt: Clarota, who is currently like staring at the statue of Kima, you can see there's a brief bead of thought behind Clarota's eyes and the voice sinks into the rest of your minds simultaneously. "We may be able to leave her here for safekeeping."
Orion: I knew you were going to say that. A different option. Oh, and thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome, Tiberius. (all laugh)
Matt: "If you insist on bringing her, then we should do it soon. We should not be leaving anything behind. Trace of our passage."
Liam: Where did your kin take our big friend?
Matt: Clarota thinks for a second and says, "It was not my kin that took him but the duergar. If anything, I imagine he might be residing within that infernal city, though if they've taken him elsewhere I do not know the way of the ash-skins."
Orion: But Kima does.
Laura: We should wake her up.
Orion: Pike, you can do it one more time and take a little rest, right?
Ashley: I am going to walk on over to Kima. Touch her. Cast Greater Restoration again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Where do you touch her? (laughs)
Ashley: I touch her arm.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this.
Matt: Classy. As you reach out, the divine energy emanates from Pike's hand that begins to cascade across Kima's form. Kima, who is in mid battle, with her greatsword in the air, as soon as her flesh returns to her, she finishes her swing.
Ashley: I put my shield up!
Matt: However, it does (ping) into the side of your shield and you deflect the blow and you see Kima for a second is like, (panting slowing to normal breathing).
Liam: Easy! Easy!
Ashley: Calm down!
Matt: She throws the blade down on the ground and goes, "I am so sorry."
Ashley: It's okay! You were mid-swing, I get it. We are fine it was just a shield. We're fine.
Matt: She reaches around and she pulls her symbol of Bahamut out from her around her neck and just clutches it for a second and says, "What happened?"
Laura: You were turned to stone, the king got killed, the queen took Grog, we don't know where.
Sam: And Clarota was really helpful to us.
Laura: Actually, Clarota got you out of that castle alive.
Matt: She turns around and glares at Clarota briefly with a look of confusion and mistrust and Clarota just goes-- (all laugh)
Liam: You honestly would not be here if it weren't for the illithid. It's true.
Matt: She glances back at you and gives under her breath, "And there's a good chance none of us may be here if it gets its way down the road. (louder) Nevertheless, I thank you. It is good to know at least we took one of their top champions down. The fact that the queen still exists is worrisome, as at least from what I seemed to gather she had the true reign over most of the duergar down here."
Orion: Do you know where she would be at?
Matt: "Where did she escape? How did she take him?"
Liam: She disappeared with our goliath friend.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. Wait, did I Hunter's Mark the queen?
Liam: Yes, you did.
Laura: Did I?
Taliesin: You did.
Laura: I can use my Hunter's Mark to track her!
Sam: You can? (all cheer)
Sam: How long does it last and how does it work?
Liam: But that was just 30 minutes ago.
Sam: I know, but we all have to rest.
Laura: It maintains for up to eight hours!
Sam: Eight hours, but we have to rest!
Ashley: Because we need to heal. I am pretty low.
Sam: I'm at two.
Ashley: You're at two?!
Marisha: Okay. Theory? Proposition? Proposal. What if we use your Hunter's Mark, figure out where she is, get there, camp out nearby, tackle it in the morning?
Laura: Can I use my Hunter's Mark to find out where she is and then we rest and go there?
Matt: You can attempt that.
Ashley: What if we took a short rest?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. Let's just find out where she is first.
Ashley: What if we just took a seven-hour nap? (all laugh)
Ashley: Because that's all really anyone sleeps anyway.
Taliesin: I think six hours is about what it takes.
Matt: Six to eight hours is the general long rest period that I would allow for that.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: I think we should all rest for a moment. I think Vex'ahlia and I should go out for an hour or two, just to see which direction-- I mean, they are not going to back to Emon.
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark! Just stay put, Footless! (all laugh)
Orion: Wait a minute. What happened to your toe?
Sam: You're not stealth anymore. You got a busted foot. You're at disadvantage on everything.
Liam: I was pretty awesome 30 minutes ago. Now I'm just slightly less awesome.
Sam: Can we at least heal you up, before you go?
Laura: Yes. Just give us one second. Can I use the freaking Hunter's Mark?
Sam: How does it work?
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: So you take a moment, you step beyond the boundary of the illusion momentarily, close your eyes and concentrate on that small blip of nature based divine energy that you lent and grappled onto Queen Ulara with. You take a moment and concentrate and you recall her face, you recall, strangely, her scent. In a weird way, the bestial nature of your connection with Trinket and nature, scent is a very strong means of tracking and the scent of a duergar is a very terrible mix between salty brine and earth.
Liam: Like Axe for Men?
Matt: Essentially, yeah, yeah. It's Ye Olde Axe. You concentrate on this and you recall the stronghold, you begin to see a trace where all of a sudden her path in the stronghold is fading and is cold. A new path has opened up in the center of the duergar city at the base of the stronghold. It seems to have moved slightly in that direction, but you can't pinpoint where, and is currently at rest somewhere in that vicinity.
Sam: She is still close.
Laura: (whispers) The city, they're close. (louder) So that is right in front of the keep?
Marisha: Wait. Are they in an underground base?
Laura: They are in the city.
Matt: Essentially, where the cavern kind of rises up and meets the wall, Emberhold is at the top of that rising of the ground, and Emberhold lies there, where all the lava pours down and trickles down. You guys are off to the side. This whole portion of the floor that crawls up to Emberhold is covered in duergar buildings. It is a small city that surrounds it. She resides somewhere in the center of that.
Marisha: So we're on the same level as them or are they above us?
Matt: They are a little bit above. You guys are at a lower point, as the actual ground you follow curves around and descends.
Sam: But once we walk out of here we will be at the same level.
Marisha: I have a theory. I've a new skill that I've recently learned and was practicing a lot when I was with the Earth Ashari while we were gone for the past six months. They taught me the ways of the earth elementals.
Orion: Oh, that's fun.
Marisha: So. And as an earth-- but I am still new at it.
Ashley: That's okay, we all start somewhere.
Marisha: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome.
Marisha: Thank you. I mean I am a little self-conscious about it still, but I can travel through the earth.
Laura: And pop up, perhaps, where she is?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Ooh, like a little gopher.
Laura: All of us? Or just you?
Marisha: It is not a burrowing thing, right?
Matt: You glide through the earth.
Liam: More like a Shadowcat kind of thing?
Matt: Essentially.
Laura: Is it all of us or just you?
Marisha: Just me. But I could get inside.
Laura: Well, but then you will be alone, surrounded by duergar and Grog.
Marisha: Well, I am not talking about right now.
Ashley: Could we put invisibility on her?
Marisha: If we do some sort of flanking thing.
Liam: Well that does sound useful.
Taliesin: It is. It is going to be useful.
Marisha: I am wondering if we can make a tunnel, though. I can theoretically-- okay, theoretically we could rest and I could keep all of my spells and use all of my magical focus to tunnel us out, depending on how far we are going. We can do an underground approach
Liam: But concretely, right now we need nappies.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Marisha: But what if they leave while we sleep?
Liam: But we are essentially powerless.
Taliesin: And what are we going to do if we find them?
Laura: I'm going to only sleep for a little bit, cause I didn't use all my spells I only need to rest for half the amount of time, maybe.
Matt: It doesn't work that way. (all laugh)
Matt: A solid six hours you'd probably be able to, since you guys are in a hidden area you'll feel more comfortable, depending on how you set your bedding here you could probably do it in six hours.
Laura: I think we'll be fine. Because she needs to rest as well. We hurt her pretty badly.
Liam: I think it is safe to assume she's brought Grog back to her seat of power. Why would she go anywhere else? She's at her strongest where she is.
Taliesin: I think they're staying.
Sam: We're going to rest.
Liam: Sleep.
Marisha: Okay. All right.
Laura: We've got to sleep, Keyleth.
Ashley: I know. You're right. I see what you're saying, but we need to...
Sam: Grog will be fine.
Ashley: He's at a two!
Marisha: I'm so mad at him. Why'd he get stolen?
Matt: Kima comes over, Kima puts her hand out a little bit and says, "It's all right, he's a strong one, he can handle himself. If I could survive what I've been through, he can do far better than that. Rest is good. I think we need to take some time, discuss our plan of attack, our current direction, and decide on how we'll move forward." She glances briefly over at Clarota, who's now further back towards the wall just sitting in this meditative state. "So. Let us rest."
Taliesin: Brilliant idea.
Liam: One last thing before we lay our heads down for the night. Pike, do you have any salve or anything you could help me put on my foot, or could your god help with my little toe?
Marisha: I could help you with some natural mediciney stuff, maybe.
Liam: It stings a bit.
Matt: You have not encountered a person with any sort of physical marring to this degree, necessarily, and those that usually did, it was a permanent thing. So this is something that you would have to experiment with.
Ashley: Could I try healing? A very concentrated energy just on his foot? A healing spell?
Matt: You could certainly try.
Laura: You can do it, Pike.
Marisha: Is there anyway I could assist her?
Matt: Possibly. All right.
Ashley: Let's try it.
Marisha: Possibly?
Liam: I mean a clockwork foot from Percy does sound cool.
Ashley: If we're going to rest, it doesn't hurt to try.
Marisha: That way we can sleep on it.
Ashley: You can sleep on it.
Liam: Literally.
Laura: Maybe this yellow vial of potion could do something for it as well.
Liam: That's Ben-gay.
Ashley: I'll try Cure Wounds at, I'll try 4th level, since we're going to sleep.
Matt: All right so go ahead and roll the corresponding dice for that.
Ashley: So I roll...
Matt: 4d8 + 5 Is what it would be.
Laura: Why do you keep putting your foot up near me? (all laugh)
Laura: Can I keep an ear out for anything approaching?
Matt: Very much so.
Ashley: Wait, plus my spell caster--
Matt: Plus your modifier, which is five.
Marisha: I start building a positive chi. Like a healing chi ball.
Sam: Is she doing a standard healing here? Is my song of rest going to help at all?
Matt: Your song of rest would actually be of aid to this.
Sam: Okay. So I'm going to sing while you heal, if that's all right.
Ashley: Please do.
Matt: All the healers convene, Scanlan begins--
Marisha: I light some sage.
Sam: Okay, ready? (singing) Wherever you go, whatever damage they've done, we will be right here waiting to heal you. No matter what hit points you take or how your foot breaks, we will be right here--
Sam: Waiting for you.
Ashley: Waiting for you.
Liam: All that improv school paid off. (all laugh)
Matt: As you take the healing energy you've gathered from your own nature-based casting, you infuse the healing spell. You do how many points of healing from the spell?
Ashley: 27.
Matt: 27. Go ahead and make a medicine check.
Marisha: Is this what I can maybe assist her with?
Laura: It looks really disgusting by the way. It's so gross.
Ashley: What do I roll? Do I roll the 20?
Matt: Roll a d20, and add your proficiency modifier
Liam: Can I apply my Luck feat to her?
Laura: You don't have any feet left. (all laugh)
Sam: Feet pun!
Ashley: 21.
Matt: 21. As you finish the spell, you can see where the mostly-gone second small toe has grown to mostly a full toe, and there's a small stub where the little one is.
Laura: You've got a toe nubbin.
Ashley: Hey man, we got a little stub. A little bit.
Matt: You're promoting a level of divine regeneration at a very, very slow pace. You've never attempted this before, and there is some progress, but this may be an over time thing you have to do.
Ashley: Over time, I just keep doing it?
Matt: Once a day, you might want to attempt this and eventually he probably will recover. But not immediately.
Sam: Until then, he's a gimp.
Liam: I think I see Pike's deity in my toenail! (all laugh)
Ashley: It's gonna take time. That was just a little manicure that we did real quick.
Marisha: We could just own it and call you--
Taliesin: Little piggy?
Marisha: Well I was going to say Vax the Nine-Toe.
Liam: And put a knife on it?
Taliesin: Could put a very tiny knife on it.
Laura: A teeny tiny little knife.
Taliesin: Could actually give you a nail clipper. You could clip your own nails.
Marisha: We can get you a prosthetic little toe that has a little compartment for poison.
Liam: I would take a brass claw.
Marisha: Or a brass claw toe. That's fun. Maybe we could get you a raptor claw. That's cool.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Sam: Before we go to sleep, I go over to Kima and I say to her, Lady Kima, I think we're all going to take a rest and you as well, correct?
Matt: "I think I should."
Sam: We can trust you while we're all asleep not to do anything to any of our companions, correct?
Matt: "If you're worried about the mind flayer, I'll be keeping an eye, but nothing beyond that. Remember: he has to make the side-step, the wrong step, before I take any action. Trust and know that if I were to strike a blow, it's at his own poor choice and actions."
Orion: That first part of what you said rhymed.
Sam: Does she seem to be telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: A what? What check?
Matt: Insight.
Sam: Insight. Okay, 18.
Matt: She seems to be true.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: She is legitimately concerned about Clarota. But also understands that at this moment, it has not done anything to necessarily draw her blade.
Liam: Lady Kima, Clarota, may I suggest you take the first watch?
Sam: (laughs) Oh my god, what if they start fucking? (all laugh)
Taliesin: So it's going to be that sort of evening, excellent.
Liam: Rated M, for mature.
Matt: Clarota says, "Should you insist." And Clarota's image shimmers and vanishes.
Orion: Sweet.
Taliesin: I'm falling asleep.
Matt: As you guys are all going to sleep, Kima's still sharpening her sword and she stops for a second and goes, "Everyone, I'm sorry you've lost your friend. If he lives, we shall find him."
Laura: He will live.
Taliesin: And we will find him.
Ashley: No, he will, Scanlan! You just calm down.
Matt: "But if they have indeed taken him prisoner and Emberhold is lost, there is only one place they would bring him: Yug'Voril."
Laura: (gasps) With the dude with the black horn.
Matt: "Considering the mess that you've made since entering their realm of living and work, you'd make for a great gift to their current standing demigod. If we aren't able to find him within the city, I think that may be the next place to look."
Marisha: Once again, are you afraid they're going to take him while we're asleep? Is this a genuine concern? Is this something we should move on now?
Matt: "Not as long as you're keeping concentration, we should be fine."
Laura: I'm concentrating so hard. (all laugh)
Liam: We're busted up.
Taliesin: There's legitimately nothing to be done.
Matt: There's a softness that hits Kima's face and you can see a bit of a quiver to her chin and she goes, "The guilt I feel for unknowingly putting you all in danger for my sake is immense. It's because of me and my actions that you even delved this far and nearly lost life and limb, merely at the behest of Allura and... I want you all to know that I appreciate it. I really, truly do."
Orion: That's great. If you can mention that to Allura, that'd be wonderful.
Matt: "I would really appreciate it to speak to Tiberius."
Orion: (mumbles, makes spell sounds, returns to normal voice) I would really appreciate it if you mentioned that to Allura. I'm trying to get into her good graces and whatnot.
Matt: She chuckles a moment and says, "All right. Allura is a good friend. Well we've known each other for... gods, 15 years now. Since we defeated the Scourged Rider, together. But she has always had more of a political mind than I do, so, when we were both offered a seat on the council of Tal'Dorei and Emon she stayed, and I... I'm a woman of action, and I knew my destiny was out in the world."
Orion: We share something in common, Lady Kima. I, too, have left my home and land because I did not want to sit on the council of Draconia. With blessings from my father and such, I gained ambassadorship on a mission for them, but really, just so I could--
Matt: Her eyes have glazed over and are staring off into the distance. (all laugh)
Orion: To get all the things out, and I saw this wonderful lamb in this field one time--
Matt: "I was speak to Allura of your honor and deeds, Tiberius. We try to have drinks and swap stories every few months. She's a good one."
Orion: Yes, I think so.
Matt: She takes a moment to herself and looks around at the rest of you and says, "The cruel king. Who dealt the final blow?"
Sam: (clears throat) That would be the kingslayer. Me.
Matt: She steps up and walks over to you and puts a hand on your shoulder and gives you a stern look in the eye and shakes your shoulder. She's a halfling, so she's not too much taller than you. (all laugh)
Sam: (laughing) Oh, okay.
Matt: "Good. The cruel king is down, and I thank you for that." She walks back to the little perch on the rock at the side of the wall and says, "He tried to break me. Relish in his false superiority. Dragging hooks across my flesh, underestimating the will of a servant of Bahamut."
Marisha: Are you congratulating us for being murderers? Is that what you're doing right now?
Matt: "Murder and justice are two entirely different things and the deities of all good saw to it that this King's time was limited."
Marisha: Are you suggesting now that we control the wills of the deities?
Matt: "No, but we enact them, as long as we work within your plans to keep us safe."
Marisha: That's mighty bold and presumptuous of you.
Matt: "My life has been given to guidance of the platinum dragon, who has not seen nothing but the positive direction for all of your species, mine and the rest of humanity, that exists in the material plane. You would do well to not disrespect one who looks out for you, even though you may not look up to him for guidance. The reason these lands that you grew up in are safe and free, as much as they are, are because of the sacrifices of my brethren who came before me under his light and guidance. I'm not saying you to worship him-- each one has their own gods of choice. I just say, show some respect."
Marisha: I do show respect, Lady Kima. I show respect when I feel that respect has been earned.
Orion: She's royalty, you have to understand.
Sam: We're all a bit cranky. Maybe we should just turn in.
Matt: "I watched as they executed my companions! The wondrous men and women who came down to these caverns at my sides with my coin in their pockets, with the promise of justice. And they laughed as they cut their throats before me, hoping it would be able to crack me. It was Bahamut's strength that held me there."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I am not saying that what we are doing here is not just. I only wish that you understand-- and I humbly thank you for your appreciation and thanks for coming down here to rescue you. But you are correct. We have lost a friend. Someone who we have been through a lot with, way more than we have been with you. So. Before we start boasting congratulations and you start thanking us, why don't you wait? And we'll see what happens when we all get out of here first.
Liam: She's suffering from PTSD. Why are you poking the badger?
Laura: Maybe we should just calm down and go to sleep.
Matt: Kima takes a step forward towards Keyleth. And as you look up at her face, there's a tension, but you can see now that she's stepped near in to you, towards what little bit of light seems to cascade through this cavern, there are tears streaking down her face.
Laura: How do you feel now? (all laugh)
Matt: "They tried all they could to break me, but I knew my destiny would not end here. I have a destiny that does not end here."
Ashley: I reach out really slowly and give her a handkerchief. (all laugh)
Ashley: And then retreat.
Taliesin: Lady Kima, as I'm sure you know, grief speaks before sense.
Marisha: All I'm saying, Lady Kima, is that after what we have done and what we have been through and the lives and the blood that even I have on my hands, you had better be worth it.
Taliesin: Let us wait for talk of worth and talk of might until we are reunited.
Matt: She puts a hand up towards you. "Child, let me explain to you why we are here. As while you may have stepped into the pretense of keeping me out of harm's way, there is a purpose that I and now all of us serve, here in the Underdark. Now, I've been on this journey for more than a year, traveling wherever the wind took me, finding where my gift would find an end to suffering, justice to the wicked and comfort to the downtrodden. I'd just returned from the frozen tundra northeast of these Cliffkeep mountains, heading to meet with Allura, the same friend who brought you here."
Orion: I pop out of my sleep. Did you say Allura again?
Matt: "Shh."
Orion: I'm sorry.
Laura: Tiberius. Shh.
Matt: "My vision came to me. I'm sure you're familiar with visions. The great platinum dragon bestowed upon my humble self a dream. I saw an ancient vision of the great and terrible god of undeath himself: Orcus. His crimson, leathery skin and endless wings rumbling through the Abyss itself. He had chosen a champion, one that would unite the material world and the heart of the Abyss, bringing a doorway of oblivion to our world. He cut from his own head two of his terrible black horns, placing them upon the brow of this chosen warrior, his avatar to these realms, granting him power no mortal should ever have. I saw heroes, long forgotten, rise up to destroy this shadow champion, losing much in the ensuing battle. Loss, far more than you or I will ever know. The body of the avatar was burned away, but the horns of Orcus remained. Untouched by flame, blade, nor divine judgement. These keepers of the horns had a title that time has taken and the whereabouts of the artifacts that had been, thankfully, lost as well. Until the next dream dispelled my confusion. I felt a cackling entity of immense power, who had discovered one of the holding vaults, never meant to be found. This creature obsessed, spent all their attention to unlock the promised treasure within and over time, they did. One of the two horns had found a new champion, one who now resides deeper within the Underdark here. One we've now known to be called K'varn. This one who has united the illithid and the duergar alike under a banner of madness, expansion, and mockery of life. I've seen these experiments, as have you. This is what I came down here to dispose of, once and for all. Now, I hired some of the finest warriors in Kraghammer for this, all of whom have been slain or worse. That guilt weighs upon my soul. And this very quest, whoever this K'varn monstrosity, it holds the horn of Orcus upon its brow. My visions have told me that we must destroy it and must do so soon. If it had already unlocked the artifact's true potential, Kraghammer would be a ruin before you even arrived. But it's only a matter of time. We must end K'Varn and retrieve this horn and return it to the Tal'Dorei council to discuss how to seal it once more, hopefully for all of eternity. Your friend's loss is a terrible thing, but we will try to find him and should we not, understand that his sacrifice was not in vain. For we're here not to save one, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of lives, if we succeed. So we sleep, we rest, we find your friend and we destroy this, this abomination, this anathema."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I only hope you do not eventually become what you fear so much. Good night.
Sam: Sleep tight.
Matt: She picks up her blade, sits back down and goes back to sharpening (sounds of a sharpening stone hitting blade).
Laura: That was weird, right? Good night.
Taliesin: That went well.
Sam: Pike, I'll cuddle you for warmth, if that would help?
Ashley: It's already so hot in here with all the lava and stuff, I would just prefer to sleep alone. I'm sorry.
Sam: That's fine. That's what I meant.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie form and go off in the corner and curl up in the corner.
Liam: Scanlan, I'm very cold. (all laugh)
Sam: You know what? We better let that foot heal. We better let it heal.
Laura: Trinket, go sleep with Vax.
Liam: That's a good idea. Come here, Trinky. Trink!
Matt: (bear sounds and sniffing)
Liam: Who wants nibbles?
Matt: Trinket comes up and curls next to you. The evening goes by, uneventful. Occasionally, you stumble out of your rest, keep an eye out. The beacon still resides. From what you can imagine, a natural body sleep cycle that you're used to passes. A few begin to wake up before the others, as you have no daylight to ascertain whether it is day or night. Indeed, who knows what it is at this point.
Orion: I relieved myself in the middle of the night.
Laura: Thank you for telling us, Tiberius.
Sam: Did you get up?
Matt: Just wake up in a puddle of his own dragonborn filth?
Orion: I did my dragonborn business and buried it. As we do.
Laura: So have we healed completely?
Matt: Yes, you've all healed completely at this point. You had an evening's rest.
Sam: Do we get all our spells back and stuff?
Matt: You get your spells back.
Marisha: We have to pick them for the day, right?
Sam: I can do things again.
Marisha: Yeah, hang on, got to think about this.
Orion: Put some Greater Restorations in there.
Matt: Your mark? Wait, your mark, your Hunter's Mark, which you can feel, the magic of it is slowly waning as the spell comes to the end of its effective period, is moving.
Laura: (gasps) Where's it moving?
Matt: It's moving out of the city.
Laura: Where, which direction?
Matt: Best you can tell, it's heading towards the opposite side of the cavern towards where it curves down, deeper and below.
Laura: Wait. Where is that in relation to us?
Matt: To where you guys are? If you're looking out from next to the Emberhold, it's to your right, curving down and around.
Laura: We should go that direction.
Marisha: I go and cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Matt: All right.
Liam: This is suddenly turning into Labyrinth. "Beyond the Goblin city..."
Matt: To take back the child, which you have stolen.
Laura: You have no power over me.
Sam: The way we came in the city was through the side path, right?
Matt: Yes, the side of Emberhold, which you followed the curvature of this giant cavern around and you slept on the side, up against the wall, using the illusion, the illusory terrain.
Sam: So we're already--
Matt: You're already away from Emberhold, you're on the side of the wall, maybe about a quarter to a half a mile further down.
Sam: But if we keep going, we'll get to the--
Matt: You'll head down further into the cavern, seemingly in the direction where her Hunter's Mark is currently leading, which has now faded.
Sam: Okay! Your Hunter's Mark is gone.
Laura: Well, it went that way. We should go.
Sam: So, let's go. Let's just hurry.
Laura: As stealthily as possible so we don't alert the entire freaking camp.
Taliesin: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so we should be all right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I try to make it look like we weren't around this area as much as possible without our Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: You're sweeping behind the group as they're all moving along. With your imaginary brush.
Liam: Trinket's doing that thing where he pulls with his front feet and drags with his behind.
Taliesin: He's just rolling like a giant brillo brush.
Marisha: I put Stone Shape in my Ring of Holding last night with my unused spells. I meant to tell you that last night.
Matt: That's all right. All right, you do that.
Ashley: Oh, I forgot you had that ring.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I take out my Ioun Stones.
Matt: Okay, so your Ioun Stones are now slowly rotating around your head. Well, you can only have one up at a time.
Orion: Well, I only have one.
Matt: Yeah, okay, good. You said stones, so.
Orion: Sorry. Pathfinder habit.
Matt: I know. So moving around your head slowly. All right, so the rest of you gather, you cast your spell Pass Without a Trace. You continue to crest along the outskirts of the cavern wall at this point. Looking over, you can see, throughout the night, most of the fortress, currently-- the lava fall that once contained it is completely cooled and is dark. It looks like their way of stopping the flow was to stop the entire magma fall. Who knows how much damage has been done, but currently the flow is halted and you can see now, there's a number of parties of duergar that are wandering out, through the cavern, presumably in search for you.
Laura: So technically, Lady Kima, we might be able to get back in eventually and get your weapon.
Matt: As you say that, she grins to herself and says, "I would like that very much. I had some sentimental value to that equipment."
Laura: And there's a vault.
Matt: "And there is a vault."
Sam: Unless it melted.
Liam: This will greatly enhance your ability to move forward with us, won't it?
Matt: "I think right now time is of the essence for your friend more than anything."
Laura: We should go look for Grog.
Matt: "Besides, I highly doubt that that stronghold has been left alone, just because it's filled with rock."
Liam: Maybe on the way out.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys progress on the side, I would like everybody to roll a stealth check, please.
Laura: Oh, I don't know which one to roll.
Matt: You still have disadvantage, but you have advantage with your cloak, so you're neutralized. You're a normal roll right now.
Marisha: (softly) Stealth check.
Ashley: We have advantage?
Marisha: You have plus ten.
Matt: No, you have disadvantage still.
Ashley: I do not. There's no plus anything?
Sam: Plus ten.
Ashley: Ten still?
Orion: 29.
Liam: Plus ten?
Matt: Plus ten.
Orion: 29.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: 33.
Taliesin: 17.
Ashley: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 33.
Laura: Oh, I didn't roll for Trinket. Hold on.
Liam: Oh, Trinket rolled a one.
Laura: Trinket, shush. Oh, I didn't feed him today, he's probably so hungry.
Sam: Have any of us eaten?
Ashley: We've rested.
Matt: Essentially, as opposed to having this minutiae of reminding you all to eat, I just consider when you rest and take short rests, you're snacking and resting. Otherwise, we communally spend ten minutes a game talking about what you ate. If food begins to become scarce, which it may in time, I'll let you know.
Liam: Foot flakes anyone? Foot flakes?
Matt: It's like pork rinds (chuckles). All right. So, as you continue down this cavern, you begin to see the search parties in the distance and you keep low and watch as they pass. Some of them have small, that red glowish stone torches set out to keep their vision about. You can see a few of the parties returning to the city. Eventually, you guys begin to crest down deeper and dropping into a small decline as this giant, almost hatchback cavern where most of the duergar civilization is built in comes to an end. You begin to travel deeper, deeper into the Underdark caverns below. As you're continuing forward, you find a very very familiar scent catches your attention immediately, as you're tracking through, trying to keep your attention on possibly any sign of Grog. It's the smell of blood. It's the smell of fresh blood. Fresh-ish.
Laura: Fresh-ish?
Matt: Fresh-ish blood, if you will. You smell fresh-ish blood. You immediately glance over and you can see on the side of this cavern, which is about 50, 60 feet wide at this point, as it's come to a pinching point leading downward, you can see a spatter of blood across the wall to your immediate left, and what looks like a mangled mass of what once was a duergar, currently just torn asunder across this rock wall.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Does it look to be natural, done by an animal? Or does it look like people with weapons?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: The only time I've seen duergar split across like this was when we saw the camp of that creepy centipede creature.
Liam: With the stalagmite coming up?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: Do I see any of those kind of tracks around?
Matt: You check and look around on the ground as well, you unfortunately, as you look around, you're not able to pick up the fine details. You, however, just being naturally understanding of the Underdark, as well as having the previous knowledge of inspecting the initial camp: yes, these tracks are very similar. You see what looks like these strange dragging marks on the ground, these elongated ones. No footprints. Occasionally you see what looks like a human-sized footprint as well, and then these drag marks. You also notice that there is just beyond the rock threshold, as you step over towards the wall, you see three other duergar bodies that are torn asunder. Many of them partially eaten and violently torn apart. Some parts are scarred, some sort of acidic burn, and you see tooth marks, you see claw marks and you see portions of limbs that have been pulled off by sheer force.
Marisha: Could I do a nature check to see if I would know of a creature that could do this?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: It's going to be that centipede creature thingy.
Marisha: Ooh. 26.
Matt: 26. It's weird. There are elements of the drag marks on the ground that resemble a creature that has pseudopods or some sort of a tentacle-like mass, but you know of no natural creature that also has this power, this type of hunting technique, nor would be this far underground.
Taliesin: I think it's another stitch monster.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Stitch monster.
Taliesin: Stitch monster.
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: I do, too.
Laura: It's a good name.
Marisha: Something tentacle-y though. Nothing ever good is tentacle-y.
Laura: Can I tell if Grog definitely came this way?
Matt: Go ahead and make a tracking check, so just go ahead and roll a d20. You have advantage, because you're in the Underdark.
Laura: What do I add that to?
Matt: It should be under your tracking ability under your ranger abilities there. In your spells, under you ranger abilities. I'll see if I find it before you.
Laura: I don't understand.
Matt: It's on the sheet I gave you, with all your character stuff.
Laura: Oh. Okay, cool.
Matt: That one. The one that's easiest.
Laura: Natural explorer, primeval awareness.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I don't have any idea what I'm looking for. (all laugh)
Laura: I'm just looking at words right now.
Matt: It's a survival check. There you go.
Laura: It's a survival check.
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, good. So that's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. Looking around, what you do find is, there is a very familiar scent that a goliath barbarian does have. You, using Trinket's help, as you yourself are not quite as attuned, Trinket does pick up a little bit of Grog's scent in this pathway. So Trinket (moans) gives you a nudge and points deeper down the cavern. And you can see what looks to be a smattering of small duergar-sized feet and two grooves.
Laura: Two grooves?
Matt: About two-inch-wide grooves that continue down the path.
Laura: I wonder if they have him prisoner now. If he came out of his mind funk.
Marisha: Wheel tracks?
Matt: It could very well be wheel tracks.
Orion: Or they're dragging his body.
Matt: They're consistent and their width is consistent.
Marisha: Their width is consistent? And they seem clean?
Sam: They've put him on some sort of stretcher thing.
Marisha: Yeah, sounds like they have him on, yeah, a trailer.
Laura: Lovely. Well, Grog definitely came this way. As did the stitch monster, so you don't have much choice but to follow.
Taliesin: Let's continue.
Orion: Shall we?
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Be aware. We're all very aware of--
Marisha: Things.
Laura: Any movement at all... happening.
Taliesin: Guys, stuff.
Matt: Keeping your eyes peeled, you travel for another two and a half hours down this cavern path. It grows tighter at points where you can only really fit three or four individuals through, it's about 20, 25 feet wide, then opens up sporadically into other small pockets, where the natural topography of this portion of this Underdark cavern structure seems to weave and bend. The warmth and that sulfurous smell that was intrinsic to the duergar portion of this cavern that you were so used to, begins to slowly fade and temperature begins to drop. Still uncomfortable, but it's growing more humid as opposed to dry heat.
Orion: It's so good.
Matt: After another hour of travel, keeping your eyes out, the temperature drops significantly and is actually quite cold. The heat in the volcanic portion of this cavern structure apparently has passed you now, and you've hit an area of the rock where it is a much more chilled, much more ominous--
Orion: It's humid still?
Matt: Human?
Orion: Humid.
Matt: Humid? The humidity begins to fade as well. The air becomes a dry cold.
Orion: So we're past that.
Matt: You eventually using, which by the way the only light source you have going forward is the light from your staff.
Orion: Oh, Light!
Matt: I assume you've had it up this whole time or you've been walking in the darkness.
Orion: Oh, yes, of course.
Matt: (chuckles) You continue down and the topography, which was once the black, jagged obsidian flooring of the previous portion of the Underdark, begins to give way to a more natural gray sand-type texture. Your feet sink about a quarter inch or so with each step, and you get about ten, 15 feet before the color of the sand and the texture changes dramatically. It looks almost like a peppering of small whitish-yellow stones and rocks, as well as bits of black and grey. It's like a giant, rocky pit out in front of you.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Meaning it's all solid stone that color or loose gravel and rock?
Matt: You find sand and then the sand eventually gives way to like larger pieces of these rocks and stones.
Marisha: So it's like a pebble ball pit in front of us?
Matt: Essentially.
Taliesin: I'm looking for signs of mining.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Orion: I'm going to make an arcana check, also.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15. Checking the walls immediately in your vicinity, you see there are signs of mining, but they're old, they haven't been used in a while. You can see some veins that are dried up. Looks like maybe the duergar had business down here mining.
Marisha: Does it look like there-- Can I do a nature check to see if this is an old lake bed? Like there is a river bed?
Matt: Sure, go and do that. What did you roll?
Orion: 11.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: For arcana.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: Just general, if I feel a general source of sinister magic anywhere.
Matt: Nothing arcane seems to emanate from the vicinity.
Liam: Vex'ahlia, you know the Underdark. Are there any critters crawling around in that pit?
Laura: Is this still the Underdark?
Matt: You seem to be still in the Underdark, but the Underdark in general you're familiar with; your training and studying on the denizens of it, what things to look for. This is not a natural or overall occurrence you've read about before.
Laura: I can't sense anything or any creatures nearby?
Matt: Not per se.
Marisha: I rolled a 16.
Matt: Rolled a 16? As you're looking around, you go and inspect the stones. What you do notice is, they're not stones. There are pieces of glass, little shards of actual volcanic glass scattered across this entire field mixed with an endless seemingly sea of small bone chunks.
Laura: Ugh!
Marisha: Chunks?
Laura: Great!
Matt: Pieces of bone that have been rounded off, ground, broken.
Orion: Bone petals.
Matt: They're ancient.
Marisha: Okay, so there appears to be-- are there any whole pieces of bones? Big femurs or skulls?
Sam: This was some sort of burial ground.
Matt: It's hard to see. Most of the bones that have been here, have been around long enough to the point where they've eroded, been broken, destroyed over and over again to the point where you can't discern any of the original creatures they may have come from. It's just a sea of bone, obsidian glass, and small bits of stone that have fallen from the actual nearby cavern.
Liam: Can we see any sort of civilized construction here? Or is this all the work of nature or some living thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? You look past the barrier of his light spell, because you can only get a little bit past that due to your elven low-light vision. You do notice there are occasionally some spires of natural rock, some stalagmites that are jutting out in the distance, and you see what looks like some semblance of a ruined wall just beyond the edge of the vision. Like a crumbled, small wall.
Laura: Can I use my primeval awareness and see if I can sense Grog within six miles of us?
Matt: Certainly. All right, so how does your primeval awareness work, miss ranger?
Laura: Oh, I can use an action to focus my awareness on a region around me and then I can sense whether-- oh, well, no. It's only certain types of creatures.
Matt: Right. Which are?
Liam: Like goliath?
Laura: Well, no. It says "aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead".
Liam: That still might be useful, even if it doesn't find Grog.
Matt: What you do gather, you do sense a very strong force of aberration-based, much further, like five miles ahead, way ahead, and you have this weird, "Okay, good to know." You don't sense anything else, but you do sense a general presence about this entire sea of bone.
Ashley: I've been here!
Marisha: What?!
Ashley: I was here in the vision.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Yes, it was a field of broken glass and bone, and I feel like this is it.
Laura: So what do we do?
Ashley: And then after that, I got to a cavern of blue crystal.
Laura: So we have to go beyond it.
Marisha: So we're on the right road.
Ashley: I think we have to go beyond this.
Taliesin: All right.
Orion: Well, let's keep moving, then.
Laura: Can we keep to the edge and try to not disturb the rock as much as possible.
Matt: As you move to either edge, you can see the wall comes to a straight meeting with this. Aside from the climbing the walls proper, you have no other way of traversing this.
Liam: Could you describe the dimensions of this one more time?
Matt: Yes. The cavern itself is about 120 to 150 feet wide. You don't see the ceiling right now.
Laura: Oh, it's that high?
Liam: So, from our left to our right, 150 feet?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: And is it a big circular shape?
Matt: From what you can tell, it just opens up and then continues and then darkness. You cannot see beyond it.
Laura: Are there any rocks around us? Any big rocks?
Matt: There are a couple of small spires about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: Anything loose? Anything I can grab near us?
Matt: Around you? Most everything that's grabbable are part of it, yeah.
Ashley: We don't have the magic carpet. So never mind.
Sam: What, do you want to fly?
Liam: I say we take a wall.
Taliesin: Say we just gingerly try and cross against a wall.
Laura: Yeah. Anything to throw as far as I can out and see if it--
Matt: You look around and find a small pebble, and you chuck it (sound of pebble flying through air and landing) It arcs around, bounces a bit, and comes to rest.
Sam: Let's just go.
Marisha: No! No, I'm not touching that. Nope.
Sam: What are we going to do? Turn around? Grog's that way.
Marisha: Okay, here's my idea. We've got that immovable rod.
Orion: Yes, I know where you're going with this, and we'd all have to make a certain--
Matt: Once again, there's something about this whole area, there's a presence about it. It's ominous, and everywhere about this floor.
Marisha: I don't want to touch this. I feel like we should go over it.
Ashley: What if these bones come to life?
Laura: Can you send your light source up? Can anybody send light up and see how high the ceiling goes?
Orion: (mumbles) Shoot an arrow, if you would, Vex, please? Wherever you wish.
Laura: Okay.
Orion: Light!
Matt: Okay, cast out an arrow. As it shoots over, arcs through the air. You get a look of the cavern. You can see it's a large, arched, natural cavern with a number of hanging stalactites at the top. It goes up, arcs past, and then lands probably about a half a mile down the way. Really nice shot.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: And it lands with a (impact noise). With what little bit you can see through the arc, this path just continues and continues and continues for that full half mile.
Laura: There's no way to avoid it.
Marisha: There's no way to avoid it.
Matt: You do get a nice view of what looks to be more of these little, central pieces of broken wall. Looks like there was either a small series of structures or buildings that were built once within this cavern that have all completely crumbled to ruin with but a few small bastions of foundation that still remain.
Laura: Tiberius, how many times can you cast pillars of... whatever? Pillars.
Orion: Grand Columns is the spell, Vex.
Laura: How many times can you cast Grand Columns?
Orion: Multiple times, I guess.
Laura: Could we potentially walk on columns across this thing? Potentially.
Marisha: I mean, I could wall of-- bend us a stone wall that's and we could just walk along the path. But it goes only so far.
Orion: Hold on a second. I've got something here.
Liam: We're seeing the remains of buildings scattered throughout, maybe we could go from--
Laura: What about a wall from out from the side?
Marisha: The side? And then we walk along that side?
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah, we could do that, right?
Matt: How big is the wall you can make?
Laura: What were you going to say?
Liam: Well, there's little islands of structure left, we could just--
Laura: Hop.
Liam: Stand bridge, stand bridge, stand bridge.
Marisha: I can go 120 feet. I can make about 120 feet wall.
Matt: You saw about a quarter to a half mile. This seems to continue.
Laura: So, that might not be enough.
Sam: She'd have to do it 20 times.
Taliesin: I think we may just have to walk gingerly.
Marisha: Maybe we can fashion--
Ashley: Should we find traps? Check for traps?
Marisha: Can we fashion snow boots?
Liam: Vax starts feeling along one side of the wall. Does the ground look firm and more stable on the edges? Or is it all just the same?
Matt: Do you step out a little bit into the area?
Liam: Hand on the wall.
Matt: Hand on the wall? I mean, it's a wall.
Liam: No, but I mean-- yes.
Matt: But you step out with your hand on the wall.
Liam: I'm not stepping out yet. I'm looking at the ground. Is it pebbles and rock all the way to the sides?
Matt: All the way up to the wall.
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Lady Keyleth, if you will, could you perhaps make a flat, sturdy stone tablet we could all particularly stand on.
Marisha: Sure.
Orion: Make sure it's under a hundred pounds, if you could. Or actually, two hundred pounds, a little bit more to work with.
Marisha: I use Stone Shape and I bend down and make a big circle where I am. Carve out a little cylinder with Stone Shape.
Matt: So, using a very earthbender-y hand motion, you take a portion of the wall right next to you, send it outward and begin to shape it into this large cylinder--
Marisha: Disc.
Matt: Disc-like platform, that's (boof) on the ground, right at the base of the platform.
Orion: Everybody, hop on.
Laura: Trinket, hop on this rock.
Orion: Wait a minute, how much does Trinket weigh?
Laura: A lot.
Liam: Is it 200?
Matt: Trinket weighs more than that.
Liam: Trinket weighs a ton. All of us together.
Marisha: Maybe you could just levitate Trinket behind?
Orion: I don't have that spell anymore. I need to know how much she weighs for this.
Matt: Trinket, I mean, looking at it, you haven't really weighed her yourself, you gather--
Laura: Trinket's a boy!
Matt: Trinket weighs approximately-- (all laugh)
Sam: Trinket's a boy?! With a name like Trinket?
Liam: Haven't you seen his wang flopping around under his tail?
Matt: Trinket's probably close to a thousand.
Orion: So here's the situation. I can get us all across, but I cannot take Trinket as well.
Laura: I'm not leaving Trinket behind. So everybody get on that and we'll see what happens.
Sam: Why don't we go across. He can come back and get Trinket.
Laura: Okay, yeah. How about you guys go and I'll stay with Trinket. You guys go.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to leave her.
Marisha: Can we make him weightless and then tug him along with the rope? We can't do that?
Ashley: I have a question. How many feet across?
Laura: It's like half a mile.
Matt: Quarter to a half mile from what you can tell, like I said, you only have vision enough to where the arrow arced and it was a very long arc, that just trailed off so you gather anywhere between a quarter to a half mile.
Ashley: I want to run across. (all laugh)
Sam: With your heavy armor.
Liam: Sneak right in there.
Laura: Oh, just do it.
Ashley: Wait, are we getting on the rock?
Liam: How far is the closest little island of remaining structure that you referenced?
Matt: Oh it's probably about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: I don't sense any undead with my primal awareness do I?
Matt: The perpetual presence that you sense across the entirety of this bed of bone and glass, if you had to describe it, it has some sort of undead-ish realm. It's not your specialty, I mean it is, like undead creatures are, and the presence is similar to that.
Ashley: I get my Mace of Disruption ready.
Laura: Oh, and Kima!
Marisha: (gasps) Oh! We're done! We can do this! We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: That's it, yes!
Marisha: We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: Very good.
Ashley: Into a tiny tiny?
Orion: Make him into a chicken.
Matt: You instinctively glance around, you look down, and you notice your holy symbol of Sarenrae has a hairline fracture in it. What was once a perfect and impeccable sphere of design-- you've had this your entire life, you look down and see, you don't know how recently, but a portion of the metal symbol itself is cracked.
Sam: Oh, Pike.
Ashley: Oh no, this is terrible.
Laura: Pike, pray! do something!
Orion: I motion over to Pike and I take her medallion slowly off of her and go-- and bring out my Mending Wheel.
Matt: Your Mending Wheel, which was where? It was in the Bag of Holding.
Orion: No, I held that.
Matt: The Mending Wheel's this big. You haven't been carrying it with you this entire time!
Orion: What? I thought it was like this big.
Matt: (laughs) Tiberius.
Ashley: I'll take my symbol back, put it back on, and say, this is something that I've got to-- this is something I need to deal with. We can't just put it in a Mending Wheel.
Liam: The gods reward deeds, not words.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe it happened in the fight.
Ashley: I think I know why it happened.
Sam: Maybe because you've been killing unarmed people?
Ashley: I think it was when I slit the guy's throat. She got mad. Just a hunch.
Sam: But you know what? We'll do some good deeds when we're done.
Ashley: Yeah. This is something that I need to fix, but thank you for trying.
Orion: I forgot we didn't have it.
Laura: Well, Trinket, what do you want to be? A lizard? A mouse?
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: A kitten? (gasps) A kitten.
Ashley: A little kitty.
Laura: You want to be a kitten?
Matt: (laughs) Trinket glances over at you with a look in the eye of like--
Marisha: And I go (floop), and I make him a kitten. What kind of kitten?
Laura: Oh, he's a Persian.
Marisha: He's a Persian kitten.
Matt: Trinket's form (shwoop) shifts down into this tiny white puffball with a pushed-in nose.
Laura: You're the cutest, Trinket.
Ashley: I go and I snuggle, and I nuzzle him.
Laura: I tuck him into my shirt.
Matt: You sense immediately, Trinket is not necessarily pleased, but will deal with it.
Marisha: Well, he's so cute.
Laura: He's so cute.
Orion: In Draconia, those are snacks.
Sam: I wouldn't say that.
Laura: Let's go! Come on! Let's get on this thing! Grog's getting ahead of us.
Sam: All right, let's go. On our stone airplane.
Marisha: Let's get on the Wonkavator, everybody.
Ashley: All right hop on. I hop on.
Matt: All right, so you all hop onto this giant stone. It's really cramped, you're all shoulder-to-shoulder pushed onto here, clutched onto your new Persian cat. Kima and Clarota step onto it.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis on the stone slab, lift us up, and push us.
Matt: Okay, how much weight can you push through Telekinesis?
Orion: A thousand.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I did all the math. (clears throat) Vax weighs 155, Pike weighs 75. Taliesin weighs 190, Vex weighs 120.
Ashley: But Scanlan weighs nothing.
Orion: Sam weighs the same, 75. Keyleth weighs 125.
Matt: Yep. Kima weighs 105. With all of her armor, she'd be 105.
Sam: Clarota can float.
Matt: Clarota can float. Does that still fall under a thousand total?
Orion: Yeah, should. Is that right?
Sam: What about you?
Taliesin: Plus the rock.
Laura: The rock would be less.
Orion: That's why I kept a hundred pounds for that.
Marisha: A hundred pounds for the rock.
Liam: Want to run those numbers again for the calculator?
Matt: Rock's 100 pounds? That's not a lot of stone.
Laura: It's a very thin piece of stone.
Matt: That's a very thin piece of stone. All right.
Orion: Nine. Nope, we're at nine-- we're there. We're at nine-something. You can do all the math, but it's nine-something.
Matt: Okay, all right, so you all stand on the platform. It (straining noises) rises up, and it's one of those all of you have to gather yourself, but nevertheless it is now floating. How long does it last, concentration wise?
Orion: Ten minutes.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Quick! Float us!
Matt: So, as Tiberius begins to concentrate, the stone begins to glide out over this expanse of broken bone and obsidian glass.
Orion: I hover about-- what's bone break?-- around six feet above the air. That's how high I take it.
Matt: Okay, so you're cresting about six feet. You have to move it around occasionally to avoid some of the large stalagmites that are jutting out of the bones.
Laura: Do we see anything? I'm keeping an eye out, see if I see any movement or anything that's maybe sparkles. I don't know.
Taliesin: Keeping an eye behind us, as well.
Matt: Okay. You guys, keeping an eye out, you see more and more of this ruin, and you can see the the further in you go, you start seeing bits of bone that are larger than what's near the edge. You start seeing bits and pieces that are full bones, so they've been more-- still rounded and weathered, but they're less ground down as supposed to the edges where most of the traction seems to be. You get about 300 feet out before you hear a loud, echoing scream across the cavern. (loud yell)
Orion: In front of us?
Matt: In front of you guys.
Laura: What's it sound like?
Matt: It's male, and it's loud.
Laura: Go! Can we go faster?
Orion: We hear this. I push us forward. I mean, we're going in that direction anyways, so I speed us up.
Liam: Keyleth, take the gnomes!
Matt: Correct, okay. As you speed up and continue--
Ashley: I jump on Keyleth.
Liam: Take the gnomes!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Grab some feathers.
Sam: I'll grab on as well. Why not.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, you transform maintaining concentration on Polymorph for Trinket, I believe, right? All right. It's not a spell, it's an effect you do. So you (whooshing noise) you transform into a giant eagle, you grab both the gnomes, you guys are lifted up off the platform as the platform continues to push forward.
Orion: Cool, so I get a little bit more control over it now. (grunts)
Matt: A little bit more. As you're pushing forward you feel the stone itself has this weird wobble to it, but you still manage to keep concentration, pushing forward. Eventually, the little bit of light from your Light spell cascades past one of these joining parts of a wall, and then beyond that you can see what looks like a few other stone pillars that are sticking up. And you see what looks to be a small party of duergar that are in the middle of battle. There is one duergar who is splattered across the bone floor. You see a troll that is currently in the middle of a fistfight with something that's moving extremely fast. This blur of motion. You can barely make out the physical form before the troll turns and runs in your direction, surprised to see the light coming towards you, and in its expression of extreme confusion and fear, you see something (whoosh) past, and its head just (soft falling sound). Rolls off the top of his shoulders.
Laura: That's not Grog! We're going to toward a monster!
Matt: (crashing sound) The troll body hits the ground. As it does you see bits of bone begin to rise up and pull the troll down underneath.
Laura: Oh, it's really good we're not standing on it!
Orion: Avoid! (whooshing sound)
Liam: Daggers out.
Taliesin: Guns out.
Matt: As you guys begin to push forward you can see two of the duergar are now backing up instinctually. One looks down at his feet now that have been grabbed, and he's being pulled under, and he just starts trying to wrestle himself free. This blur of motion jumps off one of the platforms, spins in the air, and lands with a slam that completely splatters across the rock that he's right next to. This duergar, you can see part of his jaw go flying off to the side and silence hits him in the middle of his scream. The last duergar there, you can see who's looking around, sees the stone platform, and goes, "Let me on! Let me on!" He goes running over and is trying to jump up towards the stone platform you guys are on.
Laura: How much does he weigh? (giggles)
Matt: Well, he's going to go ahead and try and grab it with an athletics check-- he makes it! (latching noise) He gets onto the side.
Sam: Kick him off!
Marisha: Fuck that guy!
Laura: I punch him in the face!
Matt: Okay, okay. You go ahead and (punch thud noise). You just beat him in the face. He holds tight. You're not a very strong person, unfortunately.
Liam: I grab him by the cloak. What is it? What is it?
Matt: "I don't know! Get it away! Get it away!"
Marisha: In eagle form, I'm going to do a nice high soaring lap.
Sam: We're on you!
Marisha: I know! It's okay! I'm going to use my-- I'm soaring high. It's an easy breeze. We're on the people mover. Okay. And I'm going to use my keen sight to see if I can get a good... (pew)
Matt: Okay, so, using that you glance down and in this brief moment where it seems like the cacophony of this entire circumstance slows down (slowing sound noise). And your eagle eyes glance down, and you can see in a brief moment the blur stops. You see a humanoid form. Looking at the body and the torso, it looks elven. Its very thin and gaunt legs dangling as four giant, jagged-looking tentacles sprout from both sides of its torso, holding it aloft. Two lifting it off the ground and keeping its body suspended, while two are (fwhoosh) whipping around in the process. As you're glancing, you see its head (cracking noise) glance up toward the wall. These blank, white eyes shooting around in different directions spontaneously, with this maddening look. Whatever this is is clearly insane and is currently driven on some sort of hunger bloodlust. The stitch marks you see across its body are very reminiscent of the earlier abominations that you saw, created by K'varn and sent throughout this cavern structure.
Liam: Keyleth's the only one who sees it, though, at this moment?
Orion: Do I see it?
Matt: You guys haven't yet. At the moment, you're talking to this dwarf or you're shoving him off the platform.
Orion: Can I see it as I'm cruising through? I see him?
Laura: We wanted to throw him as far as we could.
Liam: Yes, the twins pull him up and one--
Liam: Two, three!
Laura: Two, three!
Matt: (laughs) All right. As you chuck the duergar through the air, the creature who briefly had stopped, and you guys now see its motion stop, and you get a full view of its horrible form. (grunting, panting sounds)
Orion: As soon as I do that, I cast True Strike. (ftsssh)
Matt: All right, you cast True Strike on yourself?
Orion: On him!
Matt: On him?
Orion: What it does is, it allows me to see--keep going, I'll tell you. Go ahead.
Matt: All right, so it stops for a second. You guys all get a view of its vision. As it's looking up towards where Keyleth is, suddenly its head (shh) snaps back into focus as the duergar goes swinging through the air. As it does (snarling) it licks its lips and you can see now, where its mouth is, the lips curl back and the jaw splits open slightly with this horrible Predator-like fanged jaw, and the two tentacles that are currently up in the air reach out, grab, and (tshhh) just split it in two. Its torso then divides and sprays it with crimson as it (tongue flicking noise) licks it out of the air. (breathy growling)
Laura: (whispering) Go faster. Go faster!
Orion: I'm still going! We're still going. I'm not standing and watching.
Sam: Have we passed it yet?
Matt: Everyone roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god, we're going to fight? We're going to fight this thing?
Marisha: I was going to say we should try and avoid him. Poop monster.
Laura: Oh, god.
Sam: No, we're floating above it. We've got advantage.
Marisha: Do we?
Laura: We're all stuck on a single piece of rock.
Orion: Yeah, well, that's the thing.
Sam: We're fine. One of us has guns.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And we saw the duergar get pulled under by skeletal arms?
Sam: By the bones.
Liam: Yeah, the bones pulled down, right? So it's not just this thing.
Matt: I'm using this as the figure for the creature.
Orion: By the way, Matthew.
Matt: Yes.
Orion: True Strike. I extend my hand and point a finger at a target. My magic grants me a brief insight into the target's defenses. On my next turn, I gain advantage on my first attack roll against the creature, using that spell as a guide.
Matt: Gotcha. So! For the purposes of this, the two gnomes are alongside Keyleth's eagle form.
Taliesin: Oh, we're going to use the little thingy?
Marisha: Yeah, are we going to use the levitating thingies?
Matt: What? Yes, we are. Let me pull them out right now over here.
Taliesin: Levitating thingies!
Marisha: Levitating thingies! Makes us look cool.
Taliesin: It's been so long.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Matt: There's the rest of you. Although, Trinket is a kitten.
Sam: Trinket is a cat.
Taliesin: Trinket only has the power of "adorability."
Matt: This is the stone slab over here that you guys have created. All right, so. Initiative rolls, everyone. Starting at... 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. That puts Vex at the top of the round there. And brings-- there we go. 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Orion: 18.
Matt: 18? 15 to ten?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Ten to five?
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: Eight.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: Team Eight.
Taliesin: Boom.
Matt: Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Four.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Okay, yay, Pike, bringing up the rear!
Marisha: Team Single Digits!
Ashley: Team Single Digits!
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Matt: Top of the round is the monstrosity. It is a very quick-- move the camera. Follow me this way. There we go. (all laugh)
Matt: It uses its quite grand movement of 50 feet to (shh) lumber over to this side, and it gets two attacks with its tentacles, with reach. Actually three attacks.
Marisha: On who?
Matt: This is going to be at you guys.
Liam: I don't need this foot.
Matt: This is going to be one at Kima, one at you and one at Tiberius as you are the three currently within its positioning view. First one is going to be at you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Oh, that is going to be a 14 to hit?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right, so you (whoosh) dodge out of the way. The one towards Kima. Oh that's going to be a 15 to hit, which it strikes her armor, but she manages to pull out of the way and it gleans off the side and you can see a little bit of this acid scarring across the edge of her leather armor. The third strike going out towards Tiberius (swoosh). That is (laughs) a critical one. It actually whips out and strikes the bottom of the stone you guys are standing on, which rocks it for a second, and you all essentially get worried but it seems to have no effect. That was a really terrible opening round for the creature.
Marisha: Here's my question. Is this all happening still over top of the bone pit?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right so you mark him
Laura: Right on that guy.
Matt: Do it. He is Hunter's Marked and I'm putting this on here as a reminder of your mark.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's so fashionable.
Matt: Isn't it though.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow him. Oh, I can't do that because I Hunter's Marked him.
Matt: Correct. that was your bonus action.
Laura: I'm going to Hail of Thorns that guy.
Matt: All righty, thorn hail him.
Laura: Okay, at level three.
Matt: Okay!
Laura: Through my Bow of Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay, so as you pull back your arrow, you pull it up, you can see the thorns (thoosh) actually grow rather rapidly out of the wood itself and as you pull back, the bowstring itself ignites setting the bow, the shaft of the arrow on fire as well as you release, rolling?
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: So then I roll my regular damage plus 3d10?
Matt: Correct, plus the fire damage which is 1d10.
Laura: Okay, whoa. So 14 for the first.
Matt: Okay and then roll technically 4d10 because it's the fire.
Laura: 4d10, this is crazy.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: Four, 11, 19. 21.
Matt: So 21 plus 14?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: 35 points of damage. Nice. So you release (soosh).
Laura: Oh plus Hunter's Mark damage!
Matt: Yep, there you go. That's why you did it.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Nice, 41 points of damage in the first attack from the ranger.
Marisha: (cheers)
Matt: All righty, so you release the arrow as the creature (woosh) shifts into place, it lashes out with all its tentacles and as it pulls back, looks like it's ready to pounce you release the arrow right towards its torso, it hits, and it looks down instinctually and it bursts into a spray of thorns all over its face and its torso and you can see it (monster screech) reels back from the pain, you can see the flames licking up over the front of its body. You can see there's a semblance of clothing on it. Whatever this thing once was, it's still wearing the clothing it had and a portion of it has burned off part of the torso. Whoever this poor soul once was, there is no shred of humanity left in it.
Orion: Before that ends I go, hop off.
Laura: Hop off? No way. I'm not stepping on this bone shit.
Liam: There's undead things in there
Laura: That's my turn.
Matt: And that's your turn, and you're holding a kitten.
Laura: Oh he's tucked into my armor.
Matt: Oh, he's tucked into you? Okay. That brings us to Tiberius, you're up. Tiberius, what are you doing.
Liam: Tibber-hoods.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: Okay, everyone hold on tight.
Sam: You're giving us opposite notes.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: How wide was the stone tablet? Ten feet for all of us to fit on?
Matt: It's about 15 feet round.
Orion: Perfect, I move us right above the butthole and, everybody hold on. And I fucking slam all of us right on him. (boosh)
Matt: Okay. So the platform comes cascading down at a fair speed immediately breaking over this creature, as it is a pretty thin wall to have only been about 100 pounds. It completely shatters over the top of it. Everyone who was on that platform, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Ashley: Get it, guys. Come on.
Laura: I get two because it's favored terrain, right?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Yes, okay good.
Matt: All right so.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Oh, Pike's not there.
Taliesin: 24.
Ashley: I'm not happening for a while.
Orion: Me too?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: 12.
Matt: 12. All right. So all the rest of you manage to leap off and tumble the best you can to catch yourself-- except for Tiberius.
Orion: Wait, do I make a dexterity check? I mean I'm not-- okay.
Matt: You do. You're still on the platform. It just shattered around you. So you however fall prone on the ground from the impact and land on the ground. That's also going to end your turn.
Marisha: Did it do any damage?
Orion: Can I not do any bonus actions?
Matt: Unfortunately not, due to the failed dexterity save. It practically knocked the wind out of you due to the impact.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: That was the unfortunate part of missing that dexterity check.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: However, it does deal from the crushing damage to the entity that'll be I'll say 3d10 points of damage. I'll see if it makes its save to reduce to half. Which it does. Rolled a 21. What's your DC in your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: So it makes its save, so it's half damage. Roll 3d10 and it's half that.
Orion: (counting noises) What is that, 19.
Matt: Okay, so it takes a total of nine points of damage. Crushing damage from the blow of the stone on top of it. Nice. As it (crssh) shrugs off bits of chunks of stone that are around its body, you can see a little bit of blood is being pulled to the seams of its body. It's taken some hits. It's still doing all right but it's definitely-- you can see it's not impervious by any means. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right, well, I use my bonus action to click my Boots of Haste together.
Matt: Your Boot of Haste.
Liam: Boot of Haste? But aren't magic items resistant to--
Matt: Oh yeah I was messing around.
Liam: Okay, yeah. Start sneak attack from behind. 32 for the first attack.
Matt: You unfortunately do not get sneak attack on this. It knows where you are. You do not get the round before it-- nobody else is adjacent to it because everyone else had to jump off the platform.
Liam: So no one's right next to it? I'm the closest one?
Matt: Currently no. You are the closest one to it because everyone had to jump off as it fell, and the fact that as soon as you rush towards it, its head (cracking noise) clicked over its back and looked straight at you, almost the neck bending in the process.
Liam: You block me every chance you get with this one. So that was the first attack...
Matt: No, this creature is really quick and very aware of its surroundings.
Liam: So first attack is nine. There's more coming. Here comes the poison dagger, which is 23.
Matt: 23. That does hit.
Liam: That is ten. Because of the Boots of Haste, I get a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: And that misses entirely. In fact, I think I threw my dagger into the bones.
Matt: What did you roll a one?
Liam: A one, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike hits. The second one, you feel the poison energy pulse through the blade. What's the DC on that again?
Liam: It's 15.
Matt: That hits. You feel the poison (crssh) enter its side, and it looks down-- oh, it is immune to poison. Sorry. Oh, abyssal abominations! So the second blade goes in. The third one, you go ahead and swing towards it, and it (splssh) actually slaps the blade out of your hand and sticks to the ceiling. (whoosh) Thankfully, it returns back to your belt because magical belts are cool. All right, cool. That ends your turn. Kima's turn. Kima, who just managed to land, grabs her sword and reaches over. You can see the divine energy instilled within her blade. She is going to make two attacks against the creature. She rushes towards it on that side there. It's going to be yeah, 17. That'll hit. That's 27 to hit, and then a natural 20. So a hit and a critical. She's going to go ahead and get 15 damage from the first strike. Second one is going to be...
Marisha: We need to get off this floor real bad.
Sam: Well you're not on it.
Marisha: I'm not.
Sam: You can make a dance floor next to them.
Matt: All right, as she strikes it both times with the sword, you can see the first strike hits and the second one, she swings around and she instills with her Divine Smite, which does an additional eight points of divine damage. The second strike, as it slashes across, you can see the torso splits open. As the torso opens up, you can see a part of its guts spill out, and they begin to slowly pull themselves back in.
Marisha: Hell no.
Sam: She's Wolverine!
Matt: (laughs) Scanlan you're up.
Sam: Okay. Do I have a clean line of sight on her? Or are we too far away?
Matt: You guys are up in the air being held by her. Probably actually I'd say...
Marisha: I'm doing the eagle glide.
Matt: You guys are about 30 feet up right now.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: All right, so I think I'm in range. I'm just going to blind the bitch. So I cast Blindness on her.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that?
Laura: It's a girl?
Ashley: It's a her?
Sam: Isn't it a girl?
Matt: No it's a male elf.
Sam: Yeah, well I'm so demeaning to it, I call it a girl.
Ashley: Why is that demeaning?
Laura: Why is that demeaning?
Sam: Because it is a chauvinist. I know that.
Matt: What's the range on that, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm looking.
Ashley: Disadvantage on his roll!
Liam: You're in the wrong group to being saying that shit, man. (all laugh)
Sam: I'm drunk!
Marisha: Whatever. (laughs)
Sam: How far am I? I can't even tell. I can't see the board.
Matt: You're about 70 feet.
Sam: I can't do it.
Matt: You can hold your turn if you want to wait for Keyleth to go.
Sam: I can hold my turn? I've never done this before.
Matt: Yeah. Meaning if you're waiting for someone else to take their turn first, you can hold back until they do theirs. So you can wait for her to pull you closer.
Sam: Okay. I will wait for that, then, and I love women.
Ashley: Oh, we know. We know.
Sam: Biblically.
Marisha: Keyleth does a little dip really quick.
Matt: All right, gotcha.
Marisha: Makes Scanlan a little nervous.
Matt: All right. Clarota takes his turn. Clarota is going to... the situation's too dangerous to do anything Lightning Bolt related. Clarota instead is going to use Mind Blast against the creature. No that's no good either, at this positioning-- yeah no, because he'll get a bunch of you guys, too.
Sam: God, Clarota.
Marisha: Clarota!
Matt: Instead Clarota is going to...
Laura: Can he heal us?
Matt: No. Clarota's not really the healing kind. Clarota is going to cast Blur on himself to try and keep it from taking one of these points of wound damage. So he uses his turn to cast Blur. Clarota's form begins to shift and vibrate in and out of place where it's hard to see exactly where Clarota is standing. Clarota is going to take two steps back, unfortunately in the threat range of the creature. It gets (whoosh) a reaction to attack against Clarota. Thanks to the Blur spell, though, it misses entirely. So the strike strikes and it passes through with no effect. Clarota moves behind one of the rocks here, actually this far, for cover. That ends Clarota's turn. Keyleth you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I caw-caw closer
Matt: Like over where?
Marisha: Yeah, there's good. Shit, can't cast any spells unless I land. I'm going to have to drop down. Can I perch on one of these stalactites?
Matt: You can, but you're going to have to let go of the gnomes to do so.
Ashley: Do it.
Marisha: Can I drop off you guys?
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: You hear (bird noises).
Sam: What?
Marisha: And I drop them off really quick.
Ashley: What did she say?
Matt: All right, so both of you guys make acrobatics checks. Disadvantage for you because of your armor.
Ashley: But don't I get a plus ten?
Matt: Not for acrobatics, you don't.
Liam: Right. You're a bullet falling from the sky.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: All right. As both of you guys get released as you go to perch on these rocks.
Marisha: I'm going to turn back into Keyleth holding onto the rock.
Matt: Okay. So we'll put you there. Keyleth, no longer an eagle. This is out of the way. You guys both land here and here.
Marisha: But I'm still on the rock. I still want to be on the rock.
Matt: I'm considering you on the rock, but I don't want to have to try and balance you right there. Scanlan, you land, catch yourself on the bones, and you're fine. Pike, you sink into your waist at the impact.
Ashley: Because my armor's so heavy? (laughs)
Matt: Speed and the way your inability to catch your weight and use it. You just go (schoomp). Just stick directly into the bone up to your waist.
Liam: You're gnomic lawn art.
Ashley: Aw, dang it!
Matt: Percy you're up!
Marisha: Wait, I'm not done!
Matt: Right. Sorry, you turn back. So Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: The laser pointer's dead. Now I'm going to make a wall of stone. Wait, is there someone in the way? Is there somebody behind him? Is that Vax?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Damn it, Vax!
Sam: He didn't ask to be dropped there.
Laura: That's where we landed.
Marisha: Shitballs. All right. I'm going to do Grasping Vine, then. No, I should make us a dance floor. I'm going to make us a dance floor, then. I'm going to do a wall of stone. How concentrated can I do my wall of stone, actually? Can I do a wall of stone to where it's doughnut-shaped? Where there's a hole in the middle? And now I make a wall going across the top?
Taliesin: A doughnut of stone.
Matt: I would say, based on the description of it here...
Marisha: A horizontal wall?
Matt: Ten foot by ten foot panels.
Sam: Panels. Squares.
Matt: Alternatively, you can create ten foot by 20 foot panels that are only three inches thick. So yes, you can, you can create any shape you desire, so you can make it a doughnut hole type thing if you want to.
Marisha: Dope. So, I'm going to make a doughnut-shaped dance floor, and I'm going to make a hole in the middle to where he's still in the middle in the bone, but we're all on rock. Around this area.
Matt: So, it's just around all of you guys or underneath everybody?
Marisha: Underneath us.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm making a dance floor.
Sam: That was an excellent move by a strong, independent woman who doesn't need a man to tell her what to do. Or to validate her in any way.
Marisha: I want everybody--
Matt: You might not be able to get Pike.
Marisha: I can't get Pike?
Matt: No, because there would be a weird loop there.
Ashley: I can maybe try to Sprinter's Boots my way up.
Marisha: Well, as much as I can do, but I want to make a nice hole to where he's still--
Matt: I would say you can either get Pike or you can get these guys here. That's about where you're going to call it.
Ashley: No worries. Do some damage!
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: I'm going to boost up Pike. She's halfway underground.
Matt: The wall comes out and it stops there. That's as far as you can get it. This whole area now is a wall. It pops you out of the stone as the stone lifts you up. You have to catch yourself for a second, but it's not so abrupt to the point where you get knocked off the side. You're all lifted up about ten feet. So just mark that area as stone wall. Got it.
Marisha: Except for douchebag.
Matt: Except for douchebag.
Sam: Now that I'm within range, may I go?
Matt: After Percy, and then it's your turn. You all get to hold at the same time, so. Percy.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity if I run?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: How close am I? I can't see.
Matt: It took one reaction against Clarota.
Liam: You're further than five feet away, because had you been five feet away I could have sneak attacked.
Taliesin: Oh. Well, all right. The first thing I'm going to do is shoot twice in the face of this asshole.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: Shoot twice into the face of the asshole, Percy.
Taliesin: 14?
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: But 28 will.
Matt: 28 will. So the first shot, you shoot, the body just goes (sound of air splitting speed) and totally unnatural sense sees where the aim is and is already out of the way before the bullet gets there. Returns, but you catch it up with the second shot from the Pepperbox, and blast in the side of its chest. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh my god. This is awful. Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. All righty.
Taliesin: That's just embarrassing.
Laura: That's something, that's something, Percy!
Ashley: Hey, you know what? We're getting close!
Laura: That's better than a one.
Marisha: Pike is just an inspirational poster today. Like, it's okay, we can do it!
Taliesin: Thanks, mom. All right. Thanks, mom. I'm going to try to make a run for it to the stalactite by your hand.
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: If I could even climb up on it, that would be very cool.
Matt: That's going to, with your run speed, you're going to have to do that next turn.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine.
Matt: You don't have enough action to do that, but you get to it. Scanlan, you're up!
Sam: I'm going to blind him. With Blindness in his eyes.
Taliesin: Try blinding him with science, that usually works.
Matt: Are you using your hand cone?
Sam: I am using my hand cone.
Matt: I assume you do, for the most part. So what's your DC with that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Good. All right, fails its roll.
Orion: Yes!
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: As you release the arcane essence, you can see this darkness spill up and completely cascade over the white, almost soulless, freaking out eyes of this creature. It's very Silent Hill in the way it moves. Suddenly, its eyes (shhh noise) fill over with darkness, and you can see it beginning to writhe and move around like it's unable to truly grasp the full surroundings. It appears to have taken effect.
Orion: Nice!
Sam: And then I give a little inspiration to Pike. I look over to her, give her a little wink, little smile...
Liam: Spirit her on with anger. Good job.
Matt: Take your 1d8 inspiration.
Ashley: 1d8? Okay.
Sam: That's all it takes.
Marisha: That's all it takes. (laughs)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: I think so.
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: Where am I?
Matt: You're on top of the wall, right here.
Sam: Yeah, I'm staying on that wall, yeah. I don't want to go anywhere, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. So, from where I'm at--
Matt: Yes, on top of this wall here.
Ashley: I'm on top of a wall? I'm going to Guiding Bolt the whatever-it-is. (all laugh)
Sam: The whatever it is.
Ashley: And then-- okay, wait, hold on. Let me cast that at-- So what do I roll for?
Matt: You roll and add your spell attack modifier to it, I believe it is, to hit for Guiding Bolt.
Ashley: So I roll the d20 to see if I hit?
Matt: I'm pretty sure, yeah. It should be in the description.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: That's good, that's good!
Ashley: 15.
Laura: Plus anything?
Ashley: Oh, plus-- wait, what am I plussing? I'm so sorry!
Matt: Your spell attack.
Laura: It's on your spell page.
Matt: It's on your spell page, top of your spell page.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You haven't used it in a while. Yeah.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23 does hit!
Ashley: Yes!
Ashley: Okay, so then we do--
Matt: 4d6 points of radiant damage to it.
Sam: It's also blind.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: 15? And I'm going to add my inspiration from him.
Matt: You can't add that to damage. It's only to hit.
Sam: Save it for later.
Ashley: So, 19.
Matt: 19. So, as you look down, you grab your holy symbol, and even though it is cracked, you still feel the presence of Sarenrae looking down upon you. The divine energy coalesces in your hand, and you throw it forward with a divine wrath as it streaks across the air. It slams into the side of this weird twisting abomination, and as it blasts into it you can see its tentacles reel back and pull back in severe pain and it roars this horrible, screeching (bleeegrh screech) scream into the cavern around you, echoing down the hall. It's looking a little rough.
Ashley: Okay. And then there's nothing I can do from there, right?
Matt: That's your action. You can move if you'd like. Move along the wall, or hop off it, or whatever you want to do.
Sam: Come closer to me!
Ashley: I'll stay! (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Because she's an independent woman.
Sam: That's a proud choice, and I honor and respect it. I love women!
Matt: So currently, because it's--
Marisha: Pike's not the only one cashing karma points.
Matt: So technically, I should have remembered this, but you hit anyway: while it's blinded, attacks against it have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: And its attacks have disadvantage. So, as a note. Top of the round, now, the monstrosity goes ahead and gets its round. It's going to go ahead and lash outward. Thinks people are around it, seeing the wall go up, it's going to swing out towards you. All right, that is a 16 versus armor class. Nice! So, as it swings out towards you on the wall, you duck out of the way just in time. A second tendril (whoosh, swish) reaches out and is going ahead and head forward... let's see. This one's probably going to make its way either between your foot or Scanlan on the wall. I'm going to roll to see who it goes for. Goes for Tiberius. That is 16 versus armor class again.
Orion: No. 17.
Matt: 17? Nice! Let's see...
Laura: On the ground, you look up like...
Orion: No! My big toe! Bah!
Matt: Third strike is going to whip around and attempt to grab... roll between both... Okay, it's going to go for Lady Kima. And that's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: She's a magnet.
Marisha: Even with disadvantage?
Matt: Well, actually, no, technically it would've still been a 15, so it's not a critical, but it still hits.
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: Unfortunately, without her full armor, her AC is not that crazy. So it's not a critical. That's nice. That brings it to a total of 18 points of damage with an additional six acid damage to Lady Kima.
Laura: Oh. Acid. None of us have gotten hit yet.
Matt: And the tentacle (whoosh) wraps around her and grapples her in place, and she's currently held in place by its tentacle. She stays where she is. It is now going to attempt to leap away. It brings all of its tentacles to the ground and (whoosh) leaps up into the air.
Liam: Attacking before it goes.
Matt: You get one attack of opportunity against it.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27 does hit.
Orion: I swing at it with my cane as I'm on the floor.
Matt: No.
Sam: Do I get an attack?
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage? All right. It takes 11, and it leaps away, (whoosh) taking her with it, and here, it's actually going to land about there, and you can see as it leaps away and lands, the wounds you guys have left on it are slowly healing.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right. I don't want to hit Lady Kima with any of my attacks, so I'm just going to have to do... I'm going to do the Blazing Bowstring again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm going to attack it twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it. Roll for strikes.
Laura: Ooh! That was a 30!
Matt: You have advantage on these strikes, by the way. Well, actually, let me see, because I think it gets a save each turn to try to get rid of your blindness, which it does not make.
Orion: Nice. Is he blind?
Matt: Okay. So still blinded.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Hits. Definitely.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks. First one with the extra d10 for Blazing Bowstring. This arrow: once again, you pull out, burst into flame (whoosh). The heat is a bit strong for your face, but you release it forward; it actually impacts into your damage. Streaks across with an arc of fire, and slamming into its side, dealing?
Laura: 14 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right. Second one?
Laura: (laughs) What did I do on that? That was weird. 14 on the second one as well.
Matt: Nice! All right.
Ashley: And can I cast War God's Blessing on her and give her a plus ten? For an attack roll?
Matt: She's already attacked, but to other people, you can. And you can do it after they roll. If somebody rolls and you're like, that's a really bad roll, you can be like, plus ten! and it might give them enough to push them over the edge. It's not for damage.
Ashley: It's not for damage. It's for--
Matt: Attacking, to make sure you hit them.
Ashley: I understand. Okay, great.
Laura: But with Hunter's Mark-- she's still Hunter's Marked!
Matt: Correct. Oh, did you not roll that damage?
Laura: Four.
Matt: All right. Extra four damage from the Hunter's Mark. Tiberius.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: So, do you get up? You're currently lying on the top of the wall.
Orion: I look around, and I don't like what I see, and I try to get up.
Matt: Okay. You (grunts) stand back up. You're currently at the top of the wall; it's ten feet up.
Orion: Really? Okay, where's he again? All I see is mountains. Oh, I see, you put the yellow ring around him? And Kima's to the right of him?
Laura: Kima's being held by him.
Orion: Oh, okay. Great. I look at him, see what's going on. I (ping) my Ioun Stone, and I conjure out Telekinesis from it, and I guide it towards the monster's tentacle to unwrap it off Kima, and I attempt to pull it off her.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Liam: That's Telekinesis, Kyle! (all laugh)
Orion: Sweet! 20.
Matt: 20? All right. As you focus your Telekinesis, the tentacle begins to shake and is pulled off her body. Kima wrenches herself free. She is not currently grappled.
Orion: Can I also go like, (bash) Stop hitting yourself! (all laugh)
Matt: The tentacle starts slapping around its body, and it looks confused. It's not enough to do any damage, but it looks unsure as to why it's having a hard time controlling its own limbs.
Orion: I give a nod to Kima.
Matt: (laughs) Well done.
Orion: That's my turn.
Matt: All right, cool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm still hasted, so I'm going to use a bonus action to go stealth.
Matt: All right. It can't see you, by the way.
Liam: What?
Matt: It's blinded.
Liam: Oh, it's blinded? But do I still need that to sneak attack, though? Or does it matter? Never mind. I'm running at it, and since Kima's right there, I'm going to stab the bejesus out of it.
Matt: Go for it!
Liam: I'm going to use Luck on that roll.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have advantage, remember, because it's blinded.
Liam: Okay, great. So that is a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Liam: Okay. (incoherent mumbling)
Liam: Which part gets doubled? I always forget.
Matt: It's the dice.
Liam: So 19 goes to 38, and then the damage gets added to that, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: With the sneak attack, and the damage gets doubled--
Matt: Correct, and then the bonus at the end gets added on to that.
Liam: The bonus at the end. Okay, all right. So what that is is 47.
Matt: 47 points of damage. Oof. So as you rush past, you (swoosh) slam the blade into the side. You see where part of it seems to start and open, but it's starting to close up again. You reopen that seam and drag across, leaving a giant wound across its side.
Liam: Okay, and then with that knife in, I'm going to stick the other knife in and attempt to attack it and then drag it to the ground. Grapple it to the ground with my body as I attack. Second attack is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Liam: Okay. That's seven.
Matt: Are you doing damage, or you grappling him?
Liam: I'll grapple.
Matt: Okay, so there's no damage on this. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: Okay. 20. Natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Nice! So you grab it, and you pull it. You have it currently held. Its physical body is pulled to the ground, and you can see its arms are trying to pull it up off the ground, and (slurpy noises) flipping around. Complete chaos in the air. You imagine you'll probably have a hard time holding it down, but for now it's currently blinded and grappled.
Liam: With haste, I have a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: I'm going to drag across its throat. That is a 25.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And that's seven.
Matt: You don't get the bonus-- oh, for the extra attack you do, because it's with your main arm. So, seven damage? All right. Cool. You bring the blade across, and you can see the blood begin to pour out from it, and as it does, you can see the throat opens up, and where you cut on the throat you can see what looks like white gleaming teeth on the inside of its throat. The entire interior of its trachea is coated with teeth.
All: (noises of disgust)
Sam: It has a maw?
Matt: Kima's turn. Kima sees you holding it down. Takes the sword, swings it, and is going to come on down, spending a level-three spell as a Divine Smite against it. That hits with a 22. This advantage is kicking its ass. Second attack.
Laura: Nice Blind, Scanlan.
Matt: Oof. Yeah. Both hit. All right. 36 points of damage, and a divine strike. And 12 points on the second blow. As she comes down and slams it with the big sword twice, the first one arcing down with divine energy, streaking across the barely-lit cavernous area. It hits the ground, and it splatters blood across. You can see one of its tentacles is barely hanging on by just a section of muscle and sinew. However, she looks down real fast, and you can see now these skeletal hands are reaching up and grabbing her legs and starting to pull her down. She's going to attempt to try--
Orion: Kima?
Matt: Kima.
Laura: Kima.
Laura: Oh, I wonder if that's going to happen to all of us.
Matt: She's unable to break from that. She's now being pulled down into the ground beneath her. That brings us to Clarota's turn. Clarota is going to move--
Marisha: Who all is on the dance floor?
Matt: Ugh, can't do this.
Laura: All of us except for Percy, I think.
Matt: Clarota's going to stand here and pull back and begin to coalesce this bluish crackling energy in Clarota's hand. The tentacles of Clarota's face begin to swirl and pull back into this horrible grimace as it releases this bolt of lighting energy that arcs past, just overhead of where Kima is, since Kima's been pulled down below. Lightning Bolt. Two ones in a row, are you fucking kidding me? I'm rolling terribly tonight, guys, by the way.
Liam: It's mostly in our favor.
Matt: Yeah. So that Lightning Bolt would do 15 points of damage. With disadvantage on its save. Still makes it, so (laughs) with a Lightning Bolt that does a grand total of seven points of damage--
Laura: It's better than one, Clarota! It's better than one!
Matt: Clarota looks away dejectedly. "It was the best I could do." All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. Seeing Lady Kima slowly getting taken under, I make eye contact with her.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What?
Matt: No, continue.
Marisha: Okay. And I make a Grasping Vine from that stalactite over there.
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yes. And I'm going to take it and wrap it around Lady Kima and try to yank her out.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as the vine pulls out of the side of this rock (whoosh), it reaches out and wraps itself around her body and begins to pull.
Marisha: Around her waist. Not her neck, again.
Matt: Right.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: Good distinction. All right.
Marisha: Just wanting that out there.
Matt: Yeah. It's a good thing. So, Grasping Vine... yeah, okay. So it pulls 20 feet; she gets pulled 20 feet. I'll go ahead and say, make a wisdom check.
Marisha: I'm trying not to hurt her.
Matt: Right, I understand. This is more your strength of will versus the strength of whatever--
Marisha: Just adding my wisdom?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 20. Total.
Matt: 20. So, as the vine wraps around her and begins to pull, she reaches over and grabs the vine for extra strength, and (fwoomp) it pulls her out of the wall. She goes flying over and lands at the side of the stone with a vine that's still loosely wrapped around her, but it's definitely pulled her free of the floor.
Marisha: Can I leave it to where it's holding her up, to where it's not touching?
Matt: Sure! Yeah. She's currently held aloft by this vine that strapped her. She's looking confused. Thankful, but also wants to be let go.
Marisha: Can I take a bonus action to shout at her? Be like, "Calm down Kima! Jeez!"
Matt: Sure. Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Okay! As you finish casting the spell and shouting at her, you look down and notice the ground. (swish, shoosh) Begins pulling you down
Marisha: No, I'm still on the stalactites. I haven't moved off the stalactite! I'm straddling it.
Ashley: A little straddle action!
Marisha: I'm riding that stalactite
Matt: Go ahead.
Marisha: Riding it side-saddle.
Matt: It's really hard to be on top of that and cast spells and talk about this. (chuckling) It's a giant piece. I'm going to say, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: All right. Ooh! 24.
Matt: Okay! You manage to precariously stay on the top of this stalactite, holding on to it, casting spells and shouting out. All right.
Marisha: Jeez, Kima! Stop! This is hard already!
Matt: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl and find myself a seat on top of that stalactite. That's my first thing I'm going to do.
Matt: Okay, well, at the start of your turn, make a dexterity check.
Taliesin: 20!
Matt: All right. You manage to pull out. Now make an athletics check to try and make your way up to the top of this rock.
Taliesin: Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: This would be athletics, just to pull yourself up on the side.
Marisha: Rock climbing check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay! You can decide whether or not you want to attempt to ascend this or make any attacks this turn, because right now it's going to take your full round to get to the top of this. It's a very thin, jagged, almost vertical wall you're trying to climb up and hold onto.
Taliesin: How far away am I from the stones? From the platform?
Matt: From the platform here?
Taliesin: From something I can stand on that's not sand.
Matt: You're probably about 35 feet.
Taliesin: So I could make it in a run?
Matt: You could make it in a run, yeah.
Taliesin: All right. I mean, in a standard movement action?
Matt: No. You'd almost make it.
Orion: What's your movement?
Taliesin: My movement is 30. Just almost make it?
Matt: Yeah. Right now, this wall's blocking you from even seeing the creature. As far as you know, you see a giant wall and you hear fighting on the other side of it.
Taliesin: I'll make it to the top of the stalactite, then.
Matt: Okay, so. (grunts) You get up to the top. I'll put this here as a reminder. But that's where you are right now. Okay, that ends your turn. Scanlan!
Sam: Is there anywhere I can stay on the dance floor and get a line of sight with the creature?
Matt: I'll say you'll be able to get right up next to Tiberius, right here, and be able to get line of sight.
Sam: And can I throw lightning and not hit Tiberius?
Matt: No.
Sam: (nervous laugh) Okay, then. Then I don't do that. Instead, I will-- I've got nothing to do! Let's say I will try to-- is she-- it's a he.
Matt: It's a he.
Taliesin: It's a he! God!
Sam: I have no ranged attacks. Except I can Viciously Mock it, so that's what I'll do. I'll say, you know what? Your tentacles make you look kind of fat, and the elf thing is played out. It's sort of 1990s. Orlando Bloom. And the whole bone thing is just really tacky!
Orion: I look at Scanlan curiously. (laughs)
Matt: Tiberius looks over. You look over your shoulder at at Scanlan with a curious look. Rolled a four. So essentially, being blind, all it can rely on right now is audio sensation around it. And it picks up ringing through the air. What hint and shred of humanity is within its psyche understands the Common you speak in its direction. And for a moment, it seems to sag all its tentacles. Go ahead and roll damage for your Vicious Mockery.
Sam: Three! Yes! It's the only ranged attack I have. (all laugh)
Matt: I was just seeing if there's another effect of Vicious Mockery.
Orion: He's sad for a while. (laughs)
Matt: Is there anything else it does?
Ashley: He's dead!
Marisha: Yeah, he just dies!
Orion: Negative two to self-esteem.
Matt: Vicious Mockery-- has disadvantage on-- okay! So it has disadvantage on disadvantage on its next attack. Got it!
Taliesin: Does that mean it has triple?
Matt: Nah. If it did, that would be awesome. Pike, you're up!
Sam: Oh! And as my bonus action, I'm going to inspire somebody. I don't know. Who? I look over at Liam and I do-- sorry, Vax. And I do one of these. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. You are strangely inspired by that.
Liam: I giggle-snort.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Pike. You're up.
Ashley: Okay, so where are we at? I'm so sorry. I can't see.
Matt: You're right there, on top of the wall, on the far back end. You can't even see the entity. It's way off to the side and a bunch of people are in a row on top of a wall that Keyleth created.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to use my Sprinter's Boots and get over. Everybody's healed; everybody hasn't really taken too many hit points?
Matt: You've guys rolled really well and it has rolled terribly.
Ashley: So I'm going to go around here. Oh, I don't know, can I have--
Matt: It's a very thin wall. Make an acrobatics check to try and move and tumble through the people. With disadvantage because you're in heavy plate armor.
Sam: But you've got inspiration.
Matt: You do.
Liam: You can add that to your roll. So add inspiration.
Matt: Roll twice. You're at disadvantage.
Laura: 13.
Ashley: What, plus eight?
Sam: You can roll a d8.
Liam: It's advantage, so pick the higher.
Matt: No, disadvantage, because she's in heavy armor.
Liam: Oh oh oh.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: 16? You just manage to barely squeeze through people without falling off of the top of the wall, finding yourself right there.
Ashley: Okay. So then, since I'm there, I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt again.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to cast it at 4th level again. And then, which is--
Matt: Roll to attack twice. You have to roll to hit it first. Roll twice, because it is blinded and has disadvantage. You have advantage on it, I mean.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Plus your spell thing?
Matt: 18 plus your spell.
Ashley: Oh, which would be 26.
Matt: That does hits. Go ahead and roll damage. You are at 4th level, that is 7d6 damage.
Orion: Nice! Holy crap.
Sam: Pike, perhaps you should spare it for your god, or offer it in sacrifice to your god?
Ashley: Sorry, guys.
Taliesin: That's a lot of math.
Sam: You know what? Women are good at math.
Orion: They are.
Taliesin: They are.
Sam: Probably better than men.
Orion: I would say probably.
Ashley: And then do I add anything?
Matt: No, that's just the 7d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 damage, nice!
Sam: Good adding.
Ashley: Hey, thanks!
Matt: As you pull through the rest of the crowd, you stand next to someone, you grab your holy symbol again. This time, looking up to your hand. This divine energy materializes and shines down in a god ray onto your hand as you gather it with your fingers, it seems to formulate this actual thick rock feeling sensation. You swing it underhand softball pitch with absolute furious anger that slams into the side of the creature, bursting with the divine energy, doing a very sincerely impressive amount of damage for a small Guiding Bolt. It's currently still trying to get back up after Vax has been holding it to the ground. You can see it blast its side. You are almost pulled over on top of it by the sheer force of the impact.
Ashley: Sorry, Vax!
Matt: That brings us to the top of it now.
Sam: It's still alive?
Ashley: It's still alive?!
Liam: It's got that healing factor.
Sam: Can we undo its healing factor?
Matt: After all the impact, all the sounds it's hearing, it moves over to this vicinity.
Liam: Ain't he grappled?
Matt: Oh, you're holding it here.
Liam: I'm holding it.
Matt: It's going to attempt to break from your grapple.
Liam: Good luck.
Matt: So you make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Do I get advantage on this?
Matt: For this check, you do, I believe.
Liam: Okay, good. 27.
Matt: 27? 29. It slips out of your grasp, moves over to this vicinity here. And you can see now, the tendrils open up, even though its eyes can't see. You can see what looks like a bunch of gills across its body, slits in its torso and it almost looks like all of them open up into these tiny little mouths. You can also see teeth rippling through them and expels this cloud of green gas that (fssh) around everyone within ten feet of it. Everyone on the wall, right here. Clarota-- you are just out of range of it-- and Kima are affected. So that would be Pike, Vex, Trinket, technically. Clarota. So I need you guys to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: What?
Sam: (garbled) Make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Pike? Whenever she comes back.
Sam: Who has to do this? Pike, Clarota?
Matt: Pike, Clarota, Trinket, Vex.
Laura: Should I roll for Pike?
Matt: Wait until she gets back. What did you roll?
Laura: 19. Oh, 19 and then for Trinket-- oh no.
Matt: Clarota does not make it. Kima does not make it.
Sam: I can roll for Pike.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Laura: No!
Sam: I've got this, guys. We're connected in a special gnome way that you have no idea how pure this bond is.
Liam: Here comes the one.
Sam: 16, plus whatever.
Laura: Oh, plus her-- wait, I'm looking up her constitution. Plus one. 17.
Matt: All right. Trinket rolled a...?
Laura: Seven.
Sam: (singing) And that's the power of love!
Laura: But I rolled a 19.
Matt: Right, as this cloud of greenish gas bursts out from all these strange slits in its body, you feel this acidic fume fill your lungs and touch your skin. You manage to duck out of the way and resist a lot of the damage, as does Pike, pulling up her cloak in front of the way. You guys take 14 points of acid damage. However, Clarota and Kima and Trinket all take 28 points of acid damage.
Laura: (gasps) 28 points?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For Trinket?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Is Trinket still a cat?
Matt: Trinket's kitten form is taken away as the Polymorph wears off--
Laura: Oh, shit. Boom!
Matt: (boosh) This bear bursts out from your chest.
Sam: Oh, no, your shirt is ripped.
Laura: All of a sudden, my bosom comes flying out.
Matt: So Trinket's at full health again. Hold on, the kitten form, I'm going to say, would have about five hit points, so taking five from 28... Trinket has taken 23 points of damage.
Sam: Pike, you just took 14.
Matt: 14 points of acid poison damage, as this entity vented its torso into this giant fume of acidic gas.
Sam: It would have been much more if Scanlan hadn't been around, that's all I'm saying.
Ashley: Oh, wow. Okay.
Matt: At which Trinket bursts out of Vex's torso, landing into the bones below. (growls)
Laura: No, in the bones?
Matt: Yeah, because on the wall (fwoosh) out in front of you.
Taliesin: Now we know how many hit points it takes to kill a kitten. That will actually be useful. Five. Five hit points.
Laura: Five hit points. That's good.
Taliesin: Five hit points, everyone.
Matt: All right. It's going to finish its turn. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: That's me!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Is there anything-- what's nearby? Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Oh, actually, I should see if it-- it does resist. It is no longer blinded.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: You can see the darkness fades from its eyes and the whiteness bursts from its face. It's intent now, as each eye individually darts around and takes reference of all the points of possible attack that are now before it.
Marisha: Wait, its blindness wore off? Oh, poop.
Laura: Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Trinket is.
Laura: Trinket's going to be affected. Oh! I command Trinket to move, then. Can he?
Matt: Okay. Trinket can, yeah, if you want.
Laura: Can he try to climb up and get away from it? Oh, no. He'll take a hit, won't he.
Matt: He will.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: If it hits. It could miss.
Laura: Oh god, but he's so low on health.
Ashley: Where's he at?
Laura: He's right next to it! Get up, Trinket, get up on the wall. And I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the thing.
Matt: What's the radius on Hail of Thorns?
Laura: Five feet.
Matt: Five feet. Okay. Trinket is going to attempt to get up the wall. Make an athletics check for Trinket, (laughs) who's going to try and climb a ten-foot solid stone wall, which is--
Taliesin: Bears can climb trees.
Matt: Trees, yes. Solid, smooth stone walls? Little more of... but--
Laura: What is it, is it an acrobatics?
Matt: It's going to be athletics for Trinket.
Laura: Athletics. I don't know what to add, but it's 19 plus whatever. Strength?
Matt: 19 plus strength.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, Trinket scrambles up the side of the wall. As it does, one of the white eyes is looking around like an iguana (tchh) focuses on Trinket, (whoosh) goes to whip toward Trinket. That is going to be a 24 versus his armor class.
Laura: Oh, it hits!
Matt: Trinket takes 17 points of damage.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Plus an additional five points of acid damage.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious!
Matt: As Trinket climbs up the wall, (shh, groan) and then streaks and falls back down onto the bone, unconscious.
Sam: Bear down!
Ashley: We'll heal him!
Laura: Oh, no! He's lying in the skeletons.
Matt: So you're now there up top. What are you going to do? You watched Trinket fall and hit the ground.
Ashley: Kill him!
Sam: Not Trinket.
Laura: Do I get to-- can I move if I attack, or is that it?
Matt: You gave Trinket your move on this turn, so you can still attack from where you are.
Ashley: Attack him!
Laura: Will somebody save Trinket?
Marisha: I'll save Trinket.
Laura: Okay, then I still attack him. But wait, will I do damage to Trinket, then, still on the ground, unconscious?
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: Well, I was going to do Hail of Thorns, but I shouldn't because he's within five feet?
Matt: Within five feet.
Liam: You could do a regular arrow.
Laura: All right, I do a regular flaming arrow.
Matt: You've used your flaming arrow twice.
Laura: No, I only used it once.
Matt: No, you used it at the top of the round, too.
Laura: Shitballs. Okay, then I'm-- I have regular arrows. I'm going to use Bloodseeking Bow, then.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh god. I'm freaking out.
Matt: Make your bloodseeking strike, now, with the fury and anger and frustration--
Laura: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Roll for damage.
Laura: 11, plus Hunter's Mark. 15. And then the Bloodseeking Bow does ten bleeding damage each round.
Matt: Nice. Okay, when we get back to its turn, it'll have ten bleeding damage on it. You have your second attack, too.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: That's 12. 13.
Matt: Okay. So both arrows (zoomf zoomf) sink down. You can see your jaw's tense and you can feel the tear running down your face, but you are intent on taking this son of a bitch down. That brings us to Tiberius. Actually, at the end of your turn, go ahead and make a death saving throw. For Trinket.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: Death saving throw?!
Liam: Three successes or three fails. That's first fail.
Ashley: Wait, what? No. I can add a plus ten, right?
Matt: To a death saving throw?
Laura: Not so much.
Matt: It has to be attacks for you, unfortunately. So that's one death saving throw on Trinket. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Sam: This is a grizzly situation!
Orion: Okay. I assess the situation, and I don't like it.
Sam: The end.
Orion: No. I cast Watery Sphere on him, and try to capture the guy in my sphere. That is-- oh, plus this! (gasps) Oh my god, I always forget it's that number. It's 27.
Matt: 27? All right.
Orion: 18 plus nine?
Matt: I'm just trying to get familiar with this one real fast, guys.
Marisha: So he uses his spell attack bonus, I'm assuming?
Matt: Watery Sphere, you said?
Orion: Yeah. I was looking that up, too.
Matt: Watery Sphere. Got it here. Okay. Over the edge, and ten feet-- okay, it's not an attack roll for you. It has to make a strength saving throw. Saving throw. That is a 21. What's the DC for your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: Okay. So yeah. The sphere appears. The creature is ejected from the side right there. So the sphere is still there, but the creature is un-grabbed by it.
Orion: Does it do damage?
Matt: As far as I know, it just grabs.
Orion: Ugh. All right. That's my bad, I shouldn't have--
Matt: It restrains and grabs things inside when it has them. It works more as control than as a damaging spell, but the sphere is still there.
Orion: Well, fine. I can still move it, yes?
Laura: Can you pick Trinket up and bring him up on the wall?
Orion: She's got this. I'll move it over just to make him all soak-y in it anyway. It's not going to-- I can't move him. It doesn't control him, right?
Matt: No, not if he makes the save. If he fails the save, then yes, you have them trapped in the sphere, but currently basically (sploosh) pushed his way out of it.
Orion: Well, fine. I don't do that. I spend-- I don't do anything, actually. That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so Clarota's right by it, so I'm going to roll along the back of the thing and sneak attack right into its back.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Right there. Yeah, roll around next to him, one dagger in. That is a 29.
Matt: 29. Yeah, that hits. Damn.
Liam: (counts quietly) Okay, that is 33, plus sneak attack damage, so three, seven. Shit. 18, 20. That's 40 plus four. 44.
Matt: Rogues, man.
Liam: 51. I want to carve his shoulder blade out and away like a piece of turkey--
Matt: It's not a critical.
Liam: No. Critical's the double. Oh, sorry, scale that back to--
Matt: That's a lot for a non-critical. Holy shit. (laughs)
Liam: 20. It was 20 plus two, 22. 29.
Matt: 29 points of damage. Still nice. So as you reach back and you angrily take the dagger and drag it down, you actually find one of those seams of its arm, and you drag it across the front as the arm actually (floop) falls off on the ground and it squirms on its own.
Ashley: What's taking this thing so long?
Matt: You've managed to pull one of its tentacles off.
Liam: Next dagger's out. That was a bad roll, but I'm going to use one of my Lucks to do that again. That hits. That's 27.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So that is seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Last dagger out. That's 26, for eight points of damage.
Matt: Nice. Eight points of damage, got it. Great!
Ashley: How is this thing not dead?!
Matt: Kima is going to rush around here.
Marisha: Don't be stupid, Kima!
Sam: What is it with you and Kima?
Marisha: She's been stupid, all right?
Laura: What are you talking about? She's a paladin!
Sam: She's fighting with us! Don't dispirit her while we're fighting!
Liam: This is really awkward for the rest of us, just so you know. We really like her.
Matt: Kima's going to attack twice with her greatsword.
Marisha: I don't like her.
Sam: I don't like her either, but I'm not openly hostile to her.
Matt: Kima goes to strike twice, but with each blade strike, the head glimpses over, sees the attack and the body bends out of the way of the first strike. The second one, a tentacle actually slaps the blade out of her hand and she has to reach over and pick it up again off the side of the ground. The blind was very effective these past couple of rounds, but now it's back to its full strength and can see, and you can see now that it can see where everyone is, it's going to be much harder to hit. Unless you're this guy and this girl. That brings us to Clarota. Clarota can't use what Clarota wants to do, unfortunately. Instead, is going to--
Ashley: What does Clarota want to do?
Taliesin: Dance.
Ashley: Dance!
Laura: Dance!
Matt: You've had it used on you before. It's called a Mind Blast that the mind flayers did before in a cone attack that can stun things in front of it. But everyone's been clustered around it, so Clarota can't quite get a place that doesn't affect somebody else. So instead he's going to do a tentacle attack against it. That is-- oh, wow! That's a 26. That hits! Takes 15 points of damage and is grappled by Clarota. Clarota currently has his tentacles wrapped up onto it and is trying to pull it down with a combination of psionic energy and its tentacle grab. Keyleth, you're up!
Marisha: Seeing that Clarota just grappled him, I'm like, "All right, cool. That's good." And I'm going to use a Grasping Vine from the other stalactite and grab Trinket and see if I can--
Laura: Around his waist!
Marisha: Okay. Around his waist.
Matt: All right. You use another 4th-level Grasping Vine?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So the Grasping Vine-- from this one here?
Marisha: Nope, that one.
Matt: Okay. The wall is here, so it's going to have to curl around the side, wrap around the body. As it begins to pull, you can see the bones have already begun to reach up and begun to start pulling Trinket's body down. Go ahead and make the check for that again which is...
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Will.
Marisha: Oh, will?
Matt: For this one I think it was to try and-- wait a sec, I'm just making sure. I think it was wisdom for the-- Let me check it real fast, just to make sure. This is starting to get down to the heavy. "Creature must make dexterity saving throw to resist pull." Yeah, so go ahead and make a willpower check. Wisdom check, sorry.
Marisha: 20 again.
Matt: The vine wraps around Trinket and begins to pull. The bones hold tight and the body is not moving from its position.
Laura: No!
Matt: It's a standoff between the vine holding the unconscious body of Trinket, who you can see is still moving and shifting in unconsciousness. The bones are beginning to rise up almost like this slow tide to begin to wrap over the body. All right, that brings us to Percy.
Ashley: Wait, so we don't know?
Matt: It's at a standoff right now.
Marisha: It's a standoff. It's tug-of-war.
Matt: Yeah. Not sinking, but not being pulled out, either. It's this stalemate right now between the two. The vine is taut and holding Trinket level.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to spend my movement to get nice and firm, sit myself down, pull out the big gun.
Matt: Okay. Bad News. You see it over this wall now. The top of this stalagmite-- it's about 50 feet to the top. You get to the top, you pull the Bad News out. You have a pretty clear shot down towards the entity.
Taliesin: Taking a sharpshooter shot. Natural 20 on the first shot. (all cheer)
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage for this one.
Taliesin: This is going to be so much fun. (counts out loud) 42 points of damage.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (all cheer)
Taliesin: I take a bead and I want to wait until the eye is looking right at me, and I want to take it right through the eye.
Matt: Okay. So as the entity turns around, its head cocked to the side, its tendrils (sucking noise) flailing around it, one lifting it up. You can see, it begins to reach up to bring a lash down upon the bear that is being clasped on the ground, its eye streaks around and catches yours. You release, pull back on the trigger... (gunshot) The impact blows you off the top of the stalagmite. You fall in the air, but in that split second, you keep your vision on as you're floating back and this whole-- this moment as time slows, not wanting to lose this moment, you see the bullet (ssst) into the head. One of the eyes now goes dark from the crimson impact. The jaw opens slack (groaning), with all the teeth exposing as the back of the head (explosion).
Taliesin: (maniacal laughter)
Matt: Explodes. All across Vax. Who was standing behind it, just (vrushh)
Liam: I love it! (all laugh)
Matt: The giant hole now, which is like you can see portions of its lower jaw are still visible, but the entire top of its head is gone. You can see parts of its flesh trying to reach up and re-form, and then starting falling limp as its form begins to quiver and eventually fall apart. The seams all begin to unravel and its entire body begins to fall apart into chunks. Eventually what's left is this elven torso that slinks to its knees (boof), takes a step,takes another step, and then falls onto its back, completely destroyed. The bones begin to reach up and take its body. Trinket is still currently being held aloft.
Orion: I see what's going on. I cast Telekinesis (fssh) and start pulling it up.
Matt: Okay, make an arcana check. You have advantage on this because the Grasping Vine is also helping.
Orion: Oh my god. Arcana? 12.
Matt: 12? You (strains) you're pulling, you're pulling, you're pulling, but unfortunately whatever cursed force holds this land is keeping the body--
Ashley: Okay, I run up and take the Mace of Disruption, which also has the holy oil on it, which fights against undead! So I take it and I go (ffff) right underneath.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're on top of the wall. You look down and see this happening with the effort of both of them unable to do so. You leap off the top of the wall, swinging the Mace of Disruption down in a giant arc. You slam it into the bones on the side of Trinket's body. As you do, you see the actual stone and bones around it cave in and shatter into dust at the sheer force of your Mace of Disruption, leaving this big old cavernous space where there once was ground. As you bring it up again, you begin swinging it around the outside of Trinket, releasing all of the bone in the vicinity. As you do, you also notice that the bone at your feet that's beginning to grab onto your legs as you landed begins to give away and slowly back away from you.
Marisha: Grab onto the vine!
Liam: It's scared of her.
Ashley: It's scared of me. Yeah, that's right!
Laura: Get Trinket out, and I'll pull Pike up.
Marisha: Okay, I pull the bear out.
Matt: Between the two of you guys, you manage to, now that it's been released from the bone, as Tiberius (strains) lifts up and the vine grasping, you lift Trinket up onto the wall, and Tiberius you (thud) release Trinket on the top of the wall.
Laura: I'm healing! Giving a healing potion.
Marisha: Can I take my Grasping Vine and I want to reach out and grab the elven man real quick.
Matt: You reach out the Grasping Vine and you lift up the remnants of the elven man.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: And I want to throw his remnants back onto our dance floor.
Matt: Okay. Well, the dance floor-- the wall here? So you chuck the corpse up onto the stone wall. All right, so you've all gathered around, you administer a potion. Trinket heals-- which potion are you using?
Laura: The minimum, because someone else can heal him, right?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. That'll be 2d4 + 2.
Laura: Seven. He's only got seven little health points!
Matt: All right, so Trinket comes to consciousness. (bear moan)
Laura: Trinket!
Matt: As soon as it opens up and the first thing Trinket sees is your face, Trinket begins to lick the side of your face.
Laura: Oh! (sobs) Buddy! I'm crying and I'm petting him and I say, "It's okay."
Matt: Kima, Clarota, and Vax. You guys are still on the ground. You can feel the stones and bones beginning to pull up against your feet. Clarota immediately begins to lift off the ground using his Levitation ability, and pulls free of the bones, lifts there for a second. Yes?
Ashley: Can I keep propellering my Mace of Disruption as I walk? On the ground?
Matt: You can. As you're walking along, you're just (kssh) hitting bits of bone. As you are, they just disintegrate and turn into dust. It's leaving a track. A little bit of a groove in the ground as you do so.
Ashley: Follow me! Follow the track!
Marisha: I'm going to loot this corpse real quick. See if I see anything with this.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: With this corpse. Does anyone want to help me? Who's got better investigation?
Taliesin: Sure.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: I've got it, but I'm busy with Trinket.
Marisha: Ugh, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, never mind.
Sam: I've got it. 24.
Matt: 24? All right.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: You start looking at it, and the clothes that are on it are soiled and destroyed and are just ruined by whatever process it went through. as you inspect the shoulders where the tentacles are, you start seeing these strange little fleshy nubs, and as you pull away at where the wounds were taken from pulling off, you can see there are arms inside the torso that were pushed inside to attach this entity.
Ashley: Can we--
Matt: Can you what?
Ashley: Go ahead. Sorry.
Matt: You can see a couple of fingers poking out of each side.
Ashley: Should we take the body?
Sam: Do we see any ligatures? Is there sewing? Or has it been stitched together?
Matt: The tentacles were stitched to it, and you can't see any actual stitches, like it's this weird thing where it's actually bonded to it, but it looks like some sort of strange--
Orion: I'll do an arcana check on that, and I already got 22.
Matt: Okay. There is a magical essence from somewhere in the torso, but you can't quite ascertain--
Marisha: From somewhere in the torso?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do we recognize this elf at all?
Matt: (laughs) You don't recognize any of its face because it's gone. Bad News disintegrated its head. Unless you want to piece all the pieces that are currently on Vax together and try to reform the face, but from what you can tell it wasn't anything you could recognize necessarily.
Sam: I'll take out my dagger and dig into his torso.
Matt: As you (squishy flesh sounds) begin to pull out bits, the rest of you guys manage to make your way up to the top of this stone wall now. You're all for the most part safe, for the time being.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Matt: Sorry. You cut through the body. You start seeing there are just layers and layers of teeth growing out of all portions in the interior of it. You find the fingers are attached to a hand, which are attached to a wrist. You pull a little bit, and with this horrible sickening (fssht) sound you manage to pull an arm out from inside the torso, covered in its own blood and fluids.
Orion: Prestidigitation! Clean that up.
Matt: You clean it off. The magical essence you were seeing earlier actually is coming from a set of metallic bracers that are on the wrists.
Sam: Take them! I take them.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Don't put them on, though. Don't put them on.
Orion: I'll inspect them.
Liam: They're cursed.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Orion: Let's see. 13.
Matt: 13? It takes you a while, but you manage to get an idea of what the essence of the magic is.
Marisha: I think it's for you, Vex.
Laura: Oh, really? Let me see it.
Orion: Translated, it's Bracers of Archery. You should check it out.
Ashley: Can I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket? And I cast him to 20. Second level. I rolled.
Matt: You rolled a 20 total?
Ashley: Yeah. 20 total.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket heals 20 more hit points.
Laura: Oh, yay! Really?
Matt: So keep tabs on that because that will carry over into the next session. All right. So you guys are now standing aloft, on the wall. You can barely see past, about another 120, 150 feet ahead of you, the sea of bone chips and glass seems to eventually fade into more stone.
Marisha: Let's get out of here.
Sam: Hey, will you lead the way, Pike, with your crazy mace path?
Liam: Air guitar us out of here?
Ashley: Can I keep on? (guitar noises)
Orion: Actually, wait a minute. Hold on a sec. My water sphere is still there, isn't it? I'm going to take it and push it along our way as well, in front of her who's swinging it as well.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Push it up to 30 feet.
Matt: So you're pushing this behind her?
Orion: In front of her. Just a nice little (pssht) like 30 feet from where we are.
Matt: Okay. So the sphere crests ahead as you guys push forward. Pike, you're taking your mace of disruption with your shield up and you're slamming it before you. As it does there's just plumes of dust that are being cast in the air behind you guys. You cough a little bit as it's lifting the small spray of dust. You begin to make your way across this open field of bone and glass to the other side, finding for the first time in a little bit of time solid stone ground. You all take a moment and gather your breath, and as you're taking a moment, you look over and you can see in the darkness ahead of you what looks to be a faint source of light around another large pillar or cluster of stone in the distance.
Ashley: Is it a color?
Laura: Do I see any tracks around?
Matt: It's reddish-orange and appears to have a flicker to it.
Laura: Do I see tracks? Can I sense goliath tracks?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Sam: How far away is it from us?
Matt: It's probably about 70, 80 feet.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25? You see more duergar feet patterns, and you see those same singular tracks.
Liam: And you said it's flickering, the light?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Probably a campfire.
Sam: Let's go kick some ass.
Marisha: Want to go see?
Liam: I'll go take a look.
Matt: Roll stealth.
Marisha: Take a short rest there.
Sam: Do we need it? Is anyone hurt?
Marisha: Just a short one.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25?
Liam: Everyone rest while I go peek, because I'm fine.
Sam: We don't need rest for spells, we just need rest for health, right?
Marisha: Just a short rest, yeah, so I can recharge my animal changes.
Ashley: If we take a short rest, do we get any spells back?
Matt: No spells back, unfortunately. You guys stay back while you go ahead and stealth your way up. Did you roll disadvantage on that one?
Liam: Disadvantage?
Sam: Your foot.
Laura: Because of your foot!
Liam: But the cloak then cancels it out.
Matt: That's right, yes, so you're fine. It's a natural roll.
Liam: So 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you make your way through the darkness, around the side of the stone platform and as you crest your vision, you can see the flickering is indeed a small campfire. Not used for light, but apparently used for cooking as the scent also hits you. There is some sort of meat currently being cooked on this flame.
Liam: Does it smell good?
Matt: It smells pretty good. You're not quite sure what the source of the meat is. You worry for a second because you see the two duergar that are sitting there, currently holding the meat in the center of this, are staying next to a giant troll who has his hand on the side of a rickety wooden cart. On this cart, which you can see, there are two sets of wheels on each side, there is a large lumbering goliath individual currently held down with bands of iron. Your mind for second thinks, "Oh god, are they eating him?" but you see he appears to be intact, though with a quick glance as you peer around the other side of the stone column, you can see his body is riddled with scratches and small wounds and incisions, and you can see where streaks of dried blood are across his entire body.
Laura: They're going to try to make him into one of the stitch monsters!
Marisha: Yes, they are.
Laura: We're not there.
Matt: You also do see, across the way there are three tents set up around this area. One of the tents opens up and you see a duergar female step out: silver circlet across her forehead, long robes. Queen Ulara walks up and starts talking to the other duergar, pointing to your goliath friend, to Grog, on the front of this. Motions to the other two and steps back into the tent, closing it behind her as the two other duergar grin. One reaches into his pouch and begins to pull out small, looks like metal hooked utensils, possibly to go in for another round of whatever they'd been doing.
Ashley: I'm going to kill that bitch!
Liam: Into my earring, (whispers) Come, now.
Orion: Ooh! Vax just said we should go!
Laura: (whispers) We should go!
Matt: And this is where we're going to end today's session. (all groan)
Sam: Wow. That was exciting, and I feel empowering to a lot of the female-- (all laugh)
Orion: Female viewers, absolutely.
Sam: Pike did a lot of important things.
Orion: Absolutely, I would agree.
Zac: Hola, everybody!
All: Hola!
Zac: (sighs) That was intense again! You guys are giving me anxiety attacks, you guys and Felicia being in the chat room the whole time. So I wanted to shout out some thank yous. Oh, and you guys still have time if you scroll down on the main page to 826LA donate button, click on that and donate for these guys, for the wonderful work that they're doing, and we're getting ready to read out all of your donation messages on the stream.
Matt: Yes, thank you guys so much for donating to 826LA. They're an amazing charity and your support is very much appreciated.
Zac: First off, we wanted to thank a couple people that provided the food for tonight.
All: Yeah!
Zac: ManaGeek Moosiyuk, Moosiuk?
Matt: Moosiuk! ManaGeek! Thank you guys!
Zac: And Timothy Hudson and Amir.
Matt: Thank you, Amir!
Laura: It was so good!
Zac: Donation messages...
Matt: Just a note, guys, good choice tonight on the abyssal abomination.
Laura: Oh, they did that?!
Zac: That was the chat room.
Laura: You did that?!
Marisha: They did, yeah...
Ashley: Chat room!
Laura: That was mean!
Taliesin: You almost killed a bear.
Zac: Okay, guys. We've got a lot of these. You ready? We've got AxisOfAnarchy. "Less than three Matt, Taliesin, Ashley, Marisha, Laura, Liam, Orion, and Sam. #FindGrog."
Orion: We did!
Liam: We found him.
Zac: Vorack1024. "Glad to donate every week for such a good cause. Critical Role is an inspiration to my entire D&D party, and watching helps my DMing greatly. Thank you so much."
Ashley: Oh, man. Yay, thank you!
Matt: That's awesome.
Zac: Meg_TheDreamer. "#CriticalRole, thank you so much for everything with"-- oh gosh, these are so hard to read-- "with amazing stories, adventures, and great senses of humor that brings happiness and makes me laugh and warms my heart. Thank you so much for the love, my art, oh, twitter @TheAnimeDreamer and my birthday wishes to Meghan L."
Taliesin: Oh, Meghan! Yay!
Marisha: Thanks for all your art, Meghan. Your art's great.
Zac: ZandorInvictus. "Made the easy decision to skip the midnight showing of Avengers to catch the show. #LessThanThree."
Matt: Aw!
Taliesin: Easy decision!
Zac: You're a better man than Grog! I also suggest all of you guys hit up Twitter and give Travis some shit.
Matt: Playfully loving shit because the movie's awesome and it's great.
Laura: Yeah, loving shit.
Orion: Follow us on Twitter, and then help us.
Zac: Let him know that Overlord says he's in trouble. BeansyMccoy. "No, but seriously, I need a shirt that says 'how do you want to do this?'"
Ashley: I know.
Sam: We're working on it.
Orion: Yeah, we're working on it.
Zac: OutdatedReference. "About to run my first session of D&D this Sunday. Thanks to you guys for the inspiration, so excited." (all cheer)
Matt: Make it happen!
Orion: Good luck!
Matt: May your dice roll 20s and TPK your party.
Zac: WTSFox, thank you. TonyLoneFight. "You are all so amazing, thank you so much for sharing this, I hope this donation helps."
Marisha: It does. Thank you Tony!
Zac: UselessRogue--
Matt: UselessRogue, yeah! What's up?
Ashley: Hey! You're not useless!
Marisha: (shouting) UselessRogue!
Matt: "Assuaging my guilt over my vote in the straw-poll tonight." I thought you chose well. That was a fun fight.
Zac: Yeah. SilentKagosha. "Critical Role  adding a cave-effect to the audio when you are in the cave adds an interesting atmosphere to the show."
Matt: Awesome! Thank you!
Zac: That's what they did. He kept saying that in the chatroom and I was like, "I wish I could do that for you but I can't do anything about that." Too much work! BrrCold donated. "For Zac Eubank and all that he does." Aw, thanks, Curt! Appreciate that.
Ashley: Thanks Curt!
Zac: G1BigDaddyHef. "Working retail can be draining and I want to thank you so much for inspiring me and brightening my day. Currently working on creating a new campaign to try and get my coworkers involved in. I'm happy to lend some money to help out the 826LA charity."
Matt: Aw, thank you so much!
Marisha: We've been there in retail, and we feel your pain
Zac: Kedofett101. "If I can help such a great cause with a donation, the way..." Gosh, it's a lot, sorry. "If I can help with such a great cause with a donation, the way you wonderful people help me, then I'll give what I can. Thank you so much for bringing a smile to my face with your amazing work and the awesomeness that is Critical Role. Love you guys."
Matt: Thank you so much.
Orion: Thanks bud, I'll take all the credit for that one.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: Resident Ogre. CritKarma.
Marisha: CritKarma!
Zac: KatyaisaLie. Thank you.
Orion: Thank you, Katya.
Zac: VerCatJoel. "You guys are amazing. Thanks for making this week more fun and wanting to help kids."
Matt: Thank you, VerCatJoel.
Zac: GeoNerd79. "I love you guys. So many emotions."
Matt: I feel you, GeoNerd!
Marisha: (laughs) Thanks, GeoNerd!
Matt: I feel you.
Zac: Poltergeist123. "#Lessthan3."
Matt: Thank you, Poltergeist.
Marisha: Thanks, Poltergeist.
Orion: Thank you.
Zac: And we're reloading to see who all has donated since. Okay, some more. HomeGrownHero. "I just got here. I missed everything. Can I watch tonight's show somewhere?" Yeah! If you're a sub, it'll be up immediately. If you're not a sub, we'll do a rebroadcast, and if you wait (whistles) four hours from now, it'll probably be back in the rotation, and by tomorrow afternoon it'll be up on the website.
Marisha: Geekandsundry.com.
Zac: Correct. WheelyFactoids. "Liam, do you prefer single- or double-edged blade, and Laura, what color is Trinket?"
Laura: Trinket is brown.
Liam: Double-edged.
Zac: Bam! Factoids! Zofer. "Amazing show, and a worthy cause."
Matt: Awesome. Thank you, Zofer.
Zac: Aldowin. "Keep up the awesome work you're doing."
Matt: Thank you Aldowin!
Orion: Thanks Aldowin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Zac: TheFallenTitan  "Loving CritRole, keep it up." Also, "Oh-ree-awn, are you going to make any more music videos with Alex Lewis?"
Orion: It's Orion, Zac.
Zac: Orion!
Orion: Chatroom, accost him for that, please.
Zac: (whispering) They spelled it wrong and I just read it.
Orion: (laughing) Yeah! Actually, me and Alex Lewis / I8athumbtack are doing more music videos and funny stuff. Thank you for asking.
Marisha: Yes.
Zac: CheeseBug88 "LessThanThree."
Matt: CheeseBug!
Marisha: CheeseBug!
Ashley: CheeseBug!
Zac: ACrazyNexy "LessThanThree to the Critical Role team."
Matt: Aw, thank you, CrazyNexy.
Zac: Thank you guys so much. Just because we didn't get a chance to read, please don't stop donating. All you've got to do is scroll down to donate to 856LA or they'll link it in the chat room. Tune in tomorrow. We have Felicia Day stopping by to play Lady Games, so everyone will be dressed up in suits.
Sam: I'll be watching that! It's my favorite.
Orion: Absolutely. He watches it all the time.
Zac: We're playing Ladies and Gentlemen, and there might be some gender reversal going on in that, and we're also going to be doing a new card game that was just Kickstarted with Indicade, and we have musical guest Echo Sparks coming by, as well as So You Don't Have To with Hector and Becca. We will be doing some things to them that are not very polite, and making them play pony games because we have a lot of pony Steam keys to give away.
Marisha: Interesting.
Ashley: Ponies!
Marisha: Everyone, Matt and I recently did another Hot Pepper Gaming video. Another Hot Pepper Game review, so, go check it out on Youtube at HotPepperGaming. They're super fun.
Laura: They completely keep their composure.
Matt: Oh, totally.
Taliesin: They don't break.
Marisha: Chat room should start pressuring these guys to all do one.
Taliesin: What? No.
Orion: I've already put my request into Hot Pepper--
Laura: I want to do it!
Marisha: He's done one before.
Orion: I've done one before. I think I had the grossest HotPepperGaming.
Laura: Just snot running out of my face. I want to do it!
Liam: I do not.
Zac: They want me to show you while we're live, Ashley, the emote that they made for you.
Laura: I saw it! It's so cute!
Ashley: You guys made me an emote!
Marisha: They made an emote for Ashley?
Zac: Start post. She's watching the chat room guys, so just start...
Marisha: What is it? Wait, I want to see it! Pull up the chat room!
Laura: Is she an astronaut? That's what it looked like.
Liam: Is it a pony suit, is it Spider Gwen? What's she wearing?
Zac: It's an astronaut.
Laura: It's an astronaut, Ashley!
Ashley: Oh! Come on guys! That's awesome!
Marisha: Astronaut Ashley!
Ashley: Oh, what the heck!
Taliesin: There it is. Oh my god! That's so cute.
Marisha: (laughs) Wait, there it is! Oh my god, that's amazing!
Taliesin: They're like little Buzz Lightyears!
Matt: That's fantastic! Well done, guys.
Zac: Thank you guys for tuning in.
Matt: Thank you guys so much. Have a wonderful night. We'll see you next week!
All: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone, to the next episode of Critical Role! This week, we have a full party. We'll be continuing just after the climactic battle with the twisted beholder, K'varn. We're going to go ahead and play a couple of videos here while we're waiting for the rest of the party members to settle in, so we'll be back here in just a few minutes. Sit tight and we'll get this party started. We have some fun announcements, some cool gifts that came in we'll be opening towards the end of the session today, but we'll go into those details shortly, so see you in a little bit. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (knife scraping) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods; she preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, guys! Welcome back. Thank you for your patience. We have the whole group, finally seem to have defeated the horrible atrocity that is 13th-level Los Angeles traffic. (cheering)
Zac: What's up, internet? I've got a quick announcement.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Guys, we have a big giveaway today, when we get to 3,300 subscribers. I think we're 50 away or around 48, something like that. When we get to 3,300, we're giving away a dice box, a signed t-shirt, a starter set, and a signed Player's Handbook all in one box for a lucky winner, so if you guys get those subscribers rolling in, that's what helps pay for this show and pay for the entire channel as a whole, so get on that! And we wanted to say thank you to Aaron's Books in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania for sending us this stuff to give away to you guys. (cheering)
Matt: Seriously guys, seriously, that was so cool of you to send that out there, and we want to say, happy sixth graduation, Aaron, congrats to you, well done. (cheering)
Zac: Aaron's a little young to be running a bookstore. That's all I have to say.
Matt: I consider that a very fine entrepreneurial position. You're getting started young, good man.
Zac: So guys, enjoy the game.
Matt: Thank you so much, and thank you again, Aaron and Aaron's books. That's awesome, guys.
Travis: Who was that strange masked man just now?
Matt: I don't know, it's so weird. Okay, so a couple quick things. First off, thank you guys for coming back and watching. Last week we had a few members away, so we had a fun little mini-game with a few folks, some who had played before, some who hadn't, and it turned out very interestingly. I hope my DM's tips were helpful for some folks out there. There's been some great feedback, and hopefully we'll do more things like that in the future for off-days. So, thanks to you. Welcome back, we're getting back into the main story line. Couple other quick things I wanted to mention: first off a big shout-out, birthday shout-out to Kit Buss, our fantastic artist for the show. (cheering)
Travis: Happy Birthday, Kit!
Orion: We love you, Kit.
Ashley: Happy birthday!
Matt: She's awesome, she's amazing, and I've seen a couple little previews of the next piece of art she's been working on and it looks pretty awesome. I think you guys are going to dig it. So she's not done, when she's finished drinking her birthday shots, then I think we'll hopefully see that soon. (laughs) Awesome, thank you so much, Kit!
Marisha: Yes, shots first, then draw.
Matt: Exactly, it's priorities! Also, anyone have any announcements they want to mention before we start the game? Any upcoming stuff?
Travis: The Justice League thing!
Matt: That's true, yeah! DC Kids on Youtube just released their new Super Friends animated series that both me and Travis are in.
Orion: Who are you? Who do you guys play?
Matt: Well, you play Lex Luthor.
Travis: Lex Luthor, and you play Superman.
Orion: Son of a bitch!
Sam: Interesting choice.
Taliesin: You can feel the tension.
Matt: It's a really, really cute show, it's a lot of fun, it's very much a playback to the classic Super Friends cartoon, that kind of comedic atmosphere. You should check it out.
Sam: You're Superman?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: (Clarota voice) Does he talk like this?
Matt: Yeah, it gets a little weird around episode three. I don't think DC's happy with how we treated the license for that one. (laughter)
Travis: That's the best.
Matt: That's every character I do now. Matthew Mercer, reading for Superman: (croaking noise) Also, if anyone else has any other announcements they want to mention?
Marisha: Yeah!
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: You go first.
Orion: Whatchamacallit, a few weeks ago me and Matthew wore these really cool shirts with the vermilion bird from Rubrum, which is in Type-0, the Final Fantasy that we're both in! That shirt was made from Greven, g-r-e-v-e-n, at Redbubble, and we wanted to thank him for those shirts, along with this awesome Final Fantasy shirt, made by August8913, where she did this super cool, it says Nine on the back, his says Trey. Thank you guys, for the really cool shirts.
Travis: Aw, yeah! Jumped on the jam, boogie-woogie jam-slam.
Marisha: I'm going to be at Lock and Load this weekend in Seattle, which is the War Machine Hordes con for Privateer Press.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: Yeah! It's awesome, I'm going to be dressed up in my Scar costume. It's going to be awesome, I'm going to be doing a big transformation with Espionage. Yeah, and we're actually going to be pushing the stream; they're going to be streaming it and Geek&Sundry is going to be hosting the Lock and Load stream, so tune in and watch me prance around at Lock and Load in Seattle.
Taliesin: Those are impressive shoes to prance in, by the way.
Marisha: Yeah, some intense stripper heels, yeah.
Orion: Who'd you play?
Matt: Kreoss.
Orion: You were Kreoss, by the way, War Machine Tactics, Matthew Mercer is Kreoss.
Matt: Kreoss, Asphyxius, couple other guys.
Orion: Yeah, yeah, check it out.
Matt: It's fun, it's on Steam.
Liam: Asphyxius?
Matt: Asphysius is the character's name, lich lord Asphyxius, he's bad in town.
Marisha: I'm Haley and Deneghra and Fiora.
Laura: We're going to be at MetroCon next weekend.
Matt: Awesome! MetroCon next weekend.
Travis: (sings) In Tampa.
Laura: (sings) In Tampa, Florida.
Travis: Tampa, Florida.
Matt: Okay. Real fast, before we get to that, I will be, for those who are near--
Marisha: You already did it?
Travis: How many did we have to go?
Zac: 50.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: 50 subscribers.
Matt: Well, we already hit the mark!
Marisha: Don't we normally hit that in, like, a show?
Matt: That works, you guys are amazing!
Ashley: Yes, that's awesome!
Orion: Thank you, everyone!
Matt: I'll finish my last announcement, then we'll go to that.
Zac: I'm going to go ahead and start the giveaway.
Matt: Go, start the giveaway!
Travis: When is the next giveaway?
Zac: We're going to do-- Those pictures already exist, they shared them with the chatroom. Yeah, so we're going to do this. We're going to do a whole other set of these when we get to the next 50.
Marisha: Oh, a whole other set? There's another one?
Zac: Technically, we have four sets.
Liam: See you in five minutes.
Matt: So we have four sets of those to give away. Every 50 subscribers another set goes out, guys, so that's amazing.
Orion: I could have Sam fart on this for you, if you want.
Sam: Again? Already done, friend, already done.
Matt: Whoa. Okay, there we go. (laughs)
Travis: The world just ended.
Matt: That was close. I just rolled a one on my camera save. Final announcement before we get to the game, for those who are-- (shushing noises)
Orion: Sorry. Okay.
Matt: Can't all talk at once. Also, this weekend I'll be in Sandusky, Ohio, at Colossal Con along with such great folks as Johnny Yong Bosch, Steve Blum, other fun greats--
Travis: Is that at the water park?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, because water parks are totally sanitary. Hot tub's going to be great.
Travis: The dysentery afterwards is--
Zac: Flyingsquid63 is the winner.
All: Flyingsquid63!
Matt: You are the winner of the first set. Congratulations, that's awesome.
Ashley: It's an awesome name.
Marisha: Oh look, and it's green. You're winning green speckled dice, like squid colors.
Matt: There you go, that worked out well, very Cthulhu-ian.
Marisha: I'm justifying. Shut up, Liam! (laughter)
Matt: Well awesome, so we hit our next 50, we'll do another giveaway, we have three more of those packages to give out, guys, so hopefully keep that up. All right, anything else or should we get back into the chaos?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: I'm scared!
Matt: You should be.
Ashley: I really am.
Sam: We beat the bad guy! It's fine, it's all fine.
Matt: Where we left off.
Orion: I forgot to ask you something before the game, it's fine.
Matt: It's okay. The party, as they ventured deep into the Underdark beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains in the dwarven city of Kraghammer, they sought and discovered Lady Kima of Vord, a folk hero, a paladin of Bahamut who had been captured and tortured by the duergar that lived beneath it. After saving her, they discovered that there was an even deeper, darker, more dangerous evil brewing beneath the surface. There was an illithid, or mind flayer, city of Yug'voril deeper within these cavern structures, and currently the Elder Brain of the colony was under the control of an entity known as K'Varn, they came to find out was a self-mutilated and advanced beholder, who had come into contact with a dark artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that was actually gifted many many, many many, like hundreds of years ago by the god of undeath himself, Orcus, to one of his avatars. Somehow it found its way to this beholder, and gave it enough power to where it gained complete dominion over this colony and these caverns as a whole. The party fought their way through and made a few allies, including the ousted mind flayer, Clarota, seeking to return to his colony, has been fighting alongside them, as well as Lady Kima, the paladin they came to save. Upon finding their way into the final cavern, they used their magic carpet to completely go around the giant city of Yug'Voril, perch on top of the temple in the center of the city, and using a polymorphed fomorian giant (laughs), cascading down hundreds upon hundreds of feet, through the glass structure on top, managed to break their way into the temple, after which a very dangerous battle with K'Varn the beholder took place. A number of very close calls. I posted the stats for them after the fight, if any of you guys got a chance to see it. They made saving throws where it counted, or we'd have a lot more party members that'd be permanently dead. But they managed to take him out; using Tiberius's Telekinesis, they tore the horn from its forehead and the beholder fell to the ground, unmoving and finally killed, as opposed to its undead form, and that's where we begin. As you guys all sit there looking around yourselves, adrenaline still pumping in your ears, the flow of blood.
Orion: Pike--
Ashley: That's me! What do you need?
Orion: Do you have spell of Restoration, the thing that can reverse stone?
Ashley: Yes, I do.
Orion: Clarota, what do you suggest we do? Do we stay, do we leave, or do we-- what do you? There are hundreds upon thousands of illithid rushing at us right now, and they don't like me very much, by the way--
Laura: We should get out of here!
Matt: At which point, Clarota turns to you and says, "You. Bring her." Points to Kima, who is still frozen in stone mid-wielding her maul.
Ashley: To carry her?
Matt: "Stay but a moment; I will talk to them."
Sam: Talk to the hive.
Orion: Very good. Wait, do you want her un-stoned, or still stoned?
Marisha: Well, hang on. Maybe before we unstone Kima, we talk about what we should do with the Horn.
Orion: This is exactly what has to do with the Horn. Is there any way, Pike, could you perhaps half-cast it and hold the spell, don't quite undo her legs from stone, I don't want her to be mobile. I want to ask her--
Ashley: I don't know if I--
Sam: If I may, very quickly, are you with us, Tiberius?
Orion: We will discuss that when we get out of here.
Sam: Because you disappeared for like, the whole fight. Are you with us?
Orion: I am with you.
Sam: Are you going to disappear again?
Orion: To be fair, Scanlan, I never disappeared to begin with!
Sam: Well, you weren't there when we needed you the most. You were out doing God-knows-what.
Orion: Quite the contrary. If it wasn't for me, you'd still be fighting that damn thing.
Sam: What on earth are you talking about?
Orion: Silence. (laughter)
Sam: Dispel Magic. Yes, I did.
Orion: Counterspell.
Sam: Do I have a will save?
Orion: No, you're done, you're quiet.
Matt: That low enough level? No, unfortunately.
Orion: The idea, which I will share-- we don't have time to do that--
Sam: I turn him into a goat.
Orion: He has to say that, it doesn't work.
Matt: I know that. (laughter)
Orion: So the idea is, Pike, if we ask her why she wants the horn, if there is any other reason but to destroy it, we have to--
Sam: Okay, then I'll Banish him.
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: How about-- well, hold on.
Taliesin: He can't stop it, he can't talk!
Matt: Also requires verbal casting.
Sam: I have to touch him, right?
Matt: You also have to be able to speak.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: So while you're talking to them, Scanlan is tapping you and mouthing words angrily.
Orion: The idea is, if she doesn't want to destroy it, I say there's something awful, and Keyleth, I believe you want to destroy it, yes?
Marisha: Well, yes, I mean why does she want to take it back up to the surface if it's that terrible?
Orion: I know this is, did you say Orcus, is that his name?
Matt: Orcus, yes.
Orion: This thing is no good at all.
Marisha: Why don't we just throw it in some lava?
Orion: Where is some lava? I would much like to do that.
Marisha: Well, we're around lava, right?
Travis: We were.
Laura: We're not around lava now.
Taliesin: It's a thing of earth. Perhaps taking it to the surface is necessary to destroy it. Why don't we have a conversation with her?
Orion: But she wanted to take it back to Emon. That is not appropriate, we need to destroy this.
Taliesin: Let's get some information first.
Orion: I dispel Silence.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's get some information, let's figure out--
Sam: Oh hi, hi there.
Orion: Sorry, I just wanted to get the point across.
Ashley: I can un-stone her.
Taliesin: We'll un-stone her, it's not like she can take it from us.
Ashley: That's my last 5th-level spell, so we might need to rest.
Taliesin: If something horrible happens, we're going to run anyway at this point.
Matt: I assume you guys have come down in here then.
Orion: I'm staying up, can I not--
Sam: Then how did we have this whole conversation?
Orion: Oh, then I'd be down there.
Laura: I was planning on staying up. I'm not leaving Trinket up there.
Matt: Okay. Good.
Taliesin: Why don't we find out what happens next? And if we have to, you can teleport us out of here, correct?
Orion: Oh, I have a wonderful escape plan.
Marisha: Okay, so Clarota, how much time do we have before something happens next?
Matt: As you say that, Clarota turns, and the two stone doorways on each side of the temple shift open and you notice three mind flayers glide in from the side of the room.
Laura: I notch my arrow.
Orion: No, no! Stop, no don't. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
Matt: Two small, bi-pedal, brain-like creatures.
All: No! No.
Matt: At which point, Clarota puts his hands up like this.
Travis: I'm grappled, so.
Matt: Yeah, you're still being held back, but you can try to break from the grapple if you want to roll an athletics check.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to, just because these things ate my fucking mind away. Seven.
Matt: Nope, you're still held against the bars.
Taliesin: You're like an extra in Big Trouble in Little China.
Travis: Oh, it's a 12! I looked at acrobatics.
Matt: Still not enough, unfortunately.
Ashley: Wait, but I cast-- nope, never mind! Keep going!
Matt: Okay. As they begin to move in, and are hovering forward, looking around the room, taking in the scenery, but they're all focused toward the center, they're all just moving towards the Elder Brain. And they make their way up towards it, looking very intent and very frightened at the prospect of what maybe has happened in this room. As they all approach, you can see that low, dull, kind of purplish glow of the Elder Brain is still pumping, but slowly brighter and brighter, almost like it's coming to more life. You can hear the cage rattling of the various entities that are still inside, like the one that's still grappling Grog off to the side. The horn of Orcus, which is still being held aloft by your Telekinesis spell, is just hovering through the air, slowly rotating on its own, little strips of K'Varn's flesh still freshly tumbling from the side.
Orion: And it's at the halfway point between where she is and where I'm standing.
Matt: So right here?
Orion: Yeah, right there.
Matt: Not this big, of course.
Orion: It's really heavy, guys!
Matt: As they all move towards the center, Clarota, with his hands up, turns around, pulls back the hood, and steps towards the other mind flayers, hands stretched out, moving up to the point here.
Ashley: (whispers) Can you instill an inspiration?
Sam: Inspire him? I think he's pretty good on his own.
Orion: "Don't do anything." I'm saying this on the ears.
Matt: The three illithid look over and notice Clarota, and there's a good 20 or 30 seconds of silence as they just look at each other. At which point, Clarota kind of turns around to the rest of the group and looks at them, looks at all of you and lowers his head a little bit as the mind flayers move in towards Clarota, one reaches over and pulls the cap from the back of his head, removes it, at which point Clarota raises up, and if you think you've ever seen an entity with tentacles for a mouth smile, the creases in his awful, rubbery, fleshy face almost give a look of joy, of rediscovered connection, and he looks out to the rest of you and bows a head for a second. I need Grog, Scanlan, Tiberius, Vax, and Pike to all make--
Travis: Tiberius, if he fucks us.
Sam: I think he's about to.
Matt: Intelligence saving throws.
Travis: Oh, I'm grappled! I'm raging, but. Fuck yes! Intelligence saving throws?
Matt: Intelligence saving throws.
Travis: Thank god I rolled high.
Orion: Natural 20.
Travis: (laughs) I get a negative two modifier, that's such bullshit. (laughter)
Matt: Not very wise, there, Grog.
Travis: 17.
Sam: Is this a charm?
Matt: This would be-- no, it would not be.
Marisha: So wait, am I still an elemental? Is that the deal?
Orion: It's 23.
Matt: 23, 20. Scanlan?
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12. Pike?
Laura: She needs better dice.
Ashley: I rolled a six.
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Ashley: Six total. (laughs)
Travis: Oh. 17.
Matt: Okay! So. Currently, all the mind flayers at once, including Clarota, angrily lash out with a Mind Blast. You feel your brains all of a sudden fill with searing, horrible pain. Some of you manage to shrug it off, but the rest of you find your bodies locking in place. All right, everyone who failed their save, which would be-- Keyleth, what'd you roll?
Marisha: You didn't have me roll.
Matt: Oh, you need to roll as well, sorry, you're in the blast there. You're still an earth elemental.
Marisha: I thought I was immune to this kind of stuff. (groans) What do I-- not good.
Matt: Not good? All right, that'll be 22 points of psychic damage to Grog, to Pike.
Travis: I passed, right?
Matt: No, you passed this. You're fine.
Laura: Teleport us out of here!
Orion: It doesn't work like that. It's what I was trying to say earlier!
Matt: Scanlan, you are currently stunned, you are actually unable to physically move. Pike, as well. The rest of you manage to resist the Mind Blast, but at this point in time you can now see that this crew, including Clarota, now reconnected with its people, your purpose serving its end, you're about to be swarmed by the rest of the entire city.
Travis: Son of a bitch, taint, fuck!
Matt: Let's roll initiative, guys.
Marisha: We should've gotten out of here!
Travis: I never trusted that Magneto motherfucker! Fuck.
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Marisha: 21, as well.
Matt: Nice. 20 to 15?
Orion: 19.
Taliesin: 17.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten?
Liam: 14.
Sam: 13.
Matt: All right, Grog?
Travis: Eight. Against mind flayers. We're fucking fighting brains and mind flayers again.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Marisha: Okay, wait, you guys run.
Matt: Vex, you're up first.
Marisha: I can start bringing down the palace.
Laura: I'm stuck at the top. Until we can run, we're stuck, because there's only one flying carpet.
Travis: Tiberius has got something for us, right?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the Elder Brain and shoot Hail of Thorns into the Elder Brain.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yes! I like that idea!
Marisha: I'm going to start bringing down the temple! Are we okay with that?
Travis: We're still in it.
Orion: Not while we're still in it.
Marisha: Well, I mean it'll take some time, I'm sure.
Travis: Or it could happen really quick.
Matt: As you guys do notice-- you guys are beginning to see what looks like shadows seemingly coming out from the outside, and you hear what seems to be slight cackling of things sort of in the doorways. So you're shooting Hail of Thorns down into the Elder Brain? Go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 will hit, yes.
Sam: We're going to be dead in ten minutes.
Matt: What, the teleportation one?
Orion: We'll talk about it later. Plan B, it's ten minutes.
Matt: One minute.
Orion: Sure!
Matt: Pretty sure it's one minute
Marisha: Wait, does this mean you can go and we'll distract?
Orion: No, don't look at it! You said one minute, that's the DM, DM is god.
Laura: Do I roll regular damage, plus the Hail of Thorns?
Matt: I thought it was.
Travis: If someone asks you if you're a god--
All: You say yes.
Travis: You shouldn't look! You shouldn't waste your time.
Matt: Spellcasting time  one minute.
Orion: Oh, yes, I'm so glad I'm wrong.
Laura: 39 on the first hit.
Orion: How many of us are down there?
Ashley: 39?! Yes!
Marisha: All of us except for Laura and Trinket.
Taliesin: And I'm on the carpet, so I can head that direction.
Laura: And then 18 for the second.
Matt: Okay, so you release the first Hail of Thorns. The arrow shatters into a whole--
Laura: And anything within five feet takes damage, as well.
Matt: That'll be all four of them. How much damage do they take?
Laura: They take the same amount unless they make--
Matt: Unless they make a what? Do they have a saving throw against it?
Laura: Oh wait. Yeah. They take half damage on a saving throw.
Matt: Okay. Against what? So two of them make it, two of them don't.
Marisha: Look, look, I do double damage to objects and structures. That's the thing, I'm really good at tearing shit down.
Orion: Now, sometimes fighting isn't the right thing to do!
Marisha: That's why I'm not talking about fighting, I'm talking about collapsing buildings!
Matt: All right, so Clarota and the one nearest to it get behind a pillar for a second and manage to reduce the damage a bit, but the other two are completely pierced all over their bodies where shattered pieces of these kind of jagged thorn arrows exploded all over them and the Elder Brain. The pulsing begins to-- you hear this shrieking in your mind, like the actual presence of the Elder Brain is starting to yell out in pain. You feel it's hardy but hurting. I mean, it's very hefty, it's a large chunk of matter, so god knows how long it would take to take that one down, but it's definitely-- (laughs) it hurt. It's not happy with that. Do you want to move at all or do you want to stay where you are?
Laura: I want to do my second attack.
Matt: Yeah, that's right!
Laura: Yeah. 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. You actually fire down and it hits the stonework and the arrow splinters against it. Stay where you are?
Laura: I don't know what else to do. I'm stuck up at the top.
Matt: Jump? What could possibly go wrong! Okay, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Sam: Keyleth!
Marisha: I think my best use-- I agree we need to get out of here, but I'm going to--
Matt: You have shadows moving in from the two open doorways on each side right now.
Marisha: What, so the Elder Brain-- is this a wooden well, or a stone well? What is this?
Matt: Essentially it's a giant stone platform that houses the Elder Brain at the center.
Marisha: Here's what I can do. I can start breaking the well, or I can start blocking entrances. I can start pulling down--
Travis: That one, the second one.
Taliesin: The second one.
Marisha: The second one?
Travis: The second one, close the doorway.
Marisha: All right. Who's coming in from where?
Matt: This is one doorway. That's the other.
Travis: I thought he said it was big.
Marisha: All right, I am going to-- I can make it there, right? That's 35 feet?
Matt: That-- ooh, that's maybe not enough. Yeah no, that's longer than 35 feet.
Laura: Just bull rush and tear down the well.
Travis: Yeah, do it. Fuck it, do what you want to do.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Marisha: All right, all right!
Matt: Just letting you know, just putting this into perspective, here: you're fighting four illithid in the room. You have a city swarming on you right now.
Laura: We need to get out! Or take down the Elder Brain.
Marisha: All right. I am taking down the doors.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? Are you casting a spell?
Marisha: No, I'm going to start-- can I bull rush, not necessarily right next to the door but like right here, and I'm going to elemental-slam into the wall and siege monster this.
Matt: What's the movement speed of the earth elemental?
Marisha: 35 feet.
Matt: 35 feet? As it's still able to move through stone as well?
Marisha: Yeah! Well, actually, no. When I move through stone I think I can move 60 feet!
Matt: Okay, it is a thick floor. You actually shift into the stonework of the flooring itself and coast through, popping up right out there. That'll get you right at the doorway. You can see there is a slow spiraling incline, like a small-- like an inclined pathway that you can see four illithid making their way up right now, with some large looming stomping sounds coming up behind them.
Marisha: Perfect! So I materialize, using my girth to take up the door, and then I just go (deep voice) boom! And start bringing it down.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make your slam attack or attacks, depending on how many--
Marisha: Slam, I guess.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Get it, Keyleth. (cheering)
Marisha: 26!
Matt: 26, okay go ahead and roll damage on that. Since you are an earth elemental, you do extra siege damage against structures, don't you?
Marisha: Correct. Double damage. So (laughs) okay. So does full damage, plus five, so that's 21-- 42 points of damage.
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: 42 points of damage. So the stone structure, which is pretty rigid and this is an old, old structure; the strange, weird, non-Euclidean design of it has a slight warbling feel to it. You take both of your earth elemental fists and slam them into the side. As you do, the structure gives way and a good 30 feet or so crumbles down around you. You can feel the stones raining onto you. Because of your proximity, you take four points of impact damage.
Marisha: I like it! It feels good! This is what I bathe in!
Matt: This entire doorway is ruined, and there's a good 15-foot pile of stonework now blocking that entranceway.
Marisha: 15-foot pile?
Matt: Yeah. But there's a hole above it, where the stone fell through. So there is about 50 feet up a section of the wall that is collapsed down.
Marisha: Whatever, it'll make it harder. Right, that's my turn.
Matt: Okay, do recall that mind flayers do levitate.
Travis: Aw. (groans) God! Maybe not now, they don't?
Matt: All right, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Yeah, okay--
Matt: You can also see forms swarming through the other doorway over there.
Laura: Teleport us!
Orion: This isn't good.
Laura: Fly us! Get us out.
Orion: How far? Scanlan's only like a foot away from me, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I'm right next to him!
Matt: Yep.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: Beam us out, Scotty.
Orion: Shit. Okay. I cast Fly on myself.
Sam: (laughs) Bye, Tiberius! (laughter)
Orion: I redact that, actually. Is it possible-- I'm at least standing next to him, right?
Matt: You are.
Orion: I don't have to use a move action right now. I can, like, look at him.
Sam: I leap!
Orion: Okay, can I give him-- can I take off my Ioun Stone as an action, and swap his crown?
Matt: No, I'm pretty sure-- if the item says "attunement" on it, you have to spend a short rest attuning yourself with the weapon. If either of them does.
Orion: But he didn't. He hasn't attuned himself to the thing yet.
Sam: To what?
Matt: Right, but your Ioun stone-- you mean take it from him?
Orion: Yeah!
Matt: You would have to attune it to yourself in order to use it.
Orion: How long does it take?
Matt: It takes a short rest.
Orion: Shit! Okay, that changes everything in a very bad way.
Matt: What are you doing? The other doorway isn't blocked, you have mind flayers running in, you have probably more and more swarming from underneath the temple, probably over at some point, from what you've seen of the temple structure.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to attempt to crush the Horn. With a thousand pounds of pressure.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Because my Telekinesis is still going.
Matt: That's true.
Orion: I can't do anything else without dropping this thing because as soon as I do anything else, I drop the horn. So I have to do that first.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action, go ahead and roll for that, for the crushing of Telekinesis.
Travis: Oh god.
Orion: What am I adding?
Matt: You're adding your modifier, which I think is five.
Orion: Oh, 23.
Matt: As you focus intensely, you feel that the Horn itself-- the sheer force of the artifact is far too powerful for your meager magic to have any sort of effect on its physical structure.
Orion: I thought so.
Matt: As you focus your arcane intent on crushing it, you feel almost like the back of your brain begins to crawl with cold energy, and if you could hear-- if you could hear laughter come from something that is inanimate, you're hearing it coming from the Horn right now.
Travis: Fuck that horn.
Matt: That's your action.
Orion: I'm going to--
Laura: Float it into the Bag of Holding!
Orion: I'm going to maneuver around the chaos because I'm not within range of anybody to hurt me, right?
Matt: Not currently, no.
Orion: So I'm going to hop on the carpet.
Liam: This is all taking six seconds, by the way.
Matt: 30, that's as far as you can get.
Orion: Well, I can run.
Matt: You already used your action to Telekinesis.
Orion: Oh. That's stupid.
Matt: That's how it works.
Orion: "Hey, Percy!" (laughs) That's my turn, that's all I can do. And I still maintain the thing.
Matt: Okay. That brings us-- end of Tiberius's turn, to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to start flying straight up, and while I'm flying straight up, I'm going to take... two shots with the Pepperbox at the big brain.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll twice.
Taliesin: I'm going to use Sharpshooter. That's a 21? That's 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Taliesin: And should I do both hits?
Matt: Yeah, roll both.
Taliesin: Oh, and-- no, that's right, I don't critical at 19?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: No, I need a specialty. Damn it! And that hits, so both hit, and they're both with Sharpshooter, so that's nice. (sings) I haven't pulled my dice out yet. There we go.
Liam: Come on, gunslinger!
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice! 25 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And 17 points of damage.
Matt: All right, gotcha.
Taliesin: Oh, sorry. I forgot, sorry, four points of fire damage.
Matt: Okay, good. All right, so as you (gunshot) turn over the barrel of your weapon, fire again, the second one bursting into flame as it hits the top of the Elder Brain, you can see both bullets sink into the flesh. There's no impact; they just seem to be absorbed in by it. The flame one, you see a jet of flame go from the inside and the flesh of the actual large Elder Brain quivers for a moment. You hear another shrieking, angry pain growl in your minds just by the proximity of this entity. You don't see it doing too much to it, but it's definitely hurting it. That ends your turn?
Marisha: Things can hurt really bad and not do that much damage.
Matt: Clarota spins and comes up behind you--
Laura: Don't be a dick.
Travis: Remember our days watching Saved by the Bell together?
Matt: You are stunned currently, so it gets advantage on that. So that's 24. All right, so Clarota's tentacles wrap around your head-- (gasping)
Travis: Whose?
Matt: You immediately take 15 points of psychic damage and you are currently grappled.
Sam: And stunned.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: (sings) Grappled and stunned, so grappled and stunned!
Matt: All right, that comes to Pike! Pike, you're stunned currently, mind still reeling from the pain; go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Ashley: Ugh, okay.
Travis: We're just trying to stay alive.
Ashley: I just rolled a one.
Matt: Your physical form is still unable to pull yourself out of that continuous psychic pain, you're like (groans) trying to just tear your mind out of it, unable to do so. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I click my Boots of Haste and I'm going to-- where's the thingie, do we have a thingie here?
Ashley: What do you need?
Liam: The light.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: All right, great. How's this work? Like that. If I can run right between Pike and this little brain jerk right here, does that get me within five feet of Elder Brain if I'm there? I can't tell from the structure.
Matt: You can rush there, you would have to get up onto here.
Liam: Yeah, that's what I want to do, and then, I don't know. That's not my full double-movement, I don't know how that affects the number of attacks I have Hasted, but I just want to stab it as many times as I can, standing on top of this thing.
Matt: All right, got it.
Liam: Where's the meteorite die?
Orion: Fuck you, couch!
Liam: Using my poison dagger.
Travis: Prison shank that thing.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I'm going to shiv him in his shank or shank him in his shiv, whichever is the more accurate phrase.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for attack twice.
Travis: Can you scream out "lobotomy" while you do it?
Matt: As a note, as you rush by, for an attack of opportunity, the intellect devourer does reach out and strike at you with its claws.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Rolls a one. You just kick it off to the side, it rolls on its side, its brain matter (clunks) on the ground.
Liam: Do I get two or three attacks?
Matt: You get three if you use your bonus to attack.
Liam: First one misses. Second one is-- oh wait, the first was a 17, is that--
Laura: That doesn't miss.
Liam: Hit or miss, it's a brain, right, I'm standing--
Matt: Total 17? That would still-- it doesn't miss, but as you strike down for it, there's a psychic field that's defending it, and your blade is held at bay by the protective sphere.
Liam: Okay, then I'm using now dagger of venom is 26.
Matt: Okay, that does hit.
Liam: Okay, so that's four plus six is ten, because this isn't Sneak Attack or anything.
Matt: No.
Liam: That's ten plus a poison for a DC of 15?
Matt: Okay. It makes its saving throw. Rolled a 17.
Liam: So that was that, and then the third attack I'll go back to the keen dagger. 14.
Matt: 14. The second one strikes through, the poison tries to pulse through but once again it resists the impact; the third dagger comes down and before it even gets halfway towards, there's a blast of psychic energy from the inside of the containment unit that holds the Elder Brain that (boof) forces your hand back, the attack deflected entirely. That ends your turn. The other three illithids now go.
Ashley: I wish we had inspiration.
Orion: Isn't there a rope still hanging from there? Throw the damn rope!
Laura: You can climb it.
Liam: Yeah, I can probably get up 15 feet and hang there.
Travis: Yeah, I'm getting a massage right now.
Matt: This one's also going to turn around, reach forward, and its tentacles are going to attempt to wrap around Pike's head--
Travis: Don't you touch my friend.
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Travis: A natural 20?
Matt: No, it's just 20. So Pike, you go ahead and take-- this'll be 15 points of psychic damage.
Liam: It was a good run, folks.
Marisha: What happened?
Laura: He rolled a 20.
Ashley: So he rolled a 20.
Matt: I rolled a total of 20. And you're stunned currently, so you take 15 points of psychic damage as you feel-- as you're trying to resist yourself, these cold tentacles wrap across the front of your field of vision, and you can feel this weird, toothy, pointy, biting sensation beginning to push towards the back of your skull. This one--
Ashley: That's it, that's all she wrote.
Matt: This one here is going to--
Laura: He's going to try to eat her brain!
Matt: Tiberius, that is a 15 versus AC.
Orion: Nope!
Matt: What's your AC?
Orion: 17, man!
Matt: 17, as you're rushing toward the magic carpet that just took off, yeah, you look over and the tentacles swing toward you, you duck just underneath and manage to avoid the attack. Now the two intellect devourers. One's going to go ahead and look up towards the magic carpet that's taking off and-- here we go. Oh, within ten feet? No, you're too far away. So instead it's going to go for you on top of the Elder Brain. I want you to go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw, Vax.
Liam: 20, natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20!
Sam: Needed that.
Laura: That's not to Matt, that's to the little brains.
Liam: The brains, the brains.
Marisha: Fuck you, little brains.
Matt: So you feel a similar blast of screaming energy, like you feel from the illithids, but it's more primal and more guttural. You manage to shrug it off in your mind and angrily look down at this weird, fleshy creature. The other one moves up and attempts to blast you again from the opposite side. Make another intelligence saving throw.
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19! Once again you feel from the back of your brain this like stunning impact and you shrug it off looking over this way.
Liam: (jeering) I'm smart! (laughter)
Matt: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm grappled and stunned.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make your saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy. (cheering)
Orion: Boom!
Matt: You shrug off the stunned effect, you're currently grappled by the entity.
Laura: You're so smart!
Ashley: You're so smart!
Marisha: You're so smart!
Travis: Cardiac kid, come on now, here we go. Table's getting hot.
Liam: Aren't you inspired?
Matt: And then also make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: Oh, Jesus. Because he's also got the things on me.
Liam: Just say 20.
Sam: Seven. (laughs) Plus two.
Liam: Big nine.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I said big nine.
Ashley: He rolled a 20, so that's gotta mean something.
Taliesin: I think a nine is a big six.
Marisha: The 20 carries over one, right? (laughter)
Travis: Residual?
Marisha: You take the one and you carry it over.
Travis: Natural 20 residual.
Liam: I personally can't wait until we roll new characters next show.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Shut up!
Matt: Unfortunately, you're still stunned.
Sam: Still stunned? Oh, so I got off--
Matt: You resisted the mind effect, but the tentacles on your head are now locking your brain in place, and your eyes are kind of rolling back in your head as you feel the illithid's mouth begin to push against the outside of your head. Grog?
Travis: I've got to break my grapple, right?
Matt: Yeah. Just go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Travis: One.
Matt: A natural one?
Sam: This guy.
Matt: A natural one; it rolled a four!
Orion: Plus your strength! Oh, it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: It doesn't matter.
Matt: Okay. So it's still holding you in place; you have your axe you picked up off the ground with your chain of returning; you can't physically move from your position as it's holding you there.
Travis: The axe is across the room, remember?
Matt: Well, no, you threw it over here and retrieved it at the end of the battle.
Travis: Well that's a good, that's a good plus.
Ashley: (frustrated noise)
Marisha: The fuck!
Matt: So what do you want to do?
Laura: You could attack with your chain.
Travis: I can attack with the chain?
Matt: You have your axe with your chain of returning, you just can't move, but you can still throw if you want to.
Orion: Oh, awesome.
Marisha: Can you chop the dude's arms off?
Travis: I have no-- it's holding me, I don't think I can be like--
Ashley: Maybe the guy that has him, his tentacles or whatever?
Travis: I was going to try and save you.
Ashley: Well. That's far.
Travis: Can I reach the illithid-- it's far?
Matt: Well, you can throw to either of them right now. They're both bent over gnome heads, they're bigger--
Travis: Where's Scanlan?
Ashley: Why the gnomes?
Matt: He's here, and that's Pike.
Ashley: Why the gnome hate?
Marisha: It's rare. It's a rare delicacy.
Matt: You guys were right there.
Travis: All right, I can't-- I'm going to try and throw it at the illithid that's on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Ashley: Tasty gnome.
Liam: All the fans who implied that Matt went light on us the last game--
Travis: 22?
Matt: 22, definitely hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Okay, it's just one, two, three. Shit balls. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage, all right. That one, you throw the axe, it slams into the shoulder of the illithid that's grabbing on to him. You see it look up at you angrily and a large portion of its chest is now gashed open and blood is pouring from the wound, but it's still holding tight right now. I think that's going to end your turn.
Travis: No, I'm done.
Matt: Do you want to pull your axe back?
Travis: Yes, I would like to.
Matt: Go ahead and you (grunts). Go ahead and make your check.
Travis: What do I, what the fuck do I roll, to the thing. What do I roll? A 12?
Matt: Yeah. A 20, you have to roll a d20, that was a d12.
Travis: Okay, good. (laughter)
Travis: 18.
Matt: So you pull on the chain of returning and it yanks the axes out of the wound and you catch it in midair, preparing for the next round.
Travis: (laughs) The 12 was a one. (laughter)
Matt: All right, first round of combat over. Let's roll better, guys. This is looking really dire. Vex, you're up.
Ashley: Get it.
Sam: Save everyone.
Matt: You're up at the top, you have a clear view of everyone.
Marisha: That's true, you're the only one with a bird's-eye view.
Sam: Just run. Save yourself.
Matt: As it is, these two illithids look kind of hurt, these two look really rough, this one looks really rough, both of these guys haven't been damaged yet but they have low hit points.
Sam: Save yourself, start a new race of people.
Laura: I am going to attack--
Sam: Hunter's Mark!
Laura: I'm going to put Hunter's Mark on-- oh, my brother just died.
Liam: I fainted.
Laura: On the one attacking Scanlan.
Taliesin: Not on Scanlan, on the one attacking Scanlan.
Matt: Oh right, sorry. (laughter)
Travis: What did he do?
Matt: In the confusion--
Sam: (shrieking) Help!
Orion: Friendly fire!
Ashley: That was amazing.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14 unfortunately does--
Ashley: Plus! Plus War God's Blessing?
Matt: You're stunned.
Ashley: But can't I just do it just because?
Matt: No, unfortunately.
Marisha: Once, just this once, please?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: But he's bent over and I've got a bird's-eye view of him.
Matt: You know what? He is grappling and he is right in the way, I'll go ahead and give you advantage on that attack. Roll again.
Laura: Yes! So I just roll again?
Matt: Roll again. Take whatever it is.
Laura: 22!
Matt: 22 will hit, okay. Because it is a stationary position, completely engulfing, and you have such a great view from above.
Laura: Right? 11 points of damage?
Matt: Okay. Did you roll your Hunter's Mark damage?
Laura: No, I did not.
Matt: Don't forget Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I won't, though. Three extra. That's for Hunter's Mark.
Ashley: 14 total?
Matt: Okay, gotcha. That's your first strike.
Laura: Okay. On my second one, should I just try to attack him again, kill him? All right, I'm going to kill him, try to hit him again. 18?
Matt: 18. Okay! So both strikes (whoosh). Go ahead and roll for damage.
Laura: 16 plus-- 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Both arrows (zoomf, zoomf), one embeds itself in the wound that Grog had left with the axe and you see the body tenses. Clarota stares up at you with this beaming angry look on his face; you realize, oh shit, Clarota's the one that's going after Scanlan. Your second arrow you bring down and release and it pierces the side of its face, gashing through and embedding itself in the chest. You can see now Clarota's looking really rough, but he's still holding taut. This horrible thought goes into your mind suddenly, a familiar voice saying, "You've all done your work. Now it's time to feast!"
Sam: (gasps) He turned on us!
Laura: I knew he was going to do that!
Sam: What? None of us knew that!
Laura: I totally knew he was going to do that.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn; Keyleth, you're up.
Travis: I don't trust Clarota. I don't trust Clarota. I don't trust Clarota. (laughter)
Ashley: Every week.
Travis: Every week!
Sam: You know who would help us right now?
Laura: Kima would help us, but she's stone.
Sam: Can we make her not stone?
Ashley: We can make her not stone, except we didn't get a chance to.
Liam: If we live, we're in store for so much I-told-you-so. (laughter)
Liam: It's a big if.
Sam: Maybe we should leave her. I don't want to deal with that.
Travis: Who's up?
Marisha: I can make, I'm going to-- aw, crap. I'm going to phase down, and I'm going to pop up, and I'm going to break the well that's holding the Elder Brain.
Ashley: Get it!
Matt: Okay, so you're going to pop up here? Over here?
Liam: No, not there!
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Not where I might hurt Vax.
Sam: Well, that's anywhere.
Laura: Just do the other side!
Marisha: You might have to do, like, a flippy-poo off it.
Matt: So what are you doing on the well, you're just grabbing it?
Marisha: Can I? Can I flip?
Matt: No, it's embedded in the ground. What are you doing?
Marisha: Oh, okay, so I want to take and I want to just punch to crack a big side of it to help spill out the brains.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a slam attack on the side
Marisha: Bust the side of it open.
Ashley: And then we'll stomp on him and make brain juice.
Marisha: I mean, it's an item, it's a stationary rock, so what do I add? Oh wait, I add-- so plus-- sorry, I'm not used to this. Plus eight, 16?
Matt: 16? You slam into the side of this; you're not attacking the brain, you're attacking the stonework. You can feel there is some psychic resistance, but because you're not attacking the brain directly, your fist slams into it, making purchase in the stone. Go ahead and roll damage against the stone.
Travis: Come on!
Matt: Double damage on this.
Ashley: Big damage!
Marisha: 20 damage.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: 20 damage. The side of the stonework crumples inward. Pieces of the stonework itself seem to be jutting in toward the Elder Brain, but it's stopped by some sort of psychic resistance, but the whole side here to here is now just open entirely, and you can see now the hole, the mass of-- there's probably hundreds of various illithid brains that have slowly congealed into one large brain structure as now you can see the underneath area. The liquid it kind of sits in is now pouring out, down the side of the structure.
Marisha: Hope they have flood insurance. (groans and laughter)
Travis: That was the worst Schwarzenegger action line ever. (Terminator voice) Hope they have flood insurance, ja.
Marisha: The Geico slayer!
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing.
Marisha: Flo just got real, all right? Flo just got real.
Taliesin: That's no better, actually.
Marisha: From Progressive Flo? All the flow of the-- you know what, never mind.
Matt: So you only have the one slam attack? Earth elemental doesn't multi-attack?
Marisha: Yes, just the one. My slam attack is--
Matt: Right. Cool.
Marisha: Oh no, wait! I have multi-- earth elemental makes two slam attacks!
Matt: That's good to know. Go ahead and make another one.
Marisha: I could have done that last time?
Matt: Are you attacking the stonework still?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just going to take the other chunk and punch it.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say you used some of your movement to move this way. By the way, guys, you can break up your movement. You can move, attack, then move if you want to.
Marisha: You can?
Matt: Yeah!
Travis: Unless Tickle-me-Elmo is holding you by the cage.
Marisha: It's cocked. 16 plus eight, so 22.
Matt: That'll definitely do it; go ahead. Is that total damage? Oh, that's the attack. Okay, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Ugh, four plus-- 18 damage.
Matt: 18's fine. So you break out the second half and now the entire side of it is open. All the fluid just spilled out the side and you get the sensation this is very frowned upon. (laughter)
Matt: That ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up!
Travis: A tentacle frown.
Orion: So I rush up, and Percy takes off?
Matt: As a note too, just so you guys are aware--
Taliesin: I didn't know you were coming to the carpet, sorry.
Laura: Oh no, we never closed the other door!
Matt: You start seeing a series of other entities slowly making their way up from the downstairs tunnel area.
Sam: I think we can beat them all.
Orion: Seeing what's going on-- there's an illithid right behind me, right?
Matt: There is. Right behind you, yeah.
Travis: I thought she closed the door.
Laura: No, we didn't.
Matt: Yeah, the other door is open.
Marisha: I closed the one, but then he said that they could levitate so I decided it wasn't worth it.
Sam: Hey, man. Grog's being held prisoner by an 80-pound dude.
Orion: So I'm running off and then Percy takes off? So I can't get to him?
Matt: Yeah, he's (whoosh), you can't get to him.
Orion: Awesome.
Travis: I'm so ashamed right now.
Orion: I need a technical question. Can I move the Horn and let go of the spell so I can then do my turn? Or does that take a thing to do that? Like, I want to let it go--
Matt: No.
Orion: Good. So as I'm running up to the carpet, I see Percy go and I'm like, "(growls) Damn Tiamat-lover!" So I bring over the Horn and right at the tip, on the carpet, I let it go. "You deal with it then!"
Matt: Percy? (loud clatter)
Laura: Oh no, K'Varn!
Matt: That's what you get!
Orion: I don't give it to Percy, I let it land on the carpet.
Matt: I know. I'm saying it's on his carpet right now, staring at him from the side.
Ashley: Put it on, Percy!
Orion: I see the-- oh god. Okay, I can only do this once. I see the-- they're not inside yet, right?
Matt: No. They're just starting to get to the doorway. You can see them right there.
Orion: Awesome. Okay, that is a-- and this is a-- Okay.
Matt: What you got, Tiberius? (laughter)
Travis: (Tiberius voice) Poppycock, poppycock.
Orion: Right. I have-- I blow everything. I'm going to blow everything.
Travis: Yes! Blow everybody. (laughter)
Matt: How diplomatic of you!
Sam: I'm stunned!
Orion: You cannot resist!
Matt: So, Tiberius.
Orion: As I leave the Horn there, I turn to where the door is. Obelisk of Stone. I seal up the entryway.
Matt: How many with that, what level are you using it?
Orion: Well, how wide is it? Like 15 feet?
Matt: It's a little over five feet wide.
Orion: Great. I only need one, right?
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Orion: Okay. So I seal that one-- I'm going to use all three right now.
Marisha: Seal the other one, too. I only partially sealed it.
Orion: I'll seal the other one.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: And I'll use the other one on myself.
Matt: Okay!
Orion: And I'm going to use-- I only have three left. Yeah, okay. And I'm going to use my last three sorcerer points that I have, and I have zero points after this, and I'm going to cast Blur on myself. And that's my turn.
Matt: All righty. You now start hearing (boof, boof) slamming sounds from the other side of the stone walls. Both sides of the walls are now sealed off with pillars, and a large pile of rubble on that side. All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, before I go anywhere, I'm taking a shot at Clarota.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Betraying bastard.
Taliesin: With Sharpshooter, that's 13, 14, 15, 16, 17. 19 points?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That hits, and let's do my damage. That's 22 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. So, Scanlan, as you're stunned, you feel the tentacles swirling around the back of your head. Teeth are grinding into the back of your skull, and you feel this horrible pain as all of a sudden, Clarota's mouth is beginning to find a way towards your skull. (laughter)
Matt: And then the tentacles suddenly go limp as the back of Clarota's head (gunshot) becomes a mess.
Taliesin: Traitor!
Marisha: Traitor!
Laura: I can't believe we killed Clarota!
Taliesin: Some people have no sense of fucking honor! (laughter)
Marisha: Traitor!
Travis: Oh, Percy!
Matt: In a split second, your longtime ally, now turncoat, is scattered across the stone floor. You're released, you're no longer stunned.
Sam: (gasps) Hi, guys!
Taliesin: I still have another shot.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: There's someone on Pike, right?
Matt: There's still one on Pike right now, yeah, right here.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot there.
Travis: Come on, Perce!
Ashley: Perce!
Marisha: Pew pew!
Taliesin: Oh yeah! So that's 17-- 17, 18, 19--
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Okay, that just hits, all right. I'm trying to use Sharpshooter, so it changes everything. And that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And did we get a short rest before this fight happened?
Sam: No.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Fuck, never mind.
Matt: No you did not.
Marisha: That's why we're all burnt out on spells.
Taliesin: That's why we're all burnt out on shit, okay.
Orion: Except me.
Matt: Yeah, the other one--
Taliesin: I'm going to go up further.
Matt: Even further? Okay.
Laura: "Because I didn't help you guys!" Thanks, Tiberius!
Ashley: "I abandoned my troop!"
Orion: It's going to come in handy now!
Taliesin: Am I high enough yet for her to jump down onto the--
Matt: Yeah, you could probably pull it off.
Taliesin: So, if you and your bear want to jump on?
Matt: It'd be an acrobatics roll, but yeah.
Sam: Wait, why would you-- you've got to come save us!
Laura: Yeah, no, go down and save them, honestly, because I'm staying up top for right now, unless we can teleport out.
Taliesin: Oh, in that case, instead of going up I'm going to go fly to the right, then.
Orion: Pick up Vax!
Laura: Why?
Orion: I said Vax.
Laura: Vax?
Marisha: Vax? Pick up Vax?
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I'm going to fly down towards Vax, as well.
Matt: Okay. So you're going down to here instead?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can get about-- we'll say, if you're just going--
Taliesin: Yeah, go there.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Hi.
Ashley: Hey you guys!
Taliesin: Hey you guys!
Marisha: Hey you guys!
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. That brings it--
Ashley: Did anything happen to the guy that had me--
Matt: He just took damage, but he's not done yet.
Ashley: He just took damage, he's still (slurps).
Matt: So, Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: It's my turn.
Matt: Go ahead and roll to get rid of the Mind Blast stun.
Ashley: Come on.
Sam: Come on, Pikey.
Ashley: Fuck. It's seven.
Matt: Seven? Nope. You're still locked in place.
Taliesin: Can you heal yourself?
Matt: She cannot move. Her entire brain is locked in with a searing clenching pain, psychic energy is just clutching her brain and holding it hostage.
Sam: Still beautiful, though. (laughter)
Matt: You feel, once again, the teeth beginning to pierce the back of the flesh. You feel the teeth of the mind flayer beginning to scrape against the skull, the actual bone it's found in the back. Vax, you're up.
Liam: What did Clarota do with his hat?
Matt: Oh, it's somewhere on the ground over here.
Liam: Over behind--
Matt: Over behind this.
Liam: Okay, I'm still Hasted, I'm going to run down the center over Clar-- I'm going to step on Clarota's-- I don't know if he has nuts, but whatever's there, I'm going to step there, run around Scanlan, and place his fucking hat on my head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then run up behind that third mind flayer, who I don't think has taken a hit yet, and just start stabbing him in the back.
Matt: Right here?
Laura: No, on Pike!
Liam: I can't get back there.
Laura: You can't?
Liam: I don't think so.
Laura: Would he be able to make it?
Liam: Well it's up to-- oh dear.
Matt: You can't, with the speed you're running there, because your Hasted speed is doubled, so it's 60 feet.
Liam: I'm Hasted, I can run 12 spaces, so if you think that I could have run around the mind flayer, put on the party hat--
Matt: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12. You can move right there.
Liam: Okay, great. So I'm going to start stabbing him in the back, angrily.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Okay, yeah, so, first one is a 15?
Matt: Unfortunately-- no, that does just hit.
Liam: That's a Sneak Attack, because she's next to him. There's nothing in the rule book about stunned, or unconscious, or anything.
Matt: How Sneak Attack works is if they're next to someone that's aggressive toward them; they feel like they have people on two fronts, which is why you get the benefit.
Taliesin: He is, to be fair, very occupied.
Matt: I will say, circumstantially though, because he is currently grappled on to Pike, and is in the process of trying to grind into her brain with his mouth, he is a little preoccupied at the moment.
Travis: He's sucking head.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and make a perception roll versus your fast movement. Go ahead and make a stealth-- roll stealth to see whether or not he takes notice and changes his position in defense.
Liam: I rolled a 24.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. The first attack you rolled was a 15, that hits!
Liam: Okay, thank you.
Matt: And that is a Sneak Attack, he did not see you coming that quickly.
Liam: All right, so that is four, plus seven is 11, plus-- okay, that's 17, 21, thank you. 26, 30, 33. 33 with keen dagger.
Matt: 33 with the keen dagger?
Liam: And I'm sticking that in the back of his neck.
Matt: Okay. That was your first attack?
Liam: That's the first attack.
Matt: Okay, so the first dagger (shnk) sinks into the back of the neck. You just manage to miss all the seriously vital stuff, but you carve a giant section out of the side of its head. The rest of its leathery black outfit's now slick with its own blood. You see it angrily growls, almost this weird guttural, this (gurgling growl) sound as it still remains taut and clenched on Pike, its eyes glaring at you, basically telling you, "Look what I'm about to do to your friend."
Liam: Okay, so good thing I have more knives. So I take the other one, flip it in my hand and then stick it into the neck afterwards. That's a 24.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Yeah, it does. That's eight. Fire damage, I don't know if he takes any fire damage, and I'm going to then stick him with my poison dagger, which isn't going to poison him. But that is a 26 which hits as well.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: And that is eight.
Matt: Eight points of damage. So the first one you stab in the side of the head, you pull back and toss it in the air, catch the second one. As it bursts into flames you place the searing dagger down into the center of its back between its shoulder blades. Its back tenses, and as it does it reaches back and tries to grab for the dagger as you pull back the third one. As it looks back at you it brings up one arm to stop you as it goes in to directly go after Pike's head. The third dagger you then stab it right in the front of the skull. Its eyes roll back in its head and its tentacles limply drag off. (cheering)
Liam: As a bonus action, I would like to Goodfellas-kick him about eight times in the ribs. (laughter)
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: I'll allow it. Oh my god. Because that guy was next! If we didn't kill him this turn, she would've taken 55 points of damage.
Travis: 50-- Let's not even say the number.
Ashley: You saved my life.
Matt: Yeah. And if it takes you to zero hit points, they extract the brain and eat it.
Laura: Now we've got to squish those little brains.
Liam: There's still a mind flayer.
Travis: We're coming real close.
Matt: Let's see if they get their Mind Blast back. Nope. Nope.
Liam: This show is not good for my blood pressure.
Marisha: I know! It's like constant fight or flight.
Travis: I think I'm going blind in my left eye.
Marisha: This should fix your sleep schedule though, right?
Travis: Yeah, totally.
Matt: Seeing both of them get immediately slaughtered, both of these illithids just Plane Shift. A defensive standpoint, self-preservation is kicking in. However, intellect devourers do not have self-preservation. They're there for a specific reason. So this one here is going to move over to this side and is going to attempt to make a Devour Intellect attack against Keyleth. Keyleth, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Marisha: I'm an elemental, so.
Matt: You keep your intelligence score as you.
Marisha: Oh, I do?
Matt: The physical attributes you get from the elemental form. You keep your intellect, wisdom, and charisma.
Marisha: Okay, then 18.
Matt: 18, Okay. You resist the blast of mental impact from the intellect devourer, now on the ground with its four feral legs, its brain form rippling. The second one is going to turn over here and saw the two shots, the one that took out Clarota. It turns up towards Percy, as you've lowered on the magic carpet, Percy. Go ahead and make an intellect saving throw.
Taliesin: Eight.
Matt: Eight? All righty.
Sam: Oh boy. That ain't no good.
Matt: You take 11 points of psychic damage.
Taliesin: There's an "and" there, isn't there?
Sam: And it's undone immediately. (laughter)
Matt: And you take eight points of intellect damage.
Laura: Oh, this is what happened to Grog!
Travis: You're better off than six, right?
Taliesin: Eight points of intellect damage. What does that mean, precisely?
Liam: Minus from your intelligence.
Sam: You would know if you had more intellect.
Laura: Forever?
Matt: No, no, no, no. For this, it basically-- what's your intelligence?
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Yeah, the blast hits you and you just shrug off the impact. It has to exceed your intelligence.
Taliesin: So do I still take eight more points of damage, though?
Matt: No, no no. You just the additional--
Taliesin: I just, I'm just going to go duh-duh. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, the intellect damage is not permanent.
Taliesin: I like purple.
Matt: Not quite that bad.
Travis: I can't not do it.
Matt: All right. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're no longer stunned. You now have full capacity of yourself and you're looking around, oh shit.
Sam: Do we get out of here or do we try to kill these things?
Travis: Can you get us out of here?
Sam: I can get some of us out of here.
Marisha: Start getting us out.
Sam: Are we getting out or are we fighting?
Travis: Getting us out.
Marisha: Because we still have these fuckers we have to--
Ashley: Because Tiberius can get some of us out, right?
Liam: It's just the brains. Just the little brains.
Sam: It's just the little brains. For now.
Matt: Make a perception check, by the way.
Marisha: For now, but people can beat through those doors. That's not a permanent thing.
Taliesin: We need 60 seconds to get out of here is what we need. We need 60 uninterrupted seconds.
Marisha: Well, we can start gathering our shit and packing up.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Marisha: We can start packing up.
Sam: Am I leaving or am I staying?
Travis: You do what you want.
Liam: Do what you want. It's chaos.
Sam: (sighs) All right. Then I'll attack.
Matt: Swarming thing that drift up the sides of the temple from the floor. Coming from inside the temple and out toward the top.
Laura: We should probably get out of here! They're coming up the sides!
Ashley: We can't get you out of here if you don't come--
Sam: I run up to Pike. I grab her hand. I say, "I want to have babies with you." (laughter)
Sam: Let's get out of here. (sings) So now I come to you with Dimension Door.
Ashley: Wait! Can I do a Mass Cure Wounds before we leave? (laughter)
Sam: And we get out.
Matt: You're still stunned from the Mind Blast. You haven't made your save.
Sam: We're going up to the top of the-- to the thing. Just to the roof there.
Laura: They're coming up the sides!
Ashley: We've got to go somewhere else.
Sam: Well, I didn't know that. (laughs) It's done.
Orion: It's fine. It's good that they're up there.
Sam: And, as a bonus, I'm going to send some inspiration to Grog.
Matt: Okay, as you Dimension Door you just go ahead and look back. Using the song of love you gave to Pike, you give back, give a wink to Grog. Grog, you take a 1d10 inspiration. 1d10 inspiration dice to you.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Grog, we would like you to rage.
Travis: I'm already there. I'm just being fucking grappled. Is it my turn?
Matt: It is now.
Travis: Oh, can I try it for the third time to break free?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and go ahead and make your athletics.
Liam: Use that inspiration die, man.
Travis: I'll use the inspiration die just in case I rolled balls again.
Matt: Well, you can use it after you do it. See what you roll and then add it.
Travis: It's athletics, right?
Matt: Athletics, yeah.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18?
Liam: Come on.
Matt: Yeah, you (boosh) break out of the creature's grasp. Suddenly it's reaching at you from behind the bars. You can see there's this slick, brackish oil on your body from where it was holding you. Fleshless arms clutching you to the bars.
Travis: So is everybody leaving? Should I climb up the rope?
Matt: There is Lady Kima who is turned to stone.
Marisha: We've got to get Kima out.
Travis: Fuck Lady Kima!
Orion: Pick her up!
Laura: I thought you had a crush on her?
Ashley: Can he grab her and climb?
Matt: You can. She's not a big stone structure.
Travis: Okay, cool. I pick her up and start trying to climb up the rope.
Matt: Okay, so you rush, you grab the stone form.
Sam: Put her in the Bag of Holding!
All - sam - matt: No!
Travis: She's stone! It doesn't matter!
Orion: Don't do that!
Travis: I take her and-- oh, fine. I'll hold on to her.
Sam: No, put her in the bag!
Marisha: Can you make one of those baby slings? Stuff her in your belt?
Taliesin: It's not time for arts and crafts.
Matt: You run up. You grab Lady Kima. You grab her in your arms and you rush. The rope is currently dangling from this side where you guys first came in.
Laura: Stomp all over the brain to get to it.
Matt: 50 speed. You can get up to here. You can just get up to the rope and we'll say as your dash action you can begin to climb, if you'd like.
Travis: I would like to climb.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I would like to raise.
Travis: I would like to rage. Rage climb.
Matt: It gets you about there. Rage climbing like (grunts).
Orion: Yes!
Matt: One-handed up the rope. That's pretty intense. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: Yes. That Crossfit training come in handy.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, it's sore. You know that arm is going to be dead tomorrow, but right now it doesn't even matter. You're just clutching Lady Kima, still locked in her attack pose, in one arm as you're overhand grabbing the rope and getting yourself up as fast as you can.
Travis: You better remember this when you wake up. (laughter)
Matt: Rage-climbing up the rope.
Liam: He's climbing the Cliffs of Insanity! (laughter)
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: I should just stay where I am, right guys?
Taliesin: And you should shoot things.
Laura: I'm going to do that, yes. Is there any other-- there's just a little brain in there right now?
Matt: Right now there's two brains, and you can see just in the outskirts of the temple's side here, two more illithid that are making their way up the side of the temple.
Laura: Oh, fuck me.
Matt: With about a hundred or so just now gathering towards the bottom of the temple base.
Laura: Jesus. We're going to get out of here real fast! You guys are listening to me, right? Because things are coming up the side and we need to get out of here.
Sam: But what if there's gold down there to find?
Laura: I don't give a fuck! I'm going to Hunter's Mark a little brain. Or should I keep attacking the Elder Brain? What do you guys think?
Taliesin: Elder Brain is spilling out the side now, isn't it?
Matt: The Elder Brain is still inside, just the stonework on the outside of it is currently knocked out.
Taliesin: Yeah, I have a carpet anyway, so let's just jump on it.
Liam: I mean, it might get sent reeling, that brain.
Laura: I know, that's why I'm kind of like, hm.
Liam: Maybe if-- we should try to get out of here, but maybe if we can frigging hurt that brain it'll stun them or send them reeling or something, or make them mad.
Laura: All right. I can do Hail of Thorns on it again, so I'll Hunter's Mark it and then I'll do Hail of Thorns on it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 27.
Matt: That'll hit. Releasing again, in midair you can see all the thorns appear out the sides of the arrow shaft. It explodes into a giant conical-- just a ray, almost like a blizzard of thorns.
Liam: Get it.
Laura: I don't add-- do I add Hunter's Mark to that damage, or just my regular and then that?
Matt: At the end of all the damage you dealt with the attack, you then add Hunter's Mark to that.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Big money.
Laura: 22. 24.
Matt: 24, all righty. Keyleth, go ahead and make a reflex saving throw.
Marisha: What's happening?
Laura: Oh, right, because you're right next to it, sorry Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, it's okay. My reflex-- I use my dex modifier for my elemental, correct?
Matt: Or deflect, yeah, sorry, old carryover, it's dexterity.
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten? Versus your spell save of--
Laura: 14.
Matt: Yeah, so you take the same damage. You take 24 points of damage.
Laura: Sorry. Oh right, you're really, really strong.
Marisha: Yeah, I've got 100 hit points still.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So how many points? 21?
Matt: 24. So, all the thorns explode against your rocky physical form; you just shrug it off, like it's nothing. (laughs) It tickles a little.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm good.
Laura: So I'll try to-- I guess I'll just attack it again, because I've got nowhere else to go.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: 17?
Matt: All right, 17-- actually no, 17 will miss.
Laura: Oh really, with it oozing out and everything?
Matt: The second, there's some sort of psychic protective field in the brain. As you fire down, the arrow looks like it should strike and then it just arcs off to the side nonsensically, and then just splinters against the stonework next to the--
Laura: Fudge!
Travis: Fudge.
Matt: You going to stay where you are? You going to move?
Orion: Get on Trinket!
Laura: I'm going to climb onto Trinket for some reason, because that makes sense.
Matt: Okay, you climb onto Trinket's back. That brings us to Keyleth. You're up.
Marisha: Okay, what's the situation with the brain soup?
Matt: The liquid is poured out.
Marisha: And how are the brains? Are just brains just floating downstream?
Matt: No, it's actually all-- at a long distance, it looks like one giant brain, close up it looks like all of these smaller brains have all congealed into one giant mind.
Laura: It's like a jello mold of brains.
Marisha: Like a jello mold of a brain. And there's fluid coming out from underneath of it?
Matt: Yeah. Literally the fluid it was sitting in, it was mostly submerged in, is all now poured out onto the ground near you, beginning to get slick.
Marisha: Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to be like, phase under, phase down, and I'm going to get under where the brain would be, and I'm going to Superman punch it!
Laura: Yes!
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: From underneath.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an attack roll.
Travis: Come on, punch it in its big brain anus.
Marisha: 23!
Matt: 23, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: (laughs) 11? Wait, is that my--
Taliesin: No, 22.
Marisha: Oh, 22! You're right, 22.
Matt: It's not double damage, because you're not hitting the structure. So 11 points of damage? All right, now I want you to go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay, that sounds fun.
Matt: So just roll and add your strength modifier of the earth elemental.
Marisha: 14?
Matt: Okay, as you punch upward, you're still partially absorbed into the earth, but your fist comes through and it slams in, and you feel this sickening thud sound as your fist hits the interior of the brain. It still moves a little bit but it stays in its place held aloft by its own psychic defense mechanism. Make your second attack.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, same, 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that one.
Laura: Big damage!
Marisha: Come on.
Taliesin: Big money.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 16.
Matt: 16 damage. Go ahead and roll another strength check.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. Once again, you slam your fist into it and you feel like the impact is absorbed partially by the psychic field around the brain. It holds itself in place. It's still not moving from within that small--
Marisha: Do I stay or do I get out?
Laura: Get out.
Orion: Get out.
Matt: You still have about-- I'd say it only took you about 15 feet of movement to get underneath it.
Marisha: In my burrowing speed, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So, I'm going to start burrowing up the side of the mountain-- up the side of the temple, so I can pop out next to them.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say 25, 30, 35, 40, 45. What's your total burrow speed?
Marisha: 60.
Matt: So you'll be about there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So you're about as high as Tiberius is, partially up the wall.
Marisha: I'm in the wall.
Laura: They won't see you.
Travis: Vax, you're still on the floor, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Up on there. As you glance in, you kinda have a brief look at the outside of the wall and on the opposite side there are two other mind flayers. One more coming up on the side and another troll behind it. And the troll's slamming onto the bricks you left up. And these two illithids are starting to look up and see you moving up, and their eyes go up and they can see the opening in the top of the-- where the wall collapsed earlier. And they both look up and kinda start drifting up towards it. So that ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: What's the order after me?
Matt: Well, it's Percy, Pike, Vax, and then they go. Then Scanlan, Grog.
Taliesin: I was going to hold my turn to get everybody on the carpet.
Liam: I'm coming.
Orion: Okay, okay, good. I cast Fly at 5th level. I cast it on myself. I cast it on Grog. And I cast it on-- you're not there.
Laura: Trinket!
Orion: Trinket. (groans)
Travis: She's on Trinket.
Laura: So I can fly if I'm on Trinket, right?
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Grog, Trinket, and--
Orion: Me.
Matt: Yourself. Okay.
Orion: And I (flying noise).
Matt: What's the fly speed on that?
Orion: Um, outside?
Liam: A skillion.
Orion: I dunno, it's right here. It's right here.
Matt: It's on the card, the cards I gave you.
Orion: The cards! Look at the cards. It's 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet. You make your way up top and you're now hovering. Trinket's now having another Peter Pan moment with you on his back awkwardly. It's just gotten used to flying on its own, that one time it had. Now it has an extra weight on its back. (bear noises)
Laura: You can do it, buddy. You can do it.
Ashley: You got it, Trink.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Oh wait, hold on-- I want to turn to to everybody and go, "Fly, you fools."
Matt: It's a free action, I'll let you do that. (laughs) Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're holding back?
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: Okay. Percy, holding back. Pike, go ahead and make an intellect saving throw.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19. You finally shrug off the effect of the Mind Blast. Your eyes clarify.
Sam: Does she fall in love with the first thing she sees? (laughter)
Matt: (laughs) The first thing you do see is Scanlan holding you. You're now outside of the temple. There's the dark, kind of dull glowing green atmosphere outside the entire Yug'Voril city around you, with bits of blue crystal, you know, against the cavern walls. It's scary. You look around you, you can see illithid charging up the side of the temple, just gliding toward you angrily. You look forward and on your shoulders, clutching you, is Scanlan, blood streaking down the front of his face with a big smile.
Ashley: (gasps) Scanlan, are you hurt?
Sam: I'm fine, baby. How are you?
Ashley: I'm great. Well, not really, but I'm just going to pretend I'm happy so that everybody can be okay. (laughter)
Orion: That's right, Pike. Bury it deep inside.
Ashley: Well, can I do a spell? Okay, Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: For the, well, hold on a minute. How low is everybody? Not really that low?
Laura: Nobody's really low.
Travis: I'm at 32.
Ashley: He's pretty low.
Taliesin: You two are the only ones.
Laura: Yeah. Can you cast something on Kima? Oh, no. We should just keep her stone for now.
Sam: You're low. You're super low.
Laura: Yeah, cast it on yourself, man.
Travis: Heal yourself.
Taliesin: She can hold this part of her turn until everybody's up there.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds on yourself? Because Mass Cure Wounds is for multiple people.
Ashley: No, can I just do--
Matt: You can cast Cure Wounds on yourself.
Ashley: I can?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: But he needs it, too.
Matt: It's your choice. It's also touch. You have to be next to him to do that.
Ashley: Shit.
Travis: Just do your thing. You need it.
Ashley: All right, I need it? Oh no.
Matt: At six hit points, I'd recommend it to you.
Travis: The DM recommends it. (laughter)
Matt: You were so close to dying again. I was so scared.
Travis: I stringently urge you.
Liam: Four out of five DMs recommend. (laughter)
Ashley: All right, 17.
Matt: Okay, so you heal yourself 17 hit points. You clutch your holy symbol. You feel the warmth fill your body and your wounds seal up slowly. You feel a little better, because you were on death's door there. All right. You want to move at all? Anything else you want to do this turn or are you good?
Ashley: Now I'm at 23. Wait, so bonus action?
Orion: Get on the bear!
Laura: No, he can't--
Matt: You don't have to.
Ashley: He can "bear-ly" hold one. (groans and laughter)
Laura: Ba dum tss.
Ashley: I can't do that, right?
Matt: What?
Ashley: I can't get on Trinket?
Matt: Right now, Trinket can barely hold Vex.
Ashley: So as a bonus action, I'll give Scanlan a kiss on his cheek.
Sam: Oh! Do I get an inspiration for that?
Matt: You do. (laughter)
Matt: A d6 inspiration dice.
Sam: I'm never going to wash it again.
Orion: You never wash it to begin with.
Matt: It's this strangely romantic moment as she reaches forward, grabs him and kisses him on the cheek and pulls away and he looks at her with this beautiful smile, and then the sound effects kick in again, of the bats screeching ahead and the (inhales) of all the illithid swarming up the side of the temple.
Marisha: Oh god, we're still in a war zone!
Ashley: Oh no, we got to get it together.
Matt: All right, Vax.
Liam: Okay, I run up the dais, land on the brain. I'm on my way, but before I go, I'm going to kiss you goodbye. Dagger, dagger, dagger. Stabbing into the brain before I leap onto the carpet. So here I go. First one-- misses. Second one is a 25.
Matt: 25, okay.
Liam: Which gets nine damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And last dagger is a 13.
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay, so I'll give him a little cut, a little nick, and then jump on the flying carpet.
Matt: Jump on the flying carpet. All righty.
Liam: And I grab Percy around the neck and kiss him on the cheek, and say, "Let's get out of here, you bastard."
Taliesin: Do I get an inspiration point for that? (laughter)
Matt: No.
Laura: That's a double standard.
Taliesin: You know how I feel about you.
Liam: Fight the patriarchy.
Matt: Down the road, maybe. This is the start of something beautiful.
Taliesin: I'm feeling something new.
Matt: Let the seeds germinate for a while. Then the dice may come naturally. So you're holding your turn? Percy, you want to go now?
Taliesin: I want to go now.
Matt: All right. So, that brings you here. Percy, go ahead.
Taliesin: I'm just going to reel straight up. And on my way up, I'm going to take two more shots at the brain.
Matt: Okay, okay. We'll say here for the purposes of this. Taking two more shots?
Taliesin: 16.
Liam: Oh, I'm suffocating in the brain!
Matt: Oh no, it's fallen over. What's the first roll?
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 does hit. Oh, it's not even flat, okay. We're just going to put it down there.
Taliesin: And 19.
Matt: 16 doesn't hit. The 19 just barely hits it. It pierces through the psychic barrier. (zoomf) The bullet sinking again into the fleshy membrane.
Taliesin: The second one has a bonus die, yay.
Matt: Ice shot.
Taliesin: Ice shot.
Marisha: Maybe you'll freeze it.
Liam: Percy and Vax, ship it!
Taliesin: That's 13 points plus two points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay, so 16 total. All right. As it blasts inside, you can see the ice, these strange crystals of frozen liquid, they burst out, almost like it actually freezes the blue explosion in place for a moment, and then the ice just slowly melts away. Yeah, there's some damage dealt to it, but this is a hardy sack of hit points. And it's coming online. So with the end of your turn, the brain, now taken a bunch of hits, begins to pulse with energy, now that it's been freed from its control and it's slowly brought itself out of this trance-like slumber that it was placed in by K'Varn. The Elder Brain is now becoming conscious once again.
Liam: Oh dear.
Taliesin: Can we go up there? Can you put us at our height now? (laughter)
Marisha: Can you represent us accurately?
Matt: So at a 30-foot radius, which you guys are, it gives off a pulse of energy, (boomf) this giant psychic burst of purple-ish, psychic blast just cascades out of the center and just fills the room for a second with this large dull thud-like "thoom" sound. All of you instinctively look down and see this explosion that just dissipates as it crests the bottom of the magic carpet, which is just out of range.
Taliesin: You're wearing the helmet, at least.
Matt: At which point, you guys who are at the top, looking off to the side, all the illithid that are rushing up the tunnel, there's a sudden flash of purple energy in their eyes simultaneously. Like now the Elder Brain has come back online and has reconnected with its people.
Laura: Out, out, out!
Matt: All right, that brings us to Grog. Grog.
Travis: I can keep flying up?
Matt: All of the sudden, the rope is really easy to go up. It's nothing, you're just going hand over hand.
Orion: You can fly, Grog!
Travis: I have one more level three, whatever it's called, level three healing potion. They're called called superior or something? What's the word for it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'd like to take that.
Marisha: I have so much adrenaline during these kind of fights.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: They're moving around, they're angry, they can't quite get to their targets.
Travis: I heal 24 points of hit damage.
Matt: Fantastic. Rolling for the bottom of the attack round. Okay. The troll bursts through the door, filling in with the two mind flayers behind it. They both look up, frustrated. And both begin to drift up.
Laura: No!
Matt: As far as they can get.
Travis: Fuck this house of horrors.
Ashley: How do we get out of here?
Laura: How are we going to get out of here?
Matt: They are going to attempt two Mind Blasts. All right. That's as high as they get with levitation. With the full height that takes the top, because technically you guys are up here, I just couldn't put the structure that high up. The only people-- The only person that's in the radius would be Scanlan and Pike. Again.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: Both of you guys make intellect saving throws again.
Sam: I'm just looking into her eyes the whole time.
Ashley: Can you sing?
Marisha: You've got that inspiration die.
Sam: Oh, I do. I don't need it though.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sam: I'm at 20.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14? All right.
Sam: Can I sing for her?
Matt: (laughs) Unfortunately, you have to do that on your turn. You manage to resist the effects of it. You take 22 points of psychic damage and once again your brain clenches--
Laura: Good thing you healed yourself, Pike!
Matt: Damn good thing you healed yourself.
Sam: She was at 23! That's 22. That's one point!
Laura: Yeah. That's the second time this round.
Matt: You feel all of the sudden, the blast hits you and you see her eyes roll back in her head as she reaches up and grabs the side of her head again, nearly dropping her shield and mace, which you manage to catch before they clatter down into the temple.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Baby, come on.
Ashley: Maybe we'll be okay?
Marisha: Do you want some more dice?
Matt: All right, Grog, you're up. Oh no, you're up there, they went. That brings it to the top of the round. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: Take it, take it. Give it to her, please.
Orion: Head to the beach!
Sam: Wait, top of the round?
Matt: Yeah, we're at the very top now. At the very end, the new guys burst in and attacked.
Laura: I'm going to-- (sighs) Is that brain fluid still floating around it? Like, out and stuff?
Travis: Well, we woke it up.
Laura: I know.
Liam: But now it's awake, so--
Matt: Percy shot-- No, actually, you didn't do your turn on that one. I'm sorry, I think we skipped Scanlan.
Sam: Should I kill the brain, or try to kill the brain?
Liam: If you can also flee at the same time.
Orion: Well, he has to wait for the carpet.
Sam: The brain is down there in the puddle? In the pool? Is that big scaffolding still hanging over it?
Matt: It's currently dangling over to this side. Because it's been busted from three different corners and it's precariously hanging.
Sam: But it's not right over the thing?
Laura: But it might fall and tip.
Sam: Or it could not.
Ashley: Could somebody also use Telekinesis to pull it to fall the other way?
Orion: I do not have the necessary item to do two concentration spells at once.
Sam: Is it super heavy?
Matt: It's pretty heavy. It probably weighs close to 700 to 1,000 pounds.
Marisha: What does?
Matt: The giant brass structure.
Sam: And how high above it is it? Like, would it get a significant amount of force?
Matt: It would fall down and then topple over.
Sam: Unless I made it fall--
Matt: Unless you made it fall. In that case, we'll see.
Sam: Do I do that or do I just Lightning Strike? Okay.
Liam: It's your decision.
Marisha: Go bold!
Travis: Do what you were going to do. Do it.
Sam: I'm feeling handsy. (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I take Bigby's Hand and I sort of try to wrench it off the last thing that's holding it up, but in the direction of the--
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Of the brain.
Matt: Go ahead and make a roll, adding your plus five for your casting ability.
Sam: Well, that's not good.
Orion: And inspiration!
Sam: Oh, yeah! Okay, so that makes it 13 plus what?
Matt: 13 plus five, which is your charisma.
Sam: Okay, then 18.
Matt: 18. As the spectral Bigby's Hand reaches over and grabs the top of the structure, you can see the weird bit of bent metal that was once part of the mostly-destroyed structure that held it aloft in the center of the temple (metal creaking) wrenches forth and snaps as the entire structure begins to be pulled at an angle.
Sam: (sings) It's Bigby's Hand.
Matt: It slams down at an angle into the side of the brain and coming to rest on top, crushing even further the corpse of Clarota, currently smeared across the ground. Oh, man. Go ahead and roll 6d6 force damage on that. Crushing damage, as this heavy thing jams itself into the brain.
Liam: Six cubes, Sam, six cubes.
Sam: Orion's my dice bimbo.
Orion: Here you go, boss.
Ashley: There you go, boss!
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, so the structure slams into the Elder Brain, and you can see like a bit of purplish black liquid kinda squirts out to one side and for the first time you can see a part of the brain is actually torn open, and the purplish glow that you see throbbing in the middle of its folds is now visible from the interior. You can see now, it's taken some real damage. Immediately the two mind flayers that were floating up look down, freaked out, and begin moving towards the brain now, instinctively, to defend it.
Sam: And bonus action, can I pour some superior healing potion down Pike's beautiful throat?
Matt: You can. (laughter)
Matt: I'm not going anywhere with that.
Taliesin: Yeah, no.
Sam: I'm just pouring my potion down Pike's throat.
Matt: Anyway. All right, so Vex, what're you doing?
Sam: I don't know what superior is.
Matt: Oh, it's a superior one, superior goes to, it's 8d4 plus eight.
Sam: Do I roll or does she?
Matt: You roll.
Sam: Oh!
Matt: It's your potion.
Sam: 8d4 plus eight.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Holy bajeez. One.
Matt: Five, nine, 13.
Sam: 15, 18, 21.
Matt: 15, 18, 21.
Matt: One more.
Sam: 22.
Matt: Plus eight, 30. You heal 30 hit points.
Ashley: What? Awesome.
Sam: I got some good potion.
Matt: Very, very expensive potion used. All right, so. Vex? You're on Trinket still, do you want to hold your action and wait for the rest of the carpet, do you want to attack anyone, what do you want to do?
Laura: I want to attack the Elder Brain.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Laura: I'm going to-- I think all I can do is a Conjure Barrage.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So it's the cone of attack.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So that will get hopefully all the things, because I'm shooting down, right?
Matt: Well, how big is the cone?
Laura: It's 60 feet.
Matt: 60-foot cone from your angle here, if you're going for the brain it'll catch this guy, maybe, as a cone that goes down this way.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Unless you want to go this way and hit these guys, or this guy.
Liam: You could get the edge of the brain.
Laura: Yeah, can I do the edge on the brain and get--
Matt: Yeah. You can get, you can get probably these guys there.
Laura: All right, let's do that.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So they get saving throws, right? How does that work?
Laura: Yes, they get saving throws.
Matt: So roll damage, and we'll see what their saving throws are.
Laura: Okay. But do I have to roll to see if it hits, or it just hits?
Matt: No, for that one, it's just a barrage and they get to roll a saving throw against it.
Laura: Oh! Okay, cool. 17?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Plus Hunter's Mark? On the Elder Brain.
Matt: Yeah, so the Elder Brain takes additional damage.
Laura: Three additional. Do I get plus two for the bracers on that Conjure Barrage?
Matt: Technically, yes you would, because they're ranged.
Laura: Okay, so that would've been 19.
Matt: 19. All right. Cool. And then this guy fails its save, so total damage on him?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19 on him? Okay. So it's still alive, just looking really, really rough. The brain's just now pierced with a bunch of arrows, some of it, it's barely holding itself on top of its feet. And the troll also takes the damage as well, just seems to shrug it off, just seems to angrily-- roars up from the bottom of the temple at you, now seemingly helpless in the current circumstance.
Laura: So then I want to attack the Elder Brain again.
Matt: All right. So you release it down.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Very nice, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: All right. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage, all right.
Laura: Oh, wait, wait! No, lies! 13.
Matt: 13, okay, there we go.
Travis: (laughs) No, lies.
Matt: (laughs) Reach down again, release this one, aiming towards the now torn-open wound on the side of the Elder Brain as the arrow now sinks in, there's another pulse of purple energy, and you hear, all of you simultaneously in your heads this scream, this screech (screech) that echoes through your heads. As it does, the two illithid that were hovering towards it grab their heads momentarily out of frustration and glare up at you angrily.
Orion: Ooh! I took notice of this.
Matt: That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm going to take the rest of my burrow speed to get up to the top.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'm assuming I'm there?
Matt: You just manage to make it to the top of the temple, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. Drop earth elemental.
Matt: All right. Keyleth is on the field.
Marisha: Would you say--
Sam: Oh boy. (laughter)
Matt: Nothing good ever comes out of this. What do you got, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Theoretically.
Matt: Theoretically?
Marisha: Our brains are made up of water, right? Would you say that there is water in the like jello brain mold, like water molecules would be in it?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Marisha: Okay. I don't know much in terms of arcana, but I can try. Ten.
Matt: You have no idea. You have never encountered an Elder Brain before.
Laura: Yeah, give it a try!
Taliesin: Give it a try!
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Control Water. I'm going to assume that there's water, it's 300 feet, I got the range and I'm going to take the brain where it's already kind of sliced down the middle where Vex has already made progress, I'm going to take it and I'm just going to rip it apart.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier to it.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Wait, you're saying brains are made of water?
Taliesin: Whoa!
Marisha: 23.
Matt: Okay. There is an element of liquid to its structure, however it is difficult to extract it from a form that you're unfamiliar with, let alone one that's this stable. You manage to find a way to pull moisture out of parts of it and actually deal damage to it as you're beginning to shrivel sections of the brain. Go ahead and roll 3d6. You do 3d6 points of dehydration damage.
Marisha: I'll take it, I'll take it.
Ashley: Make some brain jerky.
Marisha: They'll have a really bad hangover tomorrow.
Matt: Oh yeah. Oh, you don't even know the half of it.
Marisha: Ooh! Just 3d6 or plus anything?
Matt: Just 3d6.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15, all right. 15 points of dehydration damage to the Elder Brain. You can see now the portion of the wound that's been opened, the corners of it kind of shrivel in and tuck in and the actual purple glow in the inside dulls slightly. And you now have, currently, in the air, a small amorphous globule of brain fluid that's just kind of floating there in this, in the air.
Ashley: Awesome.
Laura: Gross.
Marisha: Cool. (laughter)
Marisha: Scanlan, smell it! Smell it!
Sam: No, thank you.
Matt: Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Did you say there was illithid coming up on the sides, too?
Matt: Yeah, they're swarming up the side. They're probably about halfway up.
Orion: Okay. I turn to the group. I suggest we go to the beach immediately. There we can shore up defenses and I can cast a spell and get us out of here. As I say that, I go (fwwt) and throw a Fireball right at that fucker's head.
Matt: Okay. Are you using your movement to bring the carpet, to take control of the carpet from Percy and move it up higher?
Orion: No, I'm up top. I have Fly on myself.
Matt: Oh, that's right. Sorry. Yeah. All right, so.
Orion: Yeah, I just let a Fireball down on the brain.
Matt: Into the brain, all right. All right, so that's enough to get both of these guys. Go ahead and roll damage. And they both failed their save, so full damage.
Travis: Crush the nuts.
Ashley: Little brains.
Matt: I like that, good.
Orion: 40.
Matt: 40?
Laura: Whoa!
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: Those incinerate. And 40 points of damage to the Elder Brain as this giant echoing explosion blasts up from below. All of you at the top, you are underlit momentarily from the flash of red and yellow flame. As you look down, there's now a sizzling sound and this like smell of horrible burnt flesh as part of the Elder Brain now that was originally dehydrated is now also burnt and singed. You can see now, it's looking a little rougher and it's very very unhappy with its current circumstance.
Laura: I want to kill it before we leave now.
Matt: All right. Pike, go ahead and make a saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Pike!
Laura: Why a saving throw?
Matt: Still trying to get rid of the stun.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So intellect saving throw.
Ashley: 16?
Matt: 16. You shrug off the effect--
Ashley: Yeah! Man. Thanks, Keyleth. Much better now.
Marisha: New dice!
Sam: What? I've been doing it wrong this whole time.
Ashley: Can I do anything, or that's my turn?
Matt: That's your turn.
Orion: My movement, by the way is I head to the beach.
Sam: You're ghosting?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: You just get the fuck out of Dodge, Tiberius is that way.
Ashley: Wait, where do we go? Nobody's taking us?
Laura: No, you've got to hop on the carpet when it comes up.
Ashley: Oh, okay, got it.
Marisha: Classic Tiberius.
Taliesin: All right, here's a question  can everybody still fly?
Matt: Vax?
Orion: As long as I'm thinking about it.
Liam: Well I'm still sitting, still kneeling on the flying carpet with Percy, so I'm just throwing daggers at the bacon brain.
Matt: Okay. They're at disadvantage at this distance.
Liam: Okay. So that means, aw man, 17 on the first.
Matt: 17? (ricochet sound) Reflected, deflected by the arcane shield on the brain.
Liam: All right, so then the second one does as well, and the last one definitely does, so.
Matt: Yeah, so all three just (ping, ping, ping).
Taliesin: Take the wheel!
Matt: As it gets more and more damaged, it's waking up more and more and it looks like it's actually gaining power the more it does.
Liam: Okay, and then Percy yelled in my ear, so I take some of the little carpet tassels.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. So as your movement, you manage to move the carpet all the way up, it swoops up into the center of--
Laura: Grab the gnomes!
Matt: This right here. You guys are all looking precariously at this carpet that is now floating up from the center of the temple. As you get to the top, you look over and you can see there's probably close to 20 mind flayers that are swarming up the side. That brings us to, Vax, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I pull out Bad News. And I'm going to lie down on my stomach, hanging off the edge of the carpet.
Sam: Hanging brain!
Taliesin: And I'm taking a shot straight down.
Matt: Okay. I'll say it takes you your--
Taliesin: My movement.
Matt: Movement to get it out. So you're there, you're unable to move the carpet, you pull the Bad News out, you get down, you're precariously off the side of it, and it is sagging as your weight touches it, you get ready, go ahead and fire.
Taliesin: Firing a deadshot.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, come on.
Taliesin: That's 18.
Matt: As you fire, the blast sends you up almost onto your feet on the carpet again, and you hear this impact sound, this (crash) of the blast hitting stone as the psychic field around it deflects the bullet, sending it into the ground.
Laura: I thought 18 was the number that we were aiming for-- shit.
Taliesin: Wait, did I have an inspiration dice from last-- fuck.
Orion: You did.
Taliesin: I did have an inspiration dice from last game! I did! What do you give people with it?
Sam: d10.
Taliesin: d10? Oh fuck, that's right.
Orion: Can he add it now?
Matt: Yeah, I'll trust you on that.
Taliesin: I did! I did, because I'm always excited when I get them, because I never get them.
Matt: That's true, okay, yeah. All right. Go ahead and roll for that.
Taliesin: 21!
Matt: That'll do it.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: As the brain continues to wake up, it improves its defenses, improves its capabilities--
Laura: Oh, I understand.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: But that will hit. So go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Orion: It's Hulking?
Matt: Essentially. So as you release the blast, it hits the psychic field, the first impact you hear is it hitting the psychic field and pushing through into the actual brain matter.
Marisha: Come on!
Taliesin: Let me double-check that I'm doing this right, hold on, deadshot's weird. Plus weapon damage. Okay, so that's eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13... 25 points of damage.
Matt: 25 points of damage. Boom! You see the section of it that's kinda charred and burned gets blown off, and now there's a corner of the brain that's just an open and gaping wound. The purplish glow on the inside is pulsing more and more angrily. It's taken a beating, but it's hanging in there.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Marisha: Will not die.
Matt: This is, you guys have left a good mark on it. You get the sensation, with the swarming incoming, you may start to consider self-preservation, because the Elder Brain looks like it's taken some hits, but it's not on death's door yet.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Marisha: Let's get out.
Laura: We need to go.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan is up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: We're out of here?
Taliesin: We need everybody to hop on the carpet first.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You're hopping up?
Sam: No, I'm going to turn into a huge pterodactyl and carry some folks.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What?
Laura: You can do that?
Sam: Sure, why not?
Marisha: He's got Polymorph.
Travis: Yeah, turn into a batwing.
Matt: Cool, so we'll say for the time being, we'll use this as Scanlan.
Sam: Great.
Matt: You are a giant pterodactyl, a creature that you've read in books in the past, you haven't actually seen in person. And what are you doing?
Sam: Who can I carry?
Matt: You can carry one person with your claws. You haven't used this form before, and this is you figuring it out, so pick one and you can take them with you.
Sam: I'm going to take someone heavy.
Liam: Grog.
Matt: Grog can fly.
Laura: I can fly on Trinket, yeah, everybody's covered, man.
Sam: There's only one person I can take.
Matt: As the pterodactyl Scanlan swoops down and both its claws grapple on your arms and lift you off the top of the temple, flying after Tiberius.
Taliesin: How do you make that weird?
Matt: All right, so they're now out of harm's way. Very top of the round, that brings us to Grog. Still carrying Kima under your arm.
Travis: We're getting out, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: So I don't have to worry, so up and out.
Matt: So you just awkwardly fly with Kima under your arm, off with the rest of the group.
Liam: (sings) Sweet bird of prey, fly, fly away.
Sam: (sings) Up, up, and away, I'm a beautiful pterodactyl.
Matt: We'll get these guys off the board here because you do have two Illithid that get up to the edge here. They're going to attempt a Mind Blast.
Liam: We're gone, man, we're gone!
Laura: Not yet.
Matt: Still holding back. So--
Liam: I jump up to get out of range.
Matt: That can just get Trinket and Vex, if you can go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw for both of you.
Liam: Don't fuck with my sister.
Orion: Trinket and Vex are still there?
Laura: Yeah. I know, I didn't get to--
Sam: They never flew.
Laura: I know, I didn't use the movement on the last turn.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: I just didn't say it because I'm an asshole.
Sam: You are.
Liam: What kind of saving throw?
Matt: Intelligence.
Sam: Intelligence.
Laura: Ten? On me.
Matt: Okay. Roll for Trinket.
Liam: You rolled nine, plus two is 11.
Laura: Oh. Okay. 11.
Matt: So go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: Oh! I rolled a nine, plus two, plus two.
Liam: For what?
Laura: For my ring that I'm wearing.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: So whatever that was.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 13.
Liam: 13.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: For me.
Matt: And roll for Trinket.
Laura: Which is going to be a major fail because Trinket is the dumbest. (laughter)
Sam: Don't talk about Trinket like that.
Travis: Is he the dumbest?
Laura: No, that's a minus four. So that would be a nine for Trinket.
Matt: Nine for Trinket.
Laura: Who is, by the way, my only way to get out of here right now.
Matt: So communally, both you and Trinket freeze in place, and Trinket, who is flying, slumps onto the top of the temple, limply laying across the edge, about to tip over off the temple.
Sam: (whispering) Told you we should've left Trinket behind.
Matt: That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: A lot of Sandmen in there.
Marisha: Well first and foremost I'm going to get on the carpet.
Matt: Okay. So you leap up here with these guys.
Marisha: Secondly, I am going to-- Okay, wait, Trinket's stunned?
Matt: Trinket is currently catatonic (moans), just barely holding herself right there. You can see she's struggling with the flight spell, like she's kind of levering herself into the ground--
Laura: Trinket's a boy.
Matt: Him, sorry. I was thinking of you.
Laura: If he's about to die, at least get his gender right.
Matt: I apologize, Trinket. I'm sorry.
Marisha: Wait, shove him?
Taliesin: Shove him onto the carpet.
Marisha: No, I can't shove him.
Sam: Wait, he's floating.
Marisha: Okay, can I do this? Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm on the carpet. I'm going to cast Grasping Vine from the carpet and wrap around Trinket and have a Trinket tow vine.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Like the Macy's Day parade!
Matt: So as you leap onto the carpet, you reach down, and the fibrous nature that the carpet was originally made from, you manage to pull the essence of that out to create a vine of similarly patterned color of the actual magic carpet material. The various silks form into this tendril that wraps around both you and Trinket and pulls you guys hanging behind the carpet, so you guys are essentially now towed to the carpet.
Marisha: Let's go!
Orion: Can she take control of the carpet, too?
Marisha: Can I now use the rest of my movement to be like--
Matt: You currently do not have control of the carpet because you used your action and everything to use that spell and your concentration at that point.
Marisha: Okay, I'm just holding.
Matt: You're just holding them there. That brings us to Tiberius, you're off, flying off. Pike is off, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm steering us the fuck outta here, man.
Matt: You tow Trinket and Vex out behind. As you guys pull off at full speed, the rest of the illithid swarm to the top, you can see about 15 or so get to the front top here, look down at the Elder Brain, look up at the rest of you with this angry look, and as you're pulling away, your eyes adjust to the darkness of the cavern and you look down and you swear you can see hundreds and hundreds of sets of purple glowing eyes just staring up from the city as you all slowly fly away to the far end of the cavern. As you're moving, so are the eyes.
Laura: (sings) We've made some enemies. They're coming after us.
Orion: I want to make a note, because I'm way ahead of everybody at this point, as soon as I land on the beach, I cast Circle of Teleportation.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Barring that there's nobody there, but I do that immediately.
Matt: All right, so. A few minutes go by, you guys are moving past and over the water channel that's between the north side of the island and the beach where you guys previously set. (laughter)
Matt: As Tiberius, you land on the dirt. You land, immediately begin casting the Circle of Teleportation, you begin scrawling this circle on the ground, running your finger across the gravel surface to build the runes. As your fingers drag across, you can see the arcane light beginning to glow and form the sigils and the runes as you're drawing them feverishly. The rest of the group eventually catches up to you about 30 seconds into it. As you all eventually get back, you and Trinket manage to shrug off the effect. And you find yourselves halfway through being towed by this vine awkwardly.
Laura: What is happening right now?
Marisha: Stupid wrench.
Matt: A few seconds pass, you finish the incantation, you place your hand down on the center of the sigil, this wave of arcane energy blasts off, and suddenly, above this circle, this tearing sound pulls out of the middle of the ether, and this kind of purple shimmering doorway opens above the circle sigil that he crafted on the side of the beach.
Orion: By the blessings of Bahamut, I choose Emon!
Matt: At which point, the doorway that he just created takes some sort of a solid form and from what you can see on the other side, there appears to be some sort of low-lit room.
Liam: Greyskull!
Laura: (gasps) Greyskull!
Orion: I run right through.
Matt: All right. Tiberius runs through. Everyone else?
All: Yes!
Sam: Are we there?
Matt: You guys have all landed on the beach as he finished casting this, yeah.
Laura: Run!
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You all rush through the portal, one after the other, towards the very end is Grog, you bringing up the rear, holding Kima, you go rushing towards it as it begins to slowly close, this only lasts a round, you barrel through just in time as it closes behind you with a sparking sound.
Taliesin: We are time bandits. (cheering)
Travis: Oh, fuck. I just caked my pants.
Taliesin: Squish-squish.
Laura: I hate that phrase.
Orion: That was something, now, wasn't it?
Taliesin: That was fantastic.
Travis: Chocolate cake.
Matt: You all emerge within a small 20-foot-by-20-foot white stone chamber. You all are kinda crammed in this space currently, but you are all apparently safe and sound. As the doorway closes behind you, you turn and look, and on the ground there is a similar circle across the stone flooring, different patterns, different, you know, arrangement to the one that he had drawn, but with some similarities that are kind of a reminiscent glow, almost like a code to this circle, fade away, based on what he had drawn previously.
Laura: They won't be able to open that back up?
Orion: We are safe.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Just a quick request  she is made of stone. Holding Lady Kima.
Ashley: Yes! I'll go over and cast Greater Restoration on Kima.
Orion: Hold on just one second.
Travis: Hold on.
Orion: We still have the Horn to deal with.
Taliesin: The Horn is on the carpet. It has been specifically not touched.
Matt: So it's just kind of sitting there. The carpet's bunched to the side now as you guys kind of flew into the portal and kind of left it there and the Horn's just resting there.
Orion: I think we should get it out of her view before--
Taliesin: I think we should put it in the Bag of Holding.
Travis: Sure, yeah. Do you want to teleport it in the bag?
Ashley: If your crushing couldn't kill it, the thousand pounds?
Orion: We can store it there.
Liam: Where are we? You said we're in a room.
Matt: It's a small yellow room, sorry, a small white stone room and there is a kind of yellowish brown stone doorway that is closed. There's some very faint white orbs that are locked into the wall. So you're not in Greyskull Keep now.
Marisha: Oh, we're not in Greyskull.
Matt: You guys don't have a teleportation circle installed in your Keep yet. You don't know where you are.
Sam: We're in a room right now?
Matt: You're in a room, you're in a 20-foot-by-20-foot room, with two small white orbs on the sides that are kinda set into the walls to give off a faint white arcane glow. There's a single doorway that exits the room that is currently closed.
Orion: The way Circle of Teleportation works is when I learned it I get to pick two locations that I know innately. I picked Emon as one of them.
Laura: Oh, okay. Okay.
Marisha: So we're somewhere in Emon.
Orion: But I just had to pick the two.
Marisha: So we could be in someone's living room right now?
Orion: I'll use Telekinesis to lift the Horn off the carpet.
Matt: Okay. You still have the spells?
Orion: Yeah, I can burn one from my Ioun stone.
Laura: Should we wrap it at all?
Taliesin: It'll be fine in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: Not knowing what else to do, Vax is going to go to the door and just inspect it, see if it's trapped.
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. All right, the door does appear to be locked. It is not trapped.
Liam: Not trapped. Okay, I'll get to work on it, then. 32.
Matt: Okay, 32. You, relatively easy, the door comes unlocked, the small, it's like a very very intricately carved brass handle that has swirls upon it, like it's almost like a burst of wind being blown and frozen in gold. You turn it and the door opens slightly.
Liam: Pull up, I'm still wearing my tin hat and I pull up my hood from my elven cloak, and I go stealth. And I am stealthed, because that's a 32. And I have a look around outside the door.
Matt: Okay. As you open the doorway, it leads into a secondary chamber. This is an 80-foot-diameter circular chamber now, so you're entering the edge of a giant circle. There are a series of other doors, almost in respective rows next to each other, and you also see, in the center of the room, a vibrant chandelier made of white crystal like the spheres you saw in the previous room you were in, giving off a warm, atmospheric glow to the entire room. In the center of the room, there is a semi-circle desk that is also made of a similar white stone material that the rest of the room is made out of, with polished gold leaf trimming on the edge, and you do see what looks to be an elven man sitting at the desk, longish gray-white hair, he's wearing robes that are finely dressed, and he's half-falling asleep at a desk with a series of books kind of piled up on the side. As soon as the doorway opens, he looks up, and you hear a slight little arcane tinging sound, like a little bell being rung, as you open the door. He looks up for a second.
Laura: Say hello.
Liam: Yes yes yes. I just walk forward and pull down the cloak and say, "Hello."
Matt: "Stay right where you are! Do not move!"
Liam: Hands up in the air.
Matt: "Do not move!"
Liam: Nothing in them. No threat, no danger here. A little lost, apparently.
Matt: "Apparently."
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "Who else is in, who else goes there? Who else, please, step outside! Reveal yourselves!"
Liam: They're--
Laura: Hi!
Marisha: Hi.
Ashley: Hello.
Sam: (pterodactyl screech)
Matt: As soon as he sees you, he goes, (screams).
Orion: I cast Dispel Magic on Scanlan.
Sam: Do you have it anymore?
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Sam: You just did it to me earlier in this round.
Orion: No, Counterspell, and I Silenced you, this is Dispel Magic, which ends your spell.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Sam: Oh. Hello.
Matt: So as you cast the spell and transform, he stops in the middle of casting a spell reflexively and goes, "Oh. And a bear. Interesting."
Orion: He's friendly.
Sam: He's real.
Liam: I have a very long, very strange story, every word of which is true, and if you will give me five minutes, I swear I can convince you--
Matt: He opens a book and starts thumbing through the pages.
Liam: No ill intent. Intent? Yes.
Matt: "We have no expected arrivals at this hour. I need to know your business, your names, and your affiliations immediately."
Marisha: We will totally do that when we know--
Laura: We are affiliated with the king.
Liam: Yeah, emperor. Just tell the emperor that Vox Machina has returned from Kraghammer, and we have news for him, and--
Matt: "Well."
Laura: We were on very secret business for the crown, actually. And that is why you weren't informed of our business.
Orion: Yeah, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. How are you?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did you wink?
Orion: I'm responsible for casting the spell to get us here to begin with.
Laura: (laughs) With advantage.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That would be a 20-- no. 35.
Matt: All right. He looks to you, as you guys are saying, he--
Laura: That's not possible. 25.
Matt: 25. (laughter)
Matt: He stands up from the desk and gives you all a look-over and says, "Well, I am Gatekeeper Xanthas, I am the evening keeper of the Traverse Junction here in the-- it's the Traverse Junction."
Orion: Gatekeeper?
Matt: "Here within the Lyceum. The hour is late. We are two hours past midnight."
Taliesin: Well, I am Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III, and, hello, and we would love to report to the emperor of your great hospitality at this unfortunately early hour, and we would look forward to reporting of all of your kindness and good housekeeping.
Liam: I imagine he would be very upset if we were delayed. We come with very grave news.
Taliesin: I would hope not to imagine it.
Matt: "Well. I'm certain the Headmaster would like to know your business in the morning."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Headmaster Thurmond. He runs this Alabaster Lyceum within the Erudite Quarter. If you would please submit a report for your reasons for using the Lyceum Junction property by tomorrow, I'm sure that would suffice for the required paperwork."
Laura: Of course we will.
Taliesin: You are too kind.
Laura: In the meantime, we'll just go to our Keep that we have in town.
Orion: Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Gives you a very, a disbelieving look and kinda goes, "Very well."
Taliesin: Good day, good evening.
Sam: I cast Friends on him and I tell him, "You know of our Keep, don't you?"
Matt: Okay. He goes, "I seem to recall hearing about a Vox Machina at some point discussed, but I don't get out very often. Running the graveyard shift here at the Lyceum has taken its toll on my social life."
Laura: You poor thing, you should get out more.
Matt: "Well here, let me show you out." And he walks you through the rest of the hallways. It's a beautiful, beautiful kind of domed center chamber into a long series of white stone hallways, similar material to what the first room you arrived in looked like. Eventually to a main foyer area, which has a very high ceiling and a series of beautifully carved pillars that show different creatures, almost like devas and demons battling each other as they spiral up these pillars, to the front doorways. There are two guards that are adorned in kinda silver and gold armor with these very high, elven in design-shaped helmets, and they step to the side as the doors open on their own.
Laura: Love the hat.
Matt: Guards do not respond to you whatsoever, they just step to the side. Gatekeeper says, "All right, well, here is your way out, have a wonderful evening and do please return for your report on the morrow."
Laura: Of course.
Sam: Oh, one more question before you leave, what district are we in right now?
Matt: "The Erudite Quarter."
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Gesundheit.
Matt: "Good night." The doors slam (boof) behind you as you guys exit, and you're now--
Laura: Holy shit, we survived! What was that?
Marisha: Oh my god! Keyleth just goes down on her knees and starts kissing the ground.
Taliesin: Well, that could've gone worse.
Marisha: Oh, we're home.
Ashley: I just want to get in my bed so bad.
Marisha: Look! Stars!
Matt: You look up and, for the first time in close to a week, you can see stars, you can see a crescent moon, probably just past its single quarter phase. It is a sight for sore eyes right now.
Ashley: I'm so happy.
Travis: Would you say it's a beautiful sight?
Matt: Currently? The most beautiful night sky you've seen in all of your years.
Travis: I ruin it with a fart. (laughter)
Orion: I'm glad you held that the whole time we were down there, Grog.
Travis: I've had horrible stomach pains this whole time, I'm sorry.
Laura: What, are we just carrying around this stone Kima with us, or are we taking her back to our--
Liam: Yes, but don't stand right in front of her when you undo the stone.
Orion: Actually, hold on a minute, let's all rest before we deal with this one.
Travis: Yes.
Ashley: No, because I want to be able to have an extra 5th-level spell.
Travis: Oh, right.
Laura: But we're in town now, so we're safe.
Ashley: Yeah, let's go to the Keep.
Laura: Yeah, so it'll be fine.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: It's a long way. We've got to go across the whole town to get there.
Laura: Well, we've got a fucking flying carpet.
Sam: We do have a flying carpet.
Taliesin: The metro's running at this hour.
Liam: We can probably flag down a wagon, too.
Laura: Yeah, we're in town!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck it. Everything's possible.
Taliesin: Let's go drinking.
Marisha: I was going to say, what bars are open?
Liam: We've got a lot of bling and a cursed Horn. The sky's the limit.
Ashley: I know, should we go to a tavern and get some ale?
Sam: What, who are you?
Travis: Really? You mean it?
Ashley: Well what do you mean, do I mean it?
Travis: It's all empty, can we fill it please?
Ashley: It's all empty?
Marisha: We should get some ale. Wait, maybe we should drop off the Bag of Holding so we're not carrying it around.
Travis: And the stone gnome.
Marisha: And then go out drinking.
Liam: We don't want to lose it in a game of cards.
Marisha: Yes, exactly. Exactly.
Travis: And stone Kima.
Sam: We'll be fine, we've never lost it before. There's eight of us, we'll be fine, let's go drinking.
Ashley: How far is the Keep from here?
Matt: I'd say it's probably a good hour walk.
Marisha: Oh, we've got time.
Taliesin: We could do a pub crawl, we'll just have a beer at every pub we hit on the way back to the Keep.
Marisha: Yes, let's do that! Pub crawl!
All: Pub crawl!
Marisha: We're going to pub crawl back to the Keep.
Liam: Starting here at Geek & Sundry.
Ashley: But should I go just in a bush just behind and--
Sam: Do you have to pee or something?
Ashley: No, and cast Greater Restoration on Kima?
All: No!
Sam: We want to enjoy this.
Orion: She doesn't have a sense of time, she won't know.
Sam: Or humor.
Travis: Let's put her in the bag. She's made of stone!
Laura: We won't tell her how much time has passed.
Taliesin: We'll un-stone her once we're back at the Keep.
Travis: She's stone. Stone doesn't breathe. Right?
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Sam: We don't know.
Laura: Do not put her in the Bag of Holding! Do not. (laughter)
Liam: For the record, I think she'd be fine, too. But we could bring her around and introduce her; it could be like Weekend at Bernie's. (laughter)
Travis: Ah, yes! I put a fancy robe around Kima's stone statue.
Laura: This is so messed up.
Matt: All right, so as you guys begin making your celebratory pub crawl, starting with the Laughing Lamia Tavern, you buy drinks, laugh, chatter, and kind of take in the lively atmosphere that you would find at 3AM. Which is a little, at this point most of the fun folk are pretty drunk, but at this point you don't care, you'll take your own, and we'll take a quick five-minute break to use the bathroom and we'll pick up from there in just a moment, we'll see you guys here in five minutes to continue.
Travis: We lived!
Marisha: We lived!
Matt: Holy shit, guys.
Orion: I was fine. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time.
Matt: Welcome back. We got a little refresher here and apparently our Overlord has an announcement.
Zac: You guys, we're only four away from another giveaway, which is--
Lucas: Two away!
Zac: Two away, you know what, I'm guessing this is, we're going to get that before I even get back to my seat, so we're going to go do the giveaway. It's the shirt, the dice, the handbook, and the starter set. The handbook and the shirt will be signed by the cast.
Matt: Yep.
Zac: And we still have, if we get to 400, correct, next? Lucas?
Lucas: Yeah. 3,400.
Matt: 3,400.
Zac: If we get to 3,400 by the end of the night, we'll give away a whole other kit like this, with the signed stuff, so you get to subscribe and it supports the channel, keeps us running. I'm not going to interrupt these guys, so when we hit the number I'm just going to give it away through the chat room.
Matt: Awesome, guys. Well done and congrats to whoever ends up getting that, real fast I hope. So, thank you Overlord.
Taliesin: Oh wait, this is in here. Can I throw this? Oh no.
Matt: Pass it off, it's fine.
Taliesin: You get the horn.
Laura: Can I hold it for a second?
Travis: No.
Orion: No. Oh, I mean in real life. Yeah.
Marisha: No.
Orion: I was like, don't touch it.
Matt: So. Eventually you all manage to make your way towards the outer wall of Emon to the southern portion of the city. The guards let you through. Two of them recognize you from the Winter's Crest celebration that occurred about seven months beforehand. Don't do that, that's going to end poorly. You make your way around the bend to the large grass hill that is surrounded by the river that skirts the outer southern portion of Greyskull Keep. Looking up, you can see against the moonlight the very welcome sight of your home there, beckoning to you to rest. You make your way to the front gates that surround the outskirts of it, and an iron bell kind of goes off for a second, and as you look up, you hear a voice go, "Who goes there? Speak your mind, or a bolt to the throat you'll find."
Marisha: Shayne, is that Shayne?
Orion: Is it dark right now?
Matt: It's dark, yes.
Orion: I cast Light. "It's us!"
Matt: Okay, a light pierces off, and you guys look up and you can see, sitting on kind of the watchtower perch--
Marisha: Or wait, is that Jarett?
Matt: No, you see up there, short, rough red hair, Shayne Tranter, one of the mercenaries you hired--
Marisha: Oh, it is Shayne, I was right the first time!
Matt: She's got her crossbow ready to go, and she's just kind of sitting back and pointing it at the group, and she goes,
Liam: Hello! Hi!
Laura: Hope you remember us!
Marisha: Shayne!
Taliesin: We're drunk!
Sam: We pay you!
Matt: She laughs. Takes her crossbow, sets it to her side.
Ashley: We forgot our key!
Matt: "Well, aren't you a sight for sore eyes? It's been nearly a week since you left."
Laura: That's it?
Sam: Feels like a month.
Ashley: Feels like three months.
Taliesin: Feels like eleven weeks. It feels like a very long time.
Matt: "Well, it's probably closer to two weeks. Fair enough. Either way. Open the gates! Cordell, open the gates!"
Sam: Cordell? I don't remember the names of any of our guards.
Matt: Cordell, he's one of the other half-orc guards that you hired when you left.
Marisha: We have Shayne, Cordell, Jarett, Kendrick, and Nitebe.
Laura: Jarett was the one we appointed as the head guard, right? Captain?
Marisha: Jarett? I think so. I didn't write that part down.
Laura: I don't remember about the little fellow.
Sam: Our staff is so unappreciated, guys.
Matt: So as the gate slowly opens, Cordell walking out, this is the hearty half-orc merc dressed in scale armor, and he has a large sword slung on his back, just shoves it open to about a two-foot distance. "Come on. Welcome home." As each of you guys walk through, he kinda claps you on the back as you walk in. You make your way into the small courtyard leading to-- making your way into Greyskull Keep. Towards the front door, as you get there, the front door opens on its own as you're about ten feet away and peering from the inside of the low-lit interior you see a woman's face, a plump blond woman's face, peek through. This is Laina. Laina goes, "Oh, you're back, fantastic! It's early." And she rubs her face and you see as she pushes the door open a little more, she's wearing her nightgown, and she's excited but still very tired. "Come in, come in, come in, please, please! Who's that?" And points to the large stone statue you're dragging behind you.
Laura: Oh, we decided to get a statue for the garden.
Taliesin: Garden gnome.
Matt: "Very well, very well, come in."
Ashley: Hey! (laughter)
Travis: He's drunk.
Taliesin: I'm drunk!
Matt: So the human woman leads you all back in.
Laura: Put the gun down, Percy.
Ashley: Bad News.
Liam: It's not Cinco de Mayo.
Matt: She steps back with her knitted boots; she's definitely in comfortable mode. She eagerly hugs each of you as you enter, happy that you've all arrived, she's like, "I swear it's-- I've not had an employer leave so quickly after my hiring. But glad to see you're all safe. Shall I make everyone a meal, are you hungry?"
Marisha: Starving.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "I'll get right to it." And she turns around, and you see further down the hallway Erwen Dastell, your older halfling servant who shuffles up with his nightcap on, it's long and dangling off his shoulders, he's got this long night robe on, he's kinda carrying a small candle. "My goodness. The hour is late of your arrival, but I can't say I am not excited to see you. Come in, your beds are ready, everything's been cleaned and made to your specifications. Laina! To food!" "I'm already on it, Erwen." She kinda smacks him on the back. He says, "Very well, then."
Sam: I love their banter.
Laura: Yeah, they're so cute.
Matt: "I will go back to bed, if that's fine with you."
Sam: Is there any urgent, oppressing news, any visitors that we should know about who came while we were gone, anything before you retire for the evening?
Matt: "No, I believe your friend, the mage woman with the blue robes came by once."
Sam: Allara?
Matt: "Allura. She came by a couple days ago, just to see if you had returned. But I didn't know where you were, and she said she'd try again later."
Sam: Any packages, mail, post?
Matt: "None that I know of, no. In fact it's been very quiet."
Sam: All right, thank you.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Quiet is good.
Matt: "Back to my quarters." And he shuffles off, goes towards his bed. You guys make your way into the main dining chamber of your Keep, four large round tables set out with the chairs around it. You can see, for the most part, it's been untouched other than a couple of chairs that are set ajar, probably by your mercenary soldiers who've been eating and/or have been keeping up. There's a couple of empty tables set on the side that immediately Laina goes, "I'm so sorry, I guess I should've taken care of this." And she stumbles off towards the kitchen and you guys all eventually find yourselves sitting, sore, exhausted, mildly intoxicated, around these chairs and take a very deep-breathing sigh of relief at being back home here in Emon in Greyskull Keep.
Sam: Should we un-stone Kima, or should we sleep on it?
Orion: I stand up and I head towards the sleeping quarters and I just say, "Leave her to stone tonight, we'll deal with it tomorrow." And I go to bed.
Sam: I turn him into a rat.
Liam: Dispel Magic.
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw, Tiberius.
Orion: Hold on a sec. I can still cast as an animal, right?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Nope, you cannot talk.
Orion: Oh. I still go to bed. (laughter)
Orion: So yeah.
Travis: Hoo baby.
Laura: That's adorable.
Matt: You go under your covers, go to sleep, nuzzle in.
Orion: In between my pillow.
Marisha: It's quite comfy sleeping like an animal.
Ashley: He's a little rat and he still went in his big bed.
Liam: I pick up the sleeping rat and just kinda scritch him.
Laura: He's in bed.
Liam: It's all right, he's fine. Look, see, his leg's going, he's dreaming about something nice.
Travis: We ate already, right?
Matt: You snacked a bit as you made it through the town, but for the most part like, a meal's being prepared. You begin to smell now the cooking of meat, Laina's setting it up for you guys.
Liam: You're dreaming of magical artifacts, aren't you?
Laura: Quick question, friends  So we kind of started a war, am I right?
Liam: Yeah. Pretty sure we did.
Laura: Kraghammer is potentially in grave danger, am I right?
Marisha: We might want to let them know.
Laura: We should probably let them know as soon as possible.
Liam: First of all, Clarota was lying through his noodles, and second, even if he wasn't, which he was, he's now fucking pissed off--
Laura: He's dead.
Liam: Well, they're all one hive-mind, right? Listen. This is number five tonight.
Taliesin: They weren't particularly connected until the very end, he was dead before they were actually connected.
Liam: They're angry. They were following us.
Taliesin: They may not know who we are.
Marisha: That's interesting.
Liam: You don't think they're going to scurry up the bottom of Kraghammer and tear that place apart?
Taliesin: We'll let them know, but we may have time, we hurt them very badly.
Liam: It took us about a week to get from Kraghammer in, so we've got about a week.
Marisha: Well, why don't we do some research, I mean, this was the first time.
Sam: Yeah, we'd have to stop them on the way out the hole, right? There's only one way in and out.
Ashley: Don't the dwarves already know that they were there, and they were already prepping for battle?
Sam: They don't really know what's coming for them.
Liam: They don't know anything about mind flayers, they know about weird things coming out, but not the mind flayers.
Travis: So let's send a pigeon or something.
Taliesin: The mind flayers have been down there for ages. There's nothing new.
Laura: You don't think they'll come up and attack?
Marisha: To be fair, we also did sort of release the mind flayers from their evil dictator.
Liam: Yeah, they seemed very grateful.
Sam: We could stop them on their way out.
Taliesin: I think this will also be a conversation that Lady Kima will have some--
Marisha: Okay, well, the thing we then need to immediately decide, before we un-stone Lady Kima, is what're we going to do with the Horn?
Taliesin: I think if we have Allura here, and begin that conversation, then we can have Allura's insight.
Marisha: Before we un-stone Lady Kima?
Taliesin: Yes. I think we tell Allura before we un-stone Lady Kima. Everything that's happened--
Liam: The only person, the only person that would remotely know is you, Tiberius, and I don't think--
Sam: He's a rat.
Liam: Oh, that's a good boy.
Travis: And he's asleep.
Liam: He didn't seem to know anything, I think Allura is the person to go to right now.
Laura: Well, you need to share it with us.
Ashley: Wake up from bed!
Travis: He's sleeping.
Taliesin: No, let's wait until Allura's here, I think, and we can--
Travis: Do we tell her, do we tell her we have the Horn? Or do we not?
Liam: Yes, yes, we do.
Marisha: Why don't we just wake up Tiberius?
Laura: Tiberius. Little darling!
Sam: I'm still punishing him.
Liam: I'm still cuddling him.
Orion: Did they wake me up?
Liam: No! I'm holding you.
Orion: Okay.
Liam: I don't want to wake you up.
Matt: You start to wake up, and then he scritches the side of your cheek and you go right back to sleep.
Laura: Damn it, he's so cute. I don't know what to do.
Matt: Laina comes out with plates for you guys and sets up these--
Travis: Thank. God.
Matt: They're not pretty, but functional meals of cooked pork, some fine mashed potatoes.
Travis: I would like to eat.
Matt: And you do ravenously, and this is the first warm meal you've really truly had in five, six days.
Travis: I take Lady Kima's portions and I--
Matt: There were no portions made for your garden structure.
Travis: Never know.
Matt: That's okay, there's plenty more.
Sam: So talk to Allura first, then unfreeze Lady Kima?
Liam: She sent us after Kima. Kima thinks that she's in the middle of a fight, the moment she comes out she'll be all hot and bothered--
Marisha: Okay, hang on, hang on. That's true, she did send us after Kima, so what if they're both on the side that we don't--
Travis: Yeah, Allura's going to unfreeze Kima.
Taliesin: We're going to have to trust somebody.
Travis: Why don't we just hold onto the Horn for a second and see what they do without it.
Laura: Why don't we tell them we didn't find it? Why don't we just hide the Horn?
Travis: We just hold onto it in the bag.
Marisha: Don't we have a safe? Didn't we build a safe in our Keep?
Matt: You did not have a safe built, but you could possibly have that done.
Ashley: Wait, so why are you guys so against giving the Horn to Kima?
Marisha: I just feel like if it's so terrible, why does she want it for herself?
Laura: She doesn't, she wants to hide it.
Ashley: Does she want to destroy it?
Laura: Maybe she wants to destroy it, maybe she wanted to get it up above ground so she could destroy it.
Sam: There's a second Horn, maybe she has the other one and wants the matching set.
Taliesin: Do we know that there's a second horn?
Laura: She's a paladin, she's good, paladins are good by--
Sam: I'm fine trusting her. I was fine trusting Clarota.
Travis: Do you want to wake up, do you have something important to say?
Marisha: Right, because no one of the church has ever been bad before.
Liam: We didn't trust Clarota. We were using him as much as he was using us.
Laura: Some of us truly trusted Clarota.
Liam: It went south. Well, most of us.
Travis: All right, fuck it, I walk over and I take the rat out of Vax's hands and I shake it awake.
Sam: He's still a rat!
Travis: I shake it a lot.
Marisha: I undo his Polymorph, I undo his Polymorph.
Sam: With what?
Matt: With what?
Marisha: By Polymorph.
Matt: You re-Polymorph him?
Marisha: Can I release Polymorph by using Polymorph?
Matt: No. It's his incantation.
Travis: I spit on Tiberius's head and rub it in vigorously.
Marisha: Scanlan, come on. We need to talk to him.
Orion: I'm trying to bite Grog. I am not happy.
Matt: It's like this viscous Grog spit mixed with chunks of pork and mashed potato rubbed in your fur.
Marisha: Scanlan, he's nipping! Scanlan. Tiberius is nipping. Please.
Sam: All right, fine. He's a human thing again.
Liam: He's not human at all.
Sam: A dragonborn.
Orion: Why did you wake me up? I was so comfy being furry! (laughter)
Orion: I always have scales. It was nice having fur!
Marisha: I told you. It's nice being cuddly.
Orion: I was so soft.
Laura: Tiberius, we're sorry to wake you.
Taliesin: Tiberius, we're having a lovely breakfast. Tell us a story.
Orion: Have I rested? What's going on?
Matt: No, it's been ten minutes.
Orion: What the fuck? (laughter)
Travis: Vex has a question for you.
Marisha: We're all still drunk and awake. We don't want to go to bed yet! Just, just talk with us.
Laura: I just want to hear your lovely little explanation, darling, about what the Horn is and why you don't trust Kima.
Orion: Oh!
Taliesin: Tell us a story.
Marisha: Tell us a story!
Laura: Please. You haven't told any of us anything.
Marisha: We haven't talked to you in a week.
Orion: The Horn of Orcus.
Matt: Horn of Orcus.
Orion: This thing comes from a devil, a demon. Nothing good could ever come from anything it made in existence. It needs to be destroyed. And I'm sorry. Let me articulate these words a little bit more. There is nothing that you can use this particular artifact for any reason of good. The fact that it is even here is a very bad sign because it was taken from one of these beasts.
Ashley: So why don't we destroy it?
Orion: That's exactly what we need to do.
Travis: Isn't that what Kima wanted?
Laura: What if they want to destroy it?
Orion: I don't think they wanted to bring it back.
Laura: Question. Why?
Orion: Because there is-- the liquid hot magma that was below where it was being held was very sufficient for it to be thrown in.
Marisha: That's true. See, I'm with him.
Laura: Wait, but your crushing fist couldn't destroy it, so maybe lava can't destroy it, so maybe it needs something extra special that only they know about.
Travis: It needs the Sword of Gryffindor.
Orion: No. Pike could destroy it.
Ashley: Ex-squeeze me? I don't think that's true.
Orion: Give yourself a little bit more credit. You killed a dragon.
Laura: You did kill a dragon.
Travis: You did kill a dragon.
Ashley: I did kill a dragon. Huzzah.
Marisha: And you died. And come back to life. By the way, we haven't talked about that. What was it like on the other side?
Travis: Let's stay on topic here.
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm a little tipsy.
Liam: Vax shoves another flagon in front of Keyleth.
Ashley: I don't think I can destroy it.
Taliesin: From what I understand-- is it possible that it's not possible to destroy this and instead it has to be banished somewhere, perhaps?
Orion: No. If it could be a permanent banishment, yes. But we don't know what kind of plane and what creatures lie there that would, perhaps, come upon that artifact. What are the elements? Fire burns earth.
Laura: Wind blows.
Orion: Light destroys darkness. Pike, you're the only one who--
Sam: Rock beats scissors.
Orion: Exactly, Scanlan. You're the only one who could-- if your weapon had any kind of light enchantment on them, could probably smash this thing to bits. Then we would have to scatter the remnants, the pieces, far from each other, if not find different ways to destroy those pieces.
Laura: Why don't you trust them?
Orion: Because it comes from something that would--
Laura: Not the Horn. Why don't you trust Kima?
Orion: Because they wanted to bring it somewhere where they-- I don't know. Which is why I wanted you to do the half thing, where we could question Kima without her attacking us or trying to attempt to take the Horn from us.
Marisha: Well, here's my thing. Even if she has good intentions. Say she has good intentions and maybe they just wanted to bring the horn back to study it. And no one should be messing with this whatsoever.
Laura: I think they want to destroy it.
Taliesin: I'm of the opinion they probably want to banish it somewhere.
Travis: Yeah, I think they do.
Marisha: Then why don't we just agree to not hand it over.
Taliesin: No, this is good. This means that there's no reason, necessarily, not to trust them. We just know that we don't trust the Horn, and that's a perfectly reasonable way to come at it.
Liam: In the short term, Scanlan, are you able to send it to another dimension for a while?
Laura: No, I don't trust it anywhere out of our sight.
Sam: I cannot. It is not alive. I cannot.
Travis: Put it in the bag.
Laura: It's in the bag.
Taliesin: It's perfectly safe in the bag.
Travis: How about we rest, we put the Horn in the bag, we wake up Kima, we go, "Oh, we brought you back, sorry we don't have the Horn. If we did, what would you do with it?" And then we decide what we do.
Taliesin: I like half that plan.
Marisha: I kind of like that plan.
Orion: I like that plan, too.
Laura: I think we should tell her we didn't get it and see what she does.
Orion: Allura is somebody who should not be here when this conversation happens, because if they turn south, she's a more powerful sorcerer than I.
Marisha: We need to decide, do we tell her that we destroyed it, or do we tell her that we just didn't get it and that it's still down there.
Travis: We can't say destroyed because we don't know how we did that, right?
Laura: No, we didn't destroy it. We say, "Oh no, they, we got overrun and we had to leave."
Taliesin: But then they're going to tell us to go back for it.
Travis: That's fine, but if we ask like what she would've done if we had it, and when she leaves we go, "Hah, we have it."
Laura: Or we go, "Oh, well good, then actually we do have it, you can do that."
Travis: Yeah, if she wants to study it or use it or transform it into something, we don't give it to her, we try to destroy it ourselves. If she wants to banish it and do something that Tiberius is happy with, then we go like, "Hey, we have it."
Liam: When we meet her I don't think we should have it, I think one or two of us should take it away. We don't all have to be at that meeting.
Taliesin: I think we just keep it in the Bag of Holding, she'll never suspect.
Marisha: Well, hang on, it's in the Bag of Holding right now?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Orion: Grog, is there nothing else in that bag of holding?
Travis: Nothing it can, we took out all the stuff it can turn into some like evil transformer or something.
Liam: You know, the other characters can make insight checks too, you know that, right?
Matt: There's a pile somewhere with armor.
Travis: Everything has out with parentheses next to it.
Liam: If we have it, then she's, she could say you're lying--
Laura: Or she might not be able to tell because we're so good at lying. (laughter)
Liam: I don't think your winks will work on her.
Sam: Legitimately, no one can tell when I'm lying.
Marisha: I mean, we could Stone Shape it and I could like Stone Shape it and bury it somewhere in our Keep.
Travis: One person should leave with it. I'll leave with it.
Liam: Yes, it's fucking simple.
Taliesin: That's genius.
Travis: Yeah, I'll leave. It's not like I'm going to talk to the sorcerers.
Liam: You and I could take a walk with it and play tiddlywinks or something in the woods. That's fine, what's wrong with that, it's easy.
Taliesin: That's a very good plan.
Orion: Do you want it very far away?
Travis: Yeah, you're a talker, I'm not.
Taliesin: No, we don't.
Marisha: Wait. You're talking about just taking a stroll through the forest with the Horn of Orcus?
Travis: No, I'll just hang out outside.
Orion: In the Keep, how about just stay in the Keep?
Liam: Just be somewhere else. Anywhere else.
Ashley: You could hang out in the temple downstairs.
Laura: I fall asleep on the table.
Travis: Shall we sleep?
Sam: Let's sleep and meet with Kima in the morning.
Taliesin: This was a fabulous breakfast, good night.
Liam: Vax gives his sleeping sister a wet willie.
Laura: Ugh!
Travis: I put my head right in my food and fall asleep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's not forget, you've still got a funny toe.
Sam: I check my bed to make sure no one shat in it. (laughter)
Orion: I did leave a little rat turd before I got scooped out. Just so you know.
Laura: Trinket, let's go to bed.
Marisha: I turn, I go Minxie and I curl up by the fire.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie!
Liam: Scanlan! Turn Tiberius back into a rat.
Orion: Oh yes, I'm going to bed.
Liam: Back into a rat.
Marisha: You can curl up with me.
Sam: Would you like to be a rat?
Orion: I like being furry.
Sam: Well then, no. I'm still punishing you. (laughter)
Orion: That's fine. Have your fun tonight, people, you will have your licking in the morning. I go to sleep.
Matt: All right. You guys all go to rest for the evening, the best rest you've had in a long time, your beds are comfortable, well set, it's a warm interior.
Ashley: I'm starfished on my bed.
Matt: This is the first time in a while that Pike, you've been able to sleep without your armor on, and it's so nice.
Laura: That's great.
Matt: You sleep hard, you sleep for an extended period, eventually you all begin to rouse, as you all wake up, the smell of fresh breakfast food is already coming to--
Laura: That and Pike's stank from her armor.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to have to wash that armor, girl.
Travis: It's like when you take a cast off, you're like, ugh.
Matt: It's bad.
Marisha: Actually, is there a bath house in the village?
Matt: You haven't inquired. You could ask around if you want.
Marisha: We should have a girls' day at the bath house.
Orion: I woke up and took a dirt bath.
Liam: You're not a rat, though.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, but he didn't transform you, though.
Orion: Huh?
Matt: He didn't transform you.
Orion: I know, in lizard form.
Sam: Gross.
Orion: In my form.
Taliesin: That's awesome.
Orion: Scales, you rub it off with clay?
Matt: Yeah, there you go. Out in the front of the Keep.
Laura: Gross!
Orion: I have a little dirt in my room.
Laura: A little pile of grossness.
Liam: We just don't fear for our lives for the first time.
Sam: Let's go down and have our meeting.
Matt: So you guys head down into the dining room again, Kima's still standing there with the maul, left where she was. Grog is still face-down like on the table, grabbed the plate up against his face with mashed potatoes across his cheek. Across the way at the far table, you see Cordell and Shayne are both finishing their breakfast, and are sitting there at the table with their arms kind of gathering as you enter. "Morning!" "Morning." And they both kind of finish their meal. Get up and stand up. "Enjoy your breakfast. You've earned it." "I think our shift is done." She pats Cordell and they both get up and they exit out.
Laura: Have a good night! I know, I know, but they're sleeping.
Travis: I start awake with food on my face and I wipe it off and eat it. "I had a horrible dream about two walking testicles that were hurting my mind."
Sam: That was no dream! (laughter)
Liam: I am so sad that you woke up. I was just about to go to the hearth and get some ash and draw a penis on your head.
Travis: I had a feeling something was coming.
Liam: Next thing out of my mouth, that's a promise.
Ashley: Where's the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I've got it.
Ashley: Can you check in your bag to see if the Horn is still there?
Laura: And it's okay?
Travis: I look in the bag of holding and I see a Horn?
Matt: You look in the bag and you see nothing. You imagine something, you reach in, you pull it out.
Taliesin: Don't do that.
Laura: How are we going to get it out of there?
Orion: I can.
Ashley: Can you tell if it's in there?
Sam: Can you teleport something out of a bag?
Orion: It's Telekinesis, I can picture it and--
Laura: Teleport it, can you pull it out and make sure it's still there and okay?
Matt: Okay. So you use Telekinesis, you lift the Horn out--
Orion: No, I don't do it. I'm assuming it's there. I'm not doing that right now.
Laura: Wait, no, check though, I want to make sure it's okay.
Orion: I'm pretty sure it's there.
Laura: But I want to make sure.
Sam: All right, I will check with Mage Hand or whatever, I got something else. Mage Hand, yeah, I'll Mage Hand it.
Matt: Mage Hand gently and slowly lifts it out, you can see the Horn kinda holds there for a second, it moves very slowly.
Travis: Yeah, put it back in.
Matt: Put it back in the bag.
Travis: Thank you, tie it up tight. I'm going to go down to the, what is it, the temple below the thingie?
Ashley: Okay, yeah, go down to the temple.
Travis: All right, I'm going to go play in the dark with myself. That sounded wrong.
Matt: Okay, so you head down into the temple to Sarenrae, which is beautiful, it's all like a giant two-story stained glass three-set walls with trees and hedges set up and flowers, bunch of wooden kind of long benches set up towards this, the altar in the center, it's beautiful, especially this time of day, it's close to noon right now so the sun's streaking through the top of it, and it's cascading through the tree boughs of the two trees that are closest to the entrance. It's a beautiful sight. Even you, Grog, are moved.
Travis: Just because I'm nervous, I reach into the Bag of Holding and pull out a vial of holy oil that I have. I have three vials of holy oil and I just hold it in one hand while I'm down there.
Matt: All right. So while he's down there, the rest of you guys, what're you doing?
Orion: I'm going to cast Circle of Teleportation in my room.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: No, I'm going to go to the treasury first, I'm going to take out 500 gold pieces, and then I'm going to go to my room and cast Circle of Teleportation.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius is gone.
Sam: Let's heal Kima.
Laura: You just left us?
Orion: By the blessing of Bahamut, I choose Draconia.
Matt: Tiberius is gone.
Ashley: Okay, so, I'm going to stand behind Kima and--
Taliesin: We're going to face her towards the wall.
Ashley: Face her towards the wall.
Liam: Good idea.
Ashley: Or towards something happy.
Taliesin: We're ready to pull you away when she starts to move.
Ashley: Yeah, okay. So.
Marisha: Wait! Are we unfreezing her?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: No, I thought we were going to talk to Allura first.
Laura: No, we're going to talk to her first.
Marisha: Oh wait, that's right. And we were going to do that thing.
Laura: You were drunk, it's okay.
Marisha: That's right, I was probably tipsy, sorry. We came up with like eight plans last night.
Laura: You were so drunk.
Sam: Wait, shouldn't Grog be here, he's the one who likes her.
Travis: Oh, the things I sacrifice for the group.
Ashley: So I cast Greater Restoration on Kima.
Laura: And then run away!
Matt: Okay, you reach out and touch the back of Kima. Her stone armor turns to gold and rapidly her entire form goes back to flesh. As she finishes her swing with the maul (impact sound) against the stone wall. And she kinda steps back for a second, confused, and looks over her shoulder at the rest of you.
Sam: Everything's okay, everything's okay, we're out of danger, we're at home, it's okay.
Laura: It's fine, it's fine, guess what, we are alive.
Sam: We lived.
Matt: Just drops the maul for a second and kinda leans back against the wall.
Marisha: I just get the leftover mashed potatoes from breakfast.
Matt: "Thank you, thank you, oh thank you. What happened?" She's not even using utensils, she's just like scooping it with her hand at this point.
Laura: So we killed K'Varn, right?
Matt: "Obviously."
Sam: Funny story, you were right about Clarota. He was horrible, we killed him. We killed him! Hey, you were right.
Laura: But not before we were overrun with a bunch of evil brothers of his.
Taliesin: And we got a very fancy hat out of it.
Laura: Hey, right, look at his hat.
Sam: We should've known all along, you were right, we should've trusted you, sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. He had his uses, certainly."
Liam: You were right, we were wrong, you're very attractive, we're all quite ugly.
Matt: "That isn't necessary, but the compliment is appreciated, regardless. Thank you for bringing me back with you. You could have easily left me back and I appreciate that you took the time."
Sam: So, you're alive, that's good because you were sorta on a suicide mission.
Matt: "Not a suicide mission."
Laura: What exactly was your mission, Kima?
Matt: "Where's the Horn?"
Laura: Well, thing is, it's not here.
Matt: "All right. It's not with the illithid, is it?"
Sam: It's in a safe place.
Matt: "How safe?"
Laura: Pretty safe.
Taliesin: Why, what can it do?
Matt: She looks visually nervous and she goes--
Laura: Nothing can touch it.
Matt: "Well, that's what the Order that originally sealed it believes. Even if it's somewhere safe temporarily, we can possibly relocate it. But we have to-- (sighs)"
Liam: You saw your mission as a suicide mission, but if you had secured it, what were your plans? What was plan B? What were you going to do?
Matt: "Well, if I were to fall in the process of trying to get the Horn, others would come after me. I sent word to my Order that if I did not return they would send more."
Laura: Can I insight?
Matt: Go for it, yeah, go ahead and roll insight.
Laura: 19.
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Whisper time! Sweet, sweet whispers.
Sam: Keep subscribing, guys, because whispering action doesn't come free.
Marisha: How many subscribers away are we?
Lucas: 38.
Marisha: 38 subscribers.
Travis: That's a lot.
Marisha: That's a lot.
Sam: That's a lot.
Marisha: That is still a lot.
Sam: Keep subscribing to Geek and Sundry, where you can watch Matt Mercer whisper at people.
Matt: And she goes, "So this Horn, which is one of two, if Allura is correct, was sealed a thousand or so years ago by those who originally cut it from the head of the avatar of Orcus of which it was bestowed. They, once he was slain, did everything they could within their power to destroy it, yet this artifact, instilled with the purity of Orcus, was indestructible to their knowledge. So the least they could do was to seal both horns across the world from each other and forget that it even existed. Which worked well until recently. It wasn't until these visions came to me and other members of my Order that we knew that this, this was a thing, and me being the closest in my pilgrimage, we took that as time of the essence I was to go in there with a team and retrieve it. If it couldn't be destroyed, at the very least we could convene and decide a safer place to possibly reseal it and forget. There are magical ways of forcing those of us who know how to forget. That would be the safest thing for it. If there is a way to destroy it, we don't know, but that could also be sought after. We have arcane and divine knowledge we didn't have back then, so, in the long run it needs to be retrieved, the longer it stays down there in the Underdark, no matter where you placed it, it draws like a beacon all darkness to it until something else like this beholder K'Varn will take up the mantle and themselves be as dangerous or more so than he ever was."
Laura: So the other Horn is still safe?
Matt: "As far as I know. The visions only gave me access to where this one was. I can only assume that it's out there, but if someone else were to find it, I would know that they probably have knowledge of the second one existing, as well. I don't know if K'Varn shared this information, but if someone else takes the mantle of this Horn, what's to stop them from seeking the other?"
Liam: Bummer.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Regardless, I appreciate that we're all alive and we're together, and where are we?"
Laura: Oh, you're in our home.
Sam: Greyskull Keep. It's in Emon.
Matt: "We're in Emon?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "Well, that's wondrous, we can speak with Allura. She would have the wisdom to know what to do with this next."
Sam: Hypothetical. What if an army of darkness was slowly approaching Emon to kill all of us?
Matt: "What are you saying?"
Sam: Well, we killed Clarota and K'Varn, but we, there was a lot of bad guys down there that we could not kill--
Laura: We hurt that Elder Brain real bad, but not bad enough.
Matt: "I don't know much about the illithid themselves, but they reside deep and they are not fans of the surface. I believe that it was K'Varn's initial onset that was pushing them, both in union with the duergar and pushing them towards the siege. They spoke of something about bringing twilight to the surface world. I don't know what that was about, but I fear what knowledge they have if left alone. At the very least, I know that they're probably having to return and lick their wounds where we left behind. It would be folly for them, especially knowing that we're aware, to attack now."
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: "But we can notify those in Kraghammer to buffer their defenses, close the tunnels that you took down there and my army as well, and that should give us time to prepare if we choose to seize or at least seal them off."
Laura: And your Order is what?
Matt: "The Order of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: Right. That's a really good Order, right?
Taliesin: History check, can I do a history check?
Matt: It's a religion check.
Taliesin: That's a religion check, not history check?
Marisha: Pike.
Matt: You could roll a history check and probably gain some knowledge based on that, but the--
Ashley: Could I do it?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Ashley: Are you doing a religion check, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm doing a history check, if you want to do a religion check.
Ashley: I'll do a religion check.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 22.
Ashley: So fucking close.
Matt: I mean, you guys are familiar loosely with the name Bahamut, you've heard Tiberius bring it up before, you've seen temples to it, but your knowledge knows that Bahamut is very well regarded as the lawful good deity of justice and honor and is primarily one of the great good gods of this pantheon.
Taliesin: If we're going to trust anyone, I think this is a good--
Travis: Yeah, I feel pretty good about this.
Taliesin: I trust the organization, they have a sterling reputation.
Marisha: So, Kima. Pie-in-the-sky goal? You would destroy the Horn?
Matt: "If we had the means of doing so, yes. We'd have to talk to the Order, we'd have to talk to the Council, we'd have to bring people that we could trust and that had the capabilities of knowing if this were possible how we would go about it. It's beyond my knowledge."
Liam: I think what worries us is anyone coming in contact with it would be corrupted.
Matt: "Don't go into contact with it."
Laura: No.
Liam: No, of course.
Marisha: Just within range.
Sam: Yes, is proximity okay?
Matt: "I don't know, I saw it for as long as you did."
Laura: This could be bad.
Sam: Evil Grog?
Laura: Kind of uncomfortable.
Matt: "The essence of most artifacts like this, it goes more than just touch, one has to be imbued, bond with these artifacts, to attune with them like any powerful magical item to truly gain its power, but that's not to say that itself does not contain some sort of foul intelligence."
Ashley: Can I go downstairs and go get Grog?
Matt: Okay. So you walk your way down.
Travis: (sings) I've got a lovely bunch of coconuts.
Matt: As you're walking past, as you walk past you are immediately met in the hallway by Erwen, your servant, your halfling elder servant who walks up and says, "Dear, I wanted to let you know that a scroll came for you, some sort of a summons." And he hands it to you.
Ashley: Me?
Sam: Probably jury duty.
Matt: And he kinda walks past you in the tunnel.
Taliesin: Always the worst time.
Matt: You open it up a little bit, it's not, hasn't been opened, you kinda pull the paper and open it up. It's a summon to the Council of Tal'Dorei, it's written by the hand of the clerk, and it says, essentially, the sovereign Uriel has been notified of your arrival and would like to see you at the council chambers posthaste.
Ashley: Okay. I'm still going to go get Grog, but I'll pass the scroll around. Hey Grog, come upstairs.
Travis: Oh yeah?
Marisha: That was for all of us?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It was addressed to Vox Machina.
Travis: Is it clear?
Ashley: Just don't say anything yet, but just come upstairs.
Travis: Did she ask about me?
Laura: She definitely did.
Ashley: She did, yeah.
Travis: With my bald head.
Matt: All right. You make your way back in, Kima finishes her meal, and you guys are chatting a bit, she's just like, "All right, if I may ask, how did you seal it? I feel uncomfortable knowing the process and that it's at least safe."
Marisha: Oh, we have one of the best defense mechanisms. Grog!
Travis: Hello, Lady Kima.
Laura: It's in a very secure magical item.
Matt: She glances at you and goes, "All right, very well. Just be mindful that you don't go reaching in there."
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft as he enters to make little sparkles and lightning bugs appear around him. "Grog!"
Matt: Lady Kima, who is currently covered in dirt and sweat, still in the golden armor that she wrestled from the long-dead corpse of a dwarf in the Underdark, her chin is smattered with dried mashed potatoes and a bit of her breakfast, kinda gives--
Laura: So she's covered in food as well.
Matt: (laughs) Gives you a look as you're walking in like. "It's good to see you alive, friend."
Travis: Yeah, more than alive, I think.
Ashley: And also, he actually pulled you out of the cavern with one arm while you were stone. Out of the whole place.
Travis: Oh, stop, I don't like to brag.
Matt: She stands up and kinda wipes the food off her chin, clutches her symbol, and then steps right before you, looking up towards your face and says, "I thank you, friend Grog."
Laura: Friendzoned!
Matt: And then reaches out and gives you a big hug.
Liam: Plus he decided not to put you in the magical bag when you were a statue.
Matt: She releases Grog slightly, and kinda gives you a keen look and goes, "Also appreciated."
Travis: Yeah, well, you know.
Laura: Oh my god, thank god.
Sam: Why don't you go rest? We'll summon Allura and we'll continue the conversation from there, I guess.
Matt: "Please, I'd love to see her, it's been too long. All right, I'm going to, is there a room I could rest?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: You could use my room.
Taliesin: There's a guest room.
Laura: Yes, we have a guest room.
Sam: We should use it.
Orion: I would've had your back, by the way, there.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: Erwen, who's by the door, leads her to the guest room and you guys take a moment to rest. We'll go ahead and pick up next session at that point, where Allura's being brought in, so we'll stop the game there as I have to rush to the airport, but before that we have some gifts to open from you guys.
Travis: You're rushing to the airport tonight?
Matt: Huh?
Travis: You're rushing to the airport tonight?
Matt: Yeah, I got a redeye, 1AM. To be in Sandusky, Ohio. At Collisi--er no, Collosalcon. Please come.
Travis: You're going to do the waterslides, right? You won't ride waterslides?
Matt: It'll be fun. Guys, thank you so much for watching, that was a lot of fun.
Sam: We lived!
Matt: And everyone lived! Barely.
Marisha: We lived!
Matt: Barely, oh my god.
Marisha: Holy shit, we lived.
Travis: One roll away from her being--
Ashley: That was rough.
Matt: Her and Scanlan.
Laura: One point, twice.
Matt: Twice for you.
Travis: Twice.
Taliesin: I'm going to go get our d20s back.
Marisha: Crazyballs. Oh yeah. We had two sparkles and a green one.
Ashley: I was just rolling bad.
Zac: Hey, guys. We got some gifts for you from the chatroom. Some letters.
Liam: I got an Asus computer with an "aren't we clever" sticker on it?
Marisha: Sweet.
Zac: Man, I'll give you an "aren't we clever" sticker if you want, it's worth about the same. We also have some donations to read off. (cheering)
Zac: So guys, as long as we're live, that subscriber giveaway still stands.
Laura: How far away are we from it?
Zac: 36 subs away from another giveaway. All right.
Matt: All right.
Zac: If you want to go ahead and, actually I don't know if she wanted this to be read. Oh, okay, but this is cool. Do you want to hand me those disposable cameras? Where did he go? Oh, I lost him.
Matt: Essentially it says, "Vox Machina, I have sent you a disposable camera. Basically I had this idea to send this to you and have you guys go crazy, fill up the camera with random shenanigans, whether it's behind-the-scenes, setup during a stream, or elsewise of your shoes, and then once you guys have filled both cameras, you can send them back with the already printed label included in the box I sent this in, send it back to me, I can get the pictures printed and doubled and then send you guys a set back once they're developed."
Marisha: Aw, that's a good idea!
Matt: "I thought it'd be something different for you guys to do, hopefully you enjoy it and I can't wait to hear back from you. Becca."
Marisha: That's fun!
Matt: Thank you so much, Becca.
Marisha: Awesome.
Ashley: Thank you, Becca.
Matt: Yeah, we'll keep the rest to ourselves. We've got an awesome picture of Grog and Mustang Scanlan. Look at that.
Taliesin: (sings) Mustang Scanlan.
Travis: Horse head. Evil horse head of doom.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: (sing) Slow your mustang down.
Marisha: (sing) Slow your mustang down.
Matt: All right, here we go.
Zac: All right, so let's get through these messages here.
Matt: All right, let's get this going, because I've got to get running soon.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right, we have Jasonofarabia, heart, "Got up at 5am to watch you guys live, great show." That's awesome, donated $100.
Marisha: We're your morning show?
Matt: That's awesome. Cole donated $100. "#Percypower."
Travis: Percy power!
Ashley: Percy power!
Matt: All right, G1BigDaddyHef donated $20, "Might not be able to watch the stream due to closing shift, but was able to secure at least a ten-minute break to toss my weekly donation."
All: Aww.
Matt: Thank you G1BigDaddyHef!
Marisha: Closing shifts are the worst.
Matt: I feel ya on that. Thisisbonertown donated $10, thank you!
Orion: Yes, bonertown!
Matt: "Thank you for entertaining us every Thursday night". Thank you.
Liam: This! Is! Bonertown!
Laura: This! Is! Bonertown!
Matt: Wheeliefactoids donated $3, thank you Wheelie! "Great night guys, Ashley, your surprise is done on the server--"
Zac: Oh, Minecraft server.
Matt: Minecraft server surprise for you. "Come to these coordinates--" We have the coordinates here. "--and you will find your temple."
Zac: Somebody should probably write this down.
Matt: "1350 by 1350 z."
Zac: 1350 x.
Matt: "1350 x by 1350 z and you will find your temple of Sarenrae."
Ashley: Wait, 1350 z by 1350 x?
Zac: 1350 x by--
Zac: -- 1350 z.
Matt: -- 1350 z.
Matt: "-- and you will find your temple of Sarenrae. My temple of Orcus is next, mwahahaha." Oh, crap.
Ashley: Thanks so much!
Matt: Negihama donated $250.
All: Whoa!
Travis: $250?
Matt: Yeah. "Geek and Sundry twitch show cast and crew are amazeballs. I'm happy to help out one of the show's favorite, one of my channel's favorite show's charities. You know. For kids." That's awesome. All of these are going, by the way, to the charity for 826LA, guys, that's so amazing. Arandrial donated $10. "Critters, just a little donation towards a great cause, and by that, I mean Orion's silver butt-print."
Zac: Nope, that's not happening.
Matt: Yet.
Liam: With a hundred more subscribers.
Matt: Gyaka donated $15. "Thank you for the inspiration to both roleplay and write fiction again." Thank you for watching. #Critterlove. All right, we've got ZandorInvictus, donated $20. "Wore my shirt today for my session. Thanks to you guys, I rolled crit hits four times in one battle."
Taliesin: You took all of our crits. Thank you.
Marisha: That's where all of our crits were going.
Matt: "By the way, Matt, when I get my copy of Arkham Knight, is it possible to get it sent somewhere for an autograph?" Send it to this studio with return post, we're happy to do that. That's fine. As long as it's sent with return postage already paid, I'll be happy to sit here one of these days.
Laura: That's an important thing, return postage.
Matt: Yeah, return postage, don't make me pay for postage back.
Taliesin: Otherwise, hey, free copy for us, which is really cool.
Marisha: Take the disc out, send back the case.
Matt: Norsiraya donated $5. "I love you guys so much. I had my first D&D game last Saturday. Thanks, Marisha, for naming my half-elf druid Kalina."
Marisha: Oh, it was Kalina!
Matt: "Ended up burning the chest hairs off a pirate. I plan to burn the chest hairs off of many more creatures in the future. Vox Machina!"
Marisha: Love it.
Zac: I'm going to have to remember that move.
Matt: Yeah, you should. All right. Rona Konandario. "A friend showed me Critical Role a few weeks ago, just as our long-time group of friends started our game. It must've been destiny. I love everyone's genuine feelings towards all the aspects of the game. Expect fanart in the future. Much love." Donated $10. Thank you so much, Runa Konandario. Wheelyfactoids donated $3 also, same fellow, "Also, if you guys could come to Salt Lake City Comic Con in Utah, look me up and we'll go to some Cold Stone. Critter for life." RJCanuck donated $25. "Mercy-- Percy for MVP." No mercy for Percy.
Taliesin: No mercy for Percy.
Ashley: No Mercy Percy!
Matt: Moneylover89. "Love the show, crazy-intense tonight, keep it up, guys. Glad to donate for a good cause. Love the Critical Role team and all that you do." That's great, $20, thank you so much. GasGT, $25. "Thank you for letting us come along with your party. Met Matt and Marisha in Philly." That's awesome, good to see you! "Even more awesome in person. Hope Trinket's dice wasn't bad luck."
Laura: Oh, yay Trinket's dice, thank you!
Matt: "Hearts, Critical Role Critters." Thank you so much.
Marisha: Critters!
Matt: We've got CritterHaiku, great twitter page.
Laura: I love the haikus!
Matt: They're fantastic.
Marisha: They made a twitter, @critterhaiku, which is super-fun.
Matt: "Nothing compares to the thrill of a great escape, and helping kids read." Donated $20. Thank you, CritterHaiku. Keep it up.
Marisha: Gotta learn to read those haikus.
Laura: I love them.
Matt: Lob82517. "Happy to support the charity again. You guys seriously know how to stress us out. So nervous through that." Seriously, you weren't the only ones. "Thanks to all of you for the birth of Vox Moronica, one of the funniest things I've ever seen." They donated $10, thank you so much.
Zac: Where are those gifts, guys?
Matt: Let's do this. Thank you guys again so much for all your donations.
Marisha: We love you guys!
Taliesin: We love you guys so much.
Zac: There's stuff.
Marisha: So much fun.
Matt: For Liam, this is for you, Liam.
All: What?
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: Oh, the dagger, dude! It's a dagger!
Laura: This is for me?
Matt: That is for you.
Laura: Holy crap!
Sam: Wait, Laura, what did you get?
Matt: Oh my god, you got Jonathan Frakes signed?
Sam: Is he a fan of the show?
Matt: I'm sorry, Laura, what's this you have signed over here?
Laura: Oh my gosh. You'll always be my Number One.
Zac: This is for you to give to--
Laura: This is from Team Wishlist. Thank you so much!
Liam: This is a magic carpet for the group.
Marisha: Look at that shit, he's got a magic carpet!
Sam: On camera, on camera.
Liam: Thank you, Kat! Thank you Katkitten112 for this craziness, oh my god!
Matt: That's amazing.
Taliesin: That is so badass.
Matt: I'm going to say that's the keen dagger.
Laura: Look at how many daggers he has now! Ludicrous.
Liam: Just ten more.
Marisha: So many daggers.
Matt: All righty, guys, so. As a heads-up. "Attn Geek and Sundry Twitch. To the awesome people at Geek and Sundry, please forward this package to the members of Critical Role on my behalf. I have made them each a personalized pendant with their character names, plus a few extras. Earrings inspired by Keyleth, Pike, and Vex'ahlia for Marisha, Ashley, and Laura, and four Vox Machina pendants which can be kept or given away. Many thanks to all involved for making Critical Role possible. Those short videos of their campaign on Vine were never enough to know what was going on. Sincerely yours, Ipec Psy." That's so awesome. Thank you so much, Ipec. Okay, pass this down to Percy?
Orion: I got this amazing Tiberius pin.
Laura: So cute!
Taliesin: So fantastic.
Zac: Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, it's got a little deck.
Orion: Pike. Ashley. A three-inch figure of Pike is coming for you and a three-inch figure of Scanlan is coming. They're on their way.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous!
Orion: David.
Matt: It's your holy symbol.
Marisha: They're little flowers!
Zac: Hey, guys, we have some boxes of very special dice here, and they included a letter, but it says, "Please do not read on stream," so this is for you guys to read when we go offline, but we're going to hand these out as well.
Marisha: Holy crap.
Laura: Oh, this is for me!
Marisha: I'm pretty sure she has an Etsy store.
Taliesin: She does.
Laura: Oh my god, this is the best day ever.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous!
Liam: It's Critmas!
All: Critmas!
Liam: Whoa, look at that. That's a die, it's dangerous.
Travis: No it's not.
Matt: That's so cool, you guys are ridiculous.
Sam: Whoa, that's an awesome die!
Travis: Are you fucking kidding me?
Sam: Whoa, the first roll was a 20! (cheering)
Laura: This will never go in the dice graveyard.
Zac: Each one is unique to you guys, it's nuts.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Travis: Skulls!
Ashley: What? I got a Celtic knot!
Laura: This is the coolest thing ever.
Taliesin: Holy shit.
Marisha: What does yours look like?
Taliesin: Holy shit.
Laura: Let me see!
Ashley: Nice, what the heck!
Travis: It's made of skulls.
Laura: Wow, I got a 20!
Marisha: Whoa, with the whitewash on it.
Zac: Okay, wait.
Taliesin: I just rolled a 20! Look at it, look at it!
Marisha: Wait, did everyone roll 20s on their first roll?
Matt: These are magically enchanted handcrafted dice.
Travis: I rolled an eight.
Marisha: I rolled a four.
Matt: I got a Sputnik dice, by the way.
Ashley: Thank you so much!
Taliesin: Thank you so much!
Marisha: These are crazy! Holy balls!
Sam: Okay, a benefactor sent the holy charm of Sarenrae for me to present to you.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, that's so pretty!
Sam: In, I think, holy matrimony?
Ashley: Oh, well, let's just--
Matt: Ellie, these are all amazing. Thank you so much.
Laura: Thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Thank you, thank you.
Orion: A dragon-bone die for the dragonborn.
Matt: I've rolled nothing lower than a 16 on this die, so it gets used a lot moving forward.
Liam: Also, for my birthday I got (Gollum voice) precious.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Orion: Good job, guys.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous.
Zac: You guys are all going to post pictures to Twitter, right, because everyone's asking.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. Oh yeah, this is happening.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Precious!
Zac: While these guys are still opening their presents, I wanted to-- go ahead.
Marisha: Ellie, whoever made the jewelry, to tweet at us and let us know her Etsy store.
Matt: Ellie did the dice, wasn't it, I think?
Marisha: Ellie did the dice.
Matt: Yeah, the pendants were--
Zac: Ellie did the dice.
Marisha: The pendants were from Ipec.
Laura: Oh, I've got to get all my presents in the picture.
Marisha: From @millena, let us know about your Etsy.
Ashley: Guys, thanks so much.
Matt: An awesome letter from Meghan Levann, cards from Meghan Levann's site, we're going to go ahead and pass these out, and I'll read this after the stream. That's so awesome, thank you so much, Meghan.
All: Thank you, Meghan!
Zac: While these guys are still going through their presents, I just want to remind you guys, thank you for tuning in, and tomorrow we have So You Don't Have To, and we're going to play Jazz Punk on the stream, and it's a lot of fun, and then after that we'll have Gather Your Party and IndieKate is joining us, the all-female punk band Blood Candy is joining us, and then we have the-- oh my gosh, I feel like a dumb-dumb now. What's the name of that-- the Dance Free Movement people? The group that threw the party for the guy that was shamed on the internet, the--
Matt: Mercer shirt. Dice on the back. DM represent.
Zac: I'm sure a lot of you guys heard about the man that was shamed on the internet.
Marisha: Yeah, the punk teenagers made fun of him?
Zac: Right. Made fun of him on the internet, and a large group of-- the Dance Free Movement came Together, flew him out to Los Angeles, and threw a big party for him, so we have the Dance Free Together group coming tomorrow to play Just Dance with us, to talk about their movement and everything like that, so make sure you guys tune in tomorrow, it's going to be a lot of a fun, that's from 7-10PM. And we had a couple more donations really quickly come in. Just wanted to say thank you to--
Matt: What's that?
Lucas: Did you read the dice on the shirt?
Matt: (laughs) Nice and hidden. Didn't notice that. The dice say, 'How do you want to do this?'
Laura: Awesome!
Taliesin: That's so cool.
Laura: Oh, that's really cool.
Zac: For the people that donated after we started reading the donations, I know Matt's trying to get outta here pretty quick, so thank you, FoxyForsythe, Zopher, Metheram and Hunter, I'll make sure these guys get the messages that you guys sent, but we're going to go ahead and let these guys start packing up. I know that they have lives!
Marisha: We're tweeting pictures of our dice and our things so everyone can see now.
Laura: I'm hashtagging Critmas.
Zac: Did we make that sub goal?
Orion: Oh my god, is that your die that you got?
Zac: We did not make the sub goal, so we'll get you guys-- no, we're not going to get it, so we'll get you guys with a giveaway tomorrow.
Matt: Next time, you can do it then. You guys are ridiculous, thank you so much. Have a wonderful night.
Ashley: Thank you guys so, so much.
Matt: See you next week on Thursday.
Marisha: We love you guys, you're amazing! [dramatic music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role. After a two-week hiatus of our usual gaming schedule at Comic Con and then a fun-filled crazy week with half the party playing games and having fun while me and Marisha were in New Zealand, we're happy to be back. We're happy you guys are here as we continue our adventure going forward. We'll have a lot of really cool things to announce here in a moment, but let's go ahead and get that intro video started. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. All right, this is Critical Role: a show where a bunch of voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. Fun crazy nerds rolling dice and good times. With the adventures of Vox Machina. You're doing all right Travis. Couple quick things: Me and Marisha wanted to say a quick shout out to all of our Critters who came to visit us in Wellington, New Zealand at Armageddon Expo. We had a strong showing of Critters that was really amazing from across the world. And Australia. People could fly over from Australia just to get us to sign their books, so there's a lot of really awesome fan love out there. So you guys are great.
Marisha: Maybe next time all of us could go? You guys should tell them.
Matt: Oh man, a Down Under Kiwi trip for all Critical Role would be a lot of fun. Send your local-- I guess you don't have a congressman, because you're a different country.
Orion: Your "Con-gressman."
Matt: Oh there you go. Orion saved it. Thank you.
Orion: It was there the whole time, Matt. (laughter)
Matt: Disadvantage. All right, so first and foremost, couple things I want to get up here. We had our sub giveaways this evening. For every 50 subs, we give away a signed player's handbook by the cast of Critical Role, a signed photo of the cast. And tonight especially we're also giving away in that package Espionage nail packs, specifically with our fantastic gamer dice on the tips. Espionage Cosmetics were gracious to give these to us, and we will give them to you. Every 50 subs.
Marisha: Awesome. Go follow them on Twitter; I think they're @espionagemakeup. Just look it up. They're awesome.
Matt: Google it. However, we already have a winner, before the show started. That's explodingiggy. So congratulations to explodingiggy. You already got one more to come. The fun and interesting challenge for this evening as we've been made aware, you guys, being the ridiculously amazing people you are. One of you crafted a challenge for yourself. That if we can manage to somehow get to 5,000 subscribers before the end of the show tonight, they will create and send an eight-foot Trinket. Like eight-foot-tall Trinket bear.
Marisha: Yeah which is vague. A little. What's it made out of?
Zac: It's a teddy bear. It's a giant teddy bear.
Laura: And maybe his little paws can be on my shoulder the whole time I play?
Matt: Oh, he would be a perpetual staple of the set. That would be behind you at all times.
Zac: Cool, not difficult at all, guys! Totally not difficult at all!
Marisha: Yes, but we have to get to 5,000 subscribers.
Taliesin: Trojan horse and a suit that they wear. They could sneak themselves onto the stage that way.
Matt: I'll get inside the teddy bear, and I'll act out Trinket during the game. Perfect. That's not going to happen. It might happen. That's if we hit 5000 subscribers, so all your friends you know that watch the show who don't subscribe yet, tell them to. If you know anyone that hasn't seen the show yet, get them on, because a giant eight-foot bear would be pretty much the most ridiculous thing ever.
Marisha: Yeah, I already tweeted #8ftTrinket.
Laura: I saw something subs for bears.
Orion: Nope. Bad idea.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, subs for bears is a whole section of Craigslist you don't want to go to. Or you do, if that's your thing. All right, so. Happy to be back from Comic Con. We had a great panel and great turnout there. Thank you for those who came and those who watched the panel. If you haven't seen it yet, the panel is available on the Geek and Sundry website. You can watch it. And as we all know, last episode we said goodbye temporarily to our fantastic gnome cleric, Pike. She's off in New York shooting awesome television shows, but she's here in spirit.
Liam: It's going to be great.
Laura: It's going to be a good show.
Matt: Also, as a reminder, our charity that we run here for the show is to 826LA. 826LA is a fantastic charity that promotes and teaches creative writing to younger kids between the ages of 8 and 16, I think it was. Somewhere in that range?
Marisha: K through High School.
Matt: K through High School. Fantastic program, and anything you can do to help is much appreciated and awesome. And, Marisha, if you want to go ahead and take this away. We have a new addition to our set coming next week.
Marisha: It's so awesome! I had the absolute pleasure of joining Felicia on the latest episode of The Flog. Go check it out. It's back. I love that show. She wanted to make a neon sign, and she was like, "Let's do a Critical Role sign." Because she's a fan of our show, which is awesome. She's probably watching right now. Love you, Felicia. So this was it, unfortunately. Yes, are we ready to do the honors? Ready? For Vox Machina! (cheering)
Marisha: So yeah, that's probably going to be up on our set next week, blessing us with its rose-colored glow. Go watch, if you want to see how we made it. We got this awesome tutorial. It's cool. You can go and learn how to make neon signs yourself.
Orion: And it's all science-y too.
Marisha: It's all science-y. It's totally nerdy awesome. Yeah, krypton. But yes. Here we go. All right, say bye-bye to the sign for now.
Matt: It'll be back.
Zac: Hey, Matt. We already have another 50 winner. (laughter)
Zac: It was SonicaMoto.
Matt: SonicaMoto is our new winner, already. Congratulations, SonicaMoto.
Liam: We need less than 300 subs for that bear. I think we can do that. I think that's pretty likely.
Marisha: You get nail wraps.
Matt: You get a bear behind us for the rest of the show.
Marisha: You get a player's handbook signed by us.
Taliesin: Encourage this. Oh no, encourage this. (laughs) I encourage bear.
Orion: (laughing) I do encourage... Nope. Okay. I am a trained comedian. That is not a thing.
Matt: Last but not least, before we get started, we do have one guest in the studio who's been watching for a bit tonight. Our good friend, Jor is over here from quite a distance. We met him at Comic Con.
Travis: Put your head right here.
Matt: A fantastically talented artist. For those of you who have seen my profile picture on Twitter or Facebook, the really amazing artwork of me as a dungeon master, this is the man that did it. Where can they see your work online?
Jore: I have a Facebook--
Marisha: Drop down.
Orion: Drop down.
Jore: There's a Facebook page. You can search J-O-R-E on Facebook, and that's probably me. If you see Matt's picture, then that's me.
Travis: And my Grog raging one with blood covering his face. (growls)
Matt: Go ahead and have a seat.
Marisha: Speaking of amazing artists. We want to do a shout out.
Orion: There's a couple more announcements. This one.
Marisha: This one, yes.
Orion: Our wonderful artists. Kit Buss and...
Marisha: Kit Buss and Wendy Doodles. Wendy Green. They're awesome friends of ours and fans of the show. They do amazing work. They've done a lot of the character work that you've seen, and they're going to be doing a lot more, and we just wanted to really appreciate them and show them some love, so yes. Go follow.
Orion: Our artists. As Laura would say.
Laura: That's good. That's very see-able.
Marisha: Okay. Is it see-able now? I want to make sure. Go follow them. They deserve it.
Matt: They've been really amazing. I know many of you have asked about what's the backstory to Vox Machina? What's that history before the stream started? We're working on something. It may take a little bit, but one or more of those artists may be involved. But when we do have that available to you, it should be really cool, and I hope you'll enjoy it. Anyway.
Orion: Oh, also, since this is fantasy, I'd like to announce that my show went pretty well that's on Mondays, 7-10 on this channel.
Taliesin: You have a show? What kind of show is it?
Orion: Ooh, I'm glad you asked, Taliesin. It is me and Jessica Merizan playing Final Fantasy XIV. We just found each other in the same world. There's a free company we're going to start. You can come on and join if you're already subscribing. We do giveaways for subscribers who are watching and active in the chat during the show for stuff with Square Enix. It's all good times. I'm happy to say that Taliesin, man, Thancred is still in this version of Final Fantasy XIV, so you can check his work out too, and he's awesome. The funny thing is I didn't know your character was like a badass. So I was listening to him and I was like "Oh fuck". Yeah, he's great. So check it out. Every Monday 7-10 on the channel.
Matt: There you go. Also all you League fans out there, I hope you're enjoying your new Bilgewater update. Anyone else have any announcements they want to make?
Laura: Oh we're going to be at Otakon this weekend in Baltimore. Come say hi! We're leaving right after this.
Taliesin: I've got a tiny announcement, which is Ant-Man the movie is really good. If you like Ant-Man the movie, you can hear me as Ant-Man, being not nearly as funny, in the pinball game. I'm not nearly as funny as Paul Rudd.
Orion: Oh pish posh.
Zac: Matt? We've got another giveaway.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: (singing) Eight-foot Trinket, here we come!
Zac: OhGreatLampShade.
Matt: OhGreatLampShade is the winner of our next giveaway.
Liam: OhGreatLampShade, we thank thee for thy mercy.
Matt: Congratulations. Player's Handbook signed, picture signed, and nail wraps. And a step closer to giant eight-foot Trinket.
Travis: Don't do it. No more.
Liam: Are you sad that you will no longer be the tallest member of our group?
Laura: I feel like we're just delaying starting because we're going to have to face that fact that Pike isn't with us as soon as we start.
Travis: And Scanlan's still in the pooper. He's not really.
Marisha: Yeah, where is Scanlan?
Liam: He's shitting on a bed somewhere. It's his thing.
Matt: Is he on his way?
Laura: He's on his way, yeah.
Matt: Well when he arrives... In the meantime--
Travis: Where are you going?
Orion: I'm going to get something to drink.
Laura: He's getting a drink.
Matt: Okay. As Tiberius has an aneurysm and falls to the ground--
Travis: Yes! I go over and provide very vigorous CPR. No mouth to mouth, just that hand part.
Matt: Yeah. All right, make a death save.
Orion: What? Ow! (cheering)
Orion: And I brought Scanlan with me.
Marisha: (laughs) Like a trailing fart.
Travis: (laughing) "Like a trailing fart."
Orion: That couldn't have worked out better.
Sam: Oh really?
Laura: What is he wearing?
Travis: "Asp Hole?" What does it say? "Where you" what?
Sam: It's the Asp Hole.
Liam: Asp. Hole.
Sam: It's just a bar that I like to go to. Down at the Asp Hole.
Liam: And I got shit for talking about bears today.
Matt: No, I'm pretty sure that's somewhere in Emon. (laughter)
Travis: And we'll find it.
Sam: Yeah, we'll find the Asp Hole.
Matt: Yeah, so let's actually start this game, guys. Thank you for being patient with our intro here. We've been gone for two weeks. We have a lot to talk about, so thank you for letting us get that out. So picking up where we left off, the party completed the venture of taking the horn of Orcus to a place of safety and sealing it away, hopefully for eternity, with the help of Lady Kima, to the scalebearers. After heading to the basement of the Platinum Sanctuary in the city of Vasselheim, they've succeeded to do so. Vasselheim, which is a distant city to the far northwest of the continent they're used to. This city is a very devout, religion-based city, and currently considered the oldest bastion of civilization in the known civilized world. After taking a skyship across the ocean to get there, sealing the Horn, you guys also discover upon doing so that the ruins, long-forgotten ruins, of what appears to be an ancient temple to Sarenrae were recently discovered. While Sarenrae does not have a strong following in this city, the few that are trying to raise it ask for Pike's help to stay back and help build it and bring it to its former glory. Hopefully to re-establish a basis of worship in this city, and she decided to help these folks. The party then steps away from the ruins of the tower, sad but understanding of the circumstance.
Liam: Perhaps we could sit on a nearby rooftop and watch Pike work.
Laura: Just for the next eight months?
Travis: I'd be all right with that.
Marisha: That's not creepy at all.
Matt: Critical Role all of a sudden becomes the greatest grass-watching game of all time. As you all stand there, you have to decide your next course of action. You stand in the muddy road, taking in the cold dusk air as the sun slowly sets to the west. Now, this area of the city has a vastly different feel than the Platinum Sanctuary. In the haste to make it to the ruin, you've passed out of the section that seems to be under Bahamut's watch and into a different area. In this area, most of the buildings are reinforced with ruddy iron plates. Plumes of smoke rise up from a handful of heavy smokestacks. You can see over the rooftops in the distance toward the center of this section what looks like a massive dark red statue of a muscular bearded man.
Liam: The beauty of this game is I have no idea what the shit we're going to do right now.
Sam: So we're standing outside the place where we just left Pike?
Matt: Yeah, the ruins of the tower.
Marisha: So we're essentially standing in the middle of a town being like, now what?
Laura: Should we go look at that statue, then?
Taliesin: I want to see if there's an inscription.
Matt: If you'd like to.
Taliesin: Yes, that would be lovely.
Sam: While he's doing that, Scanlan is feeling still terribly sad about leaving Pike. So overcome with emotion that he must step into the ruins one last time, just to see the place where she's going to be for the next several months, years. And before I do so, I drink one of my potions that I bought from what's-his-butt. Gilmore, the glorious Gilmore. Yes.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I don't know how it works, but I'm going to drink it anyway.
Matt: Okay, you drink it.
Sam: Okay, I drink it. I go inside the ruins and look around and touch some of the walls and look at the stonework and everything. I want to see where she's going to be so I know she's safe. Overcome with a little bit of verklempt emotion, I shed a single tear.
Matt: As you quietly take this moment to yourself amongst the ruins, you can hear the clattering of stonework as the small band of Sarenrae worshipers are now being helped by Pike, who's gathered them into a plan as to how to remove and restore portions of the building that are currently visible from the dirt and earth that it's embedded in. Hearing her voice echo through the hallway, it's a very comforting sense. You feel a rumbling in your stomach.
Sam: I feel uncomfortable. It must be the emotion.
Matt: It's probably the emotion.
Sam: I find a side chamber or a little nook. Somewhere where I can have some privacy.
Matt: Okay. You find your way back towards the makeshift wooden plank stairway and there was a small alcove not far from there within the earth wall that looks to be relatively private. There's little to no light, and it does have a view of the current ruin.
Sam: I say a little prayer, and I take a big dump on the floor.
Travis: (laughing) No you do not!
Sam: Well, my stomach was rumbling.
Travis: (laughing) You're in a temple, man!
Laura: Pike's probably going to have to be the one to clean that up!
Sam: Sometimes it just affects me. I have weak nerves. And as I'm squatting, I hum to myself. (singing) How do I say goodbye to what we almost had?
Orion: This is not romantic at all, you know that, right?
Matt: Welcome back, guys.
Marisha: I've missed you guys so much.
Matt: As you finish your business, you step away from the alcove back to the stairway. The contents of the potion seem to have had some effect, as the remnants of what you leave behind have a very soft blue glowing hue to them.
Sam: I left a magic dump.
Travis: Do we need to collect the dump?
Sam: Nope. We should leave the dump.
Laura: Are you going to be able to see through the dump?
Travis: He's covering his face. I think we need the blue shit.
Marisha: Can you cast Detect Magic on the poo?
Sam: It's already magical poo.
Orion: Are we there? We're not there.
Laura: We're not there. It's just Scanlan.
Orion: Okay. So he's just shitting.
Laura: He's just leaving it.
Sam: So I leave and rejoin my fellows, wiping the tear from my eye and the poo from my bottom.
Orion: Well, I love you Ashley. I do.
Marisha: This is what happens when we don't have any direction.
Travis: But what's the purpose of the potion? To make your poo blue?
Sam: I took a potion that will let me see through my poo and check in on Pike from time to time.
Laura: Will she realize you can see her through the poop?
Sam: I certainly hope not.
Laura: Wouldn't that be great if she could just talk to you through the poo?
Liam: Why aren't the priests going to shovel that shit up?
Sam: As long as some of my cellular remains are there, I might be able to see a little bit into the room.
Liam: What's "cellular?"
Sam: (laughs) It's poo.
Liam: Oh, you mean little flakes of poo.
Matt: For the sake of brevity in story progression here, and to dissuade a 30-minute conversation about Scanlan's excrement. After you've rejoined the party, the sun is now set. The cold air is beginning to really sweep in through the streets. The clouds overhead begin to slowly rumble and you can hear distant thunder, and you get the feeling due to the moisture in the air, you're not too far away from a rain.
Laura: Should we bunk for the night before we head out in the morning?
Taliesin: I say we head to the ship.
Travis: Wasn't there a guy with a red beard we were supposed to go see?
Laura: I wanted to wander over to the statue while Scanlan was dumping.
Sam: I feel great right now, by the way.
Taliesin: Finding some relief in the situation.
Orion: Damn it. Just when I was starting to like you, gnome.
Liam: Moving on. Let's go take a look at this statue.
Matt: (chuckling) All right.
Sam: It's magic poo!
Liam: Don't change, Scanlan.
Matt: As you guys make your way through the center of this district--
Laura: I feel like it's dark now.
Matt: Yeah. You get the sense that this area, most of the people that live in this area are more rough-and-tumble than the already-rough people who live in Vasselheim, from what you've encountered. The buildings themselves all seem to be reinforced with iron plates and it looks like there is a very heavy trade in metalwork, and a lot of the construction of anything metallic appears to be coming through or from this portion of the town. As you approach closer to this statue, it's not just a statue. You see it is actually sitting atop what looks to be a large, blocky fortress-like temple. Unlike the Platinum Sanctuary, which is a very beautiful but simple array, this one has a crenellated top to each of these walled structures. You can see braziers blasting flame every 20 or so feet along the top of it. You can see, as you approach the front of this, there are two giant stone doorways with steps that look up to it and what looks to be two gargantuan war horns that spiral along the sides and then open up outward towards the entire city in front of it. I'm going to ask you guys to make a religion check, if you could.
Travis: Oh, I got this.
Orion: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Yeah! Natural 20.
Taliesin: Boom!
Orion: Boom!
Orion: That's so cool.
Travis: Natural four.
Taliesin: Because we know our shit.
Matt: As you guys begin your approach, even in the darkness, you can see the figure, this human-like man. Barrel-chested. Massive muscles. What looks almost like iron bracers around his wrists. He is carved or sculpted from solid iron or plates that have been put together from some sort of iron initial structure. The beard is long and goes to about mid-chest. He carries in one hand this long, thick shortsword and has furs and leathers about his legs and midsection. You recognize this to be a very hefty depiction of the deity Kord.
Laura: Kord?
Sam: Kord?
Travis: Kord?
Travis: I admire his beard.
Matt: It is a beard worth admiring.
Marisha: How might one spell Kord?
Matt: K-O-R-D.
Marisha: Simple. I like that.
Sam: He's a god of some sort?
Matt: He is, indeed.
Taliesin: Tell us of this Kord. Try to find your notes of this Kord.
Laura: He's a dwarven god?
Matt: Not dwarven.
Liam: A man. Human.
Matt: Kord is essentially a deity of warfare, combat, and storms. A god that has been long-worshipped by tribal cultures from long past that enjoyed the essence of battle and challenge and combat.
Liam: Did you say storms, Tiberius? War and combat and storms?
Orion: Storms, yes. Storms and winds.
Matt: And quickly, the motif of this section of the town comes into play. This, you assume, is the portion of the city that is dedicated to the temple of Kord, this being the structure before you.
Marisha: Does it seem to be a central theme across the whole town? This town worships Kord?
Matt: No. You've only really been to two sections. The first one you were brought to was primarily under the worship of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon.
Marisha: Okay. (giggles)
Taliesin: Getting the giggles out.
Travis: Did you look at it? Did you use your fancy eyes to look at it?
Taliesin: Well, my question is, is this a temple? If it is a temple to Kord, is this a place of battle? Is this somewhere where people go watch battles and fighting?
Matt: From the exterior, and it is a closed-off temple, it looks like a large, blocky, obstinate fortress that is nearly impenetrable from the way it's constructed and reinforced. You don't know what's inside of it.
Liam: There's a big gate or door at the front?
Matt: Two large iron doors about 20 feet tall that are currently shut. It's about five or six steps getting up to it.
Laura: And it's nighttime?
Matt: It is nighttime currently, yes.
Liam: Are there any citizens out right now, or are we alone in the dark?
Matt: As it has gotten to dusk, it's thinned out a little bit, but there are a few individuals walking by, carrying pickaxes over one shoulder and passing by.
Liam: I'd like to walk over to the nearest one and ask.
Sam: To who?
Liam: To a passerby.
Matt: The two gentlemen, one's in his mid-20s. The one that turns to you initially probably looks a little older than that. Late 30s, grizzled. Shaven, but the five-o'clock shadow has definitely kicked in. Longer, tousled hair, dirt on the face. Simple clothing, pickaxe over his shoulder and what looks like a leather belt that carries other tools.
Sam: These are dwarves?
Matt: These are human. "Yes? I heard you calling."
Liam: Excuse me, good sir. My friend over here, the dragonborn. He seems to think that this is some sort of temple or edifice to the god Kord. I just want to know, is he correct?
Matt: "Is this your first time in the Braving Grounds?"
Orion: In Dwarvish, I say--
Sam: They're not dwarves.
Matt: You can still say it, though. (laughter)
Liam: Yes, absolutely! This is our first time. We literally just rolled into Vasselheim. What can you tell us of this? It's an impressive structure.
Matt: The younger gentleman next to him, similarly dressed, begins to speak up. He puts his hand up and goes, "The Braving Grounds is the area of this city that is built around the worship of the great god Kord. His protection and strength he bestows upon those who live for the sake of challenge. To prove oneself better with each passing day, that is the basis of the Braving Grounds."
Laura: So it's like a battleground?
Matt: "It's a community that when called to battle can definitely defend itself. What you see before you--" He looks up at the giant structure. "This is called the Trial Forge. It is the oldest known temple to Kord and has been built and rebuilt for many, many hundreds of years."
Orion: (chuckles) Hence forge, right?
Liam: And does one need to be a priest or cleric of this faith to challenge oneself? Or can anyone--
Travis: Worship?
Matt: "Anyone is able to worship what deity they wish in this town. We have an understanding. If you're looking for a tussle, what you're looking for is the Crucible."
Travis: Yes. What else can you tell us about this Crucible?
Matt: "The Crucible is a fighting pit. I mean, there is a sacred arena within the temple, but that's reserved for very, very special occasions. If you're looking to just get your fight on and punch someone in the face, the Crucible is what you're looking for." He spits off to the side and points a little ways down the roadway.
Marisha: I think Grog wants to go.
Matt: "Beyond that way, you'll see a tavern known as the Bellows' Respite."
Sam: Bellows' Respite.
Matt: "One of the finer inns you'll find in the Braving Grounds proper, but I take it if you walk that direction, you'll see the Crucible before too long."
Laura: Have you ever fought in the Crucible?
Matt: "Me? No. Too busy. Too many people better fighters than me in there. I'll just stick to the mines."
Marisha: Are these battles to the death?
Matt: "Nah. These are battles of honor. Death belongs in a true war. Mind you, there have been some folks unfortunately who may have fallen to a hit on the head too hard, and that's understandable. But the purpose of Kord is not necessarily to smite your foes unless they've given you damn good reason. Other than that, contest of strength is how we live."
Orion: A friendly sparring match is what we're about.
Liam: That's this neighborhood of Vasselheim, not the city as a whole, just in these parts?
Matt: "For the most part. I mean, we have members of our community that are Bastions and guard the whole city, but we tend to keep our own--" (off-screen crash)
Matt: "Pardon my friend. He's clumsy." And the other gentleman picks up his tools and is like, "Sorry."
Travis: Have you been to this Crucible often, and if so, is there a champion or a favorite that you've seen or know of?
Matt: "We have some people come in and out. Probably best to ask around the Crucible, to be honest. I've seen some people take some serious beatings down there. I haven't kept much attention to it. I haven't the money to sling around it."
Laura: The money? Wait, it costs money?
Matt: "What, you think there's going to be fights in a pit and no one's betting on it? Welcome to Vasselheim, my dear."
Travis: We're going to be rich!
Orion: What if there are two people fighting the town does not know?
Matt: "I don't know. Take it up at the Crucible."
Travis: How far is the Crucible from here?
Matt: "Keep walking. You'll see it."
Laura: Keep walking? Thank you, friend.
Matt: "My pleasure. Kord's strength to you." And he keeps on walking.
Travis: Kord's strength.
Sam: Kord's strength to you.
Matt: No, core strength.
Laura: Sit-ups. Crunches.
Travis: Core strength to you. Namaste.
Matt: You guys walk beyond the Trial Forge, back towards the path where you came off to the side on the left and you can see most of the buildings, their internal lighting is very low; you can see most folks either go to bed at this evening or at least keep a very low visual profile from their abodes. However, lights are blazing from the interior of this three-story inn. The Bellows' Respite is definitely a rowdy place. You can hear already the shouts and music streaming from the interior of it. You gather that, while there are a lot of people inside you can see at the windows and openings to the inside of the tavern, there is a large group gathered in the middle of the thoroughfare just outside of it. Looks like a circle of individuals that are all shouting and screaming over each other, big fist-pumps to the air, some folks are angrily throwing their coin purses to the ground.
Travis: Like a kid getting too close to an amusement park, I take off running.
Matt: Grog starts running up, bounding up the way, you can see the actual--
Marisha: Grog? Grog, not too far ahead!
Travis: Okay!
Liam: I don't start running, but I'm following behind him and I take out my Keen Dagger and just start sort of dancing it across my hand as I follow after him.
Matt: David Bowie and the glass orb.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Orion: Is there a registry or something like that?
Matt: Actually, as you approach you can see there is no registry, there is quite literally a pit in the ground. It's a 15, 20-foot dip. It is a carved-out pit, maybe no more than I'd say 25, 30 feet across. And there is no ladder, there is no step going down, there's just two people in there beating the ever-living crap out of each other and a crowd of people gathering around. You do see what looks to be two very well-dressed gentlemen that are in the process of collecting and paying out, and you approach just as the final hit takes to this gentleman's jaw, this tattooed individual, you can see bloodied in the face, nose broken, teeth knocked out, this poor, poor human fellow gets knocked clean onto the ground. You can see standing over his body this extremely built, aggressive, looks like another human female with her hair pulled back in a very tight ponytail just spits on his body, turns around and wipes the blood from the front of her face. Snaps her fingers, and you can see folks bring a ladder and lean it over the side and she climbs up the ladder as everyone cheers on her way up.
Marisha: Before we get up to the crowd, I transform into Minxie. I'm going Minxie. And I catch up to Grog. Going Minxie.
Travis: Oh, they don't like magic.
Marisha: Did they see me? I'm trying to do it stealthily before it happens.
Matt: You can make a stealth check if you like. You do know through the discussions that it's arcane magic that seems to be the shunned element in this town. As it is a town of worship, divine magic for the most part seems okay.
Marisha: Everyone saw me. It's fine.
Matt: Everyone would've seen you if they weren't currently enraptured by the chaos. Those who did notice probably didn't seem to care much other than a giant tiger now walks up to them.
Travis: Can I grab the nearest person near me, turn whoever's shoulder that is, and go, who is she?
Matt: As you pull the shoulder around, you can see a rather portly human fellow, balding on top with long Benjamin Franklin-looking hair. Very nice robes, turns. "Are you new to this town, then, is it?"
Travis: Yeah, very new.
Matt: "That's the Siren. The Siren."
Orion: I approach and saunter next to Grog.
Travis: The Siren?
Matt: "She's the one you bet on. Trust me on that." As he walks over to, you can see another one of these gentlemen, very well-dressed, hair slicked back. Tall, thin human in very, very fine purple robes, collects some people's money, begins giving out a few things, pulls out a notebook with a little charter he's in the middle of putting notes in.
Laura: Hello. How would we enter a new fighter into this pit?
Matt: "Well, actually, that was the last fighter scheduled for the evening."
Travis: Be a pity not to have one more.
Matt: "You wish to fight?"
Travis: Wish? It's more like an itch. A need.
Matt: He puts his arm out and the crowd steps back a bit and he takes a good, long head-to-toe up-and-down look at you, walks around from side to side inspecting you. He gets a little bit close and reaches out, not even asking, he starts grabbing the side of your arms.
Marisha: I start growling a little bit.
Travis: Oh yeah, watch out.
Matt: "Calm down, kitty, calm down." Steps back. "Well, it's not too late. What caliber of fighter do you consider yourself?"
Travis: Caliber?
Matt: "Who do you want to fight?"
Sam: Who are the options?
Orion: Could he fight anyone?
Travis: This is my friend, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm more of his manager than his friend, actually. Hi, I'm Scanlan.
Matt: "Pleasure."
Sam: Pleasure's all mine. My brute over here, who can he battle, what are his options?
Matt: "This late in the evening--"
Liam: I'll fight him.
Sam: Excuse me?
Liam: I said I'll fight him.
Matt: "I apologize. If you're going to have someone enter the arena worth betting on, they have to go up against one of our proven fighters first. However, once your friend here gets his face beaten in, you're more than welcome to join him in the ring thereafter."
Travis: I haven't laughed so hard in my entire life. Face beaten, he says. Face beaten!
Matt: "You're mighty confident, aren't you?"
Travis: It's my middle-- I only have one name. (laughter)
Travis: If I did.
Sam: It would be that.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, all bets begin at 100 gold pieces."
Laura: 100 gold? Is that all?
Matt: "You can increase the bet, if you'd like."
Laura: I'd love to.
Matt: "What would you like to bet?"
Laura: 500 gold on this one right here.
Matt: "Is she the only one betting?"
Sam: She bets for all of us.
Liam: I'll put a thousand down right now that I can beat the big guy.
Sam: You mean Grog?
Liam: Of my own money. Yes.
Laura: You can't fight him yet!
Liam: I can't? Rules are meant to be bent and stretched. Am I right?
Matt: "You're going to put your money down between your friends to fight your friends."
Liam: It's a contentious relationship.
Matt: His eyes have already wandered from your face, he says, "500 gold on the goliath. Do we hear anything else?" A few other individuals step up and start telling him like, "50 gold down." "It's a hundred-gold minimum." "100 gold."
Sam: Who is he fighting?
Travis: We don't know yet.
Sam: We have to bet before we see the meat?
Matt: "Unproven fighters with a grandiose sense of self-ability enjoy the surprise."
Taliesin: So what sort of odds are we talking about, then?
Matt: "For this one, based on your height, reach, strength and arrogance, I'd put you at four-to-one against."
Laura: Four-to-one.
Travis: Okay.
Orion: It's okay, Grog. He doesn't know that you've beaten up a lot of people.
Sam: Don't tell him.
Orion: Oh, right.
Travis: I've got this scar here. How does he think I got it?
Sam: Those are fair odds, we'll take that.
Matt: "All right. 500 gold. Is this all I'm hearing?"
Travis: A hundred of my own gold on me.
Matt: "600 gold."
Taliesin: Hold on.
Sam: I'll bet 50 gold against him. We have to hedge!
Matt: "100 gold is the minimum bet."
Sam: Well then, I can't afford it. I'm sorry. We have to hedge.
Laura: You're going to get it, Grog. You're going to do it. I have faith in you.
Orion: I'll put 500 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Oh my god. We're going to lose all our money on Grog. No we're not.
Matt: "All right. Last bets, last bets!" Everyone starts putting in their cash. A couple folks frenzy over, you see a couple guys--
Liam: I put a thousand on the goliath.
Sam: What?
Liam: 1,000 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Sing a song. Do you use arcane magic or do you use divine magic? Just sing a song, Scanlan.
Matt: "It seems your friends are confident in your ability. Let's hope we can put their money where your mouth is."
Travis: In my mouth?
Sam: It's an expression.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: I brush against Grog. And I cast Stoneskin on him.
Sam: Will that show?
Marisha: Does that show?
Matt: You cannot cast a spell when you're in beast form.
Liam: Plus, kitty, you did that once and it didn't work out so well.
Orion: As I notice what the cat's doing, I'm standing right next to him, so I do it with my hand instead.
Liam: You got caught with your hand in the cookie jar.
Matt: As you begin casting the spell, immediately the guy says, "You do that one more time and you're all disqualified from ever competing."
Orion: Okay. I'm sorry, I just thought I'd give my friend an advantage.
Taliesin: He'll be fine. Look at him. He'll be fine.
Orion: Yes, I have two eyes.
Matt: At which point, the other individual whispers into the initial bookie's ear. "Yes. Retrieve him, please."
Travis: Him?
Matt: "For this fight, we have a newcomer. A newcomer who is named--"
Travis: Should I have a fancy name?
Sam: Yeah, you should have a fancy fighting name.
Orion: Grog the Destroyer.
Travis: Phillip. (laughter)
Orion: No, that's like the opposite of what I said.
Matt: "Phillip, the newcomer, has decided to hedge his and his friends' savings that he, upon what I can only imagine is his first arrival into Vasselheim, to get his face pummeled by our current standing champion: Kern the Hammer." At this point, the crowd immediately goes quiet and whispering, you can see a few individuals now walking over, ushering this man, looks like he just stepped out of the nearby mines, he's got coal dirt on his face. When I say man, it is a six-foot-six, very visibly half-orc gentleman, built like some sort of thick-ass building you've walked past coming through here. Bald head, big, bristly mustache, and a face that's obviously taken a beating over the years. He walks up nonchalantly, just wearing a simple tattered tunic, leather pants and boots. You can see him like cracking his fingers. He looks over to the side at one of the guys. "They better have pulled me out of work for a good reason. Who am I up against?"
Travis: I envy your facial hair.
Matt: "I envy your currently unbroken face. Currently."
Travis: I'm going to kill him. That's a rule, right? I'm not supposed to kill him?
Laura: You're not supposed to kill him. No killing allowed in this?
Matt: The bookie steps forward. "No killing. Fighting until one falls."
Travis: What happens if they start to cry?
Matt: "Then you keep punching."
Travis: I like it.
Matt: "No weapons. No armor. Fists against fists until one of them falls. Lower the ladder." As they put the ladder down into the arena. You can see the orc gentleman pulls out a small, enclosed, almost like a wineskin, like an iron wineskin, unscrews it and drinks it all down.
Travis: Kern the Shithead does?
Matt: Yeah. Puts it down, throws it to the ground, with a ting-ting-ting.
Laura: Wait, what was in that? Was that wine?
Matt: "It is customary to drink before a fight."
Travis: Can I have my cask of ale, real fast?
Laura: Wait, does anybody have a Potion of Stoneskin or anything good?
Matt: As everyone gathers around, you can now see people are coming back out of the tavern to gather around the outskirts of the Crucible. Grog gets lowered down the ladder.
Sam: Oh, he's already down?
Matt: Well, Grog, what else do you want to do before you prepare?
Travis: What do I want to do to prepare?
Matt: Well, if you haven't gone down yet. The other guy has come down the ladder.
Travis: I took a drink from the cask of ale--
Sam: Wait, I come over to Grog and I just look in his eyes and I say, listen, you've got this, I can't give you anything else, but you've got this, man. And I also very quickly take out my Potion of Fire Giant Strength and I slip it to him before he takes a drink of his ale. I don't know if I hand it to him.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: Okay. (squeaks) Nope.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sam: Oh, that's a six. So eight.
Matt: All right. As you walk towards him and begin looking in his eyes, as you begin to pull out the flask, a hand grasps your wrist. And you glance over and you can see one of the burly human gentlemen that escorted Kern the Hammer in is currently grasping your arm and says, "I'm watching you. One more try and I'll throw you in there. We'll go down ourselves."
Sam: It's for my asthma. I promise.
Matt: Shoves you back away, still clutching it. Looks to you, Grog, up into your eyes. "You going to climb down and fight or you going to be a pussy about it?"
Travis: That's a really good question. I would like to rage. And I jump in the fucking pit.
Matt: You leap over the side, completely avoiding the ladder, both feet hitting the ground with a heavy thud sound. The packed dust kicks up around your feet.
Sam: Come on, Phillip! Kick his ass!
Matt: At which point, the other orc's finished cracking his knuckles, just kind of wipes the spit off the edge of his chin, gives you a look (growls) and you see a bit of foam toss from the side of his mouth.
Liam: Nobody fucks with Phil.
Laura: I can smell you from here, Kern!
Matt: Go ahead and roll initiative.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20! All righty.
Orion: Oh shit, you got a 20?
Matt: All right. You actually probably would've landed there from the run. First round starts. You're up.
Travis: I would like to cast Intimidating Presence on Fern the Fucknut.
Matt: Kern. But it's better if Grog gets it wrong.
Travis: He never gets it right. Phillip, thank you.
Matt: Phillip. All right, so. Use your action to use Intimidating Presence? All right, so what's the DC on that?
Travis: Saving throw, 13.
Matt: 13. That will unfortunately not succeed. As you glare at him with an angry Phillip glare, your bellow echoing through the bottom of this Crucible, which in itself forms a very interesting acoustic amplifying of your yell, you can see Kern on the other side is looking at you with the same intense, burning rage.
Sam: Wait, that's your whole move?
Matt: And you can move if you like.
Travis: I'll let him come to me.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as you stand there waiting with fists at your side, Kern takes his turn. You can see he begins to circle a little bit around you as he begins to spiral about with an unnerving speed, dashes forward, fists come swinging, one, two. Both strikes coming towards you. That is a 19.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: This is all fisticuffs. That is a 24.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And as a bonus action, using his rage, a third attack. That is a 21.
Travis: That definitely hits.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Would you like to use my spiky die?
Sam: Don't do it. You got this, Phillip.
Matt: The first one does eight points of damage. The second one does seven points of damage. As one fist clips you across the chin, the other one goes right into your abdominals. You're still tensing and you feel the impact but you just take the sheer weight of the force and flex and angrily stare him down in return.
Sam: Phillip, do that thing where you move your pecs up and down! (laughter)
Matt: That's going to be a gif. And as you now see Kern prepares for a second bout, it's your turn, Grog. What are you doing?
Travis: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. I would like to start with a giant front-kick forward and then hammer him down.
Matt: All right. Go for the first strike.
Travis: Shit, that misses. Two.
Matt: That's probably going to miss.
Travis: Yep. That's a 19.
Matt: 19 is going to hit.
Travis: And also 19.
Matt: Both hit, yep. So you go to kick with the front kick, and he dodges to the side. However, you still, using your giant haymaker, the inertia clips him across the face. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: That is a 16.
Matt: You're not fighting with your axe. This is with your fists. So rolling 1d4 and then half that.
Sam: Half that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You only get half damage of a d4?
Matt: Yep. But you still add your strength modifier.
Liam: So these guys both potentially have like a hundred hit points.
Travis: Six. It was four, and then half of that is two, plus my modifier, which is four, so six.
Matt: Correct, so six damage. All righty.
Travis: And then four.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: This is what I use? For my fists? I got big-ass fists! I got tattoos and shit on them. I never shower, they fucking stink!
Taliesin: You could do more damage if you hit him with the die, because it's sharp, so you'd actually get more damage with the d4.
Matt: All right. So your modifier is plus-- it's plus three for the modifier?
Travis: No, my modifier's plus four.
Matt: Okay, and then what did you roll on that?
Travis: Two. Minus two.
Matt: Two, then five total.
Travis: Oh, five, yeah.
Matt: There you go. All righty, cool. So you hit him across the face and you hit him to the other side. He comes back, aligns his chin, and you can see he's now stooping in for some sort of an uppercut as he slips to the side a little bit with a sidestep. That will be a 25. A 20. And a one. So what's your AC?
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, so both the first two hit. As he comes low for a full-on uppercut, hitting you for, that would be six points of damage (whack) under the chin. As you're currently reeling from the impact, he crouches down and is going to go for a knee to the middle of your groin. That is another six points of damage (whack) right in the Phillip junk. You instinctively give out a (grunts) from the impact. After that point, he comes up and it looks like he tries to go for some sort of a pile-drive grapple, and you instinctively kick off of him and his third attack is completely wasted. It's now your go.
Travis: No one fucks with Phillip Jr. I would like to bull rush and try and tackle him, and if it succeeds, I'd like to headbutt him on the ground.
Matt: Okay, okay. It's an action to do that, so you can use your bonus action to attempt--
Travis: And I would only get two attacks, right?
Matt: You only get one with this, technically. It's an action to grapple.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Travis: No, that's even better. 22.
Matt: 22. Yeah, you slam into him, knock him to the ground, and you're now on top of him. He's currently considered grappled, and you can go ahead and attempt your headbutt.
Travis: Say hi! (boosh) That's a lot. 24.
Matt: 24? Yeah, definitely. So go ahead and roll damage on the same 1d4.
Travis: 1d4? It's my head!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Your head is so puny.
Travis: It's got tattoos on it. One and a half. Oh. One and a half plus my strength, right?
Matt: So if it's three or four it's considered two. So six? All right. So as you tackle him to the ground and he's trying to pull you off, you reach up, (wham) just slam your forehead directly into the center of his face. As you pull back you can already see the blood streak off the front of your head as his nose is smushed even further into his gnarled facade. As you pull back, instead of pain, he's laughing. (laughs) As it comes to his turn, he's not attempting to break grapple. He's going to reach up and grab you and attempt to headbutt you in return.
Travis: I like it.
Matt: That's going to be a 21. A 23. And a 19. All right, that's a six, seven damage. So total of 13 damage. As he reaches up and slams you, slams you again. And as you start backing up, he goes to slam you a third time, and you catch his head in the middle of your mitt, and he's now face-to-face with you, just like (snarls). You guys are both snarling at each other like two rabid beasts. It's your go.
Travis: I would like to keep his head right where I have it and take my elbow and drive it down into the bridge of his nose. So that's 25?
Matt: 25 hits.
Travis: 22?
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 17.
Matt: 17 does miss. All right. So go ahead and roll damage for the next two strikes.
Travis: With this thing again? Six.
Matt: Six, all righty.
Travis: It's hard to get above a six. And six.
Matt: Six, nice. So as you hold him down, his face, (wham). Head goes, cracks against the ground of the Crucible. As he starts picking his head up again, you drill back again, (wham) hit him a second time. This time, you can see now. His nose was already busted before. Now it's nearly concave. It's like he didn't have a nose before and there's just a bloody void where it once was. He's still smiling in a weird, twisted way. He seems to be enjoying this almost as much as you. You go down for the third one, and this time he reaches up and grabs your elbow. He's going to take his turn to attempt to break your grapple as his action. Go ahead and roll either an athletics or an acrobatics check.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12? All right. He kicks you up back onto your feet, and as he does, he kip-ups onto his feet, as well. Looks at you with a smile, wipes the snot and blood from the front of his face, licks it off his hand, and with that same hand he rears back, almost like he's winding up for a punch, and then just kicks you right in the center of your stomach.
Travis: I like the feint, I like the feint.
Matt: That's 22. Yeah, that'll hit. That is eight points of damage.
Orion: He's fucking strong.
Laura: You suck, Korn!
Matt: That ends his turn now, you're up, Grog. You're both now standing face-to-face again, you're reeling from the kick to the breadbasket.
Travis: You hit me with the knuckle you fucking licked. So I'd like to jump forward and throw my knee forward and at the last minute pull it back and throw my fist in a Superman punch.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes, fuck you, 19.
Matt: 19 just barely hits.
Travis: And I'll follow it over with a left-right. (boom, boom)
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Are you still raging?
Travis: 21. Oh yeah, frenzied, so I get three. And 22.
Matt: All hit.
Travis: Outstanding. Watch me roll a six.
Sam: (whispers) Should we do something?
Liam: Have an ale. And collect the money.
Sam: I feel like we should do something.
Travis: 16, total.
Matt: Nice. (whack, whack) You first jumped, hit him in the face. As he stumbles backward, use the inertia to slam him again with the same fist in the face and then turn around with a full-on haymaker to the side of the temple. (whack) As you can see, there's a spray of blood and spittle across the, you guys are starting to push towards the back wall of the Crucible, and he actually staggers back a little bit towards the wall from the impact. (cackles) And he charges towards you, putting his head right towards the stomach that he kicked before, going for that same soft spot he's opened for himself. That's going to be a 20. Yeah, that hits. 21. And 21. Comes in, slams you into the middle of your abdomen for seven damage.
Sam: Should I sing?
Matt: Eight damage. And then an additional seven. So that'd be 15, 22 points of damage. As he slams his head into your midsection, picks you up over his head, slams you onto the ground, and as you're on the ground, he runs up and soccer-ball kicks you in the side of your ribs, just (whack). You hear a crack as the impact hits and you can feel that surging, shooting, burning pain begin to fill the side of your torso. It's your go.
Travis: What else do I have? What can I do?
Laura: You can throw some dirt in his face!
Sam: From the stands, I turn to a portly gentleman next to me and I say, sir, do you see what that fucking little elf said about your mother? He called her a name I can't even repeat. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Laura: Was he pointing at you?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: 18.
Matt: He looks down at you and looks over at the elf and he says, "I'll deal with him after the fight. I've got too much money on this right now."
Liam: What an asp-hole.
Travis: I roll up off of my side and I start to go, oh, I don't know, it might be too much. And I grab a handful of dirt and I throw it up into his face.
Matt: All right. Riki-oh style. I like it. All right. So. As you go ahead, go ahead and just roll a basic attack.
Travis: Fuck. Thank you, god. 26.
Matt: 26. Make a dexterity save on his end-- no, that won't work. So you throw the dirt up. As he's rushing towards you to follow up on the attack, the dirt goes streaming into his eyes and for a second he stumbles and starts trying to wipe his face. As he does, he has the blood on his hands that's also getting in his eyes, the blood's starting to cake up a bit, and he's just reaching out in the area. So that's your first attack.
Travis: Because I feel like we have a kinship, I take my foot and I throw it right up into his grundle, just soccer-kick the shit out of his nuts. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack. You have advantage on this currently, because he can't see it coming.
Travis: That's even better! 25.
Matt: 25. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh no, I only have two, right? Ten.
Laura: How was that ten, baby? That was 11. The first one was a five.
Travis: Halved. Six.
Laura: That's 11.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11.
Sam: Baby!
Matt: If you're going to do grundle damage. So as he's reeling and tries to reach out, swiping a back-fist into open air, you rush up and (whack) hit him with sheer force that you hear a unanimous (groans) in the crowd all around echo down. His knees immediately bend in towards each other, and you can see the sound escape instinctively from him, it's like, (wheezes). As you reel for your second strike, which is going to be? What's the second one you do?
Travis: Well, did he drop to his knees?
Matt: No, he's still standing, but barely.
Travis: Oh, really? Yeah, same place.
Matt: You pull back and (whack) a second time in the same spot, this sending him onto the ground from behind. He is currently prone. Okay, that's rough.
Travis: Literally trying to see him cough a testicle. (laughter)
Matt: Well, regardless of what happens, there's going to be a search. (laughter)
Matt: You're going to need a scouting party to find where one of them went. So at the top of his turn, gets up and wipes dirt crust from his eyes, reeling from the impact. Uses half his movement to get up and staggers toward you as you're just welcoming it. Looks up at you for a second and says, "You shouldn't have done that, tall guy." At which point, he goes and lunges for your midsection a second time. Misses with that strike, as you dodge out of the way he spins around and attempts to back-kick you to the torso. That will hit. A 26. And that one is going to-- That's going to be six points of damage to you from the back-kick, and as his foot comes down, he's still reaching for his groin from the sheer pain, he just rushes forward and attempts to bite into your shoulder. That's going to be a 20.
Travis: He rolled a 20?
Matt: Not a natural 20. Just a total of 20. He's rolled a lot of 20s. That's going to be seven damage as he sinks his teeth into the side of your shoulder and neck area. And tears a chunk of your flesh out of the sides of his mouth, now, in the muscle. So you reel back in pain and you're both clutched in this gladiatorial grip. It's your go.
Travis: Oh, amazing. Since we're clutched in that grip, I'll grab him back and I'm going to try and bite his nose off.
Sam: Wait, doesn't he have no nose?
Travis: Oh, he's missing a hollow, right?
Matt: It's mashed in.
Travis: How about I just aim for this area and if I catch lip I'll take it as a victory.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes! Okay, 21.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 20. And 24.
Matt: All hit. So as you reach forward, you use the yell of pain to turn it into an attack, reach forward and bite into the front of his face. You don't get any nose, but you do catch the top of his lip. As you pull back with a snapping sound, part of his upper lip just comes off in your mouth. How much damage does that do?
Marisha: It's a souvenir.
Travis: The first one is six.
Matt: Six damage. All right. What's your follow-up attack?
Travis: Would you say that he reaches back for his face like that in pain?
Matt: Oh yeah, he rears up with his hand right there and is like, (yelps).
Travis: Fantastic. I'd like to just drive my fist into his throat as his head's arched back.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: Yes! Five.
Matt: Five, all right.
Sam: You know what I love about these fights? They're beautiful. The beauty of the human body.
Matt: The blood's pouring down the front of his face and his throat. You clip him right in the center of his throat. You hear the coughing sound as he, with his other hand, reaches up and grabs his throat. You can now see his front teeth visible through the lip that's no longer there. And what's your third strike?
Travis: Would you say that he bends forward, then, because he's grabbing his throat like that?
Matt: He's tough. He's bending forward, but he's not completely incapacitated. He's in pain.
Travis: Right, I would say I go up next to him and invoke a fabled hero that I heard about in the woods named Macho Man Randy Savage, and I double-tap my elbow and drive it down on top of his head.
Matt: (laughs) All right. Go ahead and roll damage on this one.
Travis: Thank you. Six.
Matt: Six. So as you leap up, using the goliath weight coming down, you double-tap the elbow and you bring it down on top of his head. He, from the sheer force of it (wham) slams down face-first into the dirt, just like that. Onto the ground. As he's getting up, he's looking kind of rough.
Liam: I believe that's pronounced Ma-choman Rand'Savage.
Matt: There you are. A gracious warrior of the woods. While on the ground, he reaches forward and attempts to sweep your legs out from under you. Go ahead and make-- this would be an acrobatics-- no, we'll make this a dexterity saving throw. Why not?
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten. (whoosh) Pulls your legs out from under you, slams you onto your back. As he leaps up on top of you immediately and with both of his fists in the air slams them down towards your face. That's going to be a 22.
Travis: What?
Matt: 22 to hit. You take six points of damage.
Travis: Oh, good. (laughs) I was thinking 22 points of damage!
Matt: And a 23 to hit, it's going to be an additional eight points of damage. Just once down on your face, and again with a second slam, right down onto the front of the face again. You can taste all the irony blood and liquid pouring through your sinuses down into the back of your throat as you're currently on the ground with him on top of you. You're both looking pretty rough. Where are you at, hit point-wise?
Travis: I say, tastes like home. And I spit in his face and reach up and thunderclap both of his ears.
Matt: (laughs) All right, go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: 24.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit. So you reach up. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh yeah, right.
Matt: (whack) Thunderclap to the side of both his ears.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. As he rears back and instinctively his hands go up and try and grab at your wrists, you pull the wrists back, and he's holding you from that point. You attempt to go for another strike, but he just redirects it with his own arms. You manage to pull out of the grip with a third strike. What are you doing for that one?
Travis: He pulled away from my wrists, and I'll give him a little of the same. Put my fists together and just swing straight down into his solar plexus since he's sitting on top of me.
Matt: Roll damage.
Travis: That's a five.
Matt: Five. (wham) You hit and you hear the wind out of him from the impact, (wheezes) and he's trying to get the wind back.
Travis: I can't hear you. What?
Matt: He pushes off of your chest to stand up for a second and (gasps) gets one big inhale of air, and as he does, he reaches up his leg and then tries to curb-stomp kick you right in the stomach while you're still on the ground. That will be 18.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: All right. A 19.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: And that will be a 24.
Travis: You son of a bitch!
Matt: All right. So he goes to kick you once, and you dodge out of the way. Kick a second time. This time, you catch the foot and hold it in place. He then lifts up with his other foot to a point where now you're holding him in the air. As he puts all of his weight in the air, he comes down and slams his elbow right into the center of your chest, in the way you did to his head earlier. That's going to be for a total of eight points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I take the flagon of ale that I've been drinking all this time. I slam it down on the ground and push my sister out of the way and yell at the top of my lungs, Grog! Your father was an undead piece of shit and your cousin's going to make you his bitch!
Taliesin: There's not enough popcorn in the world for this.
Laura: I know.
Travis: (growls) I would like to reach forward with both of my thumbs and shove them into his fucking eye sockets.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: Oh, no. You distracted him.
Travis: 12. That's better. 22.
Matt: Okay, so as you reach up to try to get his eyes, he grasps your hands and instead begins pulling back on the wrists. You can feel the tension of the bone beginning to bend from the sheer strength and force of it. As you pull back your arms, you attempt to headbutt him again and he dodges his head out of the way, and he knows he has you at an advantageous position. What do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: He's still on top of me, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. Where are you at hit point-wise, by the way?
Travis: 18.
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, too. So what do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: Would you say he's on my chest?
Matt: He's currently on your chest and waist area right now, like (grunts) holding you down.
Travis: I was going to grapple him, but if he's on my chest, I'll use my thighs to shove him up towards the upper part of my body and I'll drive down my elbow at the same time. Into that whole bloody target area.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. As you shift upward, you bring your elbow forward. Roll for attack.
Sam: No, he rolled three already.
Matt: Oh, that's right.
Travis: I got at least a six.
Matt: So six damage? Okay, as you position him up, (whack) the elbow hits, and you can feel it sink in. What bones are there are mostly splintered and broken, and you get a good inch into his face with your elbow. As you pull back, he's looking really rough, and one of his eyes is beginning to swell entirely shut.
Travis: We look like a Rocky movie right now.
Matt: Yeah. This is a full-on, drag-out fight.
Travis: I must break you!
Matt: He angrily looks down at you, (snarls) and he reaches both of his hands up again in a giant hammer fashion. That's going to be a 17?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: A 20.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a 15.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: So he brings it down. (wham) As it hits, you manage to take the brunt of it in the shoulder. The second hit comes down and slams you for eight points of damage. (wham) This one, you can feel the sternum crack. As he brings up his fists a third time, attempting to end this, you use the leverage you had when you pushed him up to actually spring your entire body upward and force him off you. He manages to get to his feet and you just get up and you both are bleeding from all over your faces with giant bruises, and both of you are barely holding yourselves up, breathing heavily. It's your go.
Travis: I'm going to rush at him, spit on my knuckles, swing back, and at the last second, take my right foot and drive it right through his kneecap.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Travis: Fuck you! Yes! 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22.
Travis: 19?
Matt: 19 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so as you run forward, bring the leg up, (whack) you hit the side of the knee. Roll damage.
Sam: Come on, roll good.
Travis: Five. Six. Six.
Matt: All right, and what are the attacks you do?
Travis: I want to drive my foot through his kneecap.
Matt: It snaps. He's still standing on the other leg, but the knee is cracked behind.
Travis: Oh, that's amazing. I'll just put my foot through his other knee.
Matt: As you jump off the other one, (whack) it catches the knee. It doesn't snap, but you can see there is a bend to it, and then he falls to the ground, on both of his busted knees now, looking up at you. And with the third strike, what are you going to do?
Travis: I would like to grab his head, since he's probably kneeling on the ground at this point, right? And say, there's only room for one to rage in this pit. And I take it, and I just smash into the top of his jaw, hopefully dislocating the bloody, lipless face that I see.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Wait, is he an orc?
Matt: He's a half-orc.
Travis: As a half-orc, does he got those big teeth?
Matt: There are little tusks there, yeah.
Travis: I'll grab onto those.
Matt: They're small to pull. You slam down on his face. (crunch) You can see the jaw crack open. The tongue instinctively moves around a little, but the jaw is definitely broken from the impact.
Sam: It's like a dance! It's like a beautiful dance.
Matt: You can see, that blow should have taken him out, because there was nothing left.
Travis: He's like the Black Knight in Monty Python! He's got no knees!
Matt: His body goes limp for a brief second. You can see the half-orc rage kicks in. That half-orc's blood. You can see him now rally up for one final round of vengeance against you, Grog. Reaches up and grabs you by the throat and brings you up to slam into his head. This is going to be a 21. A 17.
Sam: Miss.
Matt: And a 22. So grabs you, slams into your head with the first strike. That is going to be six points of damage. (boom) Into the face. You can feel like the shock, the white light in your eyes as the impact smashes into you. He goes to do it a second time. This time you instinctively reach down with your hands and push his face away. You can feel the fading just from the sheer impact as he pushes you up onto your feet again and you step back. And he takes a moment to look at you with his missing lip, his bashed-in nose, eye swollen shut, both knees messed up. (pants) "Respect." And then he runs forward and with one heaping haymaker just takes you in the face with a cracking sound for six points of damage. (groaning)
Matt: With a resounding crack Grog's head spins, his body turning. He stumbles a couple of steps, falls to one knee, face-down in the dirt, unconscious. The whole crowd raises and cheers, (cheering) as the mostly broken half-orc raises one of its fists to the air, walks around, looks over to your body, reaches into his pocket and flicks a gold coin onto your back. Walks over to the ladder and begins very painfully making his way up to the edge of the Crucible.
Laura: Yeah, he's only using his arms because he's got no knees! Douche.
Matt: Getting up to the top, the crowd cheers. You can now see one of the bookies reveals a holy symbol, one that you recognize as the symbol of Kord, and he goes down and immediately begins administering, healing to our recently unconscious Grog. You can see the other bookie, who is dressed similarly in the purplish robes you saw before, also begins to heal our good fighting half-orc friend as he lumps over and takes his sack of coins from him. The clerics of Kord are the ones actually running this, it looks like. You come to in the pit, Grog, beaten, wearied, and fatigued because of your frenzied rage. However, you have been defeated in the Crucible.
Laura: That was painful.
Matt: That was so close.
Sam: I go down and nurse him, nurse his head, hold him, and just tell him, Grog, you won! You did it, buddy!
Matt: Make a deception roll.
Sam: 16.
Matt: I would say given the circumstances, it's nice that he's trying, but it's been a while since you've been bested in one-on-one combat, and a part of you is deeply hurt by it. But at the same time, there is that burning fire, that need to come back and vengefully tear him down from his precipice when you're ready.
Travis: I say nothing.
Orion: It's okay, buddy. This isn't the first time you've been knocked unconscious.
Laura: It's too bad Pike didn't cast Death Ward on him before she left, though. That would've been great.
Marisha: I go up and rub on him and (meows).
Matt: As you're being tended to by your party, the same bookie that brought you in comes over and taps you on the shoulder and says, "Not going to lie, no one has taken a beating from the Hammer like that and brought him so close. I don't think he's going to be able to take another round with you for at least a few days. But you're welcome to fight in my ring any time you wish."
Laura: We'll need to earn our money back.
Matt: "There is that, yes."
Orion: Or you could just give it to us.
Travis: I walk away.
Laura: Is there a whorehouse here in Vasselheim?
Orion: You're asking this question?
Matt: A curious laugh comes across the bookie's face and he says, "The third floor of the Bellows'--" What did I call it, again?
Sam: The Bellows' Respite.
Matt: The Bellows' Respite. Sorry, I was in the moment. "The third floor of the Bellows' Respite does itself run as a brothel, if that's what you're inquiring."
Laura: That is what I was inquiring.
Taliesin: Come on, Grog, we'll get you ice cream.
Laura: We'll get you ice cream, Grog, and a whore. How's that sound?
Liam: Coldstone?
Orion: Grog, you can eat the ice cream from the whore.
Laura: Tiberius, really?
Orion: I'm trying to be creative here. Make him feel good. Fireworks. Prestidigitation.
Matt: All right. Grog, as you make your way into the tavern, there is, though in your solemn state you can see a number of the patrons who were watching from the inside who were part of the crowd all give a round of applause to you as you enter. The barkeep who turns to you, a human fellow who's missing one eye, has a tufted, spotty beard and happily extends a large tankard of ale and says, "On the house for you, friend! You fought well tonight."
Travis: I like your beard.
Liam: I take five of my remaining gold and slide it over to that bartender and say, just keep it coming. All night, please. Thanks.
Matt: "I'll deliver it to the room. By the way, what room are you staying in?"
Sam: Do we have a room?
Laura: We would love one of those.
Liam: The third floor, I believe.
Laura: For some of us, not all of us.
Sam: I don't think he's going to want to... partake tonight.
Liam: Might have problems.
Sam: Aw, he's chugging. He's sadness-chugging.
Matt: "The rest of you, how many rooms you taking? Three amongst you?"
Sam: Three.
Matt: "Three rooms for the night."
Sam: Plus a stable for our bear.
Laura: No. Our bear will stay in the room with us girls.
Travis: It looked like rain, right? I'll be out there with the pigs.
Laura: No, Grog.
Sam: No, it's okay, he needs to stew in this for a while.
Matt: "Your room's on the house, friend. The rest of you, that'll be six gold for the evening."
Orion: I'll stay in your room, Grog.
Sam: I don't think he wants company tonight.
Orion: No, he can sleep with the pigs. I'll stay in the free room.
Matt: So that's six gold for them. All right, so mark off your losses for the money you put in for the pot.
Travis: Where do I mark off my loss of pride?
Matt: That would be under additional notes.
Sam: I almost won.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Almost.
Travis: What did he have, that orc piece of shit, he had what that made him come back?
Matt: It's a half-orc racial ability that the first time they're dropped to zero hit points, they can instead choose to be at one hit point. They can only do it once per day.
Travis: He had one left?!
Matt: You brought him to negative five on that final hit, but that half-orc racial ability...
Travis: That's even worse!
Liam: Grog, if it's any consolation--
Travis: What's that mean?
Taliesin: It's a grouping of stars in the sky.
Liam: As I had no idea that weapons weren't allowed in there, if you and I had fought, you would've beaten me to a bloody paste.
Travis: Oh, you weren't serious, were you? I thought you were being funny. (laughter)
Travis: Oh.
Sam: There's a lot of injured pride tonight.
Marisha: Guys, we've had a really emotional day. Can we just sleep?
Orion: I found it to be very entertaining.
Sam: Hey, does anyone want to come to my room and look through my shit to see how Pike's doing?
Laura: Okay, yeah!
Orion: Let's look through your shit. Scanlan.
Liam: Pike would have been proud of you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you. And if there had been weapons I'd be in deep shit. I'll be at the bar.
Laura: Oh, Grog, come on.
Sam: That's not even chicken, that's just a piece of wood. (laughter)
Matt: And yet it doesn't stop him as he, bite by bite, makes his way through the piece of driftwood he found by the bar.
Liam: I slap down another five gold to the bartender and say, that's for that barstool.
Matt: "Thank you." Which, the barstools, by the way, have a thick, crusty wool on them, so there's a unique flavor to the piece you've chewed through.
Travis: The frying on this chicken is exquisite.
Matt: As you all take your evening of rest in your respective groups, Grog, eating and drinking away your worries until eventually you are unable to make conversation, you sloppily make your way to the third floor to a room in the brothel that has been prepared and awaiting for you, paid for by the Bellows' Respite, and you find yourself sloppily disappointing a woman until you pass out in your own sorrow. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, we're going to take a quick break, but we'll be back here in about ten minutes, guys, right after Overlord has a few.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: He's so upset. He's really upset.
Marisha: I've never seen him this upset.
Orion: Yeah, isn't it weird when other people get upset?
Zac: He's definitely not a challenge for Overlord status, that's for sure. Guys, so in case you're wondering what all of this 5k hype is that you keep seeing, if you're watching from home and you tuned in after we started. Megiyama in the chatroom has challenged you guys, the audience, if we get up to 5,000 subscribers tonight, he will buy a very large, and by very large I mean eight feet tall. It is massive. He sent me a picture; it is massive, I don't know where we will put it. We'll figure it out somehow. He will buy that for us and ship it to us, it's a very, very generous thing to help get us to 5,000 subscribers, and I was told from some people in the chat that I should also contribute in some way, shape, or form, so I have agreed to dress up as Pengulord tomorrow all day if we reach this goal. And for those who don't know, there was a very large war this morning in team No Stream, the chatroom, while we were offline. Someone thought it would be funny to put my face on a penguin. I did not think it was funny, and I timed out and banned every single person that referenced it, and exalted all of my power as Overlord, so it pains me to agree to do this, very much so, because it completely diminishes everything I've strived so hard for in world domination. Penguins are the least-threatening animals on the planet, and I despise them.
Matt: Wow, that is an intensity. Pengulord, guys.
Zac: Good for you guys.
Matt: Pengulord, I like the sound of that.
Marisha: They like to snuggle.
Zac: Well, good for them. No.
Matt: We could fit Pengulord on a license plate, right?
Zac: No. Too many letters.
Taliesin: If we get you in this outfit, will you waddle? That's really the question.
Zac: I said 5,000 subs, not my dignity and everything. I will put on the damn outfit at 5,000. That's all I have to offer. I'm already still working on a damn music video, so all I have left to offer is my dignity and every ounce of pride I have in anything.
Matt: So if we somehow get to 5,000 subscribers, we get an eight-foot Trinket and Pengulord gets to rule the stream tomorrow. We'll be back in about five, ten minutes, guys, please stick around, we have more interesting things to see.
Marisha: Oh wait, before we log off, we have this ready to go. Follow our amazing artists. Also, follow Espionage Cosmetics because they're amazing supporters of the show. Tweet at them and be like, thank you so much for supporting Critical Role. Because they're awesome. Okay. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves--
Matt: Welcome back, guys. All right, so we had a little break here. Remember to follow our awesome artists on the Twitter. So, let's go ahead and get back to the game so we can-- we have a lot to do tonight. All right. As morning comes to, the rest of you wake up, the first thought, of course, being the heartache for your friend Grog, who is not in any of the rooms.
Laura: The heartache for our lost money.
Matt: Yeah, more the money probably for Vex-- but as you wake up, Grog is nowhere to be found in your rooms, of course. He wandered off to presumably the third floor.
Taliesin: Is that a euphemism?
Matt: It can be.
Marisha: I'm still in Minxie form. I slept in Minxie form. I'm going to go look for him, see if I can find him in any of the rooms on the third floor.
Matt: Okay. A giant white saber-toothed tiger wandering the interior does set off a few minds. I mean, an armored bear being escorted is one thing, but a lone saber-toothed tiger? As soon as you make your way through the hallway, you can see one of the patrons comes out of the room and goes, (startled sound) and goes and pulls his blade out, like, "Help! Help, there's a tiger! There's a tiger in the inn!"
Marisha: Why does this always happen to me?
Liam: Hearing yelling, I run up the stairs and say, hey, has anyone seen a-- oh, there you are. Come on, Snibbles, come on. We've got to go back downstairs.
Matt: "Hey, keep that thing on a leash, sir."
Liam: I'm really sorry.
Matt: "Liable to kill someone!"
Liam: Chews through her rope all the time. Come on, Snibbles.
Marisha: I roll over on my back, and I'm like those cats you see on YouTube who hate being on leashes. Just dragging.
Liam: I start going, on the tummy.
Matt: Goes back in his room and closes the door.
Laura: I'm pretty sure you just groped her.
Matt: At about this time, you hear a heavy footfall. A second heavy footfall. A third heavy footfall. And from around the corner of the staircase, descending from the third floor, you see a very hungover and expressionless Grog squinting and making his way down.
Liam: Morning, big guy. Have fun last night?
Marisha: God. You're not going to puke, are you?
Matt: You hear (meowing).
Travis: I never puke.
Laura: Do you need some breakfast or ale?
Travis: What, food? I think I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Liam: I think you need an ale.
Laura: Little hair of the dog? Yeah?
Travis: Now that sounds like a plan.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You guys head down. The rest of you manage to eventually wake and make your way down to the tavern, where Grog is already in the process of consuming his liquid breakfast.
Orion: Hold on, I haven't come out of the room yet, right?
Matt: Not until you want to.
Orion: So I do, I see Grog going there, drinking his thing, I use my Mage Hand and I whack the ale out of his hand.
Matt: Your tankard goes flying out of your hand, on the ground, it spills across the front--
Orion: I make my way down to the thing and I tell the bartender, give this warrior water. This might be your problem, Grog. You lost for a reason, and you're a warrior.
Liam: Yes, but he's named after beer. (laughter)
Orion: Yes, I know that, Vax. I'm just saying.
Taliesin: And you are what you eat.
Orion: I cast Invisibility.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius vanishes. The barkeep hands over a big mug of clear water and sets it in front of Grog.
Laura: Oh, this is the very special beer.
Matt: "It's the water that was requested by your friend. Who disappeared."
Travis: Water?
Laura: It'll get you super drunk.
Liam: Can you feel it? You can feel it, right? You can totally feel it.
Travis: It's pretty smooth. (laughter)
Travis: Keep it coming.
Matt: Meals are ordered, you guys are fed as per your purchase of the evening's inn stay. Your meal's still covered by the tavern. Eventually, you find yourselves full and about, I'll say roughly ten, 11 in the morning it would be.
Marisha: I'm no longer Minxie to eat breakfast with my friends.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi, good to see you, Keyleth.
Liam: Are you a dwarf again?
Marisha: No. I should to talk to more dwarves before I try to... yeah.
Taliesin: That was a little racist.
Marisha: It was a little racist.
Sam: Remind me, what was on our plate? What's on our plate?
Laura: Well, we have multiple things we can be doing. We can go meet Keyleth's druid family in the mountains, right? Fire, brimstone, stuff like that. We have a lot of money waiting for us.
Travis: I think we have to go back on the airship to go get it.
Laura: In Kraghammer, yes, but there is 25,000 gold waiting for us, so that's always an option.
Travis: The Braving Grounds, we could see if they need any-- since we-- I lost us a lot of (tearing up) money.
Laura: Here, Grog. Have some clear beer.
Travis: Some more? Okay. We can see if they need anyone for hire, go and have a... (tearing up again) being strong.
Liam: I would feel it very hard to leave Pike behind in the city. Are we really going to leave and go to Kraghammer?
Marisha: Well, we don't have to. I don't want to go yet. We traveled several days here. While we're in this side of the country, I should probably go, you know. Do the things I was set out to do.
Travis: Plus we have the poo cell phone.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan.
Sam: It's more of a poo walkie-talkie.
Liam: I don't know what either of those things are.
Sam: Just know that there's poo involved.
Liam: Does the poop talk like my earring? Because that I understand.
Laura: Yes, it's like a poop earring.
Liam: It's like a poop earring. Why didn't you say that in the first place? You talk through it? You talk to poo?
Sam: You see through it.
Matt: Hashtag poop earring.
Laura: So yes. There's multiple things.
Sam: Well, multiple things. There's just go back to Kraghammer and get money, or go where Keyleth wants to go.
Laura: We can look for work here, we can go back to Bahamut, see if they want--
Taliesin: Keyleth's got family. We can visit her family.
Laura: That's what I'm talking about, yes. Fire, brimstone, volcanoes. Druids.
Travis: Keyleth, do you have an opinion?
Marisha: I mean... I guess if you guys don't have anything else to do, yeah.
Liam: How far are they from here?
Marisha: I'm not sure. We'd have to start asking around. They're remote. We're secluded people.
Laura: Secrety.
Marisha: We're a little secrety, yeah, and we haven't heard-- I just want to clarify, you know. I haven't talked to them in a long time, so I hope they're nice. And I'm sure they're--
Liam: Family stuff can be tricky.
Taliesin: It seems a shame to have a family and not take advantage of it.
Sam: What's family for other to take advantage of?
Travis: To hit. To kiss.
Laura: To kiss? You kiss your family?
Travis: Yeah, I'm a goliath. What about it?
Laura: There are things about goliaths I did not want to know. That water has a good effect on him.
Liam: Do you feel drawn to your parents, though? Do you want to go?
Marisha: I have to go. I don't have a choice.
Liam: Then we should go.
Marisha: Okay. I just don't want to inconvenience anybody.
Laura: Inconvenience, schminconvenience.
Sam: Oh, is that Dwarvish?
Laura: Yes. It's actually Underdark. I'm fluent.
Marisha: Oh wait, that was Dwarvish? Inconschmenience.
Taliesin: Your accent's amazing.
Marisha: I'm trying to work on learning more Dwarvish. Okay.
Travis: I have a question for you, Vax. The Braving Grounds that are here, would it be to our benefit to collect maybe some coin and practice our (gets choked up) fighting before we go to the maybe-friendly fire jugglers' village?
Liam: You want to go back in there? It's awfully fresh.
Travis: Not the Crucible. Don't rub my face in it. Not in the Crucible, to the Braving Grounds.
Liam: The Braving Grounds. We were just in the pub. I mean, that was just a backyard brawl, basically. He's talking about going to the temple.
Travis: Was that the Crucible I was in?
Matt: The Crucible was the pit you were in. The temple you were at is the Trial Forge. The whole area you guys are in, this district of Vasselheim, is known as the Braving Grounds.
Liam: This is what I think, Grog. It's too fresh. You need some time away from it. We should absolutely come back and you should break that guy's fucking face, no question.
Travis: (choked up) I could've. Totally could've.
Liam: You almost did.
Laura: Yeah. Next time, bite his nose off right away before it's concave.
Travis: I saved it for too late. I did it too late. But then in the balls...
Laura: The balls-- good effort.
Liam: We've come a very long way. Keyleth is near her family. She needs to see where that road lies.
Taliesin: We should take care of each other.
Liam: And once we do, we'll come back and fucking kill that guy.
Travis: And we can use weapons if they suck, right?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Speaking of weapons, aren't we in a perfect weapons-buying district?
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: Yes! Can we go find an armory or somewhere that sells pointy things?
Matt: You can certainly try. Yeah. As a note, too, as you're having this conversation, you reach into your pocket, Grog. As you're feeling around in your pocket, you realize that you saved in your drunken state the upper lip. It's rubbery and dry, but it's there.
Travis: I tuck that inside of my belt-beard. Just so it's nice there. One little part of it just flapping out.
Laura: What about your beard? Is he growing his beard?
Travis: Oh, it is a new day.
Matt: You get to go ahead and roll a percentage dice.
Travis: Nine, 90.
Matt: 99. No beard this morning. It goes the other way.
Travis: It goes the other way?!
Matt: Lower percentage.
Travis: My life is shit! I can't do anything!
Matt: It's a rough day for Grog.
Travis: I'm hanging myself. Where's the bridge?
Sam: There's no bridge here.
Laura: Actually, I don't know about anybody else, but I'm incredibly low on funds at the moment.
Taliesin: Perhaps shopping is not the best path.
Marisha: We did just do a lot of shopping.
Sam: Yeah, let's go adventuring.
Taliesin: We haven't had an awkward parental confrontation in what feels like months.
Marisha: Okay. You guys, I'm so nervous.
Travis: You really are?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's a big thing.
Travis: Have you seen them, ever?
Marisha: The first time I left home was when I met up with you guys.
Matt: (impact) You guys suddenly hear this slamming sound that echoes throughout the nearby city. You hear this impact, like this distant crashing of stone against stone. A few seconds later, you hear this low (horn sound), this horn that's just bellowing out, this deep echoing horn. The rest of the tavern looks around, confused. A couple of individuals step outside to look.
Orion: I'm at the dock, right?
Matt: You've been walking away for a while, and you get about roughly ten minutes away before you hear this impact and these horns going off in the distance.
Sam: I turn to the barkeep and say, well, what was that? Do you know? Have you heard that before? What is that?
Matt: "It's the horn of the Trial. Means there's some sort of attack."
Sam: Attack? Where? How do we know where?
Matt: "I don't know, but I'm getting ready." And he starts going to the back room.
Laura: Getting ready where? What are we doing?
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly on myself and see what's going on.
Matt: Okay, so you become visible and begin lifting up into the air--
Orion: No, I'm still invisible for a round.
Matt: Oh, because the-- okay. So you lift into the air and then appear as the concentration spell wears off. You got your crown. Looking over, you can see immediately there appears to be some commotion, like some dust has scattered up from the forest on the far side of the Braving Grounds, outside of the major wall of the city.
Orion: I'm going to do a (whoosh) to where they are.
Matt: Okay, you start gliding over. As you guys rush out, you can see now a bunch of the Bastions that are set across the top of the wall are gathering and loading in bolts, and you see two of them fire. You hear this now guttural roaring sound, but multiple ones, like a chorus of large bestial screams echo and then (wham) a second slamming sound of stone into stone, and you can see at the very distant wall, right below where those two Bastions would have fired those giant dragon-headed bolt-throwers, both get thrown off the top, falling a good 40 feet out of view beyond the distant rooftops. You can see a small crack beginning to form at the top of the wall. Two other Bastions now begin to rush in and take the place of those two bolt-throwers.
Liam: I yank two daggers out, flip them, catch them, and just start running.
Laura: Can I grab the flying carpet out of the Bag of Holding before you take off?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Sure. You grab it. You guys start running. You're gliding in.
Sam: I'm ambling behind them.
Orion: I'm going to where the attack is, not to them.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop on the carpet with you.
Marisha: I'm going.
Laura: I swing down and pick up my brother.
Taliesin: I'm hopping on, as well.
Matt: You hop on.
Liam: Come along, Percival.
Matt: At which point, two more bolts are let loose, and you hear the creature once again scream (screech) in pain, and then the footfalls.
Liam: We don't see them yet?
Matt: No, you just hear it. It's on the other side of the wall. You see what looks like a toothy maw streak across the top of the tower for a moment, and then the tree line shift, and the footfalls get quieter and quieter.
Travis: Go ask one of the Bastion guys what it was.
Laura: Yeah, we fly up next to one of the shooter guys and say, what was it? What is it?
Matt: Okay, you glide up to it, and as you look down, you can see the two Bastions that fell. They're currently being tended to. One of them looks unconscious and rough from the impact of the fall, the other one's walking with a limp, trying to find its way back towards the interior of the wall that leads up to the top of his post. The one you come by has sweat beading down his face and you see he's loaded another bolt and he's looking out, wide-eyed, towards the forest. He goes, "It came back."
Laura: What came back?
Matt: "We've had this blasted thing seen on and off again for the past few weeks. Maybe it's hungry or it's bored, but either way, this multi-headed thing, this hydra-like creature keeps coming in and I don't know, I think it's testing the wall."
Laura: Like a raptor.
Travis: They remember.
Laura: Clever girl. (laughter)
Liam: Clever girl. (laughter)
Sam: Should we go kill it?
Liam: I don't see it anymore. I think it's gone back into the woods.
Matt: "It's fled. Got a few hits in, but it went and... we can never seem to get enough to take it down."
Liam: How frequently are these attacks coming?
Sam: Of course we can track it.
Matt: "I mean, you're welcome to try. It's only been maybe two or three times this past week, but it's come once or twice a week for the past month, hitting different areas of the city. Not just this beast, a few different ones, but mostly this abomination. It's a nuisance more than anything, although it did get a good hit on the wall." And he looks over and you can see there's a crack in the stone. He looks nervously over it and, "I'll get to fixing that right quick. It keeps slinking off back into the Vesper Timberlands. Kord help us if there's more than one of these."
Laura: Kord help us. Good old Kord. Okay.
Travis: I grab my earring and I say, Tiberius, where are you?
Orion: I'm flying around.
Matt: You just now glide over, seeing the flying carpet towards the top of the wall.
Orion: I'm above you.
Travis: Where?
Orion: Here!
Matt: He is visible, just gliding by. You guys have run up to the edge of the wall. You're beneath looking up at the flying carpet and they're having this conversation at such a distance where you can't really hear them talking. Percy, Vex, and Vax, you're up on the flying carpet currently, conversing with the Bastion.
Laura: Can we float up a little bit and see if we can see movement in the trees where it is?
Matt: You glance over and you can see the canopy shifting slightly. It's about a quarter-mile off and disappearing before it's eventually a little bit out of sight. You figure a creature that large can't be too difficult to track.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Go kill it?
Laura: Well, here's the thing. I bring the carpet back down and say, I see where it went, if you guys want to fight it. What do you think?
Orion: I'd like to go get my money at Kraghammer.
Sam: I thought we'd decided to go to Keyleth's.
Matt: The individuals are now, they're currently--
Marisha: You left during the family meeting.
Liam: That money's not going anywhere.
Orion: I suppose you're right.
Liam: Let's help the city out, then we'll go on to see Keyleth's parents.
Sam: Help the city out by going to track the hydra first?
Travis: I run back to the tavern real fast. People have left, right?
Matt: Yeah, there are people outside looking at what happened.
Travis: Barkeep still there?
Matt: He's there, and he's currently putting on armor by himself.
Travis: It's okay, it left. Big crack in the wall. Might think about leaving. Before you do, the Siren. Where might I find her?
Matt: He thinks to himself, says, "She's a slippery one. She only shows up when she wants to start a fight. I gather your best bet would be to ask around. I hear she runs at times with the-- what are they called? The Slayer's Take. The Slayer's Take." As you guys are talking about this, the Bastion that was talking to you guys is now coming down the wall, and he's like, "Are you seriously thinking about going after that thing?"
Sam: Only if there's money involved.
Matt: "Oh, I can guarantee a beast of that size and that much of a problem's got a hell of a price on its head."
Laura: From who? (laughter)
Sam: From who? (laughter)
Matt: "I gather anyone you take it to at that point. Probably take just one or more of its heads back, or some proof it's dead, and I'm sure there will be a few people that will fight hand over fist to pay for that."
Liam: We could easily get a head. Let's go right now. Grog's doing something. Let's go.
Sam: Hey, Grog. Grog, come in. We're going to go kill something. We need you.
Liam: How? We're on the carpet, he's flying. Scanlan's riding on an eagle.
Marisha: I can try a Locate Creature spell.
Taliesin: You can do a what?
Marisha: I can cast Locate Creature.
Taliesin: She can cast Locate Creature.
Sam: Let's leave Trinket behind. Just for now, it's so hard to keep track of Trinket, Jesus.
Liam: Grog's been fighting for a long time, he needs rest. Let's go!
Matt: Trinket is there behind you.
Laura: Polymorph him, please.
Marisha: I didn't learn Polymorph. You're going to have to ask Scanlan about that one.
Laura: Scanlan, please. Polymorph him.
Sam: What, me? Do I know Polymorph?
Liam: Whatever that thing is, it's getting away. We're losing time.
Laura: We can track him. I'm a ranger.
Marisha: I drop to my knees and I cast Locate Creature.
Travis: I can only come if Tiberius lets me.
Sam: Oh, to fly.
Liam: Yes, exactly. Let's keep twiddling our thumbs.
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly out of my ring on Grog.
Matt: All right. Grog.
Sam: I guess we're going. Hold on!
Marisha: Do you want to use your ranger tracking skills, or should I try and cast the spell?
Laura: I can definitely use my ranger skills.
Orion: I'm going to cast it at 5th level, and I'm going to cast it on myself, I'll keep it on him, Grog, and Trinket.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket once again-- (distressed bear noises)
Orion: Like last time, remember, Trinket?
Matt: Trinket seems to be a little less perturbed by the circumstance.
Travis: I grab Trinket's paw like in Superman 1, and we fly.
Matt: Grog and Trinket, coasting through the air, arm in paw.
Travis: Thank you, Tiberius.
Liam: Peter Pan and Wendy.
Taliesin: Can you read my mind?
Matt: All right. So as you guys all drift up over the town, you can immediately see the Bastion that was talking to you is looking very, very curiously at Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, don't worry, he's really nice!
Sam: Sorry, there was just a little magic so we could go kill the hydra, sorry... (laughter)
Matt: As you guys vanish over the wall, you can now see before you the entirety of the Vesper Timberlands.
Liam: Most people just say thank you! Dick.
Matt: Below you, the landscape is entirely consumed by what looks like the densest forest you've ever encountered. The cold air seems to be growing colder as the day progresses on and the clouds themselves are choked dark grey. The rain never fell last night, but the storms seem, or at least the storm front that seems to push its way is still ominously looking overhead the entirety of this landscape. Looking down across the Vesper Timberland, you can see the thick canopy, the occasional mountain or hill that's jutting through the top of it, but there is no movement. There is no current sign of the creature.
Travis: Let's use some bait.
Sam: Wait no, we saw the direction it went in, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Don't worry, my sister's a ranger. She can track anything.
Laura: Why are you being an asshole to me today?
Liam: I don't know, why am I?
Laura: I don't know! (laughter)
Laura: I judged him, apparently, but I don't remember doing it.
Liam: The Critters will figure it out.
Laura: Yeah, can I go low to the ground and track it?
Matt: You can. So you take the carpet down, and as it hits the canopy, it's a very slow, arduous process to weave between the thick network of branches and vines and other bits of growth that have completely covered the top of this forest. Eventually, the carpet comes down into the floor. The rest of you guys who are flying coming along, as well?
Sam: I'm coming along.
Matt: You all come down behind the carpet, eventually breaking through the top of the canopy and reaching the interior of the Vesper Timberland itself.
Laura: This is my other favored terrain.
Matt: Good to know. This forest, incredibly lush, presses up against the city walls itself, nearly oppressively with the impact. It grows up right against the city wall. And it's almost like the wall itself is constantly keeping it at bay in the way that the growth that's pushing inward. The tree trunks you see, now that you've hit the interior, vary in size, some only a few feet in diameter. You come across a couple that are 20, 30 feet or more, giant trees. Also, even though it's midday at this point in time, the light into the forest is choked so thin it's almost like it's dusk, near dark, inside the forest. The air hits you with the smell of wet earth, moss. Vines and branches dangle from and reach from every direction, and you can see there are, you can walk through the path here, but nearing trees themselves, the roots are so large and so twisted where they enter the ground. You're definitely going to have to keep up with your ranger friend here.
Liam: Just like the old days.
Orion: Now we've touched down and we're traveling?
Matt: You guys are in the forest pushing through various walkways. Go ahead and make a survival check with advantage.
Sam: Survival check? Is that for her?
Matt: Yep. She's tracking the creature.
Laura: Oh, natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: All right. Following its path, you see that there are tracks going both ways, meaning the creature as it came through towards the city, it turned its path about and then exited the same pathway. So as you're following it along for a good 15 minutes or so, you come across a small opening in the forest where you can see what looks to be a very messily partially devoured carcass of something.
Laura: Is it big?
Matt: It looks like it was pretty big, it's definitely spread out over this area.
Laura: I think it ate something here, you guys.
Sam: Good ranging.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'd like to try and identify the animal that it ate.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13?
Matt: 13? You look at it, it appears to be some sort of furred beast. Huge in size at one point, it is long-dead for at least--
Taliesin: Like moose-big or bigger?
Matt: No, as big as some of the umber hulks you've fought. But it looks humanoid-ish, more primate-like. The more you look at it, it looks like it may have been at one point a large, massive ape of some kind. But it has been torn open, limbs scattered all across this small clearing. You can see there are a series of bite and scratch marks across it, and most of its internal organs are missing.
Taliesin: I don't know what we're tracking, but I think it's friendly.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I can figure anything out about the nature of the attack?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: That's going to be 21.
Matt: 21. As you look down at it and you take close inspection on the attack, you look, a creature like this, when it destroys and bites, especially the creature that you saw earlier briefly, it appeared through the canopy when you first arrived. Many heads, gnashing teeth. The bite marks and the attack on this carcass are definitely in line with that creature. However, you do notice that there are other marks and attacks across it, as well. Some of the wounds across its body appear to be made by weapons. There are gash marks and slashes. And the more and more you inspect the body, you can see the blood that has been scattered about by this was thick and congealed by the time that it was tossed amongst this opening.
Marisha: Does it look like the wounds from the weapons happened post-mortem? Or at the same time?
Matt: Actually, the wounds from the weapons appear to have occurred fresh, whereas the wounds from being killed and eaten, or being eaten by the creature, appear to be post-mortem by quite some time.
Liam: So it was killed by civilized folks and then torn apart by this thing.
Travis: Maybe the Slayer's Take.
Marisha: Can I figure out what kind, was it some bird creature? Is all Percy could--
Matt: Ape creature. It's essentially a massive, for lack of a better term, a dire-sized ape.
Taliesin: Dire-ape. It's possible somebody was feeding it.
Laura: Should we continue on, keep tracking?
Liam: My sister and I are going to check and see if there's any sign of it in the area.
Laura: Yeah, perception check around. Oh, that looks good.
Liam: Yes, it was. 21 for me.
Laura: Yeah, only 18 for me. But wait, advantage. That's way better! 25.
Matt: 25. Looking ahead, this carcass was eaten before the creature attacked the city. You can see from the time difference that this happened. But it has torn through this space recently. You can see part of the body has been shoved aside and crushed under some giant clawed foot. It continues weaving between the trees in this small pathway that looks well-worn, like there are some portions of the forest that are well-overgrown and mostly untouched. There is a specific path along the floor of this forest that looks like it's been used often by large footsteps and small ones.
Laura: Should we follow along that path? But maybe off to the side a bit, like in the trees but next to the path?
Sam: No, let's just go down the middle. What, did it leave traps? It's a hydra.
Liam: I'll go down in the bushes, thanks.
Orion: Is it like a thicket? Is this rough terrain we're going through?
Matt: There are many portions of this that come across as rough terrain. At certain times it's okay, especially on the worn path, any off that can be a little more difficult to traverse.
Orion: Is it plant life?
Matt: Plant life, tree roots, heavy thick branches that have fallen or have grown out and interwoven. Occasional rocks or natural formations that are jutting out of the earth.
Sam: Let's continue on as fast as possible.
Matt: Make another tracking check, with advantage.
Laura: Oh man, another one?
Matt: (singing) Advantage.
Laura: 16.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her with a little song of inspiration. (singing) And the ranger's going to range, range, range, range, range. And the tracker's going to track, track, track, track, track. I'm just going to watch, watch, watch, watch, watch. Watch her range.
All: (singing) Watch her range.
Laura: What do I need to add?
Matt: A d10.
Laura: Okay, so 19.
Sam: Oh good. Three points.
Matt: All right. You continue moving forward off the track for another ten minutes or so before you see some movement ahead.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that. 21.
Travis: 12.
Laura: 18.
Orion: How far away are we from each other?
Matt: You guys are keeping a pretty close view, you're a little behind them, but you're letting them push forward unless you choose to do anything otherwise.
Liam: I'm going stealth.
Matt: All right. Make a stealth check. You and Percy go ahead and you look forward, and you notice there are a couple small pools of water that have just coalesced through the recent storms or just a natural small pool of water that exists in this portion, but you can see the back of a large, scaled creature with a tan dark-brown hide, long tail, currently stooped down and drinking from the waters in the pool. You can hear the distant (lapping) sound of water dripping out of its jaws, and you can see now, there are multiple heads taking drinks out of this pool here.
Sam: Is the foliage around us green? Brown? Standard foliage color?
Matt: In this area, because of the nature of the rich earth, most of the foliage here is a deep green.
Sam: I'm going to turn us all deep green. With Seeming.
Liam: With what now?
Sam: Seeming. Yes with Seeming. I spread my Seeming all over us, turning us green. With Seeming all over us.
Taliesin: There's nothing you can't ruin.
Matt: As the hue of your garments begin to shift to the color of the surrounding forest, I'd like everybody to make a stealth check who hasn't already, with advantage.
Liam: Oh, 30.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin right now.
Sam: We're rolling for stealth? With advantage?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: 15.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 25 total.
Matt: These are trees. There, looming at the edge of the water--
Laura: Whoa. Is that a dragon?
Matt: That is a massive hydra.
Laura: So it's not technically in the dragon school?
Matt: No. It is considered a monstrosity, technically. You guys are all hidden off to the side here.
Liam: I'm scooting forward quietly.
Taliesin: Hail, hydra.
Marisha: Where do you hail from, hydra?
Matt: All right, we'll put that as your guys' current placement. Stealth scores are?
Liam: 30.
Sam: 16.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 15.
Travis: 15.
Laura: It was a natural 20. Do I add anything?
Matt: No, you don't have to worry about that.
Sam: So we're all good.
Matt: Okay. The creature keeps drinking. Occasionally, a head will come up and look around. Another head will come up and snap at it, and snap back, and then both go down and they start drinking on their own. You apparently are not currently noticed.
Laura: Should I have rolled for Trinket?
Matt: Go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: I rolled an 18 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's fine. Trinket with his deep green fur, at the moment. So what would you like to do?
Liam: I'm pulling out my Dagger of Venom.
Travis: Set a really good trap. Let's think about this.
Marisha: I can box him in with my Wall of Stone.
Laura: I can cast the spike-growth thing again.
Sam: Should we try to push him in the water?
Travis: We could lightning the water.
Laura: In the water, then lightning the water? That's good.
Orion: I have all kinds of things.
Travis: Suggestions?
Liam: If you box it in, we can't get inside.
Orion: If we can nudge it into where he's drinking, then box him in.
Laura: Drown him?
Travis: Or lightning the water?
Laura: Yeah. Box him in the water and then lightning the water.
Travis: Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Keyleth, when you shape the stone, can you make it lean towards him in a ramp? I can run up. It would still box him in. I could just traverse it.
Marisha: Yeah, I see what you're saying. I'm going to pyramid him in, essentially. I'm going to try and make almost behind him is an auditorium and the front of him is a jabby ramp. Does that make sense? Auditorium?
Sam: Let's do this.
Matt: Okay. The wall of stone has to be connected to itself, so it would have to be like--
Marisha: Okay, I'll do a spiral. Like a spiraly ramp that traps him in.
Taliesin: We're going to take the carpet and make our way to the other pond.
Laura: Do you want to go from either side? You take the carpet, go to the other side, and I'll walk over with Trinket to the other. What is he looking for?
Matt: Our carpet got moved. We have flying carpets from fans here I want to use, but it got moved.
Marisha: Are they in our magic box?
Matt: We'll find them. We've got carpets from you guys to use. We'll get that in just a second. It's fine. We've got to move. So Percy?
Taliesin: I have the carpet, I'm going to head towards that small--
Matt: You have the laser pointer. Show me.
Taliesin: What is that?
Matt: That is a rock.
Taliesin: I'm going to move just to the other side of that.
Matt: Okay, you coast through here, unseen.
Laura: I'm going to do the same to the other side, actually.
Matt: Around and behind to this side, here?
Laura: Would I be able to shoot him from behind the one further back?
Matt: From here, right now? No.
Laura: Well then I'll go behind the big tree. There, yeah. Totally hidden!
Matt: Yes. Anyone else, placement?
Sam: I'm going to move closer.
Matt: Okay. Right there.
Marisha: Hey, Matt? Instead of Wall of Stone, I'm actually going to cast my one 6th-level spell, which is Move Earth.
Matt: Have you read Move Earth?
Marisha: Yeah. A few weeks ago.
Matt: You can move large chunks of earth over a small period of time. It's not an attack spell, it's more of you can dig a cave.
Marisha: Never mind. I'll stick with the original plan. I can't dome him up and go ahead and push him in the water really quick at this point?
Matt: Probably not with that one.
Marisha: All right, I'll stick with Wall of Stone, which I know I can do. Make a hydra pyramid!
Liam: I rolled a 30. I want to get down in a crouch and just run right there.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, where are you going? To have line of sight on the creature, where are you going?
Marisha: Right there is fine.
Matt: You don't have line of sight on the creature. There's a tree blocking.
Marisha: Oh. No, let me move towards Scanlan.
Matt: All right, so over here?
Marisha: Yep.
Orion: I'd like to do an investigation on his-- oh yes! I rolled a 21.
Matt: What are you trying to do?
Orion: Guess how much he weighs.
Matt: A creature of this size, probably close to two tons. More than three tons, maybe? 5,000 pounds.
Orion: Damn it. Too big.
Matt: It's a big creature. Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'm going to post up on, where's my laser pointer?
Sam: In your eye! God, you're having the worst day!
Liam: Just headbutt a tree or something.
Matt: Tiberius, you're staying right there?
Orion: Keeping within 100 feet of it.
Matt: Okay, that's well within a hundred feet.
Orion: Well, Vax can move. Is that my best POV?
Matt: To see it, yeah. Otherwise, you would be blocked.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Actually, we can move anywhere right now, right?
Matt: All right, is everyone set? Who's taking first initiative on this?
Marisha: I am.
Laura: Can you move Trinket next to Grog?
Matt: Trinket moves around next to Grog.
Marisha: Okay, I want to try and do a little pushy-shovery at the same time.
Matt: All right. There you are.
Laura: There we go, look at us all. Strategized.
Sam: Yeah, that's going to come in handy when he just kills all of us in one shot.
Marisha: Okay. As he gets in that corner of that puddle, I'm going to Fibonacci circle and starting here, push him in a bit and wrap him up.
Matt: Okay, so you create from the earth a wall of stone that comes jutting out. That way?
Marisha: Yeah, I want him to be tight in the circle here, and if I can get it to push him towards the water.
Matt: The force of the wall of stone slams into him and through the physical form, it's not enough to actually move a creature of its size and weight, but it does form around it and hold it in place, currently.
Liam: As soon as Vax sees that, he starts running through the grass, up the slope of the stone.
Matt: It's currently surrounded by a ramp of stone. The heads start reaching out and biting at the stone.
Orion: You're running up the stone?
Liam: Yeah, and I'm clicking one boot against the other as I run up it, so I'm going faster, run up, and I'm going to jump and I'm going to start stabbing into that head.
Matt: All righty. Go for it.
Liam: Okay, 17. Shit. And 27.
Matt: Second one hits.
Liam: The final one hits?
Matt: Oh sorry, the first one was?
Liam: 17. One.
Matt: One misses, the final one hits, yes.
Liam: Okay. So does this count as sneak attack? All right, so I roll a nine for damage, plus eight, 12, 14, 15, 17 of sneak attack damage, with the first attack, that's poison. And the poison is DC 15.
Matt: DC 15. Misses. Does not make its save.
Liam: With 11 points of poison damage to its head. That's just the first attack that hits. And then I take my keen dagger and I jab for the eye, and that is a ten of damage.
Matt: Nice. It is considered a sneak attack because this is a surprise round.
Liam: Both attacks?
Matt: The first attack that hits is considered a sneak attack.
Liam: First attack I gave you was sneak attack.
Matt: No, I mean the first attack that hits it. You missed, missed, and then you hit.
Liam: Oh, I thought I hit and missed and hit.
Matt: Missed, missed, and hit.
Liam: All right, well then erase the first numbers I told you. It's just ten plus-- it was 17, so 27.
Matt: All right. 27 damage. You leap, run up the stonework, click the heels, rush down and then slam, and the dagger slips into the front of its torso, the actual blade pulsing as the magical energy expels itself, the poison rocketing through its body. All of a sudden, the heads turn around and now you have five heads looking at you.
Liam: Add 15 of poison to that. Add 15 of poison.
Matt: Awesome. Is he poisoned? Or just takes 15 additional points of damage?
Liam: It gets poisoned, and it takes damage on the first hit and every round I think it takes that poison.
Matt: No, it just means it's poisoned, which means it has disadvantage.
Liam: Oh, yes. DC 15, plus damage on the hit.
Matt: There's the flying carpet. (cheering)
Orion: Is any part of the creature still in the water?
Matt: One of its feet is currently off to the side in the water.
Orion: Cool. I'm going to cast Invisibility. And I can see it, because I'm on the other side of the ramp, right? I'm going to cast Chain Lightning right at the foot.
Sam: Chain Lightning? You have Chain Lightning?
Marisha: It's new.
Orion: Yes, it is. It's a 150 foot range, and I do 10d8 damage.
Sam: I know, I used it at the fight that you didn't want to fight in.
Matt: Yeah, what's the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. All right, it does make its save, so half damage.
Orion: How do I count these? There's a bunch of sevens. Stupid ones.
Sam: 28.
Orion: All together?
Sam: No, that's 28.
Orion: Oh. 38. 43.
Matt: 43. Awesome. So a total of 22 points of damage from a save. So as it's stepping into the water, it takes an additional, I'll say, additional 2d8 from being in the water. I'll roll them here. Additional nine damage to that. As it pulls back, the stone around it, the rogue leaps up and slams it with a blade, its heads turn around, and as it does, you turn around, vanish from sight, and then... you cast Greater Invisibility or just Invisibility?
Orion: Greater.
Matt: Okay. Release your hands and a torrent of blue electrical energy rockets forth from your hands, streaking out, some parts leaving arcs that hit the nearby forests and then slamming into its body, its exposed heads. You can see the arcs now shooting through between the various necks and bodies. It writhes and streaks about, slamming its body into part of the stone that cracks and heaves from the impact, still holding it in place. Well done. You want to move, or is that your turn?
Orion: I'm going, what are the big lumps, are those trees?
Matt: These are trees. Anywhere walking on the trunk around it is difficult terrain, you cannot pass.
Orion: I'm just going to go right behind that tree.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Who else wants to do anything this round?
Laura: I want to shoot him.
Matt: You all get a free round, and then we roll initiative.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on it.
Matt: Hunter's Mark on it.
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry, DM? This is after the fact. Assassinate, on any attack before the enemy's had a chance to take a turn yet, any hit on surprise is a crit.
Matt: Good to know, so that's 54 damage from your initial strike.
Liam: Thank you. That's all I get. That's all I do.
Laura: So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at 3rd level. I'm going to roll for that. Jesus. That's only 16. That doesn't hit, does it?
Matt: For Hail of Thorns? 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Marisha: Even though he's trapped?
Matt: No, it's against the armor. It actually ricochets off the hide of the creature and disappears. It explodes against a tree trunk in the distance, and you can see a smattering of magical thorns shoot out into one of the canopies.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to try just doing a regular attack through the magical bow of fire. And that is 17.
Matt: Hail of Thorns is an action to cast, though, isn't it? You've already used your bonus action to cast Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Then never mind, I don't do anything. I just fucking fucked that up.
Matt: It's okay, it's a surprise round. Do you want to do anything with your self-placement or Trinket-wise?
Laura: Yeah, I want to climb a tree that I'm next to.
Matt: Okay. Using your movement. Go ahead and make, we'll say an athletics check to climb the tree.
Laura: What was that, athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Why?
Matt: Because there's no branches nearby, you have to--
Laura: Six! I'm going to stay on the ground.
Matt: You slide back to the trunk, turn around and grab your bow and prepare yourself. Trinket, anything?
Laura: Trinket's going to stay right there.
Sam: I'll move and do Lightning. Why not? Just try to get as much as possible. Just so I won't hit whoever that is.
Matt: That would probably be right there. All right, so you unleash a Lightning Bolt?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage, 8d6. Does not make its save. Rolled a five.
Liam: By the way, we need seven more subs, which is ironically the same number of heads the hydra has.
Taliesin: Seven more subs?
Marisha: Seven more subs?
Orion: Seven more subs?
Matt: Seven more subs?
Taliesin: We're going to get a bear!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, gotcha. That was the total 8d6?
Sam: That was 6d6.
Matt: 8d6 for Lightning Bolt. Roll two more.
Sam: Ten more!
Matt: All right, 29. You turn around the corner, the energy still crackling around it from the Chain Lightning. You unleash your own Lightning Bolt that hits it from the side, slamming into the side of one of the heads. The head actually pops from the impact. It's now got four heads.
Sam: Oh, hey. I got a head!
Taliesin: What's my distance? Is this Pepperbox distance or Bad News distance, at the moment?
Matt: Right now, you can't see because there's a tree in the way, but you're Pepperbox distance from here. You could try Bad News, but you'd have to set up in place.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to start curling around the tree I'm near. I'm going to take some movement to fly over the pond back here. And while I'm making my little round, I'm going to take two shots with the Pepperbox.
Matt: Okay, so as the carpet's gliding past, you're basically strafing it and (gunshots). Go ahead and fire.
Liam: You have a bear.
Marisha: She has a bear? We got a bear!
Matt: Oh my god, there's going to be a giant Trinket. That's so stupid.
Taliesin: Full-on misfire. (cackles) Yeah, I misfire. I don't care; we got a bear.
Matt: All right. We got a bear. As you strafe past, you pull your Pepperbox and go to fire. Suddenly there's a dull sound, and as you look at your gun, it explodes for a second in your face. You barely manage to get your visage out of the way as the barrel itself is heated up and you have to shake it off. Yeah, your Pepperbox is looking a bit rough right now.
Taliesin: It's fine; I'm putting it away.
Matt: Okay. So everyone else has gone but Grog.
Travis: Me? Can I run all the way up and try and pull a Vax, like he did?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Hey, I want to try that! And I rage as I attack it!
Matt: All right, as you rush up, axe in your hand, you rush up the side of the stone ramp that she's created and it's right in slamming distance. Go ahead.
Travis: I swing away. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Yes, and the second. 16.
Matt: 16, no. 16 misses. And then?
Travis: That's it, just the two. I'm not frenzied. Yes. 17.
Matt: 17 points of damage as you hack once again, slamming into the side of one of the necks, causing a gout of purplish blood to spray over the right side of your body. That ends the combat round for the surprise round. The creature is now aware that you're definitely there. Everyone roll initiative. All right, so 25 to 20?
Orion: 22.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Sam: 16. First good roll I've ever had.
Matt: For initiative, yeah. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Both of you guys 13. All right.
Marisha: Four.
Liam: 12.
Orion: That's what you usually get.
Taliesin: You got a four?
Marisha: Yeah, I did.
Matt: All right. Top of the round, Tiberius. As you start to see the head that got blown off, two heads sprout out of the--
Sam: Out of the wound.
Matt: It now has six heads.
Sam: It had five when we started!
Matt: Yep. And when you blew off the head, two more grew in its place.
Laura: Wait, but when Hercules defeated him, he just cut off so many that they started attacking themselves and they got tangled up.
Matt: Regardless, Tiberius, it's your turn.
Orion: It's still on the same position it was, though, right? When we started? Right?
Matt: Yep. It did seem to heal a bit of its wounds as the heads pull out of it. It has a sense of regeneration.
Orion: And I go, oh no you don't. And I stick out my ring and Chain Lightning him again.
Matt: Chain Lightning is a 6th-level spell.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I had one stored in my ring.
Matt: Your ring can only store up to a 3rd-level spell. We went over this last time. It's okay.
Orion: No, I thought that was the Ioun Stone. We all learned something today, kids. I don't do that. Instead, fine. I'm going to cast Telekinesis once. And I'm instantly going to do quicken spell and do five sorcerer points to cast it immediately again. Cast it on one head and another head and (bashing, tying sounds). To try and wrap them all and choke them.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an arcana check for the first one.
Orion: Wasn't terrible. What is that?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Okay, and for the second one?
Orion: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, so it rolled a 17 on its second save. The first one, it did not resist because it rolled a three. So what you do as you cast Telekinesis once, you use the sorcery points to cast it again. You can't get all the heads, but you can grab two of them, one focus for each telekinetic thing. You take both heads and (whack, whack) slam them three times into each other and then twist the necks around at the point where both of them are biting onto their own necks after they've torn into a second. For that, they're both going to take 2d8 impact damage. That's nine plus five. 14 points of impact damage to each head. Both of those heads are currently grappling each other, so they will not be able to attack on its turn.
Orion: And then I go back against the tree. That is my turn.
Matt: All right. It is now the hydra's turn. It rolled a really high initiative. The two heads are going to untangle themselves. That's their attack. Now it only has four strikes this turn, two of which are going to be against you and two of which are going to be against you. All right, so. Two of the heads rear back, lunging at Vax over here. That's going to be a 29. Second one is going to be a 19.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: All right. So you take... 17 and 15. 17 and 15, so 32 points of piercing damage. One of the heads snaps down on your torso and lifts you up for a second as the other grabs the side of your body, and it feels like it's about to tear you apart for a second until you manage to elbow it in the nose and manage to get free of one head and shake off the other. Grog, another head comes at you. First one comes at a 24.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a natural 20 for the second.
Travis: Yeah, I guess so. Phillip's a fucking douche today.
Matt: 14 points from the first one. You are raging, so it's halved to seven. The other one that is a critical, that does come to 24, so 12 points of piercing damage. All right. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I see its body at all?
Matt: Yeah, you can see its body, it's pretty large, mainly just the heads are visible, the ramp is blocking the lower half of it. So you can't see its legs and its main part of its torso, but you can see the necks and the heads.
Laura: So I can't see its body.
Matt: Currently, no. It is blocked by her stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot towards where-- is this bad? Oh no! I'm going to shoot towards where all of the heads are joined together.
Matt: It managed to unravel itself during its turn, but it used its attacks to do so.
Laura: Yeah, down where all these heads are connected. Right here.
Matt: Oh, okay. You can sort of see that area. Best you can, yeah.
Laura: I'm going to shoot my fancy exploding arrow.
Taliesin: The untested?
Matt: The one that you rolled.
Taliesin: The one that has the little mark beside it?
Matt: You pull out of your quiver the exploding arrow, which you can see it, it's heavily weighted in the front so you know you have to fire it at a slight arc against most of your arrows that you shoot. So go ahead and roll an attack on this one.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: What did you roll? Are you serious? As you pull back on your bow, you go to release it, and the string ignites for a second, the arcane fire behind it that you absentmindedly trigger, and as you do you realize at the last minute, the arrow doesn't fire. You actually freak out for a second and release the bow. The arrow falls, the flame hitting the edge of it, and it explodes and detonates right in front of you. Make a reflex saving throw. Sorry, a dexterity saving throw. Oh, Pathfinder. You squeak in every now and then.
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Now?!
Marisha: Fuck you, dice gods.
Matt: What would have been an explosively painful 38 points of damage is halved.
Taliesin: Well, we know it works.
Matt: So you take 19 points of fire damage, and you're knocked prone.
Taliesin: Now, if only I could have attached that to a donkey, at some point.
Laura: You said 19? Jesus.
Matt: You're knocked flat on your ass.
Liam: That was all of Dungeons and Dragons contained in 30 seconds. (laughter)
Taliesin: For a year, he tried to get me to design an exploding donkey.
Sam: I did.
Matt: That was a little unfortunate. Trinket can still move and finish off the round, if you'd like. That was only one of your attacks.
Laura: All right. Can Trinket run up and fight alongside Grog? All right, he's going to do that.
Matt: Trinket runs up, runs up the ramp, claws out (roars).
Laura: Gets two attacks because of bestial fury. Jeez. Okay, I'm going to roll my Trinket dice now. Don't kill me now. Okay. I don't even know. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Laura: Cool. 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Laura: All right. (fake-cries) Okay. 13.
Matt: 13.
Laura: Does he get Hunter's Mark?
Matt: I would say yes, because he is your bear, I'll let that happen.
Laura: Yes he does! That's another five.
Matt: Nice, so 18 points of damage from Trinket. As Trinket runs up, one claw swings through the air, and as the head rears back, seeing this new bear that's joined the fray, reaches out and clamps onto its throat with its jaws, tearing a chunk of its flesh out.
Travis: Yeah, Trinket!
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm going to punch it with Bigby's Hand. I'm going to do Bigby's Hand. And punch it. That's it. Punch. That's my move. Punch.
Matt: (laughs) Good, let me open the spell real fast.
Sam: (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. You know it. Shamone.
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell attack.
Sam: Add my spell attack?
Matt: Yeah, it should be at the top of your spell page.
Sam: This? Spell attack. 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage as the fist slams, clocking one of the hydras in the face.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. And with that, you actually punch one of the heads off the hydra. It goes spinning off into the forest.
Laura: Oh, you don't want to punch heads off.
Sam: Hey guys, I got rid of another head! Hey guys, I'm on a roll! Who still hasn't gone? Keyleth, you haven't gone?
Taliesin: I haven't gone and Grog hasn't gone.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to inspire Grog with my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, what do you inspire him with?
Sam: Oh, I'm going to inspire him. (singing) Come on Grog, yeah, you know what I mean. It's time to rage on this hydra...
Matt: A half-hearted d10 to you. (laughs) All right, so. As that finishes your turn. At this point, you see a series of blurs in the nearby bushes.
Sam: Blurs in the bushes!
Laura: Blurs from the bush? What?
Matt: A voice rings out, saying, "Hey! What are you doing?!" And you now see an armored individual come rushing out from behind this tree here, another armored individual rushing from there, a female with a large sword rushing from this side, another character with leather armor, and a robed female coming from behind here. "This is our mark! You're not supposed to take that from us!"
Laura: Well, maybe you should've fought it before we got here!
Matt: "This is against the rules, you skag!"
Orion: Wait, what rules? We don't know the rules!
Marisha: We got here first! Warcraft rules!
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Matt: So this guy runs forward. He can't quite get all the way there, so he's going to sit there. Mage moves out this way and is going to look over at you as you're getting the gun, looks over and reaches out her hand. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh my god, for the love of-- no!
Travis: What did you roll? Say it!
Taliesin: One.
Orion: Hold on. Wait no, hold on. I peek over and Counterspell.
Matt: You do not have visual on her at all. The trees are in between, unfortunately. As you're on the flying carpet, you see over the shoulder. You go to get your gun-- you're trying to pull out Bad News-- and then your muscles seize and you find yourself held in place.
Sam: Hold Person. Hold Percy.
Matt: The cleric character you see comes forward, holding aloft a holy symbol, and reaches up and suddenly you see the canopy above the hydra begin to glow with a bright orange light before a column of fire slams down into the ground from the heavens.
Sam: On the hydra?
Matt: On the hydra.
Laura: Wait, what about the people that are near the hydra?
Matt: It appears to only be affecting the hydra.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Ooh.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: The hydra takes 48 points of damage.
Travis: Four-eight?
Sam: While you were gone, everything happened, by the way. Everything happened.
Travis: We're apparently taking someone's bounty.
Matt: This character runs up, dressed in leather armor, hood, cloak. Runs back, pulling two longswords from underneath the cloak and swings up to strike multiple times. You can see a hawk gliding over, heading in the canopy. Does 12 points of damage with the first strike. The second one, goes to swing and hits the hide and flanks off of it.
Laura: And it explodes in his face and he's knocked prone.
Matt: Sorry. This woman, as she rushes forward, you can see the skin has a pink-reddish tint, these blackened twin horns curl to the back of her head, and she carries a giant greatsword in her hands as she runs in a blur, yelling out this angry war cry. "It's ours!" Runs up and swings towards one of the hydra's heads. First one misses. Second one misses. (whoosh) In her fury and anger and the frustration of currently having apparently a targeted bounty of theirs taken, she swings wildly into the air, missing both strikes. That's going to end their round. All right, that brings us to Grog and Percy. Percy, make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: This is a wisdom modifier plus d20?
Matt: It's whatever your wisdom save is.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Ones and twenties tonight. So you manage to shrug the effect, but that's your turn. Grog.
Travis: I would like to look to the woman that swung and missed and go, oh, I think you meant to do this. And I'll swing for the body of the hydra.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Why didn't I use the stupid dice, but that's okay. 19?
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: And 11.
Matt: All right. (whack) You hit once again, almost like you're cutting down a tree. You're hitting the same mark you hit last turn, carving a large chunk of the throat out. You can now see the exposed bone underneath, and it's starting to gurgle through its hissing. You bring the axe around with the inertia on the backswing and slam it into the base of another one of the necks. As it slams into it and gets wedged in there, you have to pull it out with a giant spray of blood that actually spatters across the female tiefling, which you now see. Who, as it sprays across her, she licks it off her pointed teeth, and you can see she brings her sword up, ready to go ahead and attack it again. She's glaring at you now with a this-is-mine type expression. Vax.
Liam: All right, so am I still up on the elevated part of the stone?
Matt: You are, yes.
Liam: The one that's occupied with Grog, I'm going to jump on it and cling my legs to the side and try to slice down as I go, over the side wall. Okay. First is a 28. I'll just do that. And it's a sneak attack because it's occupied with Grog, obviously. So that is a two-- this is my Keen Dagger. That's a nine plus... nine, 13, 16, 19, 24. Nine plus 24 is 33, and then the second dagger, Flametongue, nine, ten, 19.
Matt: All right, that does hit.
Liam: Okay, that's a regular old four plus six is ten, and then out comes the Venom Dagger, which has already spit its poison, and that is a 26, which also hits, and that is a four plus six is ten. So (dagger noises) down its neck.
Matt: All right. As you spin over and arc down onto the opposite side there, nice. Well done. I forgot to roll for-- it does resist the poison at the end of its turn, by the way. Though even with the disadvantage it still managed to hit you last turn. All right, cool, so you flip over, arc yourself down after the series of dagger blades, carving these two long, ragged wounds down the side of its body. As you hit on the opposite side, where the stonework is starting to crack a little bit from the impact and swishing about of its physical body.
Liam: Can I ask, do I have a bonus action at this point? I'm hasted, and I've done three attacks. Is there time for a bonus action? I don't know.
Matt: You have an attack, bonus action attack, and then the haste attack.
Liam: Okay, I'm good.
Matt: All right. Keyleth.
Marisha: Should I try and get these fuckers off, or should I just kill the damn thing?
Laura: Attack the hydra.
Marisha: I cast Call Lightning and bring a lightning bolt right down on its head.
Matt: In the same space, you can see there's a burnt hole in the top of the canopy where that fire column came through, there's a slight sizzle of ozone before a giant hammering blow of lightning streaks from the heavens down into the body. You feel a jolt of energy in the daggers. You pull them out instinctively before it manages to make its way to your body. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: (whoops) Nine, eight, bringing us to 17. 21 damage.
Matt: 21 damage, nice. All righty. That ends the round. At the top, where the secondary head you blew off was, two more heads sprout out. It now has seven heads.
Sam: Hey guys! There's more heads for me to knock off!
Laura: Hey, that's the best thing ever!
Sam: We get to keep doing it!
Laura: I bet if we keep doing it though, I mean, eventually the heads will outweigh the body and it'll just have to fall over.
Orion: Okay, well. He's 20 feet in radius himself, isn't he? Sweet! I'm going to-- oh, there's a lot of people, though. Who are they? I put my ring out and I'm going to do instantly, quicken spell, do five more SP will bring me down to one sorcerer point, and I'm going to huck two Fireballs right in the center of the hydra.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Orion: But you're off to the side. You're not on it. Are you on it?
Matt: So you're drifting over here? Oh. No, you're just aiming at it. Okay. So. Back-to-back, you used the last of the sorcerer points to fire two Fireballs that explode, one after another. Go ahead and roll damage on both of them.
Orion: 20-- what is that?-- 29, 31, 35, 36, so that's 41.
Matt: 41 for the first one. That's almost straight sixes and fives. That's awesome.
Orion: 34, so that's 39.
Matt: 39. Were you adding five to each of those?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: I don't think you're supposed to do that for Fireball.
Orion: It's any fire attack.
Matt: Oh, that's right, because you have the-- never mind. You do. Yes, that's right. I need a reflex save from Grog and from you, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to do rogue's evasion. I'm going to use Matt Colville's die made of iron from a meteorite.
Sam: From a meteorite?
Liam: Hopefully not die.
Sam: Wait, from a meteorite?!
Taliesin: To be fair, the die didn't dodge the earth.
Liam: What kind of roll is this? Saving throw. I've rolled a 17.
Matt: This is a 20-foot radius.
Laura: So everything in that area?
Liam: Everything in the area. It's done. I rolled a 17. Is that a success or a failure?
Matt: What is the, what's your spell difficulty?
Orion: Spell save? 17.
Matt: 17, so that just makes it for the first one, yes.
Liam: Just makes it. For the first Fireball?
Matt: For the first Fireball, yeah. You avoid that entirely.
Liam: Do I need to roll again? We're all going to roll again in a moment?
Matt: Yep. Roll for the second one now. Because two exploded in a row.
Liam: Oh, now. That is less.
Orion: Oh, hold on a second. Wait. I want to put a pause on this real quick.
Laura: You can't. You already did it!
Orion: I asked the question before I cast the spell. Is the hydra itself 20-foot radius? And I got a nod, so I figured my spell--
Matt: The hydra itself, the creature, it's a 15-foot diameter.
Orion: Diameter.
Matt: A radius is from the outside of it, from the middle.
Orion: Radius is different from diameter? Okay.
Sam: Geometry, kids.
Orion: Well then, it's fine, I'll shift it closer--
Liam: It's done. This is why this is interesting. So I succeeded the first time. I failed the second time, which means I halve whatever the damage is, which is high.
Matt: Okay, you take 18 points of fire damage.
Liam: That's okay.
Matt: Grog? Two saves.
Travis: What am I rolling, sorry?
Sam: You're trying to beat 17.
Travis: Oh, I rolled a 14, plus anything?
Sam: Yeah, you've got inspiration, friend.
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Orion: Plus his what?
Travis: Proficiency or what?
Matt: It's whatever your dex saving throw is.
Travis: Oh. Two. So 16, plus--
Laura: So 18 for the first one.
Travis: 18 for the first one.
Matt: 18. So you take 22 points of fire damage.
Liam: Where did all that math go from the last game?
Travis: Nine.
Sam: Nine?
Travis: Nine.
Taliesin: You can take it.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. I'm all good.
Matt: Here's the other side of it, though. We'll get to it in a second. Nine? You take 39 points of fire damage.
Laura: I don't want to say it, but Trinket's right there.
Matt: Oh yeah. Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Sam: No, remember? I said leave Trinket behind?
Laura: Yeah, I know you said that, but he also attacked him already.
Matt: Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Liam: Come on, Trinket die. Oh my god. Okay.
Laura: Don't say it.
Liam: No, it's good.
Laura: 17 for the first one.
Matt: Okay, that just makes it. So Trinket takes 22 fire damage. All right, and then the second one?
Marisha: I'm eating so much sugar, compulsively, out of nerves.
Laura: It's stuck in there.
Liam: Oh wow, it's not either, it's really on an angle.
Laura: It was really on an angle. That's unfortunate because one of them was good, and one of them sucked.
Matt: So what did you roll?
Laura: Seven.
Matt: Seven, all right. So with the explosion, both explode out of the way. You both manage to avoid the brunt of the damage. Trinket falls unconscious on the ground, the smell of burnt hair. The hydra looks rough. However, the individuals also nearby that came in are also blasted back by the Fireball. Everyone but the cleric and the mage in there are hit with the double explosions. Everyone taking full damage except for him, who takes half on the first one. They all of a sudden look around, dazed and frustrated.
Sam: Yeah, we just set off a nuke on the thing.
Matt: The hydra, due to the fiery impact, collapses inside the stone structure.
Sam: Dead?
Marisha: Dead?
Matt: Dead. So how do you want to do this?
Marisha: Our kill!
Orion: Oh my god.
Liam: With casualties.
Orion: Before the last one reaches it, I actually cast really hard Control Flame. It totally doesn't work this way, but I do it anyway. You bastard, I didn't mean to do this! And I'm going to hammer like I did with Flaming Sphere when we were playing in private.
Matt: I'll say you do this. You set off the first Fireball. As it explodes and damages everyone in the radius, it blows one of the throats of the hydra apart. The heads are now caught on fire. As you take the second Fireball, you set it off, shouting that outward. You use Control Flame at the same time as the Telekinesis you're still maintaining to envelop the explosion of the Fireball and contain it in the center. You slam it and let it detonate as part of the impact into the torso, where the heads are currently attached. You end up blowing half the heads off the hydra in the process. The rest of its body's trying to keep itself standing up. However, the explosion itself sent the stone wall around you guys broken into pieces and shards now sticking upward. The hydra backs up and falls onto its side, impaling itself on the shattered stone wall that you had kept up as it slowly slides down on the wound and gurgles out its last life breath, the rest of its body on fire, slowly sinking to the base of the stone wall.
Orion: That was really cool.
Travis: Who can heal really a lot really fast?
Laura: Trinket! I get up and run over to Trinket and hold his little head in my hands.
Marisha: Who's bad?
Travis: Trinket's unconscious.
Taliesin: Trinket's unconscious.
Marisha: I run up to Trinket and I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket in a 3rd-level spell slot.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Help him!
Travis: He's going to be fine.
Matt: As you guys rush up--
Liam: Yeah, Vax is rolling down the corpse of the hydra to stand in front of these strangers.
Travis: I've rushed to Trinket's side, too, from where I'm at.
Matt: All right. You're right at Trinket's side. You're flying in here.
Sam: I get closer and do the Superbowl shuffle in front of our new visitors, like, yeah, that's what we did.
Marisha: Trinket heals for 21 damage.
Matt: Trinket gets up, charred but okay.
Marisha: Who else is bad?
Matt: Trinket looks over at Tiberius and gives you a glare.
Marisha: I use it again for Vax. Ooh, that's better.
Travis: I rolled two hit dice--
Matt: Well, you aren't at a short rest yet. Because right now, as you guys are just standing there, the rest of the other party is now stepping up to you. The main human you now see in armor. He has dirty blond short hair, little bit of stubble on the chin, very well-armored, and the armor itself looks like it's taken a beating. He steps up and says, "All right. I'm going to ask you a question. What the fuck are you doing?!"
Liam: I think we're killing a hydra. What are you doing today?
Matt: "Fulfilling my contract."
Sam: Oh, by not killing the hydra? Because that's what you just did.
Liam: Listen, we don't know what the fuck you're doing. Take the hydra. We're not here for a bounty; we're trying to help the city.
Laura: Well, no, give us the money.
Marisha: We did want some proof.
Matt: He looks back to the rest of the group and the cleric steps forward and touches his shoulder for a second. Shrugs it off and says, "No! No. Skags that wander these lands, taking creatures from underneath those who are lawfully permitted to hunt these beasts and take that bounty, and that makes you breakers of the law of Vasselheim."
Sam: What's your name, sir?
Matt: Turns over and looks toward you, takes a couple steps forward, leaping off of the broken stonework on this side. "Aldor. And I work for the Slayer's Take, those of us that are empowered to hunt contracted bounty-given beasts and creatures in this land. You have gone out and laid claim to a beast that you had no lawful right to."
Laura: Well, the Bastion up on the wall said we could, so that's why we did it.
Marisha: While all of this is going down, I'm going to casually walk over and open my little harvesting book and start harvesting some hydra blood.
Matt: As you attempt to do that, the mage walks up and goes, "I wouldn't recommend that." You can see her elven face, there is a glare of frustration and standoffishness that is very sincere. "Do not step closer."
Travis: I'd put your hand down. You see, I had a horrible day yesterday, and unless you want to end up like puppy-dog here, we'll all end up in a big pile of blood, unless you find a way to split your take with us, and maybe let us go on our way. You see, we're new in these parts, and we have a habit for killing.
Matt: "Who would pay you?"
Laura: What do you mean?
Matt: "Where were you going to take this creature for the bounty you keep speaking of?"
Liam: Which one is talking?
Matt: This is Aldor, the same human fighter.
Laura: Aldor, they told us we could kill it and then give the heads and then bring it in and then they would give us money...
Sam: We didn't think this through. Listen. Let's level with you. This whole escapade was not very well thought out. We're new in town. We don't want to step on any toes. We did you a solid; we killed your thing. Let's calm it down a notch and let's just talk, shall we?
Laura: Why don't you just tell people you killed it, we helped, you get the money, you give us half of it, and we call it even?
Liam: Otherwise, we're going to go right now.
Matt: He laughs to himself and looks back at the rest of them and says, "You have to understand. The Slayer's Take's contracts are binding. Magically. If we don't take this creature in after dealing the killing blow, we're at an impasse with the Slayer's Take."
Laura: Oh. Can you stab it right now? Maybe it's still breathing?
Liam: Can anybody heal it? Can you kill it again?
Matt: The cleric steps forward, this human cleric, older, whitish hair. Steps forward, his mace at his side, armor currently spattered with hydra blood, looking a little charred, but for the most part okay. He says, "Okay. Before this gets out of hand, perhaps if you come with us to the Slayer's Take, there would be a possibility of us still enacting this contract if we find a way to magically bind you to it. Now, mind you, I don't know how the funds would be legally distributed; however, if you talked to the leader of our order, perhaps there could be some sort of a resolution to this."
Sam: What funds are we talking about, here? What was the contract that you had been binded by?
Matt: They look at each other and take a step back defensively and say, "We don't discuss money matters out in the open where it's so easy for bodies to be hidden."
Travis: Who is this leader of yours?
Matt: "The one that you're looking for... is on the other page." (laughter)
Sam: Aldor is no longer talking, right?
Laura: No, Sean Connery's talking now. I'm sorry.
Matt: "The Huntmaster." (laughter)
Sam: That's your leader?
Liam: I suddenly remembered my Charlemagne.
Matt: "Are you taunting me?"
Liam: I'm sorry. Not at all. Listen, we were about to come to blows. You and I are going to work this out. Words are mightier than the sword, right?
Sam: Don't ever do that again.
Travis: What if we return, saying that you had acquired our services in the killing of this beast?
Sam: We were subcontracted to you, yes.
Matt: "The only way that would work is if you were contracted to the Slayer's Take beforehand, which if you were to agree to be inducted, perhaps that would alleviate the concern. We could then write you into the contract magically, share the funds, even, and you would be free to accept contracts to kill creatures at your leisure."
Travis: I'm sorry, a little clarification. We get paid to kill?
Matt: "We're not out here for fun." At which point the tiefling female behind him says, "Hah, say that yourself. I'm out here for both." She flicks her sword and the blood across the ground.
Travis: Are you in the company or know of Siren?
Matt: They all look at each other. "She's been known to do work with the Slayer's Take, yes."
Travis: Yeah, I'm definitely in.
Sam: Introduce yourselves, if you don't mind.
Matt: "Let's do that as we walk." At which point the cleric says, "Take the heads, cleave them off. We'll take them back as trophies to prove the contract is sealed." The leader, Aldor, says, "Very well. Clean your weapons. No funny business. A single moment of your eyes wandering to your blade. I don't want it to have to come to blows. Let's carve up this creature."
Sam: Oh, what will you do to us? What you did to the hydra? Oh no! Not kill us.
Matt: "I really, really don't like you."
Sam: Few people do.
Liam: You don't have to worry about that. We're out here helping the city for the sake of good, not earning a paycheck.
Laura: I mean, I was going to ask them for a paycheck immediately after we'd gone back to the city, but you know.
Liam: That's how you roll.
Matt: "There's a very lucrative trade on monster-hunting in these woods, but you have to make sure that you're certified. Otherwise, you're taking money and food out of the mouths of us and our families."
Liam: Certification is key.
Matt: "Come on. Gather up the creature's bits." And they all go to start carving into the body of the hydra.
Laura: Ooh, can we help?
Marisha: Now I start doing my thing.
Liam: I've got the naughty bits.
Marisha: Do I need to roll for this?
Matt: You don't have to, actually. The group are very well trained, and as you go to try to, the tiefling puts her hand down and starts tearing pieces out. There's a dominance, a standoff here.
Laura: Can I have a scale? Just one more scale?
Marisha: I want some stuff.
Sam: It's all right. We'll get it and we'll figure it out when we get there.
Matt: There seems to be a general feel here that you've already broken the law enough. If you really want to fight for it, you can.
Liam: Let's quit while we're ahead.
Sam: Yeah, let's deal with the naughty bits later.
Matt: It takes about half an hour or so to reap the bits and pieces, then again making your way back, after you've pushed the remainder of the body into the pool itself, letting it slowly sink to the bottom. You all make your way back the path you came in an awkward, quiet march.
Laura: Oh, you guys set that bait out. You guys killed that ape, didn't you?
Matt: Aldor gives you a look. "Good to know we aren't the only trackers in this town."
Taliesin: That's so clever. Clever girl.
Matt: Eventually make your way back to town, skirt around the outer wall to one of the three main gates, this one right on the outskirts of the Braving (stutters). Too many creatures. Braving Grounds. The gates open. You're all led in, first question at the sight of you guys, but Aldor raises his hand and says, "No, they're with us; it's fine." You all walk in, leads you to the outskirts of the Braving Grounds to a new area of the town you have yet to travel to. At which point, he introduces, "Welcome to the Quad Roads. This is where the Slayer's Take makes its place. This is also where the Erathis's Crown is. Best you pay an homage to the deity of civilization while here." He pulls out a small gem around his neck with a small symbol on it, kisses it, and puts it back in his shirt. You guys continue walking to what is now, you can see these large roads that streak across. You've seen them join with the other sections. This is the most central of all the various districts of the city of Vasselheim. There is a very large trade bazaar structure not that far out of the main gate that leads to the center of this district. You can see barkers shouting out left and right to you, various phrases dealing with food and various crops, and creature fresh meat. "Fresh meat out of the Abundance! Takers of the Abundance!" And people yelling out for general goods, packs, leathers, large carts being wheeled past you, until eventually you make your way to what looks like a very old, dark-wood lodge, about three stories high, decorated with dozens of tusks and claws and other trophies that look as old as the building itself. A carved wooden sign stands bolted to the top of the porch that says "Slayer's Take Guildhall" in the common tongue. Approaching the door, still that awkward quiet keeping over the group, there is an engraving into the doorway-- it's pushed into the wood-- that reads, "Here is where the hunters gather, keen eyes and blades at ready. We cease the unknown's cackling laughter. Our will is strong, our members plenty. We stand against the tide of darkness. We do the deeds few men can handle. Reap forth a trophy from the carcass. We are your strength, we are your candle." Aldor does a knock on the door. The door opens, an eye looks through, and the door swiftly opens as another individual who's dressed in a makeshift leather and hide armor steps aside. You're all let in, carrying the large hydra heads through that have been gathering looks from the individuals watching you charge through the streets. To the center of the room, you see what looks to be amongst the loose cast-iron candelabras that are affixed to the rafters, small candles flicker for the interior light, you see a long desk where a halfling male of muscular build sits eagerly rubbing his hands together, his harsh features and light scars dotting his face and hands, his red hair showing tinges of grey. His shifting smile belies a youthful vigor as you approach with the trophies. "Aldor! Welcome back. How goes that bleeding mess-headed beast? I see you seem to have dropped it before you." Aldor takes the first head that he's carrying and chucks it to the ground. As it rolls across with two large thuds, the rest of the congealed liquid seeping into the wood. "Aye, that's true, but we bring a bit of an obstruction in the way." Glances to the rest of you. "Obstruction, you say. Okay. Well, this is a curious phrase. Please explain to me what has occurred in your outing on this contract." Aldor scratches the side of his face. "Well, it seems that we have a group of skags."
Laura: Not intentional. Skags.
Matt: "Not intentional skags out of the forest, intending to hunt and managed to deal the killing blow to our mark."
Orion: Actually, I did that.
Matt: "This one did it." He wipes some of the soot off his face. "Amongst other issues."
Orion: Sorry. My aim was off.
Liam: We've come from Emon. We're not exactly familiar with the customs and traditions of your city. We were merely trying to help. My friend may have slaughtered the hydra-- unintentionally, of course. We're hoping to somehow fit into your society. Not sure how that works. Maybe you can help?
Matt: The halfling walks from behind his desk with his hands behind his back. (laughs) "You come from Emon. You are not familiar with Vasselheim, yet the first thing you do upon arriving is leap down to the Vesper Timberland, fighting a freaking hydra."
Laura: It was attacking the wall. We were protecting you.
Liam: A hydra attacking your city. We were merely following our conscience.
Matt: "No, this is okay. I like the balls you all have. This is ridiculous, what you've done."
Laura: I have enormous balls.
Marisha: Yep, we both do.
Liam: See? They're massive.
Matt: He steps away. "Lady. I appreciate your brashness, but I would hope that you also act like a lady."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: That's a high standard.
Liam: Careful where you're walking, little man.
Matt: "All I say is I appreciate-- yes, your bear is quite fierce."
Laura: He's got giant balls, as well.
Matt: He reaches past and looks to the wall and you see there are two dire bear heads affixed to the wall of various ancient degrees.
Marisha: Don't look, Trinket. Don't look.
Matt: "Well. I can see that you may have breached the contract here, and there may be ways of perhaps rectifying this, should you take the pledge. The pledge itself is a process, one that I myself cannot specifically judge upon. This would have to go to my boss, the Headmaster. My wife." (laughter)
Liam: I feel you.
Travis: Respect.
Matt: "I will see if she is available. One moment." And the halfling patters off down a hallway.
Liam: That is fucking awesome.
Laura: That would be amazing.
Matt: Came back a few moments later. "She would like to see the skags now."
Sam: What is with skags? Just call us people, please?
Travis: We have a name. Vox Machina.
Liam: Perhaps you've heard of us.
Laura: Remember it.
Matt: "I have heard of it not before. I will call you this upon you making the pledge. Until then, you are a group of forest-walking skags."
Sam: All right.
Matt: You follow him into the back hallway, down past a series of doors, some of which are half-open and ajar. You see what appear to be bunks or rooms for rest. There are some shields and various old weapons set up as decor against the wooden hallways. Down to a large, heavy door that looks like it's actually, the red leather stretched across it, nailed across all parts of the doorway, with a branded symbol in the center. The same symbol that you saw adorning the, almost like a relief behind the Slayer's Take lodge entranceway sign. As the door opens, the halfling pushing it aside. "Please, enter. She would like to talk to you." As you guys all step inside, the interior, a soft, glowing magical torch lights the room from the ceiling. The entire room is a large office or study. There are books and meticulously kept scrolls. At a glance, you can see they break down various creature types, that talk about indigenous bestial creatures, some talk about the anatomy of mythical and mystical beasts. This is a research facility for the hunting of any such creature that would find its way near or in the vicinity of Vasselheim. There, waiting for you, not at her desk, but leaning against it, with her hands also at her back, similar to her husband, you see before you in very finely crafted dark brown and black studded leather armor, a small shoulder cloak fixed and tossed over one shoulder, tousled short brown hair, deep purple skin. The second tiefling you've seen today. This woman stands with bright white eyes, no pupil. Her tongue flickers out of her mouth like a snake a little bit as you enter. And she looks about the rest of the party. "Please. It would be my pleasure to talk with you for a moment about what you have done this day. Thank you, husband." The door slams shut behind him.
Laura: You two make an adorable couple.
Sam: Yeah, he's a peach. Good find.
Matt: "Welcome, skags. You seem to not be liking this title. A skag is an affectionate term we use for those who break our rules and will go to prison, perhaps beneath the Amaranthine Oubliette."
Sam: Well, as long as it's affectionate.
Liam: We understand we've broken the letter of your law, but perhaps not the spirit of your law, which is maybe more important.
Matt: "Which is why you are here and not currently being taken for the hall of judgment."
Liam: We're very grateful.
Matt: "Now. My husband said you have interfered with a contract that has already been enacted."
Sam: We didn't know we were interfering with it at the time. We thought we were just doing good, and we're here to make right by that.
Liam: We're tourists, basically.
Matt: "Which is also why you are not at the hall yet. He also said you showed interest in joining our ranks to avoid this prosecution, which I think is a very smart move." And she walks behind her desk and sits down. "Should you be cut out for our work, that is. You have proven to have slain this hydra with the accompaniment of one of our roving bands of monster hunters."
Laura: They didn't do much, but yes.
Sam: We're quite capable fighters. Grog here almost won in his fight the other night. Sorry, Grog.
Matt: "You're the one that nearly felled the Hammer."
Travis: I am.
Marisha: So you have heard of us.
Matt: "I've heard of this one."
Sam: Show her the lip.
Travis: I kept a keepsake.
Matt: (laughs) "A fine trophy. Do not show him you still have that. I don't think it would go over too well. Now. Most applicants for our humble family make it maybe a month or two before the Vesper Timberlands take them. Those that remain, well. They prove worthy of our business contracts. You are all on trial by deed, under my claim and authority. Should you agree and fulfill my request, indeed, you will be absolved of your infractions against the Slayer's Take and be given membership to our age-old tradition. With membership comes with access to our lodge, food, room and board, and training facilities. Simple arms can also be provided. Those that bear our insignia may also get a discount of supplies at most of Vasselheim's merchants. Most importantly, though, you will then have access to our bounty contracts. To specify, we don't just hunt beasts and creatures. A large part of what we do is harvest from our marks' requested components. Blood, eyes, teeth, organs. We receive orders from all across Exandria, from as far as even the city Emon, which you apparently hail from."
Laura: We have a keep there.
Matt: "How nice for you."
Sam: Greyskull.
Matt: "I will make a note of it." And she reaches over and grabs a quill and not even looking at the paper, just scribbles.
Liam: We're friends with the emperor, thank you.
Matt: "Well, perhaps this emperor and many of these scholars or seers or mages you've encountered have ordered from us specifically required components, for you see, the most powerful of magics within nations require a focus or sacrifice of some kind. Many of these require pieces of these creatures. So many contracts are from very high-paying clients that have better things to do with their time than wander skulking about the forest, seeking such things as a hydra. There's a lot of money to be gained should you be up for it. I would ask you to take a contract, complete it, and return. That is all. You would have three days to do so. Do you accept?"
Sam: What is involved in signing or binding this contract?
Matt: "There is a small ritual that binds you to the contract. Within this time it must be completed. Should you fail, the contract is absolved, and your membership is revoked."
Sam: Oh, it's a trial just to bind the contract?
Matt: "Your trial is to take the contract and you have three days to complete it."
Taliesin: Is there a payout on this contract?
Matt: "Oh yes, you will still receive the money for it, and with membership, from what I have been told by my husband, possibly even share in the bounty for this hydra you helped slay earlier on this day."
Laura: That's good, because otherwise they didn't get any credit, right? Because it was like, magically--
Matt: "Precisely. Also a part of the three-day contract, with three days before it is null and void."
Liam: We've taken out a beholder and a handful of illithid. We're not really worried about your contract. Give us your contract; we'll sign it.
Matt: She chuckles under her breath. "That is good to know," she says disbelievingly.
Sam: There's an insignia that we get? Is it given to us on some sort of jacket for members only? (laughter)
Matt: She reaches to part of her shoulder pauldron, lifts it up, and you can see there's a brand on the side of her arm.
Sam: My body's a temple. I don't like that.
Matt: "Then perhaps you'd like the judgment."
Sam: The judgment? Oh no, no. Do I have to get branded?
Matt: "It does not hurt much."
Sam: (whimpers) I'm really wimpy.
Matt: "Gnomes... Three days. Will you accept?"
Laura: Yeah, let's do it. We're totally tough.
Sam: Could you do mine in henna? (laughter)
Matt: "I will take that as an acceptance on your part, as well."
Sam: Thank you. Yes. I'm with my group.
Matt: "Good, good. Now, I trust you work well as a team, but I am curious how well you work with others. As this is a test, I will be dividing your band between two contracts."
Liam: Ex-squeeze me?
Matt: "Two teams."
Sam: Do we get to pick the teams?
Matt: "You, gnome. Giant. Ranger. Tinkerer. You will form the first team."
Laura: What?
Liam: That is bullshit.
Matt: "You will be taking your contract with a couple of other hopeful possible members, as well. Three days to fulfill. Now, cutthroat. Dragonborn. Vine-speaker. You will form the other team."
Laura: Does my bear get to come with me?
Matt: "Your bear is allowed, yes. I shall now look over our extending contracts to decide your test for tomorrow. Go. Return in the morning fed, armed, and ready to set out. And hopefully get affiliated with your journeymen members. Now, be gone. I have business to do."
Laura: Wait, no. We work as a pair. Maybe you don't know that about us.
Matt: "Oh, then this should prove a very interesting test."
Liam: You don't understand, we haven't been apart in about--
Laura: Ever.
Matt: "Life is hard here in Vasselheim. Deal with disappointment."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. What was your name again?
Matt: "I am known as the Huntmaster around these parts. But should you wish the name in its full, Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial."
Liam: Thank you. Vanessa... Shitmaster...
Travis: Don't. I grab him and I start walking out of the room.
Sam: Vanessa?
Matt: "Cyndrial. C-Y-N-D-R-I-A-L."
Sam: I am not going to spell that right.
Matt: "In the morning  fed, armed, and ready." Knocks the desk twice. Her husband closes the door behind you. You take a deep breath and realize this will be a very interesting challenge.
Marisha: Husband? Do you have a name other than husband?
Matt: (laughs) "They call me Mertin, yes."
Marisha: Mertin?
Matt: "Mertin Cyndrial, yes."
Sam: Mertin Cyndrial... Well, this should be interesting. We'll set off on our journey right away, then.
Travis: When do we get our brand?
Sam: After we complete the task.
Matt: Taps his nose and points. "You catch on quick. This bodes very well for you, possibly."
Sam: Have a good three days.
Travis: Can we stay in the guildhall while we're waiting?
Matt: "You are not members. Soon, though. When one's brand is achieved, as much as you like."
Sam: All right, Grog. Let's go.
Laura: Question, husband. Is there a way to change those little pairings that she made? Perhaps get my brother and I on the same team?
Matt: (laughs) "Trust me, there's no way to change my wife's mind. I've tried." (laughter)
Matt: He walks off. And we'll conclude the session for the evening there.
Liam: Eat a bag of dicks. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back to Critical Role this week, ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome voice actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead and get you started with our fancy intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got most everyone here right now. Travis is on his way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a Grog arriving a little late during today's session. Pretty late for today's session. But in the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be controlling Grog.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!
Matt: Excited for that prospect. It should be a lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our invited guests returning for their second week. We have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank you, guys.
Mary: Pleasure is mine.
Laura: Pleasure.
Mary: Pleasure.
Felicia: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.
Matt: That's delightful.
Felicia: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.
Mary: Is this a normal thing, or just today?
Felicia: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)
Sam: That's normally how people greet me.
Felicia: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would be BFFs! Anyway, hi.
Matt: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For every 100 subs that we get during the show tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that include a picture of the Critical Role cast, signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role. We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's awesome new book that she's about to go on a book tour for. (cheering)
Sam: And it doesn't look like some self-published thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!
Felicia: Not to insult self-published things, but it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That is a very high-class sparkle.
Sam: Does it have a barcode on it?
Felicia: That is an android, that's why I look so trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities. Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me. Anyway, thank you, yeah.
Matt: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies of that coming through. We also have a bunch of other random goodies we'll be throwing in with these packages that include other awesome DND stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise, so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our friends recently put up a project here. Marisha, if you want to do the intro.
Marisha: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and they're making essentially DND thematic immersive candles that smell like the environments that you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's smoky and musky.
Matt: We're going to be lighting this tonight.
Laura: Is there moldy dungeon smell?
Marisha: They're coming out with a few more because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.
Matt: Basement tavern refuse candle.
Taliesin: Ogre's nest.
Marisha: I think they're making a tavern one.
Sam: Bed crap? (laughter)
Matt: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The Scanlan offshoot.
Marisha: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven Forest, that smells like a forest and they have one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a limited amount of candles they can give out. Also, there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the wax melts, you get a d20!
Laura: That's lovely.
Marisha: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.
Matt: Great. Thank you, Marisha. (cheering)
Matt: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who pay the extra subscription dollars for the smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be able to also experience the sensory death of the party.
Laura: Why would you say that?
Matt: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be problematic.
Felicia: That was weird.
Sam: That happens all the time.
Felicia: Is it really just random kiss-bys? Drive-by kiss?
Matt: Two weeks in a row. We already have a winner?
Zac: PrimeJohn1.
Matt: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner! Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.
Sam: PJ Uno!
Felicia: Did you have to rename him?
Sam: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.
Felicia: That's really adorable. It's a sub-nickname.
Sam: A sub-nick! (laughter)
Felicia: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).
Matt: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here. Anyone else have any other announcements they want to say before we get into the game?
Laura: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend after. But we're not going to be here next week, so yeah, should say that.
Matt: Awesome, so in Vancouver?
Laura: It's a con. And you should come say hi.
Matt: In Vancouver.
Laura: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll see what it is about.
Matt: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a convention called AkaiCon that's over in Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if any of you guys are over there on the eastern seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come say hi.
Felicia: That smells delicious. I want to eat it. Or is that you? No, it's not you.
Sam: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my chest. (laughs)
Matt: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.
Sam: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's nice.
Taliesin: Nothing fun right now.
Felicia: Does it smell like ogre butt, because isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?
Matt: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So. Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a contract for a guild of creature hunters known as the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told Vox Machina that either they could go and be arrested for this and put on trial for breaking the law, or they could go and join the guild, as such could be included and written onto the contract and everything would be fine. So they decided to go that route. They inquired with the Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that they could join after they went through a trial where they had to complete a contract. However, she hand-chose and divided the party into two separate, smaller groups. The first group being the one that began playing with us last week, in which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also is a prospective interested person to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character, Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a member of the guild and is assigned on her first-ever excursion to lead this group towards the end of their contract. Now, you the audience chose the creature which they were going to hunt, and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've been hunting that.
Laura: I didn't realize the audience chose that.
Felicia: Thanks, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim, through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold weather as you continue to travel northward on the word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon skulking through the skies and actually attacking near where you were staying. While you were sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy. (laughter)
Matt: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off. It pushed you north, north-west direction within the forest itself. You managed to come upon what looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing around this mountain range, and the dragon was sighted again taking its rest to the north part of this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed to avoid a few possible dangerous situations, thanks to your ranger guiding you through her favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain. You went to inquire what was in there, at which point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid ice and stone was flung out of the forest, slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and doing a decent amount of physical damage.
Laura: 30. 30 points.
Matt: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming out of that cavern, another seemed to be stalking through the woods, approached the party and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Felicia: But they're friendly. They look friendly.
Sam: Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's not bad
Felicia: I'm not going to go last this time! (gasps)
Sam: There's a lot of gasping going on.
Felicia: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp gasp).
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Wait, does Travis not--
Matt: Roll for Grog.
Laura: Roll for Grog.
Matt: Roll for Grog's initiative.
Laura: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for Grog.
Matt: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: What?!
Sam: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another natural 20.
Laura: Those dice are magic.
Taliesin: I sacrificed a small child to these dice.
Matt: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?
Felicia: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two initiative.
Matt: Okay. 19 or 18?
Laura: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.
Matt: And also for Lyra.
Felicia: 18 buddies.
Matt: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?
Sam: 15.
Laura: These are pretty good initiatives.
Mary: 13.
Sam: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty good! This bodes well.
Mary: I have no initiative whatsoever. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the round as one giant has pulled itself out of the cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking out of the forest, both of them with these giant axes that are currently held on the side of leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and go charging into the fray. At the top of the round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?
Taliesin: What is that strange orange thing, right here?
Matt: This is actually a tree.
Taliesin: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's cover?
Matt: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have some cover, but from a giant who has a very large perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.
Taliesin: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe get some partial cover right over here?
Matt: You could move over this way, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree from this one until he moves, but I can see this guy?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust out Bad News and take a shot.
Matt: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.
Taliesin: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm going to take the negative five to my attack bonus and see what that does. That's a 21.
Matt: 21 will hit.
Taliesin: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17, 27, plus-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this small valley at the base of the mountain, and from out the corner of your eye, it's the first time you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes him back against the wall, which prevents him from falling over and he catches himself. Looks back, and you can see there's a small crater in the armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a really angry yell. You can see like spittle that begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out of frustration. That the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that. (laughter)
Felicia: It was very impressive. It was very impressive.
Matt: All right, Grog's up first.
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog--
Sam: (Grog voice) Would like--
Laura: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage! Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters were killed by a white dragon, which we think is here. Will you help us fight him?
Matt: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this out to both sides to the two giants, I want to have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.
Matt: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is customary.
Laura: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his, that is mine.
Taliesin: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.
Laura: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy that I am playing him, because I rolled a one for Grog.
Sam: It might work. (laughter)
Laura: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!
Mary: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?
Laura: That's his action.
Matt: He is not putting up any aggressive action.
Laura: Does he get advantage, however, because he is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: Because you have an entire band of seemingly advancing and armed individuals that are currently stalking towards what appears to be the home of these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost partially amused at this plea and you can see as he takes his axe and puts it up against his shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks forward out of the forest.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?
Matt: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would be easier.
Laura: (Grog voice) Where is he?
Matt: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where would you like Grog to move? There is a giant rock there.
Laura: He is going to stay there.
Matt: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up. (laughter)
Laura: A moment of silence for that horrible thing I just witnessed.
Matt: You are over here. You just got up off the ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you have Trinket there.
Laura: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?
Matt: In the process you've gotten to your feet as they lurched forward and began shouting at each other about the intruders. So you are on your feet.
Laura: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Hunter's Mark. On?
Laura: On the one that took a little damage already. And then I am going to shoot him. All these are for like really large groups of people. I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot him three times?
Matt: You have two attacks.
Laura: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that. That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the second time. Oh my god! What is happening?! (laughter)
Sam: She just disappeared!
Mary: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!
Matt: So as you get to your feet, you look over your shoulder, you point your finger out and as you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick scope of his body parts. You're like, those are the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have affected you. You release the first arrow and it's just slightly off mark. The second one you pull back and as you release it, it actually splinters off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.
Laura: I am going to run over to cover. What is that other side?
Matt: That is one of the mountain outcroppings.
Laura: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little thing and go, Trinket hide with me.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All right, and that's your turn.
Laura: That's all of it.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These are very large individuals. I have only read about them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am going to-- that is a stench. That is like an athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.
Matt: Go for it.
Felicia: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.
Matt: So which one, this one or this one?
Felicia: I don't think I can reach that guy.
Matt: What's the distance on it?
Felicia: Oh boy.
Matt: At your spell sheet.
Felicia: I should've written that down. Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.
Felicia: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?
Matt: So for that one, do you have to make an actual spell attack roll?
Felicia: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.
Matt: That's right. You just point at it and he has to roll a saving throw.
Felicia: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!
Sam: Well, don't say that. (laughter)
Matt: All this time trying to fight the stigma of DND, and there we go.
Mary: Talking to my people here!
Felicia: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?
Felicia: 40 plus 40.
Matt: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving throw.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Felicia: In your anus! That's what she yells, she's like, in your anus!
Matt: So as she shouts, she points her finger out, there's a little poof of arcane energy on her finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy just streaks forth from her finger. The giant looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly the armor in front of him turns to dust and you can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you can see a large part of its body now is just missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a portion of it rotted right before you, but there's no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is missing from a large part of its body. It looks like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward, and one of its arms is not working as well and it looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its torturous pain.
Felicia: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat is your friend.
Matt: Its head turns even further to the side as the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.
Felicia: Take that!
Matt: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would you like to stay where you are?
Felicia: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that little outcropping I have.
Matt: Over here?
Felicia: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh, where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is too situational for me
Matt: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at you.
Felicia: I should have moved! (laughter)
Matt: That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Felicia: 13.
Matt: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the way, you look over and just watch it come toward you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to slow as you make no intent to shift out of the way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of white, your vision is knocked to nothingness briefly. You end up taking--
Mary: No, Lyra, no.
Matt: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Felicia: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of damage for a tiny woman. Okay.
Laura: You should avoid those boulders in the future.
Matt: And as soon as you recover from it, your vision clarifies and you're able to see everything before you, and you see that same giant is stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand and rears it up preparing itself for another round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to go five, six and move in between the two of you. You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy footfalls behind you, and you look over your shoulder as the second giant comes up with the shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and giant swing towards the two of you. That is going to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a 25. All right. (laughter)
Matt: 27 points of slashing damage to you, Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack), cleaves through the both of you. You are almost knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of the armor takes the damage but you can feel a heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a little bit of the blood beginning to soak through from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating might have cut into part of your torso (grunts) but you right yourself there. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do the bonus action? How does it work?
Matt: You got to take all your turn at once. You can hold your initiative. Meaning you can wait to activate your turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal your actions.
Sam: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of song to dominate him with.
Matt: I will say, Dominate Person is effective against humanoids.
Sam: (gasps) Really?!
Matt: Dominate Monster would be--
Sam: They're not humanoid?
Matt: They are not. They are considered giants. They are a different species. You would know that.
Sam: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I won't do that.
Matt: You turn, and your instinct is there, and you're like, these are a little out of your reach as far as that spell is concerned.
Sam: Okay. (laughter)
Mary: It is a very short show tonight.
Sam: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die. (laughter)
Matt: You've got options!
Sam: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine. Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's always a good go-to.
Matt: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell would work, you release a bolt of lightning up towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense and shake from the sheer amount of electricity that courses into it. It does not make that saving throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Sam: Is it six or eight?
Matt: It's 8d6.
Sam: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is that?
Felicia: Six.
Sam: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost track. 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release the torrent of electrical energy, it courses through the body and ends up streaking off into the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact, and then rights itself and looks down at you with a really angry face. You can see as it opens its mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated steam, this is like a cold air itself that it seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature, as it just stares down looming over you, now with smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do any--
Sam: I would like to inspire our new fellow, Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary. You fighty long time. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think it's going to make it. You don't roll it now, but you just have it on reserve whenever you want to use it.
Mary: Love it.
Sam: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?
Matt: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.
Sam: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe he'll forget I'm there?
Felicia: He's hung like a horse.
Taliesin: You're going to hit yourself in the head
Mary: Swing on it, man. Swing on it. (laughter)
Mary: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: Do you want to try and do that?
Sam: It might anger him? Or it might entice him. (laughter)
Sam: I'll just stay put.
Matt: All right. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I have a question. Do they understand English?
Matt: You are not aware, actually.
Laura: But he said intruder when we came in.
Matt: You heard him say it in Giant. It was understood by Grog that it was intruder.
Mary: All right. They're both within about 30 feet of me, yes?
Matt: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you
Mary: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we shall slay it together. Then you shall return us here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded forever in the slaying of a common enemy.
Matt: All right. As you're looking out at the two of them, you release this energy, speaking through your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of your spell? It should be at the top of your spell list, the difficulty class.
Sam: Spell save DC. Top right.
Laura: Spell save DC is a 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--
Laura: Can you add your inspiration? Add your inspiration!
Matt: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.
Mary: My charisma is added to any spell that I cast.
Matt: Well, that's included with the DC there. So both of them reach up and grab their faces, one with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand and falls back on its back foot and both of them look at the group in confusion. There definitely seems to be some sort of interference with their current actions based on this spell; there is a conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell you right now at the moment. That's your action. Do you want to do anything else? You can still move. You still have a bonus action, if you want
Mary: What do you mean bonus action?
Matt: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a spell, as well.
Mary: If I move away from them though...
Laura: He can hit you.
Taliesin: If he's going to hit you. He might not.
Laura: That's true! Your spell might have worked.
Mary: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath the legs of that giant.
Matt: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.
Mary: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always have.
Sam: She's a mother figure.
Matt: All right, so both of them seem to be looking around themselves, slightly confused and taking in some sort of strange circumstance. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.
Laura: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice) What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.
Matt: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?
Laura: Seriously? While everybody's having a conversation, I would like to take a healing potion.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and take one of those
Laura: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?
Matt: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's quite a bit.
Laura: It is, so just regular healing potion for now. Which is what, 2d8?
Matt: A regular is 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Yay! That's good.
Matt: Lyra.
Felicia: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to see what happens.
Matt: Go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, good.
Sam: Oh, for the barf.
Felicia: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's a ten.
Matt: You covertly do your best to not reveal to the entire group that you make a little greenish-brown snow. (laughter)
Matt: It is the most adorable barfing sound you guys have ever heard, though. The combination of the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At this point in time, as it comes to the giants' turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop, and the other also one puts its axe in the belt loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak Giant? Or just Grog.
Laura: Grog.
Matt: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We will take you but it is at your own folly."
Laura: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is at our own folly.
Sam: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take us as in lead us or on their back?
Laura: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to, take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?
Matt: They both chuckle to themselves, and they start walking in towards the cavern.
Laura: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go fight this thing so we can get spell slots back and heal?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Laura: Can we? Yes! Yes!
Felicia: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole day. Yeah, can we?
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Mary: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: Oh, that is good information.
Mary: Oh and very important  none of us can damage these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine, but should any of us damage it, the spell is poof.
Laura: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will you ask them if they're going to fight with us? (gibberish)
Matt: How does it go, again?
Laura: (repeats previous gibberish)
Matt: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on the top and leans over and its voice, and I will say from this point forth it is translated to make it easier.
Sam: Just like in Hunt for Red October?
Matt: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as much as you get. The rest is your own choice. Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it satiated for a while." It steps inside the cavern.
Laura: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.
Felicia: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My cat is your friend!
Taliesin: Bless you!
Matt: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside. The one that you partially disintegrated earlier steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a-- what in midair looks like liquid and then (shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline ice as it hits the ground on a rock.
Felicia: It is just rude. He smells so much like feet.
Sam: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath later.
Taliesin: Let's take a breather. For a moment, collect ourselves.
Laura: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing potion just then because we can take some--
Felicia: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.
Matt: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You guys are taking a short rest, currently?
Sam: Short rest.
Matt: All right, so the giants are just sitting there waiting, arms crossed against the wall, talking quietly to each other as the rest of you sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the pain starts to set in from some of the wounds you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourselves.
Mary: So what do I do?
Laura: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8, plus two for each time.
Sam: Hey, DM.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: How many hit points do I have?
Matt: You haven't taken damage at this point.
Sam: Have they increased at all?
Matt: That is true. You leveled up after the last one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is a d8, correct?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: What's your hit dice number?
Sam: d8.
Matt: And what's your constitution?
Sam: 15. Plus two.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus two to it
Sam: Four.
Matt: All right, so you add four hit points to your total hit point maximum. Welcome to level 11, Scanlan. (cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)
Matt: You also get access to your first 6th-level spell.
Mary: What!?
Laura: What? Get some stuff before we fight a dragon, yo.
Sam: I got it already. I am ready to rock.
Matt: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an hour or so to rest up. You still used your Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest to get that back.
Felicia: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell levels.
Matt: It is six spell levels you can get back on a short rest?
Felicia: Short rest. Recover six spell levels because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually get that back
Matt: (singing) Wizards are awesome!
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.
Matt: All righty, I like it.
Laura: The mean guy he took it off.
Matt: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think, wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the Underdark.
Mary: I have a question. So I rolled to get my health back and I got more hit points than I had before--
Matt: You can't go more than your maximum. You're at full hit points now.
Taliesin: I want to borrow Grog for just a second and ask these two if they've encountered the dragon before, and what its disposition is. Anything we should know.
Matt: I want you to go ahead, and I will say through Grog-- this is going to be interesting. Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a persuasion check.
Felicia: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?
Taliesin: I was feeling weak. Ten.
Matt: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion check for Grog with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on also good roll.
Felicia: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face there.
Taliesin: It was a one, wasn't it?
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: All the crits were last week.
Taliesin: This is my fault. This is all my fault.
Felicia: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a plague upon your friends.
Laura: Travis is going to be so pissed when he gets here.
Matt: I know.
Sam: He'll be dead by the time he gets here
Laura: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight has landed. He's on his way.
Matt: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating (gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to themselves and the other one says down to him, what he translates for you, the equivalent of, "There's no help here. They killed our people, but we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you, like we promised, like we brought all the others."
Laura: They serve the dragon?
Felicia: Can we look around? Are there any dragon tips around?
Matt: You took a rest inside the cavern as you just entered the mountain and at this point as you guys step up the giants are leading you further into the cavern.
Mary: May I talk to him, as well?
Matt: You know Giant?
Mary: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can I speak to one of them?
Matt: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are different things.
Mary: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.
Matt: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their minds
Mary: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so long, and you have lost so many of the female version of you, and your children, and you serve them now. Do you want to live as slaves?
Matt: "We want to live."
Mary: So to live as a slave is better than--
Matt: "To not live at all?"
Mary: We are offering you the opportunity to stop your servitude. To end it forever.
Matt: (grunts) They keep walking
Laura: What?
Matt: We'll see how this plays out. This is a process here. You guys heavily failed some early persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative position with you right now.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Felicia: Let's not bring it up again. I love your hair.
Sam: It's really cool.
Matt: So about 200 feet further into this cavern, the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock chamber, coated in ice crystals across the entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by the way, is anyone bringing a source of light other than the torchlight?
Laura: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.
Mary: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.
Matt: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and your Light spell, you can see as you enter following these giants, there are definitely the remnants of a village here, a village that was designed on the scale of these giants and while many of these structures still stand, it is eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to step further into the center of this cavern, you see many of these structures have been smashed and destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow that has been carried in from various blizzard winds or just the internal temperature in this room. And the room is extremely cold. With the little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is very clearly visible with each puff into the air around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is so cold that you can hear the moisture from your breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground. You all bundle up even tighter with your various furs.
Laura: I snuggle very close to Trinket.
Matt: Trinket snuggles very close to you because Trinket, while made for this type of temperature, is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.
Sam: Did Lyra give me--
Felicia: I did! I gave you my stone. My Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.
Sam: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.
Felicia: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but before she died, she told me if you can't bring one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be quiet about it.
Sam: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted because we're in a dire situation and I miss the love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify with that.
Felicia: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day, just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--
Sam: Aldor?
Felicia: Yes! Did I tell you about him?
Sam: A little.
Felicia: He smells like sandalwood and dismissiveness, but that's okay. We'll get over that.
Sam: Well, we have something in common then and thank you for your stone of warmth or whatever it was.
Felicia: It's a cold resistance.
Sam: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.
Matt: There is no character class more dangerous in DND than mother. (laughter)
Matt: Do not have children if you are ever in a fantasy genre or anything. You ain't getting past 30.
Mary: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask the giant what happened here?
Matt: As they begin walking through and looking about, one of them starts giving you these images, and it's less of a language and it's more of a series of memories. And you see visions of a time not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively thriving village of frost giants that had essentially claimed this mountain as their own for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or various other entities that live in this forest. They're not by any means a good people. They exist and they take what they want, but it appears that not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to live here instead. And you see visions of it stalking through the tunnels, carving its way through the ice and ambushing this frost giant village. You see visions of it tearing into families of them and freezing them on the spot, which is interesting because you see, these giants seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them physically and more of locking them into place. And as you see these visions, you begin to step further into this village and you can see there are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see what looks like the suffocated forms of frost giants that are locked in that position under many feet of ice. You see most of this village brought to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to survive and given the order to bring what this creature wants.
Mary: There's only two of you left?
Matt: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but also a sense of a lack of any other option.
Mary: Oh, how I wish we could release you from these bonds.
Laura: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires? (whispers) I interrupted you.
Mary: To release them.
Felicia: They are dead in there though, right?
Mary: No, I know but at least maybe they could-- Do you have some burial ritual or anything that you would like to or do these stand as a painful remembrance for you?
Matt: There is a moment where it seems almost like it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these entities, you get the sense that even this tenuous relationship you have built with them is based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries of what you have done. Pick and choose your words very carefully.
Mary: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: As you continue to walk, you can see the center of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of the wood and the dried brush and the furs and thick leathers that these giants had gathered and constructed their civilization out of is all just shattered and rended to the floor and then frozen over, left in this weird picturesque, almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to roll a perception check, if you could.
Taliesin: 17.
Felicia: 14.
Sam: 20.
Laura: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.
Mary: Uno.
Matt: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that there is, just outside the light perception stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been pushed and coalesced into a central monolith. Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All of these things have been matted together with what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing of the light on it and it seems to be built into almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of a winged dragon creature that is currently in the process of swooping down. You get the sensation that this was built as, essentially, a place of offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their fealty to this entity.
Felicia: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I cast that on white dragon?
Matt: Let's see what Legend Lore does.
Felicia: The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named: current tales, forgotten stories, secret lore that has never been widely known. If it is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. Would I think that this is a legendary dragon?
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there currently muttering to herself and putting her fingers through the air, and you can see these small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air where she places her hands, at which point her eyes glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first are hit with is the image of darkness, black and struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist, a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light. You see the cracking of something releasing, and from there pulling forth from this singular egg, the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides within this mountain. You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling to survive in the frozen tundra to the north, desperately trying to escape poachers and individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect their own villages or to use its physical body parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that at one point it was already the target of some contract that failed. For a brief second, you see a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on and shattered before it cuts to black again. You begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and with each stage in its physical transformation towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you have heard and you have read many things about dragons and you have heard things of great intelligence and articulate entities that even, good or evil themselves, have this extremely intelligent presence. This dragon is far more feral and bestial than anything you've read about. It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be concerned with the intricacies of conversation as much as it is to bend everything to its will and to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the one thing that catches your mind before the spell ends is the name that it finally came upon itself, the name that it heard whispered as one of its would-be hunters was suddenly--
Sam: Jeff. (laughter)
Matt: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings through your mind.
Felicia: His name is Rimefang.
Matt: The two frost giants stop their walking and turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the giant structure they constructed.
Felicia: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?
Matt: Make a history check on this.
Felicia: It's a 21.
Matt: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of the dragon proper. And there's another drink for you guys out there. They made fun of me for using the word proper.
Sam: Drink!
Matt: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to really create a lair, they really make themselves known publicly and really draw the fear out once they feel they're in a comfortable position. You feel this dragon is just starting to get to that point where it's eager to drive fear into the local populace. From your history check, you do know that there is, somewhere in the books you've gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang related, but there was a white dragon that was supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back, and the team never returned. And you begin to think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced people never returned from this contract, and we were sent on this as an entry level..."
Felicia: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't want to panic anybody. I just don't think Vanessa--
Mary: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?
Felicia: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make a very good soup and I help people with their laundry sometimes and--
Laura: Oh, are you like an assistant?
Felicia: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be helpful. Like you guys.
Laura: I was just wondering.
Felicia: Well, they just don't send me anywhere. It's a paperwork thing.
Mary: If you don't mind my asking because I do respect you so much, how did your captainship of our crew come about?
Felicia: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was very exciting to me and they haven't really paid attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been asking her for so long, and finally I got my assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one. But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what I'm saying.
Mary: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean, before you were a member?
Felicia: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor, remember?
Sam: If you think we've been sent on some sort of suicide mission--
Felicia: Oh, that's good, the way you put it there!
Sam: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we carry it through and prove everyone wrong?
Felicia: If we abandon this quest, then we never-- I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.
Laura: What happens if the contract that we magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?
Felicia: It's not good.Let me think.
Sam: You know what? Retrace your steps.
Matt: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these things flash through. If a contract is broken, one: if you're a member of the guild, you're kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on this essentially as a trial basis to prevent being arrested and put on trial for breaking the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which goes against guild rules and the city itself. Which means if you were to not succeed at the contract, you would probably be put on trial at the seat of judgment.
Laura: Percy is very good at lawyering.
Taliesin: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in the first place, because that's complicated.
Mary: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.
Felicia: Well, you certainly won't get into the guild if you break the contract.
Mary: No, I completely understand, but I won't be brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here! My motivations are not to save my ass, my motivations are to get into this bloody guild!
Taliesin: We're not here based on other people's expectations. We're here because we thought we could handle this and nothing has changed. This changes nothing!
Laura: We are very capable fighters!
Mary: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: So we go?
Sam: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have further to travel?
Felicia: We'll just keep going.
Matt: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved past most of the village, and you've gone towards the back of this large chamber, and you do see what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards, deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of solid ice between yourselves and the continuation of this tunnel.
Laura: (Grog voice) How thick is it?
Matt: It's hard to see how thick it is from this side.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to bash it really fast?
Matt: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe towards the ice. Go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better against ice.
Matt: This giant flaming warhammer from King Murghol.
Laura: I feel like every dice is betraying me.
Taliesin: Would you like to use mine?
Laura: No, I'm going to curse yours.
Matt: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton curse.
Laura: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus what, eight? Plus nine?
Matt: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Laura: Okay. Here we go.
Sam: I hope he can hit a wall.
Laura: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh, that's just ten.
Matt: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?
Laura: Oh, yes, right. 13.
Matt: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks through, the light causing this interesting shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound, the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts) pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have largely crumbled in the small space there and looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an impact on the wall.
Taliesin: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going to walk over and study the shattering position and see if I can find the weak point in the wall.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Seven. Getting it all out of my system now.
Matt: The ice wall itself is not a specific architectural structure. It is made of some sort of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way, so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning, but the ice structure itself, you're unable to make out what would be a weak point or not, other than the place of impact where Grog placed the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over to the very center of the crack.
Laura: Should we keep a little more quiet than that?
Felicia: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be good, a Fire Bolt.
Taliesin: Let's save the Fire Bolt.
Felicia: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Felicia: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm going to.
Taliesin: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.
Felicia: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is seven. Seven fire damage.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack modifier.
Felicia: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So that is 23.
Matt: All right, that definitely hits. How much damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?
Felicia: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.
Matt: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof) it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to fall in giant chunks.
Felicia: (yelps) Sorry!
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.
Felicia: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the negatives. Oh!
Laura: 19!
Taliesin: I can't use acrobatics?
Matt: No, not for this.
Laura: 21 for Grog.
Felicia: I rolled a zero, because I've got a negative two. It's not even on the dice!
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right, so.
Felicia: Is that worse than a critical fail?
Matt: As the whole wall just (shattering noise) breaking and falling down around you, you all go rushing backward. Grog, strangely and unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall. Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble backward, slipping on the ice that's actually coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice almost like a broken glass window itself framing the exterior of this tunnel.
Felicia: I'm not going to go to the front anymore, guys.
Sam: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--
Laura: We should protect her. She should be towards the back.
Taliesin: I'm going to heal really quickly.
Matt: Take another short rest?
Laura: We should take a short rest so that we're going in, you know.
Felicia: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not nimble. It's funny.
Mary: Before we take a short rest may I, again, use Awakened Mind, just to see how far away we are.
Matt: You get an image of a slowly ascending and spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but it appears this is not the only obstacle in the way.
Mary: Oh, good.
Sam: Let's carry on then.
Laura: Could you see when you were looking into their mind if it is open or if it is just a big cavern?
Mary: I could not see.
Matt: From the best vantage point you could see, it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that are risen in the walls of this, and in the center, there is a singular platform, and there sitting on the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing uncomfortable with sharing information.
Mary: Got it. I thank him in my mind.
Matt: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one giant still dragging itself forward with a portion of its physical body essentially gutted.
Mary: What if we gave him a half healing potion?
Sam: Don't mess with the magic.
Laura: Because, here's the thing. If they fight with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then we are going to have to fight them at full power again.
Mary: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.
Sam: Yes, but the healing potion might do something. Let's just keep going. You are a very kind soul.
Matt: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both the giants and the dragon do not need light to make their way through this cavern structure. So you are the small beads of visual lightness in the entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and there are bits of rough rock that you can find foot purchase but there are a few moments where some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and then catch yourself and have to move upward with this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it; it's just a gradual spiral in itself.
Laura: I want to keep perception out to make sure that nothing is ahead of us.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Laura: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He is one of my favored enemies, so I have additional bonuses to tracking him and insight against him. Favored enemies!
Matt: All right. So you're perceiving anything dragon-related and things that would be a forewarning of a dragon, okay.
Laura: Things he would have laid down for us. Stuff like that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an advantage.
Laura: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are claw marks along the walls, you can see where portions of this cavern were carved out by the claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of flesh of some kind. As you push further up this cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of a statue.
Felicia: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.
Taliesin: That's unpleasant.
Laura: Half of a giant, right?
Matt: This appears to be a frost giant that met its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh. There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's interesting because the physical form of the frost giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature would normally freeze any other flesh completely solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a distinct place where the torso was removed forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers and/or dragon's teeth.
Felicia: I have little ginger chews, if anybody wants one.
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Felicia: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little pack here.
Matt: About ten more minutes of walking, you come upon another frozen wall barrier.
Sam: I will check it for traps!
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Laura: (laughs) Thanks, brother.
Sam: Five.
Matt: As far as you can tell, it is a frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a ceiling.
Sam: Everyone. There are definitely no traps here.
Laura: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?
Felicia: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar. That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had that you just reminded me of.
Laura: Good thinking, Lyra.
Felicia: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits. That's 28.
Matt: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.
Felicia: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.
Matt: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim, you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It slams into the front of the wall of ice, which immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern. The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance, (crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far enough away where there isn't an issue, and the wall seems to have shattered.
Felicia: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh my gosh, you guys.
Laura: Before we move forward, I've studied dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes? This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire attacks as we can.
Mary: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from what I've gleaned over the years.
Laura: If he could be distracted during combat, maybe.
Felicia: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.
Laura: Not happy.
Felicia: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be worshiping him.
Laura: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we could do that.
Felicia: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!
Laura: It might be something to think about.
Felicia: At least to get close to him.
Laura: Before we spring an attack, yes.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: With advantage because it's pertaining to dragons?
Sam: (laughs) She's a stickler.
Laura: Is that an insight check?
Matt: That's just adding your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your studying. You lost someone very important to you, supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot of your life focused on their techniques, their abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know, have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know that they have capability of flight. They surround themselves with ice but are not hindered by it whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth are extremely dangerous. They themselves also, using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even its presence is frightful enough to where some of the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing, or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering one in its lair, itself, it already has an advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at its advantage. So anything and everything you can do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter would be highly recommended. You do get the sensation that even though they are cold-based, fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage, but it is not reduced or able to resist it.
Laura: It can't resist fire. What about lightning damage? Do I know anything about that?
Matt: Best that you know, most magics and other types of damage other than cold have an effect on it, though it does have unnatural resilience to spells and things for a large part of the combat.
Felicia: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin up to three times.
Matt: But it's a concentration spell, so you can only have it up on one person.
Felicia: I can only have it on one person at a time. So who would be most likely to resist slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?
Laura: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one that's going to be up close, out of all of us.
Matt: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm raging, I already have the ability to resist."
Laura: That's true. He takes half to piercing and slashing.
Felicia: Oh, okay. So then we need the other person who might be within range.
Taliesin: Trinket.
Laura: Trinket.
Mary: Trinket.
Sam: Trinket's here? (laughter)
Matt: As you look over. (sad bear moan)
Laura: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.
Felicia: I don't want to demean him, but his performance is--
Laura: Lyra!
Felicia: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.
Laura: He is really, really cool!
Sam: He does things!
Felicia: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was thinking.
Laura: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.
Taliesin: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you let him charge?
Laura: Probably.
Felicia: All right, well, that could be another-- Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?
Mary: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close or are they far?
Sam: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people guessing. It's my thing.
Felicia: But we wouldn't really want you within claw damage.
Sam: I wouldn't want that, either.
Felicia: It does make more-- I don't mean to demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.
Sam: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five. Top five.
Matt: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the conversation and plants both feet in the ground (growls).
Laura: See how tough he is?
Matt: He seems to be showing off. And for a moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a dangerous-looking bear.
Mary: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say, Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's going on? You seem very excited.
Matt: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds. It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference and this strange, almost like the sound itself is being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to her and starts giving the same noises back. Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this creature tries anything, I will tear its throat from its head."
Felicia: He's a sexier bear than I thought he was.
Laura: And he gives good massages, Lyra.
Felicia: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that we think we're going to get hit.
Laura: Tell him that I love him very much!
Mary: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of all, boy or girl? Just have to check.
Laura: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.
Matt: He leans back in a sitting bear position.
Mary: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for this fight we're about to do. All right. I also want you to know that Vex loves you very much and will do whatever she can to protect you.
Matt: As this guttural conversation comes forth, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up against your side.
Laura: Oh, little buddy!
Felicia: I wish Aldor would do that to me.
Sam: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Mary: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Felicia: I saw it once. It was glorious.
Mary: Very inspiring.
Matt: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type exterior shell of magical protection.
Laura: What does his armor class raise by?
Matt: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing is reduced by half.
Laura: Nice.
Mary: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.
Sam: What else can we do to prepare?
Laura: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this battle.
Felicia: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind anything at this point. I mean, what?
Matt: The giants begin to move forward into the cavern.
Laura: It's happening.
Mary: Yep. Screw your courage to the sticking-place.
Taliesin: Ew. Oh. All right.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.
Matt: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you step forward onto a part of the ice that is far more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it (cracks) breaks beneath your foot.
Sam: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!
Matt: You push off and fall onto your back, and as you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the falling of some sort of stone or ice-like structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath. And peering over the inside and using your light, you can see there appears to be an arrangement of razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a 15-foot pit.
Laura: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.
Taliesin: I think we've found one. There's a trap right there.
Sam: Does that take up our whole path now?
Matt: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at this point, so you guys can move around it. The giants were ahead of you at this point.
Sam: Did they laugh?
Matt: One of them shakes his head and the other one just keeps walking.
Felicia: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful, but it's not ready.
Sam: Thanks for that update.
Felicia: I'm just being honest. I could've lied, said that I totally prepared that spell, but I could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I just.
Laura: (laughs) Oops.
Felicia: If anybody falls, I can make them fall gently. That's on the list.
Laura: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall? Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see any traps ahead of us the whole time.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and make a perception check as you move forward.
Laura: That would be a seven. 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards this long spiraling corridor. You reach another ice wall that has already been partially broken from some sort of encounter long ago. You immediately see that the part of the wall that is broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.
Laura: Good for you. There's a thing here. We should not step on it. I have one job on this ship!
Mary: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm going to do it.
Sam: How do we get around? What do we do?
Laura: We should maybe break down this ice wall and then not walk on this area. How about that?
Sam: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.
Felicia: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm going to Firebolt. From a distance.
Laura: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Felicia: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Mary: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: Beaches.
Felicia: That's a 30.
Matt: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.
Felicia: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are good rolls. That's a 27.
Matt: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You hit it right at the point where half of the wall had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall to immediately shatter and collapse inward, spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to traverse over without any serious issue. As you guys step over, and the giants make their way across, stepping over it entirely with their long gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get past without issue.
Laura: Before we go into the actual lair of the dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in as if we're offering it something and saying, hey, we love you, we want to bring you people, and stuff like that?
Mary: We are here to serve you?
Laura: Or do we want to send somebody in first and act like they're here to serve it, and then we all spring in and surprise it? What do you want to do?
Sam: They like to eat giants.
Laura: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically. It freezes things, and then it eats them.
Felicia: Well, there was another party that the guild-- the guild did send another party.
Laura: I don't know if they had a method or if they just walked right in.
Taliesin: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can we be quiet and stealthy?
Felicia: I can't!
Mary: I can cast Invisibility.
Felicia: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.
Sam: That would help.
Mary: So learning of the dragon, will it be able to detect us if we cast Invisibility?
Felicia: That's nature? That would be a nature check or animal handling?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Felicia: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30-- that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to all environments, whether they can see or not. They actually have the ability to see with no sight necessary to a certain extent, so invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit of distance, but within a certain point it is able to sense your presence whether or not it can see you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose your concentration spell on Trinket.
Felicia: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity, he does like being worshipped. So that is the key.
Sam: So we could go in with an offering.
Laura: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the offering? What if we used your frag grenade that you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer? Is it very fragile?
Taliesin: I have to set it off personally. I actually have to shoot it to set it off.
Mary: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if we put it in his mouth?
Laura: Do we have any bombs or anything like that? Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep about. We could present him with this big, huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with some sort of exploding device.
Sam: We could.
Felicia: If he picks the diamond up off of the--
Laura: We could put it in a bag and then put the diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his face.
Taliesin: That's hoping for an awful lot of things to go our way. More things than normally go our way, to be fair.
Felicia: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a dragon have a very good length attack?
Matt: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as well. It can cover some decent ground just with its physical form.
Felicia: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem, so it's not as if they come up here all the time to give it treats. Right?
Sam: We could just walk in there. I could be holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought you this captive to eat.
Felicia: I don't like that one.
Sam: Well, you know, you're very appealing.
Mary: We still don't know that the giants aren't going to help us.
Matt: As you guys are stepping forward up the pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the giants have stopped, and they have a physical trepidation to the way that they're leaning backward in their stance. As you turn the corner, the little bit of light that reaches out, you can see there appears to be one final ice wall that has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.
Mary: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I could approach around the side and peer in and just see what's there, 60 feet ahead.
Matt: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see your vision spill out in the darkness, with a little bit of dim light and the darkness before you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting this room. And as you continue to push forward towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as far as your vision can see at this doorway, you see a central platform in the middle of this giant chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet, and just cresting over the top of this platform is the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling snarl. And this little voice spills out from underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do not cower yet."
Felicia: Get that diamond out!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. (shouting)
Matt: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little snack. Yes?
Zac: We're eight subscribers away from another giveaway. (cheering)
Zac: The giveaway includes a signed player's handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as the hosts that will be here next week, and a signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.
Felicia: My new book! It's right there! I signed it.
Sam: What's it called? What's the title?
Felicia: It's called You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost).
Sam: Aw. That's cool.
Felicia: It's amusing.
Zac: Are you weird in real life all the time?
Felicia: No, I mean, look at me.
Zac: No. Definitely not.
Felicia: I don't believe your face.
Sam: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?
Felicia: You're pretty.
Sam: I just thought, because it's like a pun.
Felicia: No, that's awful.
Sam: Consider it.
Matt: Somewhere, someone's holding their manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going (fake crying). (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break, we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how this goes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic Travis finally made it. (cheering)
Travis: I heard I rolled really well in the beginning of this.
Matt: Yeah, it went wonderfully.
Laura: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is attached to your blazing warhammer now.
Matt: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner, congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be giving away the player's handbook, the signed photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so make sure you get your information to the Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if we can get to there by the end of the show tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the meantime, guys--
Travis: Shit.
Mary: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.
Travis: I've been watching in the car.
Matt: You guys have all been making your way through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped forward and in the darkness, you can see right here at the edge a form.
Felicia: He's up above us, though.
Matt: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform, leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you through the darkness. A claw comes forward and beckons.
Laura: Can I, from here, before we go in there-- I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.
Matt: You can't see him right now.
Mary: I can.
Matt: Zahra can.
Travis: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven darkvision.
Felicia: Is he speaking dragon?
Matt: Speaking Common.
Felicia: He's speaking Common. Okay.
Mary: Would he detect if I would cast anything on him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to sit here and drink my drink.
Travis: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we ditch that idea?
Laura: No, are we doing that?
Sam: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a dog.
Taliesin: Do we have a little bag we can put the jewels in?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: We have a second. I'm going to hand you my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?
Travis: You can Hold Monster?
Mary: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.
Travis: Does he qualify as a monster?
Matt: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a monster.
Laura: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really pretty diamond.
Taliesin: We'll get it back, it's okay.
Laura: As long as it doesn't explode.
Taliesin: You can't explode a diamond.
Laura: That's true, diamonds are really strong.
Taliesin: Diamonds are forever.
Laura: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this at him? What are we doing?
Sam: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk in. I'm walking in.
Matt: All right, so you guys all walk in?
Sam: I'm going ahead.
Laura: Here, hold the bag.
Sam: I'll take the bag.
Matt: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?
Felicia: I believe that you squishy people should be back here!
Travis: I'm not squishy, I go with them.
Matt: As a note, as you guys are walking through and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is now being broken up into what looks like little glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking through a frozen area of the night sky. You realize that there are gold pieces frozen in sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor, the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine we've got Trinket.
Laura: Yeah. Me.
Matt: All right, so you guys all continue to move forward?
Mary: Not too close!
Laura: Scanlan!
Matt: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you want to point out wherever you want to be.
Laura: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.
Taliesin: I would like to go around here.
Felicia: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering for you!
Taliesin: That's not me.
Sam: Is that you? Hello.
Matt: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes here.
Laura: Over by Percy. But further.
Felicia: Is that 90 feet?
Sam: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.
Laura: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual air here is more still and cold than at any point of the interior of the cavern has been. Even breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched on top of this central platform, grinning down towards the rest of the group. You, who have shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering. Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering, you say?"
Laura: I want to make my way further up. While he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall a little.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was fried chicken! (laughter)
Travis: It's true.
Matt: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart out of the visual reference of a very focused adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to gather any movement, and you vanish into the side. Where do you want to go?
Laura: A little bit further. There. That sounds good.
Matt: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you realize you're stepping onto what looks like the broken lower half of another giant that has fallen over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored torso to your back. As you begin to look through, you also see there currently frozen in place three other individuals that are in mid-battle and are frozen solid.
Laura: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.
Felicia: They're probably dead in there.
Travis: We're standing in front of a dragon!
Sam: Rimefang?
Mary: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you are amidst the stars of your treasure.
Travis: Oh, pour it on, why don't you? (laughter)
Mary: We do have an offering for you.
Sam: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond out of the bag and dangle it in front of the dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and we are here to formally apologize for sending a few of our members here in the past and promise that we never shall again, and as a gift of apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you this diamond. There are many more to come.
Taliesin: And everything else in the bag, as well.
Laura: And then you put it back in the bag. And then you give it to him.
Matt: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls). It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself. (chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"
Sam: There is a diamond of much greater size and value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear that you are going to allow us safe passage out of here before we turn it over to you.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Zac: Guys, just so you know, the stream's buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.
Felicia: Oh no.
Zac: Hold for buffer.
Matt: Do we know at what point it started buffering?
Zac: You're back up. Missing the last two sentences. Buffer over.
Sam: Please allow us safe passage. And then you said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.
Matt: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its head up, looking down at you with this very disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground around it.
Sam: That was so cool.
Matt: "You. You trespass into my domain, your voices bickering and bouncing off the walls, annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten past my guardians?" At which point the two giants who are standing behind you look over at each other nervously.
Sam: Your guardians are well aware of our power and position and did not want to offend you by turning us away.
Matt: "Are you to tell me I spared your insignificant lives so you could let this insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of my domain?"
Sam: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great offense at that.
Matt: The dragon's head turns to the side for a moment as a glance of confusion and almost amusement that you speak up to it with such a disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)
Sam: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.
Matt: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten on the edges of this platform. You can see the stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of the platform, scattering across the ground with a slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl outward. Its head looks down upon you directly. "Burt." (laughter)
Matt: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I have not lived these hundred years or so to become the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my walls, glittering in pieces for times to come. Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I dine on you or just them."
Mary: I use-- fuck me. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't know if you have that spell.
Felicia: Really, what's the DC on that?
Mary: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once more say, now we have seen what you have been through. We see the terror that you face every day from this awful beast. This is your chance. You may not have another. Fight him with us and destroy this beast forever.
Matt: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's intimidation check.
Sam: Oh, versus a dragon!
Laura: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while all this is going on.
Mary: 18. 18 plus what?
Sam: What is it, persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Mary: Plus nine. 27.
Matt: The giants look at each other, and they look down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out, shields at the ready, and look back up at Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under their breath, "It's now or never." (cheering)
Matt: Roll initiative.
Mary: Yes!
Laura: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh, I rolled lower!
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another 20.
Laura: Me too!
Travis: What is it with you and your 20s?
Taliesin: I don't know! I don't know what happened.
Matt: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 28.
Mary: What?!
Matt: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex, leaving that up there. All right, we have 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19, nice. 15 to ten?
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you roll?
Felicia: Negative one! (laughter)
Mary: That's our leader!
Matt: Did you roll a natural one?
Felicia: I rolled a one, and I have a negative two.
Travis: On your initiative?!
Felicia: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just have a snack.
Travis: You break out the trail mix.
Taliesin: The little gingers come back out.
Felicia: Is that a record?
Travis: That is a record. I don't think we've ever had a negative initiative.
Matt: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of this platform, the combat round begins with Percy.
Taliesin: If I take one shot, can I hold my second shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?
Matt: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or you do all your actions in one round, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Darn it. What initiative did you roll, again?
Sam: Low. Second to last.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to take a few steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm going to pull out Bad News.
Mary: (singing) Bad News!
Sam: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going to take a head shot on him.
Matt: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of you.
Taliesin: I'm just using him as partial cover.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you just putting it on it to aim?
Taliesin: More or less. I'm using him as a steady and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh. 15?
Matt: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot, (gunshot), it actually hits the body but the hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some part of the far side of the cavern.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus action and spend another grit point and do another shot.
Matt: So you're doing your action surge?
Taliesin: I'm taking my action surge.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action surge, and that's it for this round. You use your first round to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: Another head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus 12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage on all attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces of white dragon scale shooting off into the darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun actually sends a large crack through the physical body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: I feel a little guilty about that. I feel very guilty about that.
Matt: You get the feeling that whatever was there probably has not been alive for quite a while.
Taliesin: Okay, I feel a little better.
Matt: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.
Taliesin: And he was the most useful he's ever been.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow, and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?
Matt: 25? 25 does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just take it?
Laura: Saving throw for half, yes.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so it takes half damage.
Felicia: That's some stink-eye.
Matt: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an attack.
Laura: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones. That's great.
Matt: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises) into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It impacts and courses through the upper torso of the dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages to push off most of the impact, but still takes damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame trickle up the side of his body and it eventually goes out from the cold in the air.
Laura: That was one attack.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But was the spell an action?
Laura: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.
Matt: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.
Laura: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding him.
Laura: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and attack his butt?
Matt: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot platform.
Laura: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.
Matt: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you like.
Laura: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to attack again, can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: We want to spread out.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket get can get, there.
Laura: Can I attack again?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a regular attack through the bow.
Matt: Yep. This is your second use of it, though; you're done with it.
Laura: Yes. 17.
Matt: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it does nothing.
Laura: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the first attack that hit?
Taliesin: I was in the 30s.
Matt: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to move, or do you want to stay right there?
Laura: Can I stealth?
Matt: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.
Laura: Then I'm going to move along the wall further. Yeah, like that.
Matt: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock begin to start falling from the ceiling. Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right, starting with Percy.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12.
Felicia: 15.
Sam: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Because you're not wise.
Mary: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Nine?
Matt: That's rough.
Travis: Very wise.
Sam: Oh, lots of red circles.
Matt: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the giants are currently frightened of the dragon. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot willingly move closer to the dragon.
Laura: Is Trinket frightened?
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as intimidation?
Matt: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's whatever his wisdom bonus is.
Laura: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's pretty scared.
Matt: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit and is looking equally frightened, especially seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear there.
Laura: You've still got a really big dick!
Felicia: What?
Laura: I'm just telling him to encourage him.
Travis: I missed something.
Sam: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon too.
Matt: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over on this side, and that's going to end its turn. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I got to break it, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're scared.
Travis: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified, at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat after me, lads. I would like to rage.
Matt: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons in the past, and you know dragons have been responsible for hurting some of your friends and their families, and through that, that anger just billows up from inside, and that fear shakes from your body.
Travis: I want to kill a dragon like my friend Pike did.
Matt: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as you see fit.
Travis: (battle cry) I would like to run over that direction.
Sam: Oh, you're running away from it?
Matt: You rage-ran.
Travis: I rage-ran. Can I attack?
Matt: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot platform.
Travis: So I can't see beyond it?
Matt: You're literally hiding from the dragon right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn? Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, how far away is it from me?
Matt: It is currently 30 feet from you.
Mary: All right.
Matt: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13?
Laura: What was that for?
Matt: As you're running through, all of a sudden the floor gives out from underneath you, and you roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to get your handhold on a piece of stone that's jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up. Underneath where you were in the ground is a cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: But you're fine. You get back up to your feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15 feet down into these jagged shards of ice.
Laura: My passive perception is 21. Just for future reference.
Matt: Good to know. You also have no light source. You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually, you have Grog around you right now.
Mary: And I still have Light cast.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings us to Zahra, once again.
Mary: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful beast.
Matt: It is now Hexed, as well.
Sam: What's that do? What's that?
Mary: I get extra damage.
Travis: You sexy tailed bastard.
Mary: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with my own internal moon fire.
Matt: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on that one?
Mary: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus 11. 5d12 plus two.
Laura: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Mary: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so 26?
Laura: No, that's damage.
Mary: Oh, sorry, 24.
Matt: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Mary: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.
Travis: Three plus the two, so that's five.
Laura: You do it all and then add the two.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Seven.
Mary: That's four.
Travis: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.
Mary: One more?
Laura: No, that's all five.
Matt: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of your Hex.
Laura: Plus two, so 38 is 40.
Mary: One.
Matt: Okay. So 41 points.
Mary: Yeah.
Laura: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage to all-- oh, but that's already--
Travis: That's already there.
Matt: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the shadows around the dragon begin to form and coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around, these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of moonlight begin to pierce through these grins chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged moonlight that strikes right into the center of the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it like magical shackles, it continues to keep its hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six squares.
Mary: I'd like to go stand by the giants.
Travis: You're already there.
Matt: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you to see because that guy's in the way, but you're right there.
Mary: All right. No, the other way. Blinding players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.
Matt: You can get that far. All right, so there you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I turn my gaze to the dragon and cast Eyebite on him.
Travis: What? Cast what?
Sam: Eyebite.
Matt: All right. And how are you having that affect him?
Sam: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little tummy-ache.
Travis: Is he going to do the twirls?
Matt: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.
Sam: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!
Matt: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now total?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its legendary resistance to choose to succeed instead.
Sam: It can just choose to succeed?!
Travis: How many times can it choose to do that?!
Matt: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a dragon!
Sam: What? But that was a cool spell!
Matt: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you look over and see the arcane energy taking your vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell drifts away from you and you realize the incantation's lost.
Travis: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat to have it work.
Sam: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?
Matt: What are you going to throw?
Sam: A bag.
Matt: No, that's probably more of an action, but you can drop it as a bonus action.
Sam: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I can still move and stuff, right? I would like to move away from this group of soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a few yards away to my left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie, that's Aldor-e. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, going deep.
Matt: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close to clutching your heart and giving you every instinct to run from this, you hear the name Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll you want.
Felicia: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's beautiful.
Sam: Well, I wrote it for you.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now the giants go. This one is going to move to the side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the effect. And does so. (cheering)
Matt: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're like, (nervous sound).
Felicia: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick. (laughter)
Travis: What were their names? Ace and Base?
Sam: Ace and Gary.
Mary: Ace and Gary.
Matt: The giant's going to move forward. It's going to attempt to make two strikes with its greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses. And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of the way. The second one, it reaches up with its claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the way and just glares at it, and you can see at that moment, the giant also itself is like (growls). Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to cut its wing off?
Matt: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Felicia: What is that?
Travis: Roll it twice and you get the lower number.
Matt: But does Disintegrate have--
Felicia: It doesn't have a DC.
Matt: Then it would have an advantage on the saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it. It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry. I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.
Sam: Which one are you doing?
Felicia: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6 plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.
Travis: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty shrimpy hit.
Laura: Wait, plus 40?
Matt: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.
Travis: I need to get a wand.
Matt: Disintegrate's nasty.
Felicia: 39.
Matt: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your spells?
Felicia: Yes.
Matt: It does make its saving throw, so half damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still. 40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding you of Aldor, you release and once again that sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of arcane energy you can see part of its scales have withered, part of its wing is now tattered and missing, and immediately the physical form of the dragon, it's reeling in pain.
Laura: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have scales...
Matt: You'll find out.
Mary: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping around him, yeah?
Matt: That is focused.
Felicia: I definitely want to move. I want to move over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a little less conspicuous.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Still no hand-grenade.
Matt: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on attacks.
Taliesin: What do I do to shake the fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you make a saving throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot move closer to it, and your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot at it with a standard shot for right now.
Matt: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded, shot, reloaded. Go for it.
Taliesin: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.
Felicia: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.
Matt: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the portion of the wing that currently is left a gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the impact of the bullet itself blasting against the back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice spilling off in the distance.
Taliesin: I would like to really quickly then go into that little corner there for some cover.
Matt: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your turn. Vex, you're up next.
Taliesin: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the fear.
Matt: Go ahead and make the save.
Travis: (singing) Shake it off.
All: (singing) Shake it off!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!" Vex.
Laura: Can I see him at all?
Matt: Right now? No. You can see parts of the wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very good visual on it.
Laura: And he's pretty far away?
Matt: He's decent distance, yeah.
Laura: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?
Matt: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover, so it gets a plus five to its armor class.
Laura: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like if I cast something that would do mass damage, would the giant then not want to attack with us anymore?
Matt: That's a risk you'd have to take.
Travis: Drop some stank on that dragon.
Laura: I'm scared to hit the giant with it. Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm afraid of the giant.
Felicia: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell breaks.
Laura: Exactly. So that would be bad.
Sam: But he's not fighting for us because of a spell right now. We convinced him.
Felicia: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving up nothing. Giving up nothing!
Felicia: Stone-faced.
Laura: Should I try it?
Taliesin: I don't know. What do I know?
Mary: If we damage it, this spell that I've been talking to him with goes (poof).
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do Conjure Barrage.
Matt: All right, so what's the first range increment on your longbow?
Laura: It's 120.
Matt: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage from that shot. However, it does have three-quarters cover. And given that circumstance--
Taliesin: Does she not have sharpshooter?
Laura: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I took read lips. I'm really good in populated areas.
Matt: So go for it and roll for the attacks.
Laura: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't hit. (laughter)
Felicia: We're going to die!
Matt: You pull back and release the first arrow. It actually just barely scrapes the top of the platform and shatters across the ice.
Mary: Come on!
Laura: That's better! 27!
Matt: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does hit! Go ahead and roll damage. (cheering)
Laura: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6, because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's not even close to 40, but it does something.
Matt: It's still damage! So as you release the arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and you get just enough of an angle that it hits one of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the part of its hand that crests the top of the wing. It (growls)--
Laura: And I say, fuck you!
Matt: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..." Do you or Trinket wish to move?
Laura: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't move any closer.
Matt: That's true. So now you and Trinket both make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks. Just roll again. You're frightened.
Laura: No, both of those sucked. The first one was 20. 20 was the first!
Matt: So a total of 20 for the second roll? Well, that would hit. Well no, it has three-quarters cover so it wouldn't, unfortunately.
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: You were frightened! It's part of the effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your physical self.
Laura: Now we try to shake it off.
Matt: Now you try and shake it off.
Laura: (sings) I shake it off.
Mary: (sings) Shake it off!
Matt: First roll is for you.
Laura: I do not succeed. It's a three.
Matt: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?
Laura: 20! Why did you say the first one was for me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?
Matt: Because that's how it works. So while you're still scared, you look over and you see Trinket shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you wish to move at all?
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's right here.
Laura: He's going to run up for the time being and hide. Give me this.
Felicia: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!
Laura: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to this area so that he's got a better vantage point to run up for the next turn.
Matt: That's about as far as Trinket can get right there.
Laura: He can't get any further into this little crevice?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Can he run right here?
Matt: Trinket could move here instead. That's as far as Trinket could move on his movement.
Laura: That's not really protecting him, is it?
Matt: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other people.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn? Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary action at the end of your turn, actually, before it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's running along, it's going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it.
Mary: No, Derek!
Travis: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.
Mary: Gary. He told me telepathically that his name is actually Derek.
Matt: This is an interesting point. Remember, this is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in mind, you have an advantage on attacks against it.
Laura: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today, yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is talk to him.
Matt: The chat keeps yelling that the favored enemy--
Laura: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't think I have advantage.
Matt: That's true, chat. You're wrong. (shouting)
Laura: I literally texted Matt today and I was super upset.
Zac: Did chat try to challenge the DM?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and then I looked it up. In fifth edition, I don't get that.
Matt: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but not specifically in battle. It's more about knowing--
Sam: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it coming.
Mary: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't you get an inspiration roll from the chat?
Matt: Sorry.
Felicia: You know what's good is that it's a different team next week, because we're all going to die.
Mary: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!
Matt: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with you there, but you're wrong.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything, I should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.
Matt: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for being honest and wrong, chat. All right, nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it. The giant is trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not. The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh) buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off, knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and lands right there. And rears back its head (snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone. It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.
Taliesin: Do I not have some cover?
Matt: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately. So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing cold.
Felicia: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.
Sam: Plus three.
Felicia: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.
Matt: If she chooses to use it, yes.
Felicia: Yes, I definitely want to use it.
Matt: So add a d10 to what you rolled.
Felicia: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.
Matt: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.
Laura: 54 damage?
Matt: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The giant that had been partially disintegrated before by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage, and you can now see the ice begins to build up around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the ice around its physical form holding it there as a statue of death. The giant is no more.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Laura: What? No!
Sam: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!
Laura: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming axe right now.
Matt: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to race back from whence I came to attack his right flank, if I could.
Matt: You could get there. You will have to make-- actually, no, you can move through there without an issue.
Travis: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.
Matt: You rush up towards the dragon.
Travis: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and activate it. Ignite it.
Matt: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.
Travis: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch, which means I can see even better. I'd like to go into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.
Matt: All right, so three attacks on the big old dragon.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Travis: Beautiful. 25.
Matt: Does hit.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus five plus eight. Plus another--
Travis: d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6 fire damage when you hit.
Travis: Holy shit. Ah!
Matt: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus eight to each.
Travis: Three d10s?
Laura: Yes. Plus 3d6.
Matt: Plus eight to what you roll on both of those.
Travis: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.
Matt: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and that's 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Travis: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--
Laura: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.
Matt: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact, you can see as you pull back, the white scales are burned and charred and blackened behind from the first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the second part. As you do, the dragon roars out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost sending it to catch itself on the other side of its body. Its head swings around to look at whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from underneath the bottom of its torso, right where its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound. You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant charred mark where you made impact.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.
Matt: You do.
Mary: And it's still going, yes?
Matt: You don't have to roll to attack again. You just use your action.
Mary: I just fucking keep going with the fucking Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that dispel the Witch Bolt?
Matt: No, because most cantrips take an action. So you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use them, so you'd be either able to use your action and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your choice.
Mary: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt. I'm very happy with this.
Matt: So you focus yet again, your eyes still glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with this black smoke that's framing the side of it. You take your staff and force your will through it once again. That connection between you and the dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue energy that surrounds the dragon connects with your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt of otherworldly energy careening into the side of the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I watch her with my mouth agape.
Travis: d12.
Laura: Five times.
Travis: We got you.
Mary: 12. 17.
Travis: 19.
Laura: Ooh, 30.
Travis: Ooh, 30.
Laura: 37.
Mary: 37.
Laura: And one more.
Travis: No, that's five.
Matt: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of that.
Mary: Plus two on that.
Matt: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.
Mary: Six.
Matt: So 44 points of damage.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: As it once again, a giant piece of the dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle head-on pretty well so far.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Matt: You're going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Mary: How close am I to it?
Matt: You're currently 20 feet away from the dragon. 15 is between the two of you.
Mary: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.
Matt: All right, so you want to move this way?
Mary: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry. I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to move three feet backwards, that's it.
Matt: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: How close am I?
Matt: You are currently about 20 feet away from the dragon.
Sam: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do, (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a very large, mystical see-through replica of your fist appears in the air above you and goes spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for that?
Sam: Oh, I have to roll for that?
Matt: Let me see what the effect is on that, remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right, so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay. 19.
Matt: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.
Sam: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?
Matt: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around again, preparing for the next round. Do you want to use anything, move, use your bonus action?
Sam: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from it and drop the grenade.
Matt: Okay. So you move forward right here?
Sam: Yeah, closer to it.
Matt: Okay. The grenade is right there on the ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay where you are?
Sam: Can I keep moving?
Matt: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet backward, you mean?
Sam: No, I had to move closer to it.
Matt: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25 feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you can move.
Sam: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.
Matt: No, he's this far away. You have to be within a certain range for him to hit you.
Sam: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to him?
Matt: It's currently 18 feet away from him.
Sam: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from him.
Matt: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So now there is a grenade on the ground, right there. You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you cannot move away without it taking a swipe.
Travis: Oh, look at that.
Sam: Hello, I'm a little gnome.
Travis: It's adorable.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. The giant that's here gets up. That's half of its movement. It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is going to make two of its axe-swipes.
Mary: Hit him in the arse!
Felicia: Butthole.
Sam: That was crass.
Matt: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and manages to catch air.
Felicia: The most useless giant.
Matt: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us to Lyra's turn.
Felicia: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting anybody who's friendly?
Matt: From this point of view, it's going to be very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot radius, so it's going to hit everything within that sphere.
Travis: Oh, you actually care about us that much?
Mary: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All right.
Felicia: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm going to cast Hold Monster.
Matt: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts and you put them around, imagining this arcane cage that begins to form out of the ether around the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw. (cheering)
Matt: But it's going to use its Legendary Resistance to automatically succeed.
Felicia: How many of those does he have?!
Travis: He has one more.
Felicia: I need to move.
Matt: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears into the air.
Felicia: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.
Matt: All righty. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. That brings us back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: You mean that hamster, right?
Matt: Your call, man.
Travis: Come on, live a little.
Taliesin: It's going to hit you.
Travis: Well, that's all right.
Laura: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on your attacks, by the way.
Taliesin: Even if my attack is not against the dragon?
Matt: As long as it's within eyesight of you, you're scared.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a shot at the dragon for the moment.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Forget about that.
Matt: Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage, nice.
Sam: Hey! Percy.
Taliesin: I have moments.
Matt: All right, and you reload with the other one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to move at all?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to hold my position.
Matt: Okay. Before the end of your turn--
Taliesin: I was about to say, before I do that, I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick heal. I'm going to use second wind.
Matt: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you heal 11 points of damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to use its last legendary action to take its tail and swing around and whack it at the gnome that it heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the ground. That's going to be a natural 20. (shouting)
Laura: He said it so happily, too. Evil.
Taliesin: You're in trouble.
Sam: Wait, what did he do?
Matt: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail go (whoosh, whack).
Sam: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?
Matt: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can avoid this hit.
Sam: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.
Felicia: (singing) Bye bye bye.
Travis: No, not cool!
Matt: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail slams down onto you.
Laura: And also onto the grenade.
Sam: But it's not a concussion grenade.
Travis: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going to move!
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: And down onto the grenade you set on the ground. (boom)
Sam: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already armed, isn't it?
Matt: It is filled with black powder, and is a triggerable mechanism.
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.
Matt: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail. I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Yes! 21.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.
Sam: I'm already low to the ground.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys take half damage from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Did the dragon take damage?
Matt: The dragon does not make its saving throw against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I tell you guys? 12?
Sam: All right! The grenade worked! (cheering)
Matt: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and shakes out the pain that it just suffered.
Taliesin: Can I take this moment of engineering success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw against my fear that I missed on my turn?
Matt: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was the inspiration you required.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It worked! (cackles)
Matt: With the explosion the grenade set off, you realize, wait, you might actually have this, and it worked! You could do this!
Taliesin: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of on purpose!
Matt: There you go. At the end of your turn, that's its final legendary action. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I try to shake off the attack?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that explosion!
Matt: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it off at the end of the round.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's such a good roll.
Mary: That is. Oh, that's even better!
Laura: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's 27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.
Matt: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.
Travis: More Percy goodness.
Laura: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?
Matt: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage. With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.
Laura: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?
Matt: 3d8, sorry.
Laura: 3d8?!
Matt: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the exploding arrow. 2d8.
Laura: 2d8.
Matt: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.
Laura: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both. Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other damage was. Was I speaking out loud?
Matt: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!
Sam: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?
Laura: An exploding arrow!
Sam: Nice.
Travis: 18.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I also meant to say I was shooting from my Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was going to do it.
Matt: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?
Laura: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker Bow for that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I do that?
Matt: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade, and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.
Taliesin: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry! Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.
Laura: So for my second attack, I want to throw Trinket in and I want Trinket to go up and attack him.
Matt: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two attacks at it.
Laura: He's going to do two claw attacks, so that's 2d4 each time.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket does not have the disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But the second one, he gets a 21!
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?
Mary: That's 23.
Laura: Oh, okay. Either way.
Matt: It hits even harder!
Mary: It hits harder?
Matt: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about? Rightly so.
Laura: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.
Matt: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first strike hits the armor and just streaks across without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang--
Mary: He has no more of these legendary saves, yes?
Sam: No, he has one.
Matt: Well, one more legendary resistance.
Felicia: He used a wing-buffet and then two saves.
Sam: He's got one more.
Felicia: Oh, one more save. Ugh.
Sam: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for later in the fight.
Matt: Great. So the dragon is now going to (flapping) fly--
Sam: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it retreats from me because I am a war caster.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that shit and pull him back down. (cheering)
Matt: That's right, you took the war caster feat. Okay.
Sam: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!
Travis: So hot for you right now.
Matt: All right, so you use your action to do Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--
Sam: It's the grapple one to pull its wings together so it can't fly away?
Matt: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and then add plus eight to it.
Sam: 18 plus eight. 26.
Matt: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand grabs its wings together and forces it back down to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's unable to fly away.
Sam: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you to leave! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to it.
Sam: 2d6. That's another 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that, the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It is going to use multiattack, so it gets three attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going to make all of them against you.
Sam: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Matt: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the first attack against you is going to be the bite attack. That is a 23 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Are you unconscious?
Sam: I will be very soon.
Matt: That's going to be 18 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!
Matt: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death saving throw from the second strike. The second claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on you. You've failed two death saving throws.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: It's a dragon.
Matt: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.
Matt: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth. This is the superior one?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.
Sam: Do I roll? Does he roll?
Matt: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.
Sam: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?
Matt: (laughs) 8d4.
Sam: 8d4.
Matt: You have a better chance, actually.
Travis: This is my friend of the lady favors. I need him!
Matt: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion. "Drink it!"
Sam: I'm at 19 now.
Matt: So you're at 19 hit points and you're conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still failed two death saving throws. They're gone until the end of the battle.
Travis: Can I do anything else after I've poured it into his-- can I do anything else?
Matt: You have a bonus action.
Travis: Can I throw him the fuck away from the dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?
Matt: I'll say because you're frenzied raged, normally you would get an additional attack. I will say you can use that.
Travis: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the icy floor towards Lyra.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh) and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be about there. You're still prone; you're on the ground.
Laura: But you can take a potion on your turn, at least?
Travis: And I just turn around and give it the eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.
Matt: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.
Matt: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded, because when you fell unconscious you lost concentration. Witch Bolt?
Mary: If you're still within range. I push even harder for Scanlan's sake.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe it is?
Mary: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm raging. What is it?
Matt: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or 5d12?
Mary: It is 5d12.
Matt: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.
Mary: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.
Travis: Okay. 14. 29. 45.
Mary: 45 plus two.
Laura: 47.
Mary: Plus 11 attack.
Laura: No, 47, and 1d6.
Mary: 1d6. Six.
Matt: All right, so what's the total damage on that, then?
Laura: 53.
Mary: 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage.
Travis: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day when Grog beats Vex on math.
Mary: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan thing.
Laura: I'm still very scared!
Matt: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now you can see what once was almost like a bolt of arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are?
Mary: I'm still how many feet away from him?
Matt: You are currently 20 feet away from him.
Mary: I will stay where I am.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and give it to him, wouldn't I?
Matt: At the end of your turn, because it's regained its legendary actions, it's going to use a wing attack against Grog and every creature around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings around with its wings, hitting everything around you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13 points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked prone.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Laura: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.
Matt: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage, but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto your back. The giant also is knocked prone there. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the ground.
Sam: I will stand.
Matt: All right. So you still have half your movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any direction.
Sam: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?
Matt: I consider it a bonus action to keep things moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.
Travis: Do that thing.
Sam: I will Dimension Door way over there.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh) appears next to him with this crackling sound of energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see anything except for a little bit of light bouncing off of the top of the cavern, glittering across all the ice crystals, but you are in complete shadow. (breathing heavily)
Sam: And I'll take one of those four healing potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?
Matt: They were superior. I think Grog used one.
Felicia: Yeah, we handed them out.
Sam: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take it.
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: Who all took them?
Mary: I didn't, because I have two.
Felicia: I don't think she and I took them.
Laura: Oh, the four of us, because we're assholes?
Matt: I think you each took one.
Felicia: I sacrificed myself.
Matt: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is going to get up.
Travis: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!
Matt: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's 24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's going to stay right there, trying to finish him off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: I still can't Fireball, right?
Matt: You could? Depending on where you want to place it, you may hit other things.
Laura: You can place it-- hit the giant and the dragon.
Felicia: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit the giants-- does he look almost dead?
Matt: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the dragon, but the other one is the one that was completely wrecked.
Laura: Is the other giant dead?
Matt: It is frozen in place and dead. It was partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the frost breath finished it off.
Felicia: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?
Sam: Trinket's protected.
Felicia: I don't think he's protected from fire damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill Trinket.
Travis: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?
Felicia: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.
Laura: How much radius does the dragon take up?
Matt: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would still hit everything directly around it.
Felicia: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again. At least force him to use his thing.
Matt: All right. Actually, he fails his saving throw, but uses his third and final legendary resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.
Taliesin: Good, you drained it. That's over with.
Matt: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns around and looks at you now. It was currently glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its mouth right towards you.
Felicia: I'm going to move away as far as I can.
Matt: Okay. So you are here.
Felicia: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back up to Percy.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take one last really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point and hit him in the face. Let's make this work. Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15 points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all attacks until my turn.
Matt: He did take ten points of bleeding damage from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save against the bleed effect, so that's gone, unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage to him.
Taliesin: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug the wall.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think right there.
Matt: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood beginning to seep from the inside of its scales. It's starting to look a little harsher and harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but you can see, it's starting to get a little more battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.
Matt: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to move back this way.
Laura: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping thing. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him, actually.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage?
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it rolled a two and a 15. (cheering)
Matt: So thank god you put that on there. So as it (whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind the ice wall. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try to resist the fear effect?
Laura: I did, and I failed it.
Matt: That's right. Okay.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the radius on that?
Laura: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.
Matt: (laughs) How's that go?
Laura: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits it, but then everything within five feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.
Matt: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw. Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.
Travis: Oh, great. 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10 piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it, and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.
Laura: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of Thorns?
Laura: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level. 18 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you, Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to the dragon. All right.
Laura: Oh. And then I get another attack.
Matt: You do. You have two attacks.
Laura: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage at them, as well.
Matt: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to cast, right?
Laura: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh, that doesn't hit. That's a 16.
Matt: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at the rest of you, which some of you have fallen, some of you are on the ground. It decides that perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon. All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn. Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the air.
Travis: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.
Matt: Now he's going to--
Travis: Oh no, the ale's gone!
Matt: This way, up at the top, and is currently up in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the frightened effect, by the way?
Laura: I didn't.
Matt: Go ahead and do that now.
Mary: Come on, darling. Come on!
Laura: Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20!
Matt: That will do it. As you shake the frightened effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead. Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy, Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for him to make here, is there?
Matt: No.
Felicia: 23.
Matt: 23 on the constitution saving throw?
Felicia: Yeah, I actually. I get five constitution, and I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? What did you roll, Vex?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard impacting you with a series of punches every single second as this breath caresses and beats your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54 points of cold damage.
Taliesin: 54?
Matt: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold damage.
Travis: And the room gets quiet.
Mary: Really fast.
Matt: It continues its flight pattern (flapping, impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.
Laura: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?
Sam: How high up?
Matt: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its turn. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: That giant is definitely against us?
Matt: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at the moment, yeah.
Travis: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge Gary and hack away.
Matt: All right. You get up, and you have enough movement, definitely, to move up into battle with him. Go ahead and attack.
Travis: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.
Matt: You have to hit first. You have to roll to hit.
Travis: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done this before. 24.
Laura: No, that was higher than 24.
Travis: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.
Matt: Hits. Roll a second attack.
Travis: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.
Travis: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five? Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?
Laura: Plus six fire damage.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Six!
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the second one.
Matt: All right, and the third one?
Travis: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.
Matt: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact, and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up, it reveals the underside of its torso. You use that to reach down, leap in the air with an overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do, (crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're probably sure that the splintered bones seem to have impacted something serious as the giant all of a sudden, (death rattle). (cheering)
Mary: Dead? Dead!
Matt: From the damage left over from the battle you had earlier, the damage it already took from the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: How far away from the dragon am I?
Matt: You are 30 feet away.
Mary: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking unleash on this white wyrm of death.
Matt: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon actually tries to shift out of the way--
Mary: He can't.
Matt: He can't, because you're locked in.
Mary: You can't get away from me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Creepy Zahra!
Mary: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right. 11.
Travis: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.
Mary: 53.
Felicia: Damn!
Travis: You bad bitch!
Matt: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot, searing red flame from your eyes.
Mary: Oh, you can't run!
Matt: (boof) You focus again. The beam now, transitioning into a similar red-hot color, streaks across and slams into the side of the dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are left with this glowing red heat from the blast, and part of its armor is torn open. You can see the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are you staying right there?
Mary: I'm going to approach it by five feet.
Matt: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's turn. You are way over here.
Sam: I will first use my bonus action on myself. Can I cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: Yeah. Sure.
Sam: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually, wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater heal. 4d4 plus four.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much back up to--
Matt: There you go. Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm how far?
Matt: You are over here.
Sam: But how far?
Matt: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.
Sam: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a hundred-foot range.
Matt: It does, and because it's high enough--
Sam: If the angle is nice and clean.
Matt: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness, release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?
Sam: It's my spell? What is it?
Matt: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.
Sam: 17?
Matt: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16 plus five.
Sam: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?
Matt: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and it's halved.
Sam: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26. 13.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.
Felicia: Way to not die.
Travis: I need my whoring partner.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack and reach over the side here at Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over the side. Another natural 20. (groaning)
Felicia: He looks disappointed.
Laura: He doesn't want us to die.
Felicia: It's going to happen.
Mary: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!
Felicia: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.
Mary: Not today, you don't.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Percy. (whack) From over the top.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Matt: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping chunks of stone and ice, you can see a currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you up from that right now.
Taliesin: I like my face.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead. There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I can Fireball him now. (cheering)
Felicia: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good! Six and six and six.
Laura: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.
Travis: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.
Felicia: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of damage.
Matt: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?
Felicia: It's no DC. It just hits.
Matt: Right, but it has a save.
Felicia: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage to it.
Felicia: It's not bad.
Matt: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness, impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing, and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame. The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out of the impact--
Taliesin: Do I actually roll?
Matt: You actually (boof) over there. You're still technically in the same spot, but you're on your back now. You do automatically fail a death saving throw from that.
Felicia: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
Matt: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw. Just roll a ten or higher.
Taliesin: I did not roll a ten or higher.
Matt: You fail a second death saving throw.
Sam: Oh god!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he roll far enough away that he is not within ten feet of the dragon?
Matt: The dragon is ten feet up.
Laura: So he's far enough away.
Matt: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the dragon.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Do you have a potion?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Grog's got it.
Laura: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack regular.
Matt: You do have to roll the attack, yes.
Laura: That's good. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on it?
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a three.
Sam: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.
Travis: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.
Taliesin: Let's not have another Pike, please.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Plus your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: That's good. That's another six for Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.
Matt: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of the top of this platform to keep itself steady. You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing). One eye is partially closed, and with each breath you can see this frost mist emanating from its breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.
Laura: For my second attack-- (cheering)
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to regular attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular attack him.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Laura: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 13, 14, 15.
Matt: Including the Hunter's Mark?
Laura: No! Four.
Matt: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins to pour down its side.
Laura: Ugh, he's still alive!
Matt: It's rough. That ends your turn.
Laura: Fuck! Is it his turn?
Matt: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns. (heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra, from Vex, and from Zahra.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: After this, you will.
Mary: Okay, got it.
Felicia: Eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. Okay. Zahra?
Mary: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to you.
Felicia: I'm down.
Matt: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in place right now from the blast. She's unconscious, and there is a coat of ice around her body holding her in place. How are you doing on hit points?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points.
Matt: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Mary: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You have a reaction?
Mary: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.
Sam: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.
Mary: I know. I get one per day.
Matt: All right, so the creature must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: So it does it back to him?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: That is 15. What's the DC?
Mary: I don't know.
Laura: 17.
Mary: 17.
Matt: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just because it attacked you?!
Taliesin: Kill it out of spite.
Felicia: Tell him he's very ugly.
Mary: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of fire damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Mary: I don't know what that means!
Matt: How do you finish this dragon with your Hellish Rebuke?
Taliesin: Make it good!
Matt: After it finishes blasting you with ice damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground. You see Vex on the ground, about to fall unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling surge of anger within you, and you?
Mary: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk towards it. Can I use anything?
Matt: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?
Mary: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me levitating in the air and using my dark dragon staff to blast it from here down, just eviscerating everything from the bowels down with hellish fire.
Matt: So after the frost takes on the front of you, and there is ice caked against the front of your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters) evaporates from the sheer heat your body's emanating. You take a step forward, but the step itself is about an inch off the ground. A second step, you're two inches off the ground. And with each progressive step, you're slowly floating in the air, the warlock energy now swirling around you. The shadows are spinning around you and coalescing around your feet. As you look forward towards it, you see the portion of its armor that was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound) sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon (grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest. You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the ground next to Percy, almost crushing his unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two more steps forward. "No. You can't."
Mary: Yes, I fucking can! (cheering)
Matt: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the ground. (cheering)
Sam: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.
Felicia: What happened?
Sam: You did good, baby.
Felicia: (gasps) And I'm just in him. (laughter)
Travis: I run over to Percy and pour a healing potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him." (laughter)
Matt: You can just barely get there with your movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.
Taliesin: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!
Mary: Hello, Percy.
Laura: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a giant hug.
Taliesin: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap now? Ugh.
Laura: You were amazing.
Mary: Forever besties?
Felicia: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you so short?
Sam: Baby. I can't change height, so I release Seeming and I'm back to normal.
Felicia: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I was worried, but it was special.
Travis: Oh! (laughter)
Mary: Is it time to take what we need from this thing?
Laura: Gather up all of the shit we have to take and put it in the bag of stuff.
Taliesin: That would be  two white dragon eyes, one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart, six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon teeth.
Matt: Who's harvesting this?
Mary: You have the bag.
Felicia: It's nature. Who has good animal handling?
Laura: Wait, we have to harvest it special?
Matt: Part of harvesting the organs from the creature is a delicate process.
Laura: Is it nature? What is it a check for?
Matt: It's a nature-based check, yes.
Laura: I have a low nature. What do you have?
Taliesin: Very low nature.
Mary: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Can I go and loot the giant that's not frozen?
Matt: You can. You can also help with this roll.
Sam: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.
Matt: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to start carving into this dragon?
Sam: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm so out of it. We just killed a dragon! (laughter)
Sam: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent, impressed stammering). And that's all I got.
Matt: And with that, you killed a dragon.
Mary: It was a group effort.
Laura: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold her utensils for her?
Matt: Between the two of you working together, that would give you advantage on the checks. Which one are you going for first? Are you going for the eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting first.
Laura: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?
Matt: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes, heart--
Felicia: Can I assist? Can I help?
Matt: We already have an assist over there.
Felicia: I want to be helpful.
Laura: We'll all stand and watch.
Taliesin: Start with the eyes.
Laura: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But you get an advantage.
Matt: You will get advantage on it because she's assisting you.
Mary: That's nine plus--
Laura: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye out and place it into the satchel.
Laura: Into the cooler bag.
Matt: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw it inside and have to shake your hand off.
Laura: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just because.
Felicia: We have a special crate?
Laura: Yeah, I'm holding it.
Taliesin: The tongue would be next.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh, that's way better. Plus six. 23.
Matt: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you (slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself, is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold damage, but the tongue has been harvested.
Taliesin: A heart.
Matt: This one's going to be difficult. Part of the chest is blown open, exposing the interior, but there has been damage done to the inside, so go ahead and attempt this.
Travis: Two rolls.
Mary: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.
Matt: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry in and crack open a portion of its body, and you begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart, and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge, and it takes three of you to pull it out.
Laura: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?
Matt: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in that satchel.
Mary: How heavy is it?
Matt: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200 pounds.
Felicia: I should know what people would do in the guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.
Matt: Travel back quickly or have preservation magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based magic.
Felicia: Nope.
Travis: We're not shoving it in there? Are we cutting it in half?
Laura: We could roll it up in one of our fancy robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in-- oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.
Matt: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it, and the heart itself is freezing, as per the nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might be a good thing.
Laura: What about all this gold in the cavern?
Taliesin: Claws and teeth.
Mary: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.
Matt: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling) and most of them, you notice, as part of the nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling them out, you're frustrated because with each one it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest of them begin to break.
Travis: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left over.
Laura: But we need white dragon.
Travis: He was a white dragon!
Laura: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue dragon that we harvested?
Travis: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left over.
Laura: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the first white dragon.
Mary: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left or anything, for myself, I would like to--
Taliesin: Claws, still. We have to get claws still.
Mary: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's in front of me, I would just like to put it in my little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more check, with advantage.
Laura: Another one.
Mary: That sucks, too. 13.
Matt: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're going for the scales or the claws?
Mary: I was going for the powdered-- the remains of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.
Matt: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then, that you can gather without a problem. It's powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine. All right.
Taliesin: We still need claws.
Laura: Let's go for claws.
Travis: One more.
Mary: Nine. 15.
Matt: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of its hands and getting the base of where the claw itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five functional dragon claws without them breaking.
Mary: How many did we need, Percy?
Taliesin: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?
Matt: You guys, prepared with your bag.
Mary: Hello! Prepared people!
Travis: Oh, I looted the giant.
Matt: All right, you looted the giant.
Mary: Now can we get some scales?
Laura: Just her? All of us?
Matt: All of you working together to get scales.
Felicia: All of us? Free for all?
Matt: Well, this is the roll they're making for it.
Laura: 20 for scales.
Matt: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working together, you manage to pull off what amounts to about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the scales are heavy and they're about that big each. It would be enough if you were to bring it to a master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of armor from them.
Laura: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon scales from the previous dragons! We could make three sets of armor right now.
Felicia: I'm going to look around and just see if there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.
Matt: All right, there are individual gold pieces embedded all through. It would take you weeks to chisel it all from the walls.
Mary: Are there any giant gems that we can see?
Matt: Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I want to get my diamond back, too, from earlier.
Travis: Can I loot the bloody giant?
Laura: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!
Matt: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its armor itself is made for a giant's form, much larger than anything else, and a lot of it has been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its axe. For the most part, all you're able to find off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces, which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a lot of money on them, usually what they carry on them is just trophies from battles they fought previously. At least, these ones here. What did you roll for perception?
Taliesin: 16.
Felicia: 18.
Sam: 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: So as you guys are looking around, the cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however, Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you see there are other pieces of partially eaten frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of torchlight you can pull out, and glancing underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more of a cluster of shining about seven or eight inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard of something frozen beneath the surface of this cavern.
Felicia: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw a Fire Bolt.
Matt: (laughs) You start carving, you're like, (yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as firebolts begin blasting the ice.
Felicia: 14. 14 points of damage.
Matt: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your breath for a second. It's not enough to get all the way down, but it does manage to blast away a large portion of the ice.
Laura: I still have like two points of health, FYI.
Felicia: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely, though.
Matt: And so between the two of you guys, you take a dagger, you take your staff and you begin jamming into the ice. You manage to break it apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen, quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so, 4,244 gold pieces--
Travis: Whoa!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: How much?
Matt: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about that large. It's actually a little bit smaller than the other one you have, but it's worth anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather gloves with almost gold trim around each one of the joints. You find what looks like a small leather cap that you pull over the head, that a peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass vial containing an indeterminate liquid.
Laura: What is the color of the liquid?
Matt: From what you can look at the color, it's like a purplish-blue.
Mary: Can anybody do a perception check on magical liquid?
Travis: I would like to perception check the leather hat.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can anybody do an arcana check on the leather hat?
Matt: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?
Travis: 16!
Matt: Or Identify spell?
Felicia: No. I thought about them.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys have a brief rest here; it should be fine, actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very fancy leather hat.
Travis: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine. Dibs!
Taliesin: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.
Matt: You take some time with each one of these items that you pull out from the ice, and each one emanates a magical aura from them. You take the gloves first and you look at them, and you eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about this, you read about this in your books. These are Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by a certain amount, provided you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it from hitting you.
Taliesin: That might be good for you, though.
Laura: For anybody with ranged, probably.
Matt: Anybody who's hit by ranged.
Taliesin: I have a two-handed ranged weapon, though, which you do not.
Matt: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is removed.
Sam: May I have that one, please?
Taliesin: No, Scanlan.
Travis: What? He can already disappear.
Felicia: You'll abuse it. You've already abused that privilege already.
Sam: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like bubblegum.
Matt: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can actually climb your walking speed for one hour.
Mary: Like Spider Climb?
Felicia: Spider Pig.
Mary: What's it called?
Matt: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you look over at the corpses that are frozen on the ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a sword, and another one of the corpses appears to have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and see the sword itself is not affected by the ice. It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You (cracking) break it out of the hand. The person who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by the ice.
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic texture.
Sam: Take it!
Mary: Take it!
Travis: Take it!
Laura: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?
Matt: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra. Lyra, make an arcana check.
Felicia: This is a very interesting arrow. I haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait, maybe I have. 27.
Matt: Good to know. You take the time with it. You immediately recognize, there is a similar enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever came in here earlier had the intent of slaying this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6 damage with every hit.
Felicia: It's too bad it didn't work for them.
Matt: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has to make a constitution saving throw or take an additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use, "fuck you, dragon" arrow.
Sam: 6d10?
Felicia: That's very pleasant.
Laura: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?
Sam: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.
Matt: So at this point, you guys have taken probably a good hour and a half or so in this cavern. You start seeing water drip.
Laura: Oh, we should get out.
Matt: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of Rimefang.
Mary: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within the three days of the contract, yes?
Matt: Possibly.
Felicia: Well, we got the contract. We completed it within three days. Now, we have to get back.
Mary: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.
Matt: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the arcane sigils that were built into it are faded, and where it looks like each piece of the dragon that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual text on the contract.
Laura: Lyra, they're going to love you.
Felicia: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over and over, how this happened together. And you guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank you.
Mary: I would like to take just one gold coin right at the base of the head of what was formerly Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace when we all go back to town.
Matt: All right. You take that one gold piece, pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back through the caverns you arose, back through the ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper Timberland, find where your horses were currently tied up, make your way back towards the city of Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of travel later, you notice that the blizzard that encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual weather in this area seems to have been connected to the presence of the dragon and is slowly dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving, they let the doors open. You can see the giant, dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move them away. You enter the city, make your way through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"
Felicia: Mertin, we did it.
Matt: "Show me your contract. Show me this contract."
Felicia: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really, it's right here.
Matt: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to shake your hand.
Felicia: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you. And then I just hug him.
Matt: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done. You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of these contracts we put out as a test of your power and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this token, and by the completed contract. First off, you have definitely proven your worth to the Slayer's Take."
Felicia: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.
Matt: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put up a face here. No one wants to see a member of the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would like to humbly ask if you wish to join the Slayer's Take guild."
Sam: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?
Matt: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the back room. We have a few trophies back there that might freak him out."
Travis: Do we get to work with another leader next time?
Sam: What? Because if the answer is yes, we refuse. This is our leader from now on.
Felicia: Thank you so much.
Matt: "You are able to choose what your group is at any time. Whatever the contract requires."
Felicia: I really appreciate it, but given the kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't love me is that I don't have enough experience. Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread my wings in that area. And then he'll love me. Won't he, Vanessa?
Matt: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this course of action to not be taken. I would think that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this is a very pious house--"
Sam: I think this is a great idea.
Felicia: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to me. I can't ruin that.
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk, woman to woman."
Felicia: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!
Mary: Be straight with her, will you? Please.
Matt: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract completed, provide what you've harvested from your quarry, and payment will be delivered."
Laura: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff in it. And then we take out a couple from the white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And we've got this giant heart right here.
Matt: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.
Laura: Careful, it needs to be preserved.
Matt: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please, provide these for transport to the contract client."
Mary: Can we ask who actually contracted it?
Matt: "It's written on the contract itself."
Mary: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Percy has the contract, currently.
Taliesin: I do. Ozwyn Grud?
Travis: Grundle?
Felicia: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.
Matt: Make a history check, by the way.
Taliesin: May I, as well?
Felicia: 21.
Taliesin: 25.
Travis: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.
Mary: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots later. Like, now.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right. The two of you immediately go, "Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name before. You've heard the name and you're trying to figure out where it is. You pick it up and say, "He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a really exclusive group of archmages across the entire globe that essentially work together to keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of the Arcana Pansophical.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: This is another member of that team, who ordered this.
Taliesin: This is most likely going to good use, at the very least.
Sam: So do we collect our money?
Matt: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract, if you don't mind repeating?"
Taliesin: I was just working that out.
Laura: Lots of gold.
Taliesin: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for the dragon teeth?
Laura: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon teeth?
Taliesin: For all 20 dragon teeth.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon teeth that you had already stored, those are used in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the contract and get full payment for those.
Travis: We have 12 teeth left.
Sam: So it's 9,000 total?
Taliesin: 9,000 total.
Matt: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath, pulls out a small chest. You see her do something beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as you have now been accepted to this, when your other team members arrive, which should be any moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a small payment in conjunction with the hydra contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest, divide the gold, and be on your way."
Laura: That's 1,500 each.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)
Laura: What about you, Zahra?
Mary: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank you.
Matt: "You do not need your money? Well, that will go back to the guild, thank you."
Travis: No, she misspoke.
Mary: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely misspoke.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.
Laura: 1,800 each.
Matt: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look forward to a very fruitful and profitable future together here at the Slayer's Take."
Travis: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure that your wounds are completely healed?
Laura: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?
Matt: You may. What are you trying to gather?
Laura: Just to see what kind of person she is.
Matt: All right, go for an insight check.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense of being able to read a person, and yet she is still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and there's a reason this guild has been successful for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But as far as reading her intent? She seems very guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really catch a bead on her.
Felicia: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting me with this very difficult task. I know that you sent some other people after this dragon, and your confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were you thinking?
Travis: What were you thinking?
Taliesin: What were you thinking, really?
Matt: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon had been a thorn in our side, with previous contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed so confident in your skills. I figured it would be a good excuse for you to either flee from this thing and come back with your tail between your legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario, what you've shown to me today."
Laura: Which is that we're amazing.
Travis: Vox Machina does not flee.
Mary: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.
Sam: We'll make you an honorary member.
Matt: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy your night. Celebrate. And return here when you wish to see your friends hopefully return as successful as you were."
Sam: Thank you.
Mary: Thank you.
Travis: We are sure they will.
Matt: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is, (grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She turns around, gathers the rest of the materials into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we will conclude tonight's session. Well done!
Sam: We did it!
Mary: We survived!
Laura: Good job, Mary!
Matt: By the way, these are your magical items. You want to go ahead and take those?
Sam: I have to split.
Taliesin: Yes, you're moving.
Felicia: Tonight?
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Felicia: Oh my goodness.
Matt: First off, guys, a big round of applause and appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You guys were fantastic.
Taliesin: Guest dragon kill.
Felicia: That was very fun. Thank you for letting me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the Geek and Sundry family.
Mary: I would like to say thank you so much to the community, to the Critters out there. I've never felt so much love overnight and through this last week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so thank you so much.
Zac: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is officially trending on Twitter right now on the front page. You guys should all keep that trend going and go tell us what you think about the show and your favorite moments from tonight with #CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for coming out. She's about to leave for a month, right?
Felicia: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com. I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry, Midwest. It'll be fun.
Zac: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60 subscribers away, roughly, from doing another signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you this content without subscribers, so let's try to get that 60 before we're done reading all our donations and prizes and everything else. But actually, I think we're going to play that video of Felicia one more time really quick to support her book tour.
Felicia: That's very sweet.
Zac: We'll be right back, really quick, with our donations and everything.
Matt: Yes. [end captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play D&D, Dungeons & Dragons. Roll dice and kill monsters and sometimes maybe get killed themselves. I don't know. (yelling)
Matt: Because it's fun to set the tone. It's fun. But yeah, so anyway. Thank you guys for joining us, old and new, welcome to our chaos. We have a few announcements to get through before we start tonight's game. First and foremost, for those who haven't seen, we've been putting up Spotify playlists compiled by our different players here. And this week we had Vex, Laura, put up her playlist. Which is awesome. If you want to say something about your playlist and some cool stuff they can look forward to?
Laura: Just that it's the coolest. No, it's actually weirdly personal to put it together and put it up. It feels like you're baring your soul. So I hope you guys enjoy my soul. And also, song three, which is like... everything.
Marisha: That one might have made me cry a little bit.
Laura: Right?
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Laura: I may or may not have been thinking of the Critters while I was picking that song. Just so you guys know.
Taliesin: I'm so excited. I haven't heard yours yet.
Sam: Are we on?
Matt: We are on. Hi. Welcome, Sam.
Sam: Hi, guys.
Liam: You're so early tonight.
Sam: (breathless) Oh yeah, sorry. (laughter)
Marisha: We're the beginning of the announcements. It's great. We were talking about the playlists.
Sam: Oh, I've got to finish mine.
Marisha: Yeah! You're almost done. I will say, for those who have not gone and checked out any of the playlists, we have Vax and Percy up as well. Definitely go do it, because all that little extra content that we put out is always kind of a litmus test, to see if people are going to be interested in it. And if you guys go and actually visit the webpage at Geek & Sundry, then we get more content. So the more you go visit it--
Matt: Make more stuff for you guys, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, the more that we can show the people upstairs that people do like our stuff and our content, the more you will get. So please go check it out if you have not yet. It helps.
Taliesin: Here, actually, do this with me. Let's make a double rainbow gif, for later. (laughter)
Laura: That's beautiful.
Matt: That's on you, CritRoleSource.
Taliesin: That's on you, internet.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Cool. So that's awesome. Next announcement, for those who haven't had a chance to see it. A little over a year ago I Kickstarted a web series with a bunch of other really talented people. Sean Becker, who is director of The Guild, directed it. It's called Muzzled the Musical. Ashly Burch, a bunch of great talented people from The Lizzie Bennet Diaries and a bunch of other web series, Juliet Landau is in it. It's a great fun web series and it went live last week right before Halloween. So we have our three-episode arc up on YouTube. If you like musicals and you like fun silly dark, Doctor Horrible-style performances, then you're going to like this. Check it out, see if you like it. Let's see. Oh yeah, tomorrow is BlizzCon. BlizzCon, for all you crazy guys who are going or those who are watching on the digital online pass. A bunch of us Critters will be wandering the halls, doing panels and all kinds of fun stuff. Like, for me personally, I'll be there tomorrow at 4:30. I think, Liam, you are on that as well?
Liam: Yeah, same panel.
Matt: Yeah, The World of Warcraft Live panel. We'll be there doing that. And then doing a signing afterward. What else you guys got going on at BlizzCon?
Liam: I'm on three, so I think it's two on Friday and one on Saturday. I tweeted out the times. Don't remember them now, so just go check my feed if you want. I'll see you there.
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: I'm going to have to do my job really quick and jump in on that. And say that tomorrow at 4:30PM PST here, we will be doing a live trailer watch and reveal with special guests. Laura and Travis are coming by. Alison Haislip and Ify Nwadiwe are going to be our hosts for that. And then we are going to have interviews with Duncan Jones the director and some of the cast and crew. It's going to be really cool, so tune in tomorrow, 4:30, for that.
Taliesin: And then if you're at BlizzCon, I think we're going to be wandering around a little bit.
Marisha: Yes, I'll be there.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll be there.
Marisha: We'll be there. Probably watching his panels.
Matt: Rock that out. Cool. Also, tonight is Critmas. So for those who want to hang around. (voice cracking) We have quite a cavalcade of presents.
Laura: There's a lot of presents, you guys.
Liam: Taliesin and I got here early and with Ryan we opened everything and it's an embarrassment of riches.
Laura: They had to open it so that we wouldn't be opening the boxes.
Taliesin: We tried not to peek.
Liam: Some of the stuff I didn't see, some of the stuff Taliesin didn't see. So we're not completely spoiled, we're a little spoiled.
Laura: We got a little spoiled. I got a little spoiled early, though.
Matt: Because of that.
Laura: Somebody sent a new Trinket! Look at that, you guys!
Matt: Giant bear.
Laura: Look at him. He's so cute.
Liam: And please. I mean, we thought it was a corpse, at first, when we got it. Then, when we opened it up we got really excited and I had this, which I used to open it. We got really excited and took a bear out, and then it was a bear and we forgot about all the wrappings and the paper. So if you sent us the bear, please contact us now.
Sam: Wait, we don't know who sent it?!
Liam: Just contact us now. You're watching. Somebody is watching who knows that person, so just let us know.
Matt: Find them, post it in the chat room.
Taliesin: Somewhere they're saying, "That's my bear".
Laura: Please! I have just been hugging it non-stop.
Matt: It was pretty amazing when it was wrapped up. It looked like a body. Like, straight up, season two Dexter. It was pretty fantastic.
Marisha: Which leads us to our next point. Please don't send us bodies.
Matt: Please don't. No bodies.
Taliesin: Address it to me, if you do.
Matt: (laughs) He'll know what to do.
Liam: I think if it had been the only package, we would have been able to focus better, but there were about a hundred packages, so it was difficult for us to focus. We were opening stuff for an hour and a half, so thanks in advance.
Matt: So thanks in advance for that. Also, you will recognize a couple of new songs tonight. We had the wonderful pleasure of having Bethesda approve us using Elder Scrolls music in our on-channel playlists. So I have been able to go back and re-incorporate all of my old Elder Scrolls music that I used when we originally played off stream. So that's really cool. Thank you, Bethesda. Thank you guys very much.
Taliesin: Now ten percent more realistic  Critical Role.
Matt: Exactly. Imagine that. Really stoked about that.
Taliesin: More authentic. Homebrew.
Matt: Just a reminder. The "How do you want to do this?" shirts are up. I still have to get one for myself. I think I should. And we have the Critical Role necklace and awesome keychain, which I have not seen in person until tonight.
Laura: They're really cool.
Matt: So we'll pass them around and we can each give it our blessing. Each individual one is blessed by me. That's not true, but you will still roll well while wearing one. So that's exciting, and let's see what else we got. Do you want to do the quick Wyrmwood thing? Reminder from Wyrmwood?
Liam: Yeah. We are friends with Wyrmwood Gaming, and you can still use the code CritRole to get free shipping on an order for your wood. Its beautiful wood. I have some black wood, but there's many different colors.
Laura: I got this wood.
Liam: They are really, really beautiful. So just share the nerd connections, everybody.
Marisha: Pretty sexy.
Laura: These are the Kickstarter boxes, though. These are what's being done now, or are those for sale right now?
Liam: The Kickstarter boxes are not. The CritRole code will not work for these, but they'll work for these bad mama-jamas right here.
Sam: Which is really what you want.
Laura: And these, too. These are deck boxes.
Matt: Yeah. Thank you, Wyrmwood, for being so awesome and for putting that code together for our community.
Liam: I have one personal thing.
Matt: Yes, please.
Liam: I have a pilot on Amazon Prime called Everstar, where I play a little robot.
Sam: Is that true?!
Liam: And he's really uptight. Yeah, that's a pilot.
Sam: Oh, did the Amazon pilots launch today?
Liam: They all launched, and I'm in a cute adventure cartoon for young girls and boys. And I'm up against bloody, gritty live-action dramas and political satire and other cartoons, as well. Roger Craig Smith is playing Mouse Cookies. But if you like Everstar, which is this young action/adventure space-pirate story, give it a watch. If you like it, vote it through. If it gets voted through, I will continue to be a robot.
Sam: I directed one, too, called Yoyotoki Happy Ears. So that's on there too.
Matt: How's that go, again?
Sam: Yoyotoki Happy Ears. It's really weird and funny, and it's actually really awesome.
Travis: Also, Halo 5 is out this week, which Laura and I are in. It's amazing.
Liam: I'm not familiar with that. What is that?
Travis: It's some game. Takes place in outer space.
Liam: Is that a match three? Like Bejeweled?
Travis: It's like Candy Crush, but with more death.
Taliesin: That's available on Android.
Matt: The last announcement is that they announced that The Witcher is coming to theaters in a couple of years, and that has nothing to do with us, other than the fact that I'm probably going to be at full mast for the next week, thinking of that possibility.
Travis: Said so casually.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so excited. Please don't fuck it up.
Travis: They will. It'll be Mark Wahlberg.
Matt: No, no, no!
Marisha: Channing Tatum.
Liam: Will Ferrell.
Matt: I will... I would not!
Marisha: Channing Tatum is Geralt of Rivia.
Laura: Done! Let's make this happen.
Matt: Don't. Guys, I will stop this show. Your DM is out! If Channing Tatum becomes Geralt, I will be so furious. He's great at certain roles. I loved him in... I absolutely adored him in the 21 Jump Street movies.
Sam: I guess he's not coming on our show, jeez.
Matt: That's enough of our silly talk. Let's go ahead and dive into the chaos that is the current circumstance. Keep in mind, the culmination of leading into Halloween with this story arc and now going and starting a rebellion in Whitestone on the Fifth of November has been a very delightful, unintentional coordination here.
Taliesin: I almost wore my special spider belt, too, but it felt too weird.
Matt: So that's pretty cool. So to get you guys up to speed with the circumstance that has happened, those especially that are tuning in for the first time. A couple known as the Briarwoods that took over the city of Whitestone five years before, murdering most of the ruling family of Percy-- other than himself, escaping-- have recently been doing political discussions with the home city of Emon. Vox Machina, our troop of intrepid adventurers, upon discovering this, battled them at Emon. They fled to Whitestone, and the party has then gone after to seek to destroy them and free the town, the once-home to Percival. In the process, it appears that there have been a number of warnings set, and the entire town has been long held under this dark, ominous rule that they have kept at bay. Apparently, they have found notes of previous, failed rebellions, and things that die here don't seem to stay dead. A number of zombified giants are wandering the city as these giant lurching sentinels. And apparently, a number of the cutthroats that helped the Briarwoods come to power in this town have now been given titles and land here and are now called the new nobles by the locals. During this process, you guys managed to sneak into the town, began setting out word of coming rebellion and that Percival de Rolo has returned and the Briarwoods' time is numbered. Upon meeting the previous chancellor to your father of the town, Archibald, you guys came to an understanding, and he was going to reach out to all of his contacts and let them know that the rebellion is happening. You guys then set out to set a two-pronged attack against two of the remaining new nobles in the town. Most of the party going to seek the outside of Count-- what's his name?
Travis: Count Dooku.
Laura: Count Dooku.
Marisha: Count Duke.
Matt: Duke Vedmeyer was the one that Scanlan went to, and then Tylieri is the one that the rest of you wandered outside. Now, as the rain pours down into the city, midday. Scanlan decided to open from a Polymorph spell, as a fly, to the top of the front doorstep of Vedmeyer's home. Then, proceeding to un-Polymorph and re-Polymorph into a triceratops. Of which, I have your statistics here for your triceratops form, if you want to come get that.
Marisha: Go get them stats, boy!
Taliesin: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Marisha: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Matt: So that's your triceratops form. After becoming a triceratops, you squashed the front guard that was there, you slammed through the front of the building, destroying the front door, and we cut to the other group who is stealthing through the rain. At which point, the okay was given to Grog, whether intentionally or not. Grog then charged to the front door of Tylieri's estate, and the rest of you prepared for impact. And that was where we left off, in the center of this chaos.
Liam: Let's do this!
Laura: Oh, god.
Matt: So without further ado. Sam.
Sam: But I was just handed this.
Matt: I know, take a look.
Travis: Sucks to be first!
Liam: He's got the maps out already. Get your shit together, man.
Sam: I've never been a triceratops before.
Liam: That's not what I heard.
Sam: All right, you're right. Think like a triceratops. So, I need shelter. I don't know. How do triceratopses think?
Taliesin: Probably like punk rock hippopotamuses.
Sam: Hip-hop-ipotimi.
Matt: Say, for the sake of this, for now, we'll go through your circumstance, as they are separate. So Scanlan, you are-- I did not have a triceratops, but I did have a stegosaurus. It's the same size. I'm sorry, bloodspike behemoth.
Taliesin: That's kind of racist.
Matt: I'm sorry. You know what? They're not around to argue.
Travis: That you know of.
Taliesin: We are going to get a bunch of angry tweets from stegosauruses and triceratops.
Matt: I'm sure. Please, bring them my way. As you slam your way into the front of Duke Vedmeyer's estate. Pieces of wood blasting outward, scattering among the center of the foyer. You see before you a rising staircase that divides into two separate staircases that curl around to the second level.
Sam: Lovely decor.
Matt: You also notice that the entire interior is currently filled with guards. All seemingly prepared and almost expecting your arrival.
Sam: I think I can take them, guys. I think I can take them.
Matt: You also see, at the top, Duke Vedmeyer himself. A large, hairless, grey-skinned goliath, wielding a giant two-handed sword, armored with a breastplate.
Marisha: Vecmeyer?
Matt: Vedmeyer.
Laura: He's a goliath?
Matt: He's a goliath, yeah.
Marisha: Vedmeyer is a goliath?
Sam: Wow, that's going to be fun later, but not right now. Okay, do I know? So, let's assess my knowledge real quick. I know about him a little bit. He is one of the thugs that came into the city.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: He is not a magic-wielder, as far as I know.
Matt: As far as you know, no. And at first glance, based on the fact that he is wearing heavy breastplate and is wielding a giant two-handed sword, you get the feeling he is probably not as heavily inclined towards the arcane arts as others you have encountered.
Sam: As I quickly survey the room, do I see anyone else who is a threat greater than a heavily armed guard? Anything that is a creepy wizard or a weird old mage?
Matt: Currently, no. Currently, all you see are a series of Whitestone guards in uniform armor, all with heavy crossbows, currently nocked. And as you come blasting through the door, they are already arranged in what appears to be a waiting pattern, should anything try and charge its way into the house.
Sam: So they'll probably all shoot me, won't they?
Matt: In fact, roll initiative.
Sam: So directly in front of me, there's a staircase going up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Any other doors or exits?
Matt: There are doors on each side that are currently locked, and other than that, no.
Sam: Those are locked doors?
Matt: They are closed currently, and they appear to be-- There's a giant wooden beam crossed over the front of each. Then there's the outside which leads to the exterior, to the raining outside of the household, and the stairs that go up.
Sam: Oh, man.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative? Don't I get a surprise round? Doesn't matter. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't get a surprise round because I sprung in there?
Matt: Apparently not.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: You made a very loud noise when you turned into a triceratops and tore through the front of the household. All right, so Scanlan is up first.
Sam: So here's the thing. Here's the thing. I should probably leave.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Sam: But come on. I'm a triceratops! I've got to have some fun first, right?
Travis: You can take a couple of hit points, right?
Sam: Right?!
Taliesin: I think you revert back to normal.
Marisha: Does Polymorph carry over?
Matt: If you go to zero hit points in animal form, you go back to your regular full health and any damage that carries over just goes to your regular health, at that point.
Laura: That's a lot of people.
Marisha: You have 115 hit points.
Matt: You guys aren't there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Travis: (sings Jurassic Park theme) (others join in)
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Wait, it's my turn first?
Matt: Yeah, you have initiative, man.
Sam: I beat them with initiative?
Matt: You did.
Sam: They are more than my charging distance as a triceratops, right?
Matt: He's the only one that's within, technically. What's your speed?
Sam: 40.
Matt: 40. You would get right up to Vedmeyer if you were to charge.
Sam: I would be dead.
Travis: No, you wouldn't. You got it. Go stick him!
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: I'm going to go-- How far away are the doors on the sides?
Matt: Over here? It's about 35 feet.
Sam: I'm going to turn right and blast through that door. (laughter)
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Oh shit, it could be trapped. Well, we'll find out.
Liam: Expect the unexpected with Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: He goes blasting through the doors.
Sam: Do I have to roll to blast through the doors?
Matt: We are going to find out. Yeah, go ahead and roll a strength check. Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier of the triceratops form.
Sam: Okay, strength modifier says plus five. So that's only a 17.
Laura: For a door!
Sam: Me and doors don't get along too well.
Matt: You, running, slam your head in, through, the horns protruding and tearing through the wood. The doors break inward, but the doors don't fully blast inward.
Sam: The door beat me!
Matt: The door is in bad shape. It won't take much more power to blast through.
Sam: These fucking doors.
Matt: It's now your worst nemesis.
Sam: So now I am stuck in a door?
Matt: You could try and pull back out. You manage to pull out without an issue. The doors are mostly beaten inward. It will take but a small impact to blast through next turn, if you wanted to.
Sam: Next turn? Do I still have an action after this?
Matt: That would have been your action.
Travis: You're great! You're money. You're good.
Laura: Every single one of those guys can attack you now.
Sam: Yeah, but it probably won't happen.
Travis: Maybe they didn't see you.
Laura: Run away.
Sam: It's not my turn anymore, right? That's it.
Matt: That's your turn.
Laura: No!
Sam: My triceratops ass is sticking out.
Matt: Just right there.
Travis: Look, they're all dummies. They're just mannequins.
Matt: This guy moves up over the railing with his heavy crossbow and aims this way. These guys all shift to this side with their crossbows.
Sam: I'm going to die.
Matt: Over here, this guy's going to move to this point so he can get a view of you. And Vedmeyer is going to move down here and get his sword ready, grinning. As he holds his sword up, he puts his hand up and goes, "Aim, fire!" A bunch of crossbow bolts get loosed at once (shh, shh) through the middle of the room. What's your armor class as the triceratops?
Sam: I have no idea. 14?!
Matt: 11, that misses. That's a 13, misses.
Sam: Wow, these guys suck.
Taliesin: They are like stormtroopers.
Matt: Natural one.
Taliesin: They are! You are being attacked by stormtroopers.
Matt: That's going to be a 14, hits. 18, hits. 24, hits. That was six?
Sam: That was six.
Travis: Three hits.
Matt: One more, that's a 22. So I have four that actually hit you with the crossbow bolts.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're now a porcupine triceratops.
Laura: You have 115 hit points.
Sam: I have 115 hit points?!
Taliesin: And when those go out, you are back to human hit points.
Matt: That's eight piercing damage. 13 piercing damage. 21.
Laura: Are you immune to any kind of damage?
Matt: 25. 34 points of piercing damage from this volley.
Liam: Is there resistance to anything on there?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: What does that take me down to? 81? Is that right? 115 minus 34, 81?
Taliesin: Sounds about right.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us back to the top of the initiative round, and you're up.
Sam: Well, shit, then I've got to get some retribution.
Travis: Totally. Turn around and give it to them.
Sam: Am I considered flanked?
Matt: You are not.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: You do have a tail.
Sam: I do have a tail.
Marisha: You are like a drunk guy at a craps table.
Sam: I don't know how to hit things. I've never hit things before.
Liam: There's the door you mangled in front of you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to gore that guy to my left.
Matt: He is above you on the railing.
Sam: Oh, that's a balcony. I thought that was a stairway down.
Matt: I'm sorry, this is a balcony up top. So he's actually aiming down and firing at you.
Laura: Then just go through the door.
Sam: I'm going through the door.
Matt: All right, then roll another strength check.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm not tangling with Duke Vedmeyer or whatever. 23.
Matt: 23, not a problem. You burst through.
Taliesin: We're going off the map.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: He's taking them off the grid.
Taliesin: He doesn't have a social security number!
Marisha: He doesn't have a social security number!
Matt: So what you see in here, as you blast through. It's a dining room with a central dining room table, two small tables in the far corners. There is a ten-foot window across the way. It appears to be a normal dining room set.
Sam: Is that my action?
Matt: That is your movement.
Sam: That's my movement?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say at this point it is so damaged that it doesn't take much effort to push through, so you can manage to push through as part of your movement.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You could pick 'em off as they run through. I'm not helping. I'm sorry.
Matt: Nope, you guys aren't there.
Taliesin: Not there. Shutting up.
Sam: (whispers) I should get out of there. But it's so fun.
Matt: What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: So, I am in the room. No one is in there with me.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So where's this laser pointer?
Taliesin: You can also hold your action. Just as an option. Not to help, but you can hold your action.
Sam: So, yeah. I'll just position myself right next to the the door there, and I will hold my attack until anyone runs through the door. They get an insta-gore.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Holding an action. The next turn will be Vedmeyer.
Sam: Oh shit, here he comes. Here he comes. It's me and the big guy.
Matt: Holds up there. He is going to wait there. He's actually going to dash and just get up right next to where the doors are burst open. He can hear you right around the corner. The rest of these guys are going to dash in.
Sam: Oh god. I think I can take them, guys.
Matt: There, there, there. This guy is going to just try and jump down. Let's see if he makes his acrobatics. He does not, with his armor. He leaps off the edge and manages to damage his ankle and is currently prone on the ground. That ends their turn. Back at the top. Are you still holding your action on your turn now? It's back to you.
Sam: Okay. Tell me this, did I hear a bunch of footsteps? Can I hear?
Matt: You heard a bunch of footsteps coming in, yeah.
Sam: (sighs) All right, I'm not good at fighting. I will--
Laura: Can you set a blaze?
Sam: I don't have any fire. I don't know why I was sent into this mission. I don't do fire things. I will drop my form. Is that an action?
Laura: You have a lantern!
Matt: You can drop it in a moment.
Marisha: Don't you have a torch?
Matt: The triceratops shrinks down to gnomish form now, in this partially destroyed dining room area. What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to-- hold on.
Marisha: How did this plan happen, then?
Travis: Because we're a bunch of slap-dicks, that's why!
Marisha: Why didn't you say I don't have fire?! I said, "Hey Scanlan, I should come with you," and you said, "I can take care of myself. How many times do I have to tell you guys? I don't need your help."
Matt: The echoing voice you hear, in the back of your mind, as you imagine this is what Keyleth would be saying right now.
Marisha: Dorito's a failure, you guys.
Sam: Yeah, okay. I peek around the corner a little bit. Just make sure they're all there, and I will Stinking Cloud all of them.
Matt: Okay!
Liam: Why are you not Dimension Door-ing out of there?
Sam: I've got to have some fun first. How often am I going to take on a whole house by myself?
Travis: I like it. I'm so in love with you right now.
Taliesin: I approve of this plan.
Matt: All right. 20-foot radius sphere. I'd say you could affect all of them, yeah. All of them in this big ol' Stinking Cloud radius. Not a worry. This whole area fills up with gas. All right. All of a sudden, the entire foyer just fills up with this greenish, noxious cloud of poisonous gas. Let's see. They have to make a constitution save.
Liam: Get the goliath. Get that goliath.
Matt: What's the DC? Is this through your hand cone?
Sam: Oh, for sure it is. So 19.
Matt: (laughing) 19? Jesus Christ. Okay. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Natural 20, he's fine. 19, he's fine. 18, nope. Nope. Double nope, because he's on the ground. Fuck that guy. Vedmeyer rolls a one. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so these two guys immediately cover their mouths and pull up this little bit of material they have around their chest plate armor to cover their mouth. The rest of them start (coughs) hacking up. One of them starts vomiting all over the ground, and he has a helmet on, so it's straining through. It's awful. (groaning)
Matt: Vedmeyer himself kind of backs against the wall and (groans) just tries to get it to leave the area, but it's just this thick cloud. It's slowly moving away. Yeah, they are in a bad place right now. Okay, and you still have movement. You have only moved five feet so far.
Travis: Is Stinking Cloud methane-based?
Sam: (laughs) It is the way I do it. I can still move?
Matt: Yeah, you only moved five feet so far, so you still have 20 feet of movement.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a Dukes of Hazzard over the table.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Unnecessarily.
Sam: Do I have to make an athletics check or anything for that?
Matt: Do an acrobatics to see how cool it was.
Marisha: See how cool it was!
Sam: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: What do I do for that?
Liam: You got a number.
Sam: I know, but I don't do these things. 11.
Matt: 11. You (grunts) you slide, only because you partially destroyed it as a triceratops, (ssss) but in your head it looked pretty cool. Thank god none of your allies were around to actually witness it, but you heard the theme music.
Sam: Okay, yes. So I'm near the window now, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're right by the window.
Sam: Okay, and that's, I guess, everything. Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Your turn ends. Vedmeyer is just-- you can see his eyes are filling up with liquid. He does make his saving throw. He coughs. (coughs) Manages to clear the air around him. You can see the cloud slowly moving back this way, away from where it was cast. That finishes his turn. However, he is no longer affected by the Stinking Cloud. You can see as the cloud slowly moves past him, and his face comes through, his pupil-less, angry goliath eyes are staring at you from across the room to where the doors are open. You see him grit his teeth and (growls). You can hear his teeth scratching across themselves in anger and fury.
Sam: I'm shaking.
Matt: The rest of them are going to go. These two guys are going to move forward. They both come running in, putting another bolt into their crossbows, (clicking) pulling it back real fast, pulling up their heavy crossbows, and firing at you. That is going to be a 24.
Sam: Well, that hits. Of course it does.
Matt: And an 18.
Sam: Against what?
Laura: Your AC!
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: So you take 12 points of piercing damage from the first bolt and five points of piercing damage from the second. As both (zoomf, zoomf) bolts, one hits you in the shoulder and ricochets off, not doing much damage. The other one slams and actually embeds itself into your thigh, about an inch into it. It's piercing and sticking out the other side. Mostly caught armor, but you can feel it definitely got a chunk of flesh in the process.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: That ends their turn. The rest of these guys, now, are going to try and make their saving throw. Fail. Fail. Fail. No, success on him, actually. He rolled a 19. A success on a natural 19. Fail. Fail. Well, no, actually these three succeed. The rest of them are still down. So I'll say that these guys here are all down. And he's still up. These two are still down. Okay. That ends their turn, you're up.
Sam: I so want to get some payback, but I shouldn't, right?
Liam: G-T-F-O!
Sam: I think I can take these guys.
Matt: That is a hell of a Lightning Bolt line, right there.
Sam: How big is that diameter?
Matt: It's about six feet across.
Sam: Oh, I can't lift that thing.
Matt: No, it's a big, long table. You have a very wide line of individuals, right there. All ready to snatch you.
Sam: All right, one more round. What do you say, guys?
Travis: We're not here.
Liam: We're not here.
Sam: One more round. I am going to-- fuck. Do I have line-of-sight on the door?
Matt: The door is right here. So you're by the window. So if you wanted to move over here, then you would have line of sight on pretty much everybody.
Sam: Yeah, that would be so fun.
Taliesin: You could move and then move back. I'm only helping with gameplay strategy.
Sam: He could brain me.
Travis: He could.
Sam: He could brain me in one shot. Okay. I will duck under the table so they think that's where I went, and then Dimension Door to the roof.
Matt: Okay! You duck under the table. I'm going to say make a deception roll to try and successfully feint them.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Liam: Can they see the top of his head behind the table?
Matt: From their direction it's kind of hard. Especially because there's a table and chairs up against it, and part of it has been crushed by a triceratops that was previously here.
Liam: "Oh, I'm going under the table."
Taliesin: Sentences you never expect to hear in your D&D game.
Sam: 31.
Matt: So you grab your head. Oh no! Do a very elaborate dive under the table.
Sam: Here I go under the table!
Matt: A little strange dull thud of arcane energy as you bamf up to the ceiling.
Sam: Okay, great.
Taliesin: He is reaching under the table, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: I know, what does this mean? Oh, okay.
Matt: All right, is that your turn? You are now up on the rooftop. There's rain pouring down. You are immediately soaked from the heavy storm that's now coming into Whitestone.
Sam: Yeah. It's just me up here?
Matt: Just you up there, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will go invisible and just hang and just see what happens.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to do, because it will take a round for anyone to recover from that, anyway, because you have to use your action both turns. So as you are waiting up there, you cast Invisibility on yourself and wait.
Sam: And then I start digging through my pockets, if I have any flint or fire-making apparatus at all.
Matt: Check your equipment.
Sam: I will. I will look.
Marisha: Do you have an adventurer's kit?
Sam: Nope. I have some poison.
Matt: Poison the house. There you go. That'll work.
Travis: We are the best planners. Ever.
Matt: I know, you guys are rocking it.
Sam: Oh wait, I do have something.
Laura: Yeah? You do?!
Sam: I have a Potion of Fire Breath.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Okay!
Laura: It's raining up there.
Sam: Well, but it's a potion. I don't know how it works!
Matt: You're checking your pockets. You find the potion. You look down and you notice, even through the storm, you can see in the distance, there's the dark shape of a giant lumbering zombie guard making its way down to this part of the town. What are you doing?
Sam: So I'm on a roof that's all soaking wet, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: There's no crawl space access? No attic I can get to?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Okay. Whoa, nothing. Two.
Matt: Two? This is a pretty solid roof with apparently no entry point at any points. The craftsmanship is flawless.
Sam: Okay. You know what? I'll just try it. I will Fire Breath Potion myself.
Matt: Okay, you pull up (boink), pull the cork off, (glug glug).
Sam: I don't know what this thing does. I've just got this.
Matt: As you feel the fluid find its way down your esophagus, it warms it like a fine whiskey would, but the warmth just grows and grows to the point where it's almost too hot, but it never quite reaches a point where it's painful, but you feel as if this need to belch is burbling within your stomach, and at any given point in time, you could let that belch fly forward.
Sam: Okay. And am I close to the entry point roof? The roof of the entry point?
Matt: Where you came in?
Sam: Can I get over there?
Matt: Yeah, you just come running across the rooftop. It's a little bit of up and down as the topography happens, and as you're running, you start hearing voices shouting out in the street. You make your way over to the top of the roof above.
Sam: Okay, so I'm just going to lean over the side and scorch the whole front entrance as much as I can from where I am.
Matt: Okay. As you (grunts) let the belch out, it comes out in a large spray of orange, yellow, and red flames that immediately burst beneath the overhang, which--
Sam: By the way, I'm also invisible, right?
Matt: You are no longer, unfortunately. When you do an attack of some kind, the invisibility is released. So this gnome appears, soaking wet, over the edge of the roof and then releases this gout of fire that blankets the front of the building, catching flames on all the portions of the front part of the second, and parts of the first story, including the top of the entryway that you had already smashed through as a triceratops, which exposed a lot of dried wood. It immediately bursts into flame. As you complete that breath and you inhale for a second, you hear voices now starting to shout from the inside of the house. (muffled shouting) You can't really make out the noises, but it sounds like there's panic now starting to hit from the inside, and you see a few guards start rushing out into the street to try and look at where the source of the flames came from. They both look up and see you.
Sam: Oh, great! Wait, these are guards who are outside, yeah?
Matt: These are guards who were inside the house that as soon as the fire came shooting down and burned the house, they rush out, look up, grab their crossbows, and aim them up towards you.
Travis: Just your hands and head are sticking over.
Matt: That's a 17?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: And a 13.
Taliesin: Doesn't he have at least half-cover from the roof?
Matt: He does, actually.
Sam: That does not hit.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Sam: Oh, no, the 17 does-- well, it would have.
Matt: That's a good point. You would have half- cover from looking over the rooftop; you only have a little bit of your hands and your face showing. So both go (pshew pshew), firing off into the rainstorm.
Sam: Because I'm a gnome, do I always have half- cover? (laughter)
Matt: No. But it's easier for you to find it. It's a lot less to cover.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So both bolts (shoosh) streak past you into the sky. They angrily reach down and duck back inside the building with the rest of their movement to get out of the range of now what appears to be a flame-throwing gnome. So that's their go. What are you going to do?
Sam: Do I know enough about this potion to know if it gives me any other breaths, or is that it?
Matt: It does progressively give you a breath for a short time.
Sam: So I can breathe again?
Matt: Yeah. Specifically-- oh no! (laughter)
Matt: And that was the end of Scanlan.
Liam: It's the giant! It's the undead giant!
Sam: I have no idea what I'm doing.
Taliesin: You're doing so well. It's so great.
Matt: You have three different exhales of this. It lasts for an hour or until you exhale three times. It's a bonus action to do it, so you could also do something else and breathe fire.
Sam: It's a bonus action?!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Okay. Well, then.
Travis: I don't know if that house is cooked enough, man.
Laura: I know, maybe you should just keep burning it.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah. So I'll run over to the back side of the house and do the same thing.
Matt: Okay. So you run over. Your full movement will get you about halfway across. At a dash, we'll get your other action there, and you'll have your bonus action left over. You manage to slide across the roof, grab the edge, reach over and (blows air). Just unleash on the opposite side. This side, because the angle the rain is coming at, is getting a little bit of water, but there is still a number of dry wood exposed by the immediate overhang that it does manage to catch, and the flames are beginning to burn up and collect on the sides because it is superheated flame. Both sides of the house now appear to be on fire. Looking over your shoulder, you can see now there is a pillar of black smoke rising up from the front of the building. You do see on the opposite side a hatch (click, bam) slam open and you see a giant, meaty goliath hand (boof)--
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Now stepping out into the rain, you see the goliath Duke Vedmeyer step up (doosh) with his two-handed sword.
Sam: Shit. (shouting) Lovely home you've got here!
Travis: It's like Duel of the Fates. On a burning rooftop in the rain. (laughing) Giant goliath and a gnome who spits fire.
Matt: All right, it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. How close is his hatch to the edge?
Matt: The hatch is actually halfway. It's in the middle of the roof. It's actually met from the second story, from one of the rooms or one of the closets, so it's about 25 feet from either the front or the back side. It's right in the center of the house.
Sam: (frantic breathing) Okay.
Matt: Whatcha got, Scanlan? Whatcha got?
Sam: (muffled) I'm trying. I'm just seeing range here.
Marisha: It looks like a Frank Miller comic right now. It's what I see in my head.
Matt: Scanlan showing down in the rain.
Sam: Five times your Spellcasting ability modifier. My Spellcasting ability modifier is-- what?
Matt: It's charisma.
Sam: It's charisma. It's five. Five times five, that's 25. That's 25 feet. Okay. (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I call forth Bigby's Hand and I will force him off the roof. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: The roof is wet.
Matt: The roof is indeed wet. I'm aware. (laughs) Oh, this will be interesting.
Sam: (sings) I want to fly away.
Taliesin: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sam: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you create the hand next to him, and as he starts stepping forward towards you with his sword at the ready, there's a shimmer in the air as a giant kind of vaguely purplish arcane hand all of a sudden appears. He looks confused for a second and rears back to try and attack it. As the hand pulls back, comes rushing forward towards him, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check with the hand.
Sam: Oh shit, he's strong.
Matt: The strength is plus eight, so add eight to this roll.
Sam: 17 plus eight...
Matt: (laughs) Natural one. (cheering)
Sam: I'm going to kill everyone in this motherfucking house! (laughter)
Matt: I've rolled so many ones today. This is ridiculous.
Marisha: You have, and we're just getting started.
Matt: All right. The hand pushes him five feet plus the number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting modifier. Yeah. Okay. As the hand shoves him, he goes pushed off to this side. Seems to be holding against it, but the hand eventually scoops him up and actually gets him off of his feet and shot-puts him off the roof. He plummets backward off the side of the roof, and you wait a second to hear a (boof) across the way. That's full damage there. (mutters) Okay, he takes 34 points of falling damage and is knocked prone.
Liam: You can't get this on network television, ladies and gentlemen.
Matt: So you're now standing alone on the rooftop, your Bigby Hand there next to you, a little trickle of fire curling at the corner of your mouth from your final dragon's breath when you decide to use it. What are you going to do?
Sam: Oh. I've got to get out of here. (laughs)
Travis: Just burn it.
Laura: Burn in the hatch and then get out.
Sam: Okay. Am I close to the hatch?
Matt: Yeah, you're about 25 feet from it. It's where you got him.
Sam: I'll hoof it over there and just look around and punch myself in the gut, (belch).
Matt: Okay. As you reach over, you look down, and there is a ladder that leads up to the front, and there are two guards that are currently making their way up to the roof. They look up and see you, and their eyes go wide within their helmets, and as you release the flames, all you see is their faces go, "Ah!" Just engulfing the entire tunnel. Roll 4d6.
Marisha: 4d6?
Sam: 4d6?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I don't have any d6.
Matt: There you go. They both fail their DC 13 dexterity saving throws because I can't roll tonight.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. They both take 15 points of fire damage and the entirety of that space has now burst into flames. You pull back because the heat is intense, backdraft-style, as you're at the top.
Sam: Do my eyebrows burn off?
Matt: They don't burn off, but you feel they might be a little singed. You'd have to give it a few days to recover. And you hear screaming down inside the tunnel and both of them are currently dealing with the fact that they're on fire. So that's your movement, that's your bonus action. You still have an action.
Sam: Okay. I've got to get the hell out of here, guys. Okay, tell me this, Dungeon Master.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: Dimension Door. Can it be used at higher levels?
Matt: Let me double-check on that, actually. I don't know if it can, but we'll find out.
Laura: Can you Bigby's-Hand slam down onto the Count?
Matt: Dimension Door, no. Dimension Door cannot.
Sam: Okay. How about Polymorph?
Matt: Polymorph... nope.
Sam: I'm fucked. (laughs)
Laura: You've used all your spell slots?
Taliesin: You can use Bigby's Hand to--
Sam: I don't know if Bigby's Hand can catch me. It's not like Feather Fall.
Marisha: Can it carry you?
Laura: Can you float?
Travis: Maybe it's like a slide.
Laura: Maybe you can slide down Bigby's Hand.
Taliesin: Fly it like the carpet.
Matt: Do you want to try?
Travis: You're welcome to try.
Liam: Yeah, you've lifted people with it. You've grabbed people.
Travis: I mean, ultimately, on foot sucks for him right now.
Marisha: Just surf on the giant floating hand.
Taliesin: Through the sky.
Marisha: Through the sky.
Liam: Is what your friends would say if they were there.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: All you've got to do is get away for this to be amazing.
Laura: Otherwise, you'll burn alive on a roof.
Marisha: All you have to do is live.
Liam: Comically tragic.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Okay. Does Unseen Servant have any mass?
Matt: Not really, no. Unseen Servant is like a barely-there small-level air elemental.
Sam: Okay. So I'm just going to (hums a bit, then sings) I'm jumping in the rain. I'm jump-- so I'm going to jump off the-- can I go away from the Goliath?
Matt: That would be this way, this way, or this way, because he fell off that side.
Sam: So not the two sides that are on fire.
Matt: The flames are now licking up both sides of the house, so you have to go this way.
Travis: Where's the zombie stone giant now?
Sam: It's going to take a couple of turns to get over there.
Matt: Yeah, the full length of it. At full dash it will get you there and there, and you still have about a good 20 more feet to get, so that's your turn, there.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The two guards that were back that way are now no longer on fire. They have gotten to the roof and put themselves out. They both look very, very angry at the current circumstance. They step out of the hatch both places.
Liam: Different hatch or the same hatch?
Travis: The hatch is on fire?
Matt: The hatch is still on fire, there are still flames, but they got out (panting). They're out in the rain now. The rain's putting out and dousing the flame that's on them. They both look over and see you running away. They pull their hand crossbows at the ready. They were already ready to fire. That's a 24? And a 26.
Sam: For the second guy, I-- no, I'll just take it. Okay.
Matt: Okay, they both hit. They had 24 and 26. That is seven points of piercing damage and 12 points of piercing damage. So 19 total.
Sam: Okay, got it.
Matt: All righty. They both reach over and grab bolts out of their sides and start preparing for another series of shots. Both catch you in the side. One you can feel a few inches into your shoulder and it's making the joint stick, and the pain is starting to really burn on the left side of your body, but you're okay. Now it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. I look back at them and I do that thing where you just kind of do this. (laughter)
Marisha: Trust fall?
Sam: And I trust fall off the back of it.
Liam: Do you have the earring in?
Sam: Oh, I do. (laughs) But I'm going to simultaneously make Bigby's Hand try to catch me at the bottom of it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your charisma modifier to it.
Sam: Charisma?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's 20.
Matt: 20? You trust-fall off, your eyes somewhat closed and letting it happen.
Sam: Come on, Bigby. Catch me.
Matt: And in the moment that you expect ground to meet you with a heavy, hard smack of reality, a soft cushion of arcane energy catches you as these spiritual purplish fingers curl around and gently bring you to the ground.
Travis: Beymaxed it.
Sam: Oh! Don't get handsy, Bigby. (laughter)
Laura: Austin Powers.
Sam: All right. Is that my turn?
Matt: Oh, that was just the fall, and you land there. He's way over this way. So you're outside of the house now. You're in a small alley between-- well, not an alley. You're on the side of the house and there's a big grassy area around it, and there's the fence that surrounds the whole...
Liam: Run, Forrest.
Sam: So I'm going to-- do I get an action? No, Bigby's is a bonus action.
Matt: It's an action to use its ability, so it was your action to catch you as part of it.
Sam: It's an action?
Matt: To do anything with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: It says, "and as a bonus action on subsequent turns."
Matt: Oh, it's a bonus action?
Sam: Oh, wait. No, that's for moving it. The bonus action is moving it. I got it.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So you've been moving it along with you as you go.
Sam: Yeah, but the act of catching me was the action.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Got it. Okay. So I'll just start running. (laughs)
Matt: Okay. So you're going to start running over this way.
Sam: On my tiny little nubby legs.
Matt: All right. As you run, you get over to the front of the gate that is closed off. It's a little bit too tight for you to squeeze through. How do you plan to get over the gate?
Sam: I'm planning to climb over the gate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (laughs) I've got nothing left.
Matt: Make an athletics or acrobatics check to try and get over the gate.
Liam: Whatever the better number is. Whatever's better: athletics or acrobatics.
Sam: They're both pretty terrible. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. Is that acrobatics or athletics?
Sam: That's athletics.
Matt: Athletics. So you run, you jump up (ching), grab onto the metal bars to start just pulling yourself up over the top, land on your feet, and you're now right near where the street is, and you can see to your right it's open, towards the direction of where the rest of the party is. To the left, you can see now, coming through the rain about a hundred feet from you, a giant hulking zombie giant that's stomping towards you. As you notice that, you see a number of figures come swarming out of the two buildings to the side of it, and immediately start attacking the zombie giant.
Travis: Go, go, get out.
Liam: Go, go, get out.
Marisha: They're attacking the--
Laura: They're attacking the zombie giant. That's good.
Liam: You have inspired people. G-T-F-O, man.
Sam: Yeah. I'm useless to you guys. Yeah, I'm going to go invisible and watch from the shadows.
Matt: Okay. So you just cloak yourself and watch from the shadows off to the side. As you are there for a little bit, keeping your eye out for the next couple of minutes, you can see the house is now completely engulfed in flames. The rain, try as it might-- the roof itself is not catching yet, but you can see now, fire is licking out of every single window and glass is steadily breaking over time. (crash, crash) The guards have all escaped out, and you can see the guards and Vedmeyer are now storming across the entire grounds. He's giving orders left and right, and they're all out searching for you in the nearby vicinity of the home. Looking across the way, you can see the zombie giant is now currently reaching down and swapping down. You can get a closer view. They look like some of the normal inhabitants here, are wearing makeshift armor, weapons that they have, and they are now rising up and attempting to take down this zombie giant. You watch as it reaches out. It slams and smashes one to the ground, leaving him lifeless, while another two leap up on the back of the zombie giant and are stabbing it with spears, and you see it (moaning), it gives out this roar. It's hard to tell from this distance which side is getting any ground, but it is currently held up by this group of about ten individuals that are attacking it at once.
Sam: It's cool.
Marisha: That's so cool.
Matt: You just going to stay there and wait it out?
Sam: I think I'll wait it out if I'm in a relatively safe place, because I can't really do anything for you guys, anyway. You're on your own.
Matt: Okay. We'll use that to hop over to the other party.
Sam: Oh, I'm taking a short rest.
Laura: Oh, that's good! Yes.
Matt: A short rest is about half an hour to 40 minutes of waiting, so you might want to find a place that isn't quite so intense to do this. You can try and sneak into one of the nearby homes and do it, maybe.
Sam: Well, I still want to see where this giant thing goes, so I'm still watching it.
Matt: Okay, so you would not be able to rest, unfortunately. It's not a very restful situation right now, to gather yourself. Okay.
Sam: Whew! I lived.
Laura: I like that Scanlan takes out an entire house, and we're all probably going to die.
Travis: Dude, you were fucking Rambo just then. You were Scanlan Rambo.
Laura: You're a legend.
Travis: Do you have any red cloth you can tear off and tie around your forehead?
Liam: Is your beret still on?
Sam: (laughs) I never got a beret. Did I get a beret?
Taliesin: You did get a beret. I thought you got a beret.
Sam: Yeah, I wanted a beret.
Travis: That was outstanding. (laughter)
Matt: I approve of this greatly. All righty. The rest of you guys who have all been slinking out the back. You just knocked a guard out. Trinket came with you?
Laura: Trinket went with Grog.
Matt: Grog. Right, that's right!
Laura: You can do it, buddy!
Matt: Percy, Vex, you guys are all back this way. The back of the building. You can see what looks to be one door to a back room. Grog, as you come slamming up with Trinket behind you (thudding footsteps) up to the front of the building, you see the front doors are there before you.
Travis: Oh, they're in front of us?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm already raging?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I just fucking bust through, apeshit-style.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Can I ask you, really fast?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I never leveled up Trinket's hit points when I leveled up.
Matt: You didn't. All right.
Laura: That's important at this moment.
Matt: It is very important at this moment.
Taliesin: Ugh, why do you have to do that, man?
Matt: Trinket's hit points right now are what?
Laura: 56.
Matt: 56.
Marisha: This Elder Scrolls music is pretty dope.
Liam: Bringing it home.
Matt: Trinket should have four more hit points.
Laura: Four?
Matt: Yeah. All righty.
Liam: Zac, adjusting the microphones.
Zac: Nobody knows. Nobody knew, until you said something!
Travis: I got advantage on the strength check, so it was a 26.
Matt: 26?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You rush forward. With your foot, (boom) it's Sparta, the front of that door as it just (crash) cracks open, Trinket coming up behind you. The doors open. You can see now before you, there is a single staircase that curves up to a second floor. There is a large vase right at the base of it, right there. There's a couple of tables by it, and it goes to the right and left. Do you enter the premises, or are you staying right at the door? It's up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I go in.
Matt: All right. Grog, you push your way in, Trinket following behind you right there. Immediately, you see the upper banister, right over the railing also, similar to what Scanlan encountered, has guards completely within this area, at the ready, crossbows pulled. In wait.
Laura: Oh, god. He just keeps adding them!
Liam: Just 12 more.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: There is Tylieri. All waiting, crossbows at the ready. The doors slam open, you guys rush in. For a second, there's nothing immediately within your range, and you look up and see an entire array of guards all trained upon you and Trinket. A voice behind them goes, "Loose!" (fshh)
Travis: At least Trinket's behind me.
Matt: (chuckles) What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Liam: You're going to tell us when we can do something in the back, right?
Matt: Yep. This is just-- because of the speed everything goes, he gets there before anybody.
Liam: Yeah. Just curious.
Matt: No worries. All right, that is-- ooh. That is 27 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 15 to hit? No. Third one, that is 16 to hit? Nope. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: 26 to hit.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: That's a 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: All the shitty guards were over at the other house.
Matt: 14 to hit?
Travis: No.
Matt: 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Then three more.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep, that hits.
Matt: 12 to hit?
Travis: No. Last one?
Matt: And ten to hit. Yeah.
Matt: Six.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six crossbow bolts come at you. That's eight points of piercing damage. Don't halve them yet. We'll add them all up and then we'll halve that.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, eight plus 13. 21. Plus eight again, 29. Plus another nine.
Travis: 38.
Matt: 38, plus another 11.
Travis: 49.
Matt: So 49, and then another 12.
Laura: 61.
Matt: So 61. So you take half that, which would be 31 points of piercing damage on you in one volley of crossbow bolts at you. (shoosh) You protected Trinket, and the rage did descend it a little bit. The pain, as all these bolts are now sticking out of your chest. You look like this front-quilled porcupine. You just take the pain and grin for a second. You have that iron-y taste of blood reach the back of your throat from the immediate impact and it just further intensifies your rage. I'm going to have everyone here roll initiative because you're all acting simultaneously at this point.
Marisha: Which dice? Green dice.
Laura: I know, I'm like, "Which ones?"
Marisha: That was-- nope. Not good.
Matt: All righty. 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, should I roll for Trinket, too? Oh, he goes when I go.
Matt: Trinket goes when you go.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. We have Vax at the top. 20 to 15?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Thanks to the Feral Instinct.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: What did you get?
Sam: I'm not there.
Matt: Oh, no. Sorry, you're not.
Taliesin: I totally forgot. I'm so sorry. I'm at 26. I got distracted because I have a new--
Travis: Distracted by what?
Matt: To be fair, I asked 25 to 20. (laughs) That's my own fault.
Taliesin: I'm using my new sheet and I'm just confused, so yeah.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: You're cheating?!
Taliesin: New sheet. I leveled up, so I had to do a thing.
Matt: By the way, guys, both Scanlan and Percy leveled up this last time.
Travis: If only Rambo Scanlan was here. (laughter)
Laura: It's insane.
Matt: So. We have at the top of this combat round, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay, is there a way in?
Sam: Are you getting a FaceTime?
Matt: Am I?
Taliesin: Are you FaceTiming somebody?
Matt: I'd better not be. That was weird. I don't know what happened there. Anyway. Battle's still up.
Taliesin: So is there a way in, at this point?
Matt: There is a door right here at the back of the building that you can see, but the door is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm running over to the door and opening it. I can hear the commotion from inside, and I'm running in the door.
Matt: Okay. You rush to the door. You go to try it, (clicking). The door is locked.
Liam: Hold your turn, dude.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're going to hold your action.
Taliesin: I'm holding my action.
Matt: Okay. That's fine.
Liam: All right, I'm up.
Matt: Next up is Vax.
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to try to unlock the door.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and you rush over (whoosh), pull out your lockpicks.
Liam: So that's a ten. 23.
Matt: Rain's still pouring down, you have your hood up, the water's dripping past your face as you're trying to concentrate. You get the tools in. It's not a very complicated lock. (click, creak) You push it open, leading you guys into the interior of what looks like a kitchen.
Liam: Perception check. Which is a 25.
Matt: 25. As you look inside, it's a cold kitchen. It hasn't been in use for a while. The fire's up, there's a little bit of a slab in the corner where most of the preparations are done, there's a few cabinets that are up. It's dark. There's no lantern.
Liam: And what are the other doors?
Matt: There's a door immediately to your left, and there's, across the way, is an archway opening. There's no actual door there. It's just a walkway that leads into the next room.
Liam: So it's open straight ahead?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I haven't used any movement. If I go to the archway right across, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm clicking my boots as I walk forward. Do I perception check again at the arch, or does the same one hold?
Matt: As you glance through, you can see what appears to be...
Liam: I unlocked the door and I've walked ten feet.
Matt: There appears to be a hallway. There's a hallway that goes across the way. There's a door at the end of the hallway, and two doors to the right and left of this hallway.
Liam: All right, I'm going to juke to the left. I'm going to go to that door and try the knob.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Nope, no, the other door in the room I'm in.
Matt: Oh, over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You go over there and you try it. (click) It opens up.
Liam: (singing) Perception!
Matt: Opens up into what appears to be a storage room.
Liam: Nothing.
Matt: Series of barrels, small grain sacks in the far corner. It appears that most of the dry storage for the kitchen is kept in this room.
Liam: All right, so I look straight at Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through the hallway and try the door on the left.
Matt: Okay. Move you forward to do that, you move in.
Liam: I'd like to use the last of my movement just to stay-- because I've got the boots on, I've got a lot of movement left; I can stay ten feet behind him.
Matt: You do. Okay. You stay behind him as you move in. The door, this one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, move the one to the right. Yeah, sure, that one.
Matt: (shhh) You slide that one open. It appears to be a bathtub in there. It's a rather nice powder room and bathroom.
Taliesin: There's no way to just quickly push the other door open, too, is there?
Matt: You can try. I'll say for this round, you can go ahead and open that, look inside for a second, go for this, just really quick checking back and forth. This one, this door actually, it does not appear to open at a push.
Taliesin: And I signal.
Liam: Can I, at this point?
Matt: No, you've already done your move.
Liam: And we're on the first floor, right?
Matt: Yes, you guys are on the base floor.
Travis: And they're all up on the second floor, right?
Matt: Right, that's your go. So. Bringing us to Count Tylieri's turn. Count Tylieri, who is currently looking over the banister. He kind of steps forward here for a second. Grog, this works for you because you look up and see all the guards there. Tylieri walks up. This rotund-looking, slimy individual, thinning hair, very pale skin, a little bit of facial hair that has never really seemed to grow fully in, but he tries to groom the best he can.
Laura: Grog's beard is better than that.
Matt: Oh, much better. He's wearing fine clothing. He's got rings encrusting his fingers, but he walks with a deftness to the edge of this stairway and looks over and says, "Interesting. I figured there'd be more of you."
Travis: Interesting. There's a lot of dead men up there.
Matt: (laughs) Of which, you see him leap up onto the ceiling, (pshh) stick to it. And begin to (skittering noise) scatter across.
Laura: The one with the shitty beard?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Tylieri?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: He's Spider-man?
Matt: He jumps up and spider-crawls across the ceiling, and then drops down. Yeah. With deft acrobatic feats, he leaps across, drops and lands right in front of you. You can see now in his face, as slovenly as it is, there is a look of deathly hunger in his eyes, and fangs bared from under his lips.
Travis: That's a neat trick.
Matt: He is now going to make two melee attacks against you. That's a natural 20 with the claw, and the other one's going to be a 15? I don't think it's going to hit.
Travis: No.
Matt: So he now has these long claws in his hand. The first one (whoosh). It catches you off guard from the sheer weird assault that he's brought to you.
Travis: What's wrong with you?
Matt: (laughs) You take 16 points of slashing damage (whoosh) from the first arc, and he goes up with the second hand and this time you (grunt) pull out of the way. His hand manages to knock some of the bolts free that were jammed in your chest.
Travis: Half the 16, right?
Matt: Half of 16, correct.
Travis: So, eight.
Matt: Because you're raging, so eight on that one. That's his go. And he just grins at you with this hissing sound, licking his fanged lips. That ends his turn. That brings us to Grog. You're up.
Travis: (growls) I go into a frenzied rage and I use reckless attack, along with my great weapon master, and I turn that thing into a piece of goo with my war hammer. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. War hammer (fwoosh) bursts into flames. Your eyes all of a sudden go into an intense glare as you rear up and go into your frenzied rage. Make your attacks. Do it.
Travis: Advantage on them. That's much better. That's 24?
Matt: 24 hits on the first strike. You only have advantage on the first attack.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Okay. Just the first one.
Matt: Yeah, the first one's a reckless strike.
Travis: Okay. 21?
Matt: Hits, as well.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: All three hit.
Travis: Yes. Okay.
Matt: That's with the minus five, right?
Marisha: Great weapon master?
Matt: Because of great weapon master, it would be minus five to each attack.
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, so the last one was 15?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Last one misses.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But the first two do hit.
Travis: Okay. I forgot that part. Know your rules, kids.
Laura: Then you add a ten to all of them?
Travis: 21 for the first one.
Matt: 21 points of damage.
Travis: And 20 for the second one, and the third one misses, right?
Matt: That's with the fire, right?
Travis: That's with the fire.
Matt: Yeah. Third one misses, so 41 points of damage to him with the first two, (whack, whack), the impacts slamming into him. You can see his body get pushed back with each impact. He's still taking it and grinning at you, but he's also seemingly surprised by the ferocity of the strikes. Is that your turn? Are you going to move?
Travis: That's it. No, I'm not going to move.
Matt: Okay. He's going to use one of his legendary actions to, at the end of your turn, reach out and attack you again. That's going to be a 23 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Instead of attacking, he's going to grapple you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So his claw goes up and actually (fwoosh) reaches into your throat, and you can feel the claws digging into the flesh. It's a very, very firm grip and he has you right where he wants you.
Travis: Work that hand out a lot, do you?
Matt: That's that action there. All right, that brings us to the guards. The guards all reload their crossbow bolts, move in. These three now see the bear in the back and they're going to fire on Trinket. These seven are all going to fire on Grog, now that he's held there. So the three against Trinket. That's going to be a 16?
Laura: Doesn't hit!
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Laura: Hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Trinket takes six points of piercing damage and 11 points of piercing damage. Total of 17 points of damage to Trinket as two bolts (shink, shink). One of them bounces off the armor. One actually sticks and Trinket, (growls) but it's not enough to really cause much of a worry.
Laura: Yeah, he doesn't care.
Matt: The other seven against you, Grog. Natural 20. Natural one. That's not going to hit, that's a natural five. 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Natural one. That's a 19, that hits. A 19 naturally, so it's 27. One more. That's 18 to hit.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, these all have advantage on you because you did a reckless attack.
Travis: That's right, I did.
Matt: So the one that would have missed is a natural 20.
Travis: Nay!
Matt: That does hit. Natural 20 again.
Marisha: What?
Matt: I'm rolling for all the ones that would have missed.
Sam: Why do they have advantage on you?
Travis: Because I had advantage on mine.
Matt: Yeah. Reckless attack.
Sam: That's reckless!
Travis: (laughs) It is very reckless.
Matt: They all hit you, three of which are crits.
Travis: (sarcastically) Yay!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: First crit is 19 points of piercing damage.
Liam: (flatly) Merry Critmas.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Matt: The second crit is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Last one is going to be another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay, 37 halved.
Matt: Actually, that would be 15 total because that was a crit. So the three crits are out of the way.
Travis: Okay. 37. So, 15 total?
Matt: 15 on the last one, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And so those are the three crits.
Travis: 33. What's half of 33?
Laura: 16.
Liam: 16 or 17. 16.
Matt: There you go, so that's that. And the next ones are 11. Another 11.
Taliesin: We're going to have to thin these ranks out quickly.
Matt: Ten. And seven. So you take another 39 points of piercing damage after that.
Travis: Okay, I'm going to use my stone's endurance to get rid of that stank.
Matt: One of them, yeah.
Travis: Roll, plus my constitution. 16.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say you reduce one of the crits from 16. The first one, take 15 points off that because I think one of the crits was 15. We'll say you used it on that one. That's 39 points of piercing damage, reduced by half. That will put you at 18.
Travis: 18? Okay.
Matt: We'll say you take 18 points of piercing damage from those four non-crits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So yeah. That ends the guards' volley. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me? And Trinket.
Matt: Yes. And Trinket. Both.
Laura: Okay, so I run in after Percy and my brother.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And Trinket--
Matt: Are you going to dash? Because you can move, you can double move, using your action to move, if you want.
Laura: Oh, I can?
Matt: Yeah. Unless you want to use your action to yell out for Trinket to attack, in which case, you can give Trinket a round of combat.
Laura: Oh, I do want to give Trinket a round of combat, so yes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And he gets a couple of attacks if I don't attack at all, right?
Matt: Correct. Yep.
Laura: So that's good. (screams) Okay, Trinket gets two attacks because of bestial fury.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: He hears your voice!
Laura: Because he hears my voice. So he's going to run around and he's going to try to knock over-- he's going to cannonball into the vampire guy.
Matt: Okay, so he's going to move this way and then cannonball forward?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Trinket moves off to the side. (thudding footsteps) Gets a couple of running starts, and then rolls into a roly-poly style forward. All right, so make one attack against him.
Laura: Okay. Okay. What do I add to that?
Matt: Your attack bonus for Trinket.
Liam: I don't know, for your bear. AC, HP, bite attack, claw attack, plus eight.
Matt: Yes, plus eight just for the attack.
Laura: Okay, 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. So Trinket rolls past. He dodges out of the way, gets an attack of opportunity on him because he wasn't hit as part of the attack. That's a 27 to hit. Trinket takes seven plus three, ten points of slashing damage as he streaks by. Seeing the bear coming at him too soon and managing to both pull out of the way and use that to his advantage.
Taliesin: I'm going to be playing rule Nazi tonight. Is that attack of opportunity possible since he's grappling somebody?
Matt: Technically, yes. He's just grappling with one hand and just dodges out of the way, moves over and slashes with the other hand.
Taliesin: Trying everything I can to save this bear.
Matt: I know you, man. It's okay. (laughter)
Laura: Trinket then comes out of cannonball and tries to bite the back of the vampire's neck.
Matt: Okay. I'll let you do that because this is your full round to do that. Usually you would choose to cannonball--
Laura: Or I do my two attacks?
Matt: But because you aren't part of this combat fray and you're giving all of your round to him, I'll let you do it, sure.
Laura: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Trinket comes out of the roll, turns around (roars) and strikes with the claw, swiping--
Laura: He's trying to bite his neck like a vampire!
Matt: Oh, bite him? Okay.
Laura: Oh, shit. Ooh! That's good. 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Split his head like a gourd.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage as Trinket latches onto the back of his shoulder (growls) and pulls and tugs at him, trying to get him loose from Grog's grip. Not strong enough to do so, but he nevertheless takes the damage and (snarls) hisses back at the bear clutched onto his shoulder. Cool. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see the smoke from the fire rising up from what Scanlan did on the other house?
Matt: At this point? Make a perception check. It's a heavy storm.
Marisha: That's not great. 12?
Matt: 12? Currently, in the storm, you're just not able to really make up any visual in the distance right now, no. You do not know if there is any fire going on or any signal, at this point.
Marisha: Okay. Shit. Are there any other windows along the back side of the house?
Matt: Over here? Yeah, there's a window there, window there, window there.
Marisha: Through the side.
Matt: Oh, back here? This side, there are no other windows. It is completely closed off.
Marisha: No other windows?
Matt: Nope, there's just the one entry there that everyone else went in through.
Marisha: Shit. Okay, I'll go inside.
Sam: Hello, is there anyone in here?
Marisha: Is there anything in this direction? This way? Can we not get this way?
Matt: This is a storage closet that was already checked by Vax, who walked past it.
Marisha: Do we know if there are any outside doors over here on this side?
Matt: You don't, no. No one's moved all the way in to see, and it's not very well-lit in there, currently.
Marisha: Could I have gone around the edge here to see? Would we have known, going on this side, if there were any doors?
Matt: No, because you guys approached from that side. You saw windows, but it was fairly dark. You saw a little bit of light moving through some of the windows on the second story, but nothing down here that really caught your attention.
Marisha: And we still have no way into this main room, either, yet?
Matt: Not yet. There is a door at the end of this hallway, but nobody's gotten to try it yet.
Travis: Could you get to a second-floor window?
Matt: You could push past your party and continue to move down the hallway, if you want.
Laura: Second floor's better than first floor, anyway.
Marisha: Okay. I'm sorry. I'm an asshole.
Sam: You turn into an asshole.
Marisha: (giggling) I turn into an asshole. Were there any-- fuck, I really don't want to have to blow-- okay, so I'm going to---
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: Yeah, you know what? I didn't go inside. I'm outside.
Matt: You came inside. Not going to retcon it.
Marisha: Dick. All right.
Matt: I'm just saying! You can't get halfway in there and be like, "Wait, this didn't happen."
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Technically, none of this happened.
Taliesin: Thank you for coming with me on that journey.
Marisha: Fine, I'll just see if this fucking door is open. That's all I can do right now.
Matt: The one across the way?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, guys, excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
Matt: You push past everyone. You push on the door. It opens up and reveals a long dining room, a big, thick dining room table, a double window across the way. This is the house's dining room. There are two double doors across the way that lead into what you think is the foyer, in which Grog and Trinket currently stormed through. And you can hear, muffled through the door in the distance, the sound of combat and impact and people shouting to each other.
Marisha: Okay, can I cross over to that window and look out the front window? The window over here?
Matt: I'll say you can get that far, and you can just crest and look out the window if you want to.
Marisha: Do I see any fire from Scanlan?
Matt: From this point, you've already checked once. You're just getting in there. You won't be able to really see from here.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Can I call him? Can I, (whispering) "Scanlan. Scanlan!"
Matt: You make a little bit of a calling noise. You hear nothing back. You fear you might be just out of range for it.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to make a run for the door.
Matt: Okay. You can get to there. You're just at the edge of it. Do you want to try and knock it open?
Taliesin: Is it open? Can I open the door?
Matt: You can try to. You reach out. (creak) It opens up and you can see now, a light comes pouring through from the foyer, and you can hear much louder now, the sound of combat, and Grog chuckling, and swings and impacts. You can see a couple of crossbow bolts go (boof) and scatter across the ground.
Taliesin: I would have to use my action to move?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: You know... (sighs) Yeah, this is going to be worthwhile. I'm going to-- well... (laughter)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I hate you.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Kill things.
Marisha: Shoot out the window.
Taliesin: Shoot out the window?
Laura: Just act on the fly like Scanlan did. It turned out okay.
Matt: Do your thing, Percy. Do your thing. What are you doing?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to be helpful. I'm going to burn my action to get into the room.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want to get on this side?
Taliesin: Right there.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I want to stand right there.
Matt: Okay, so you just swing around (fwwwt) to the inside. You look up and immediately you see this curved banister and a whole row of guards up top with heavy crossbows. In the center, you can see some blur as Grog, Trinket, and some individual are in the middle of this tussle. The individual currently has Grog grasped by the throat.
Taliesin: How crazy-- I don't know if I can do Minor Illusion that way right now. So I'm going to call Hex on that first guard there.
Matt: Which one? Right there?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge, and I'm going to start taking my shots, and I'm just going to work my way up.
Matt: Okay, so you swing around the corner and look up at the one guard. As you concentrate for a second, bringing your gun up, your eyes begin to go black again, the smoke pouring out from the corner of it. Smoke begins to pour out of the midsection of the guard, who looks confused for a second, and it swirls around him as part of the Hex that has him marked, as you release your next three blasts.
Taliesin: Okay. This is with sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That sucks. Ten?
Matt: Ten misses. First shot just (ricochet noise) goes wide, blasting a chunk out of the upstairs hallway.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11 also goes wide. This time (ricochet noise) blasting part of the banister in front. The guard dodges out of the way as the wood splinters past him.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: That's better!
Matt: That's the Percy we know. (laughs)
Taliesin: And so since that was a third shot, it was also a bonus shot, so that's got an extra-- okay! Does that mean that everything gets doubled?
Matt: All dice gets doubled, and then you add the modifier.
Taliesin: Not the modifier, though?
Matt: Not the modifier, no.
Taliesin: Modifier stays the same.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Roll twice, or just double my die?
Matt: Double the die. It's faster.
Taliesin: Okay, so that's-- I should have just used my--
Sam: What device?
Taliesin: I know! I should have just used it.
Marisha: That's not bad, though.
Taliesin: Nine, 13, 26. 42 points of damage.
Matt: 42 points of damage?
Taliesin: And four of that was fire damage.
Matt: And four of that was fire damage? Okay. As you look up, (doosh) the first two shots fire and go wide. The third one, (explosion noise) just explodes and in a blast of black smoke, the guard's head is no longer across his shoulders. (cheering)
Taliesin: Okay, I move the black cloud to the next guard. He also gains disadvantage on all-- let's make it dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Ability checks.
Taliesin: Ability checks, yeah, so all dex checks.
Matt: So the smoke (whoosh) pours off the body and coalesces around the next guard to his right. All right, that ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: All right, I've got double speed. I go right towards the table, make an acrobatics check to slide my ass across it--
Sam: Are you doing what I did?
Matt: Do an acrobatics check.
Marisha: Yes! Dukes of Hazzard!
Liam: Yeah. That is a 23?
Matt: You (shhht) slide to there.
Sam: You did it so much cooler than me! (laughter)
Liam: I want to slide into a crouch right behind-- I don't want to go that far. Right by Percy, because I can't go much further, I don't think.
Matt: At double movement?
Liam: Would I be able to make it to Grog and his friend? If I can't make it to Grog, I want to stay at the door. If I can make it to Grog, I want to go to Grog.
Matt: Slide will give you movement. Yeah, you can get next to him.
Liam: I don't want to go next to him, I want to go and eviscerate the bowels of the fucker who's fucking with him.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you can get up there.
Liam: Sneak attack because he's engaged with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the total.
Marisha: As he slides over the table in front of me, I go, "That was pretty awesome. Bye. Good luck."
Liam: All right, so...
Sam: You need some daggers?
Liam: No.
Matt: More daggers!
Liam: Wait. So. I'm alive! Rogue rules--
Matt: Whatcha doing?
Laura: What are you doing?
Liam: Oh, I'm stabbing the guy three times! I'm doing my catchphrase, man. Dagger, dagger, dagger! Oh, he's already taken a turn in combat, okay. So. I'm going to use luck on that first attack and go again-- ooh, and I'll use the first one. So the first one was an 8 plus... 19 on the first?
Matt: 19 hits.
Liam: All right. Second is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage. Sneak attack on the first one.
Liam: All right, first one, I'm going to use my Flametongue. It's two plus... nine. And here comes the juice. Nine, 13, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25? That's the first one, and then second attack is three. This is the keen dagger, that's a ten. And the third attack is the Flametongue again for seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, gotcha. So you (fwoosh) dart in a blur of darkness. You come swinging up. You can see Tylieri is currently grasping Grog. Out of the corner of his eye, just sees the movement and looks over curiously as the blade is immediately in his side. (pained scream) And now you can see the jowls shake from the impact of the dagger blow, and he looks down angrily at you, fangs bared as the two other attacks hit his side.
Liam: Yeah, I'm looking him right in the eye as I do that, too.
Matt: At the end of your turn, he uses two of his legendary actions--
Liam: I'm wearing my helmet, my shiny helmet.
Matt: I know. To look at you, reach up with the throat that he's grasped, and sink his fangs directly into your throat, Grog.
Travis: (angry noise) I have a little collar. Does that help at all?
Matt: Not in this moment. You have a big neck. Very big neck, and a very tiny collar. (laughs) That will be a 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All righty. So you take nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Is that halved?
Matt: That is halved. Yeah. So say five, round up.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: However, you do take 14 points of necrotic damage. That is not reduced. But your maximum hit points are now reduced by 14.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: As you feel that same similar cold feeling as the life blood's being drained out of your body and you see his eyes cresting at you with this wild glare. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: It is now his turn.
Sam: Spider-man?
Matt: Yeah, now he's taking his turn. He's now going to go ahead and make another bite attack on you again. As he pulls back and reaches his forearm and grabs the other side of your throat, going for the other side of the jugular.
Travis: Isn't this a Grog buffet?
Matt: That's a natural one, though. (cheering)
Sam: Oh, because you've got your necklace on.
Matt: However, he does have advantage on you because you used your reckless strike.
Sam: Never use reckless strike again.
Liam: Doesn't it cancel out after one roll? Advantage versus disadvantage is one roll, right?
Travis: It ended on the first attack, right?
Matt: It was a one on the first attack, yeah. It's until your next turn. Attacks against you get advantage.
Travis: Oh, I thought his first bite was the first one.
Sam: Wait, so all attacks, even follow-up attacks get advantage, even though he only gets advantage on the first one?
Matt: I'll read it for you right now. It's a cool ability when you're not the only tank in the room.
Sam: No, it is not! It's the worst ability ever.
Laura: It's a good ability if you're only fighting one person.
Matt: Yeah, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.
Liam: Because he's out of it. He's going cuckoo.
Sam: Wait, did you not have-- Jesus, never use that thing again.
Travis: I'm using it every time. (laughter)
Matt: Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using strength during this turn. So yes, I apologize. It does give you advantage on all of your attacks. I misread that.
Travis: (quietly) Oh, shitfuck. (louder) That's okay. That's okay!
Liam: Stuff happens. Give him a bonus 15 HP or something.
Matt: That's okay. Yeah, it's fine. But going forward, good to know. So it does give you advantage on all of your attacks.
Travis: Copy that.
Matt: It's the first attack is the one that confused me on the way it was worded. Sorry, folks. I know better now. But for that, I say the one stands as retribution for me forgetting the rule. (cheering)
Matt: So he goes in to strike for the bite. This time, however, he does manage to catch the chainmail coif that Scanlan had made you. His fangs get caught on the chain. (grunts)
Travis: Like making out with braces.
Matt: He pulls away, releases you-- no, doesn't release you. As he's holding you there, he's going to go ahead and make a claw strike across your face. Two and, oh. That'll be a 19.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: He does hit? Okay. You take eight points of slashing damage, reduced to four because of your rage. That ends his turn. Grog, you're up now.
Travis: Am I still grappled?
Matt: You're still grappled, yeah.
Travis: I'd like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to try and break the grapple. So athletics roll of?
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah, you (boof) just shove him off without a problem.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: You still have your bonus action to strike, if you like.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to try and grapple him back?
Matt: Not as a bonus action, unfortunately. It's an action to do that.
Travis: I will attack, yeah. Just one, right? (whoosh)
Matt: One strike, yeah.
Travis: Okay. Fuck yes! 21?
Matt: 21 does hit, yeah.
Travis: Awesome! And that is badass. Nine, 17. 22. 22 with the fire damage.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. (whack) And you're watching, as he does all these actions, you see his body begin to reform and the wounds beginning to heal themselves in the vampiric manner. But as soon as that wound begins to sew up, you take your hammer and (boof) slam it into him again, reopening, and you can see now parts of his muscles are exposed, a deep purplish color, this very unnatural interior to his flesh. You can see it burn as the flames cauterize the edges of the wound. Awesome. Does that finish your turn? Do you want to move at all?
Travis: I'm staying. Is Trinket still behind me?
Matt: Trinket is currently flanking the guy.
Travis: Yeah, no. I'll stay.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to the guards' turn. They all reload their crossbows. These four are now going to make shots at you, Percy. These three are going to take shots-- all five of these guys are going to take shots at Grog now. They're trying to take you down so they can move onto the next target. So four shots on you, Percy. That is 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 18?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And 11.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take from three heavy crossbow bolts at you. Seven, 19, 32 points of piercing damage. All three bolts stick into your chest. They're big, long, thick, heavy crossbow bolts. One of them gleans off your shoulder and catches the edge of the wall, but the other two have actually sunk into your torso and are sticking out of you. The other five against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Since you did not do reckless strike last time, they are not with advantage. That is 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 12?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, that's a 25.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: That is a 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Last one is a 24.
Travis: Yep, so four out of the five.
Matt: Yep. That's 11 plus seven. 18.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Plus eight. 25.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Plus 13. So 39.
Travis: 39. Half.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 18 points of piercing damage again. Bolts are sticking out of your body all over. You almost have additional armor from the number of bolts that are on your body, but you're still standing there, frothing at the mouth, angry, just like, "Come at me!" That ends the guards' turn. They all reload their bolts and pull their crossbows up. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Yay! Can I get up to the doorway? Tell me that I can.
Matt: With a dash, you can, yeah.
Laura: But I don't get any action, then.
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Janet.
Laura: Damn it, Janet! All right, Trinket's just going to try to claw him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. Two attacks from Trinket.
Laura: Yep.
Liam: Make it good.
Sam: Come on, you're my favorite bear, Trinkie.
Laura: That hits him. That definitely hits him.
Liam: 16 plus a lot.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah, that hits him.
Laura: A natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: A natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: (laughs) Trinket got a natural 20?
Matt: All right, so damage on the first strike?
Sam: That was a critical "rawrl."
Laura: 11 for the first, and then--
Travis: So sour it was sweet.
Liam: Three plus seven is ten. 20? Which part doubles?
Laura: Just the dice doubles?
Matt: The dice doubles, yeah.
Laura: 13 for the second attack.
Matt: So a total of 23 damage? All right.
Laura: 24 damage.
Matt: 24 damage. How does Trinket want to do this? (cheering)
Laura: He really just killed a vampire?
Liam: Is this a first?!
Taliesin: This is a first.
Travis: I think it's Trinket's first kill.
Marisha: Trinket!
Laura: Trinket claws crosswise and takes off his head with a bite.
Matt: Okay. So as Trinket reaches down, (whoosh) arcing both claws across his back, Tylieri is dropped to his hands and knees, looks up as Trinket then puts his jaws down over the head and lifts up. As you see the flesh begin to tear on his body, he screams out in pain as the body (fluttering sound) turns to mist.
Laura: Damn it! He's a vampire!
Liam: Wait, is the mist there?
Matt: The mist is there, yeah. There's a clump of mist where he once was.
Liam: Somebody light a match!
Marisha: I'm coming!
Laura: So the head disappears from his mouth, or did he still get a big taste?
Matt: There's still some thick, purplish, congealed blood in his mouth, but the vampire's form has been forced to mist at zero hit points. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! So seeing Vax go over the table and being like, "That was cool," I'm also going to be like (grunts) over the table. I'm going to join the Dukes of Hazzard train.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Marisha: Damn it. That's not bad!
Matt: It's not a huge difficulty.
Marisha: Acrobatics? 17?
Matt: 17, yeah. You jump up (shh) slide across, land across. The bonus there is that it takes only one block of movement to get across. That's five foot there.
Marisha: So I'm going to come in and I see a headless dude with mist swirling around him?
Matt: No, you just see Grog, Vax, and Trinket in the center of this foyer, with a big cloud of mist near Trinket and Grog, and an entire array of guards with heavy crossbows trained down on the three of them in this ambush pit.
Sam: Would she know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, you would! We've learned about vampires. We know they turn into mist.
Liam: Yeah, the vampires down by the tree did this. They misted in.
Travis: Sunlight that shit.
Laura: Sunbeam!
Marisha: Someone could yell at me to do it.
Taliesin: (shouts) Sunlight!
Matt: I would say... make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Okay. This one.
Sam: Ooh, that's the intelligent dice.
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Marisha: Yes, it is. Just with my modifier?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, is this a saving throw? Just my modifier, so 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. I'd say, given the circumstance right now, just rushing in and seeing mist there and people with things, you have no idea that's a vampire, you have no reason to believe that's a vampire, you just know that right now there is-- I'm just being honest here! You walk in the room and there's a little bit of mist on the ground and there's a bunch of guards up there. It looks like there's a threat of a bunch of guards in the room.
Travis: Identify it. It's a vampire.
Laura: You know it now.
Matt: (laughs) Grog, in the middle of a frenzied rage, would not have that--
Taliesin: I would have enough to point and say-- oh, for the love of god. Okay, fine.
Matt: Keyleth, take your turn.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: No more metagaming. Take your turn. What do you want to do?
Travis: What are you doing?
Marisha: Well, I know what I want to do, but I can't do it without feeling guilty! I was going to Sunbeam this bitch.
Matt: It only makes sense. I'm just saying.
Marisha: What makes sense? That I wouldn't know?
Matt: That you wouldn't know that that little bit of mist on the ground there is a vampire. There's no way that Keyleth would know that based on the way you--
Liam: Just missed it.
Matt: Yeah, you just missed it.
Marisha: I would just see a black mist?
Matt: It's just a mist.
Travis: We've got a ton of other people in the room, though.
Matt: And there's black smoke around one of the guards up there.
Marisha: Well, if I saw a black mist, what I would probably do, realistically, is think it was some sort of poison shit and I would Wind Wall it. So I'm going to (goosh) Wind Wall that mist.
Matt: Okay. All righty. Let's see. (laughs) This should actually be pretty interesting.
Marisha: (weakly) It's what I would assume it was, but I might be aiding it in getting away.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: All right, so. You put a Wind Wall up (fwoosh) in this area. You can see the mist dissipates for a second and holds its place. However, this Wind Wall is now currently held up in this area. That's your action.
Marisha: I Wind Wall it to keep, essentially do the Wind Wall--
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yeah, around Grog.
Matt: Right at this area?
Marisha: Yeah, I'd want to protect him from the crossbows.
Matt: Okay. So there's just wind rushing up around. You can see the tapestries on the walls are flickering around.
Marisha: And then I once again go, "Scanlan! Scanlan!"
Matt: There's a little bit of crackling through. You're right at the cusp of the distance on these communicators. Scanlan, you hear bits and pieces. At this point in time right now, you're--
Sam: I'm on the roof?
Matt: You're hearing crackling in your ear, but you're still on the roof doing the chaos, so you haven't heard anything really coming through, at this point.
Laura: "Doing the chaos."
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: I'm doing this thing.
Matt: Yeah, you're trust-falling off the roof.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to back into the corner and keep this Wind Wall up.
Matt: Okay, just concentrating on the Wind Wall. That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I take my next shot at the next crossbow bugger.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 15?
Matt: 15? Just misses.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It hits the armor and it (ricochet noise) ricochets off.
Marisha: So am I encapsulating the mist in my Wind Wall? I'm kind of trapping the mist in?
Matt: The Wind Wall itself is not a full circle, it's just a semi-circle.
Marisha: A half-circle, yeah, but is it stuck in the wall?
Matt: It's currently overlapped with it, yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: It hit. That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. And you have your third attack.
Taliesin: My third attack, also on him, is also 22.
Matt: That hits, as well.
Taliesin: And that's-- ooh, that sucks. Two points of ice damage plus 11 points of normal damage.
Matt: 13 total. Okay. So (doosh) the last two blasts hit him, and you can see, he almost gets thrown off his feet from the impact. There's now blood trickling out from under his helmet from where one of the blasts got his chin. One into his chest. He's still standing up, barely, and he's still confused by this smoke that's swirling around him. Are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a step forward.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Up the stairs.
Matt: Up the stairs. Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Just ominously stepping up the stairway. I like it. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Right, so I'm going to start rushing up the stairs. Before I do, I'm going to spank Grog as hard as I can on the ass and say, "Kill!" And run up the stairs at the first guy who's enveloped in Percy's smoke and start stabbing him.
Matt: Okay. He's up above the banister, so you probably have to--
Liam: There's no balcony?
Matt: No, the idea is the banister rides up and there's a wall along it, and then they're all up on the second floor here looking down at this.
Liam: So there's no way up there?
Matt: You could leap up. Make an acrobatics check to leap up and over the banister.
Liam: That's what I'll do. Yeah, that's good. That's 30.
Matt: Yeah, you jump, grab it, flip over, land on the balcony next to the guy enveloped in smoke.
Liam: And I stab him.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay. Did the leaping take any of my actions? It's movement?
Matt: No, it's part of your movement.
Liam: Okay, so that's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: And a 16. And a one.
Matt: First two hit.
Liam: Yeah, okay. The first one is the Flametongue dagger. That is four plus six is ten. And the second one is the keen dagger, and that is two plus seven is nine.
Matt: All right. As you rush up, the guard looking at you, confused, the smoke swirling around him. (stabbing sounds) As the first two daggers stab in, the second one actually finds between his ribs up to where his heart is, and you see him gasp for a second as he crumples beneath your grip, and you slide the blade out as he crumples to the ground.
Liam: That's the button.
Matt: (laughs) That is the dead button. All right. That ends your turn. Tylieri--
Sam: Wait, he's still alive?
Laura: He's a mist.
Matt: All right, the mist pushes past. He's going to use some action to move.
Laura: He pushes past the Wind Wall? But it says that figures caught in a gaseous form can't pass through the Wind Wall. In the spell.
Marisha: That it does.
Laura: I just read it.
Marisha: That's my motherfucking Wind Wall!
Laura: So it's going to screw up my arrows, so I was checking in. But yeah, it also says, "creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it."
Sam: Why would they even have a hypothetical for that?
Liam: Because of this!
Marisha: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of the things right here.
Marisha: It's coming in handy.
Liam: Thanks, Mike Mearls!
Matt: However, as part of that, then Trinket is also in the Wind Wall, as well, just as a note. So Trinket will be taking bludgeoning damage for being within it. So just as a heads-up. In fact, right now, have Trinket make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Sam: Is it like a hurricane or something?
Marisha: It's a wall of wind.
Laura: Eight?
Matt: Okay. Trinket takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Go ahead and roll 3d8.
Liam: 3d8. Up to 24.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Yeah. I thought you were capturing him inside. I didn't realize you had it actually on him, and so having the Wind Wall on him to prevent him from moving would also have Trinket in it, yeah.
Marisha: It could be worse. That's six plus four, so ten.
Liam: He's had worse. He'll be fine.
Laura: Yeah. Okay.
Matt: All right, so that will make it actually more here. So Tylieri cannot break through. Tylieri stays there in mist form, being caught in the whirlwind. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, I can't get through the-- I mean, I don't know what the fuck--
Marisha: You can get through the Wind Wall.
Travis: What am I going to do to gas? Hit it? Can I start running up the motherfucking stairs and jump up like Vax did? He said to kill!
Matt: All right, yeah. You can get up to there, and you're just within reach to get one guy over the banister, probably.
Travis: Yeah! I'd like to do that. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits. More attacks?
Travis: Yes. Oh, how many attacks do I get?
Matt: All of them. That was just your movement.
Travis: Yay, I get all of them?! That's amazing.
Matt: Your barbarian 40 feet of crazy movement.
Travis: Yay! 22!
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Shit! 12.
Matt: 12 does not hit.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: (laughs) The first two hit.
Travis: 13. 17 for the first one.
Matt: All right, 17 damage.
Travis: 15, and 17 again. Two plus two.
Matt: Nice. All right, so (whack) the hammer comes streaking down, slamming into the guard there. His crossbow shatters from the impact and the flames begin to lick up the front of his body. The second slam smacks him again. This time, you hear the armor ring out from the metal-on-metal impact. He kind of shakes from it. The third time you're just in the middle of this series of swinging and he backs up, and you end up smashing the banister instead of him, the hammer cracking part of the ground on the second floor. He looks pretty messed up from that series of attacks. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. It's now the guards' turn.
Travis: Come at me, bro.
Matt: This guard's going to move over here. They're all like, "Oh god." These three here are going to attempt to fire on Trinket through the Wind Wall. These two are going to fire at you, Grog, and these two are going to longsword you. They pull out their longswords. This one's going to turn with his crossbow and fire at you, Vax. So first is the attack at you with the crossbow. That is a 20?
Liam: Oh, yeah, that hits.
Matt: You take-- ooh, that's a ten-- 13 points of piercing damage as the bolt strikes you right in the chest, cracking your sternum a little bit. You're like, (groans) that's going to suck. You feel the scraping of the bone as it impacts. The two with the longswords against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That is a 12.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: Both of the blades come at you. One of them actually hits your shoulder, but it just sticks an inch into the flesh, and you just flex and the blade pops out. The second one swings out and you duck your head out of the way and it (whoosh) goes long and you just grin through the anger. That's awesome. Then these two are going to fire crossbows at you, Grog. That is going to be a 15?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Damn, I was almost Neo, just dodging all sorts of shit.
Matt: Another ten. 13 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved to seven?
Matt: Half that to seven, yeah. And then now the three aiming at Trinket. They all have disadvantage, I believe?
Laura: Nothing can shoot through the Wind Wall.
Matt: Nothing can shoot through it at all?
Laura: Arrows can't go through it, it said.
Matt: At all?!
Travis: She said begrudgingly.
Laura: Which fucking sucks.
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's going to save a bear, right? After I punched him with the wind.
Sam: Yeah, and also kill the bear.
Matt: Yeah, they automatically miss. They all three fire through. All bolts just (shhh) get scattered across the room.
Laura: Yeah, it goes straight up to the roof, it says.
Matt: Wind Wall. That's awesome.
Laura: Does the Wind Wall go all the way up to the ceiling, or does it go to a certain height?
Marisha: 15 foot high.
Matt: 50 feet long, 15 feet high. So it doesn't go all the way to the ceiling. In fact, it gets just a little bit past the second floor, so it's about the height of the guys on the second platform. That ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell Trinket to get out of the Wind Wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The Wind Wall gets an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Laura: Well, he's going to move.
Matt: He goes to the front door.
Laura: And he's going to be very happy to see me come around the corner of that door.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Where I will see a bunch of dudes up high, and I want to try to do Conjure Barrage up and over the Wind Wall and in an arc downward on everybody on the other side of it.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Laura: It's like a (whoo, boom).
Travis: A half-pull.
Matt: Yeah, which at this short distance, is not a lot of strength to get the lob.
Laura: I'm a really skilled archer. I'm kind of like Legolas.
Matt: But if you're shooting up this way? The Wind Wall itself only really encompasses the bottom of the foyer, so if you go up the stairs a little bit, you will be able to get these guys here.
Laura: Can I get up there?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah! Fuck yeah, I'll do it and try to get everybody in that cone. Sorry, guys.
Travis: Nope. Make it rain.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to hit all of them.
Travis: Just go for it. I'm a fan of one-dollar bills.
Liam: I can take it.
Laura: Okay. Wait, I've got to see how this works. I just throw it in the air and it turns into a cone.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So I don't have to attack?
Matt: They should have a saving throw, I believe, right?
Laura: Yeah, they have a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Everyone make a dexterity saving throw. Or at least you two.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Do I have advantage-- I don't know.
Laura: I'm casting this as a 3rd-level.
Matt: One guy makes the saving throw.
Liam: 25.
Travis: 20.
Matt: You all succeed. One of the villains makes it, and they both make it. Is it half-damage, right?
Laura: What about all those guys up at the top?
Matt: That's what I'm saying. This guy made it, these two didn't.
Laura: What about the other ones?
Matt: Are you doing it from this perspective? These will go through the Wind Wall, so the Wind Wall itself will prevent it from getting to either. This guy will probably be hit, actually.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: He fails. So yeah, these guys are unaffected because the Wind Wall prevents the barrage from that point. So just go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: So I can't get a critical hit on this because I don't have to roll?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 16, am I right? 16. Okay.
Matt: 16 damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so it's half that for saves, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so eight damage, four damage.
Liam: Oh, uncanny dodge.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Half that. So what did you give me for damage?
Taliesin: You had eight.
Liam: Eight? That's four.
Laura: And then as a bonus action, I'm going to Hunter's Mark. Who looks the strongest?
Travis: Me.
Laura: Not you.
Matt: (laughs) They're all pretty standard. There's one dude over here that appears to be commanding them.
Laura: Yeah, I want to hit him!
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark him. All righty. He is Hunter's Marked. All righty. By the way, the guy that Grog had slammed? The barrage (arrow impact) riddles him with arrows and he falls over and is like (gasps) and crumples to the ground. The last bit of health that he had.
Travis: You took away my playmate!
Matt: Vex, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to keep maintaining this Wind Wall and wrap it up around the mist to double-enforce it, and I'm going to scream, "What is this?"
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: All right, and then what are you doing?
Taliesin: "It's a vampire!" I'm putting my gun away, anyway.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does that count?
Liam: It's a vampire. We just killed him. Sort of.
Matt: Be warned  treading thin ice with metagaming with your DM going forward, but yes. You have now heard it from Percy.
Marisha: I'm not metagaming! I'm legitimately asking whether this counts!
Matt: I know. That's fine. This counts, it's fine. You heard Percy say, "Vampire!"
Taliesin: Vampire!
Laura: Vampire!
Marisha: (weakly) Oh! Great!
Taliesin: What's that charisma score, again? Where is it?
Sam: And we fade to black.
Laura: Drop your fucking Wind Wall so I can hit something!
Marisha: I'll drop the Wind Wall and cast Sunbeam and, eyes flashing, light just (goom), right in the concentrated beam where I have this mist there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And stuff.
Marisha: And stuff.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, that will be considered direct sunlight. As you release the Wind Wall, the mist immediately begins to push its way this way out of the room. However, you catch it, your eyes glow, and as you release your hand forward, a blast of pure sun energy shoots forth from your hands. You see it burning the back wall like a big, thick laser, and as the mist tries to escape, you catch up to it, and you hear this faint, echoing, screeching cry as the mist immediately is evaporated on impact. (explosion noise)
Laura: Can we loot the mist?
Travis: (laughs) "Can we loot the mist?"
Matt: You can fill a pocket with ash, if you like.
Travis: Come on, at least some coins falling?
Laura: (ding ding ding) Like Scott Pilgrim? Oh, look! Coins. (laughs)
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Wait, can you use your bonus action to wink at Matt to ask for forgiveness?
Marisha: Why do I have to ask for forgiveness?!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Marisha: I can use my bonus action to heal somebody, if someone wants it. Actually, how about this? I used my bonus action to ask what the shit was this.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Does that make you feel better?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: What's the damage on my rapier, again? Was it 1d10 plus--
Matt: 1d8. It's a plus-one rapier, so it's 1d8 plus your dexterity modifier, plus one, so it would be plus seven for you.
Taliesin: Okay. Then in that case, I'm going to bring my Hex up to the very next--
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: And I'm going to put my gun away, walk up to him, and begin stabbing.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four, five. At that height you're going to have to leap up onto the second floor to get to him.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make an acrobatics check, if you want.
Taliesin: I'm just going to walk up, not quite that close, but one step back.
Matt: Okay, so there?
Taliesin: Take my next three shots.
Matt: Walk up the stairs. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to stop there in case that kills him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Actually, I had to reload anyway.
Matt: So there you go. So your third attack is to reload.
Taliesin: All three was reload, attack, attack.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's 16.
Matt: 16. All righty.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: (gunshot) He is blasted out of place. You can see there's a gaping hole across where one of his lungs was located, and he (groans) crumples to the ground into a pile.
Taliesin: Okay, I move the mist to the next guy.
Matt: All righty. You use a bonus action to re-curse him, by the way.
Taliesin: I had a bonus action, so I just used it.
Matt: That's right, you do. Technically, you used the bonus action this turn to put it onto him from the last turn.
Taliesin: Did I? You're technically correct, so go ahead.
Matt: You're probably going to do it on your next turn, anyway, so we'll just leave it there. It's fine. But keep that in mind, as this is a new ability.
Liam: (sneezes)
Matt: Gesundheit.
Laura: Bless you.
Marisha: Bless you.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Is that fellow who's enveloped in schmutz right next to Grog?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stab him. (laughter)
Sam: Your answer for everything.
Liam: First one is not that great. It's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: You are flanking him, though. You have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Oh, well let's do that again, then. We'll call that a 27 instead.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And then the second one is now a 20, and the third one is a 26. (shunk, shunk, shunk) Two plus seven is nine for the keen dagger, and then for the life-stealing dagger is a seven, and then back to the keen dagger, that is an 11.
Laura: Don't you get sneak attack damage?
Liam: Oh, right. Yeah, I'll put that in. Thank you.
Matt: I was like, "Where's that? That's the whole point of this."
Sam: All those?! Holy crap.
Liam: Eight, nine, ten, 11, 17, 19.
Matt: (explosion noise)
Laura: Oh, no, Grog!
Marisha: Oh god, you killed Grog!
Matt: Yeah, the daggers cut through his midsection, and you see where the armor plating itself was exposed from the first strike. The last one you just jam up into his torso, taking out any major organs.
Liam: I would also like to boot him over the side as I do this.
Matt: (groans) He falls over (thudding) down the stairs, past you, Percy. You let him tumble by as he slides to a stop at the very bottom of the stairs.
Laura: I put my foot on him to stop him.
Matt: Okay, Vex stops him in place, face-down. There's a smear of his blood across the steps. This once-nice, fine wood is now completely coated in crimson. (laughs) Okay. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me? (stuttering) Is it just a row of guys in front of me?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I would like to hold my turn. Because if I stand in front of them, nobody can do anything to them.
Sam: You can.
Laura: That's nice of you. You could just go (whoosh) and cross them off.
Marisha: How many's left?
Matt: There are five nervous-looking guards right now.
Marisha: They were trying to haul ass out?
Travis: Nah, I'll hold. Whoever's next can go.
Sam: So polite.
Laura: That is really kind of you, Grog.
Matt: That ends your turn. It is now the guards' turn. They all...
Laura: Run away.
Marisha: They're going to try and flee, aren't they?
Matt: They look to each other, and their one leader goes like, "Men, run!" They all rush and leap off the balcony, try and catch themselves there.
Liam: See those acrobatics checks...
Laura: I want them all to fall, please.
Marisha: Eat it. Make them all eat it.
Matt: Okay. Three of them land fine and begin bolting forward. Two of them fall. One of them (cracking noise) breaks his ankle and falls to the ground going (scream). The other one slams into his hip on the ground and falls prone. These guys are prone. These three continue to move forward to there. They're going for a full dash.
Laura: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Against one of them. He can only take one reaction per turn. They all rush out.
Laura: That definitely hits him, though.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage. Across that guy. Okay. Trinket reaches out and strikes across one of the guys, the guy you Hunter's Marked, who takes the claw across the side of his head, and you hear him yell out in pain, (scream) as he makes it out into the rain. Hurt, but not taken down. He continues to run past, and they all dart outside into the rainstorm.
Travis: I'll take my turn now.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, Grog.
Travis: I leap over the banister with my war hammer high and jump down on the guy that's closest to me, bringing it down with a reckless attack and great weapon master.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check for the jump.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh no, don't fall on your ass.
Travis: Okay, that's true. 13.
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this because you're raging and it's reckless and it's just funnier.
Travis: That's better!
Laura: That's better!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. You leap in the air (whoosh) like slow-motion (whoosh, explosion) down on top. Go ahead and roll three attacks on him.
Travis: Amazing, that's 27. That's 26.
Matt: Roll damage on those.
Travis: Okay, not a problem. Ten, 19, 29 on the first one.
Matt: 29 on the first one? Okay.
Travis: (laughing) And 28 on the second one.
Matt: So as you come down, the hammer blow slams into his torso, his actual metal armor crinks inward, and he goes, (screams) gasping in pain, as you've now jammed his own ribs into his internal organs. As you pull the hammer up with a sludgy, sucking sound you see him look at you with this look of, "No!" and the hammer comes down again. This time on top of his head, which, Gallagher watermelon, just (boosh) across the floor of this. Done, you look over at his friend, who is like, (gasps) trying to back up with his broken ankle. With your third attack, he's within your range.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: (inarticulate war cry)
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Oh, I don't need it. That's 27.
Matt: Roll advantage just in case it's a critical.
Travis: Oh, it's the same thing. It's 27.
Matt: Okay, there you go. That hits.
Travis: I know. I haven't critted in forever.
Matt: Even if you don't need the advantage, it's nice to roll a second time in case because there's a chance of a natural 20.
Travis: That's 20, 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage on him. (whack) This one you actually bring down onto his other leg. That leg snaps.
Travis: Is he on his back?
Matt: He's on his back and he's trying to pull away from you.
Travis: Right on the knee.
Matt: Right on the knee? (crack) It snaps underneath and he screams out in pain as the hammer pulls back. You can see where the bone is jutting out. You've actually taken off the lower half of his leg from the sheer bludgeoning force, and he's now bleeding out onto the ground a little bit. Not as much as he would be, because the flame cauterized the impact from the hammer.
Sam: (pained) So detailed.
Matt: He is in a really, really bad place. All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Well, I'm going to-- should I shoot at the guys running away?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yeah. Are they close by?
Matt: They're just out the front of the doors.
Laura: I'm going to come down and get in range.
Sam: Don't forget to tell them about Gilmore's Glorious Goods first. (laughter)
Sam: We're supposed to advertise!
Matt: (giggles) Timing is everything.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow because everything within ten feet is affected.
Matt: Yeah, that would hit all three. All right, you pull out your arrow. You aim it close. You can see the rain pouring down and they're all running out into the storm. You're like, "Storm, that's interesting." And you release.
Laura: 27? No, that's a lie. 19.
Matt: Against the guy you've Hunter's Marked?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit.
Laura: And then get the rest of them?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So they have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This guy fails. What's the DC on it?
Laura: That's a good question.
Matt: It should be at the top of your spell sheet.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, second guy fails. Guy who's Hunter's Marked does succeed, so he takes half damage on it.
Laura: Okay, I'm hitting him initially, so he takes 2d8. They all take 2d8. 17, 19, plus Hunter's Mark on the first guy. They all take 19, and then the extra guy takes an extra five.
Matt: Okay. The guy that Trinket swiped just screams (pained scream) as you can see the electricity charging through him, and the wet rain that hit him has caused it to even give more--
Laura: I thought Trinket swiped the Hunter's Marked guy, though.
Matt: Did he?
Laura: He did.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I remember you saying that.
Matt: Then I'll give you that. So the guy who is Hunter's Marked ends up destroyed, the electricity bouncing through his armor. He goes, (moan) and falls to the ground and crumples over. The other two guys get jolted and almost knocked off their feet. They're both looking really, really rough, and they both look at each other (panting) and just keep running with what little strength they have left. You still have a second attack, don't you?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, gosh. I'm going to shoot--
Sam: You're going to shoot people in the back.
Laura: No, I'm not going to shoot them in the back. The guy on the ground, he looks like he's in a lot of pain, doesn't he?
Matt: Oh, he's not going anywhere.
Laura: I'm going to put him out of his misery.
Taliesin: We don't want people running to report we're here, though.
Laura: Oh, really? So I should get the guys?
Liam: Get them, yeah!
Taliesin: No witnesses.
Travis: They might be vampires.
Taliesin: They might call vampires.
Laura: Okay. I can't lightning arrow them again, though.
Matt: No, it's a bonus action to cast it.
Laura: So I'll just regular old attack and I can only get one of them.
Liam: I yell out from the top, "Vex, no survivors!"
Laura: All right, all right!
Matt: (zoomf) Next arrow nocked.
Laura: That's a 19 again.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage. (zoomf) That guy is, through the back of the head, (zoomf, groan) and just slides through the mud for another two feet.
Laura: And I act like I have another, that I can attack him again. I say, "Stop!"
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: Come on, girl.
Sam: Come on, girl.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: It is. It is.
Matt: Watching his friend fall and slide in the mud, he stops where he stands and looks over his shoulder, slowly turning around, shaking.
Laura: And I say, "Get inside now."
Matt: Okay. Next up is Keyleth. Are you going to do anything?
Marisha: Do I kill him or do we keep him?
Sam: You have to make that decision yourself.
Marisha: Is he coming back inside?
Laura: He's standing there now.
Matt: He's currently standing about ten feet outside in the rain, just (shaky breathing).
Marisha: Is that a window I'm up against, behind me?
Matt: Actually, no. There is no window to the front here. It's just a wall.
Marisha: I'm just going to go, "Excuse me. Excuse me, Trinket. Sorry." And I'm going to peek around the door and go (shkoof) and Sunbeam him.
Matt: You're going to Sunbeam?
Marisha: That guy. That scared-shitless guy.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: It's what I just did.
Matt: What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: Six.
Matt: How many 6th-level spells per day can you cast?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell.
Matt: Oh, that's right! You can do it for up to a minute. Good call.
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell. I can keep doing it for a minute.
Laura: That's so freaking cool!
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty dope.
Sam: I can do that, too? I didn't know that. Well, not that spell, but with anything.
Matt: All right, so constitution save on him. (laughs) No. Do damage. 12.
Marisha: 16. That's 23 plus... 30 damage. Radiant damage. (lightning noise)
Matt: As he's standing in the rain, shaking, and looking at his friend, and looking at you, Keyleth steps into frame and goes, (boom). And before he can go, "Wait!" and there's just this scattering of ash that was once was his body. His armor is left intact and just tumbles to the ground in this pile. You see smoke sizzling off the now-heated armor. There's no sign of his physical body anymore, just a smattering of mud that the ash has now mixed with in the rain outside. Melt with prejudice, okay.
Travis: Got one guy left.
Matt: Now as you guys are all gathering around, we'll say from a roleplaying standpoint, as there is no real immediate threat to you; there is one guard left, who has currently one broken ankle and one missing lower half of his left leg, on the ground, looking at you all, hyperventilating and trying to back away, like (panting).
Travis: Time to call the Sandman.
Marisha: Since I'm outside on the threshold of the house, can I see where Scanlan might have lit up the other house yet?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 17?
Matt: 17? You can see a little bit of a dark stream in the distance. You can't tell if it's a nearby chimney or if it is the symbol of Scanlan. The rainstorm does make it a little hard to see, at this point, and through the adrenaline pumping in your system, and the fact that you just disintegrated two individuals in a short period of time. You're also wrestling with the morality of that and dealing with what you just did, so your concentration doesn't enable you to notice anything yet.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Who's got questions for Peg-Leg over here?
Liam: I do. I hop down off the balcony and walk up by Grog.
Taliesin: I'm going to start exploring the upstairs.
Marisha: I stay standing outside just staring out into the distance, waiting for Scanlan's cue.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: When you see my cue, attack. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I know. Which is what we were technically supposed to do.
Laura: No, we said we were waiting 30 seconds and then going in.
Sam: That was a terrible plan.
Travis: Greatest plan we've ever had. You were amazing.
Laura: You know what? You were amazing, we killed them, it was great.
Travis: I hold my hammer over his other knee and I go, "Look, we can work on you one limb at a time, or you can be very truthful and my friend can end it all very, very quickly."
Matt: (panting) "What do you want?"
Liam: There's no question, this is a bad situation you're in right now. We're not looking for you at all. I'm happy to knock you out and leave you in a closet here and lock it. If you want to help me find the Briarwoods, I really want to know where the Briarwoods are. Not you. Just the people you work for.
Matt: He looks around at the rest of the group, sees you walk up the stairs. (panting) "They're in the bloody castle, where else would they be?"
Travis: In? Or under?
Liam: That's a good question.
Matt: "I don't know. I don't know. They spend equal parts in both, as far as I know."
Laura: I peek around my brother and go, "Isn't there anyone else in the house?"
Matt: "No."
Laura: If you're lying, you'll pay.
Matt: "All of us who were here, we were waiting for you."
Laura: "Got it." I go upstairs with Percy.
Taliesin: That mist is probably following me around at this point, isn't it?
Matt: The black smoke, you mean?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah. The black smoke is slowly trailing behind you. With each step you take, it licks the back of your boots.
Taliesin: Oh, boy. Okay.
Liam: Is there anything else you can tell me in regards to back doors or secrets that your bosses don't want us to know? I mean, really, this is the time to talk, right now.
Travis: Anything you use to identify each other?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation check. With advantage because he has--
Sam: One leg?
Marisha: One leg?
Matt: He's bleeding out right now. Wait, no, he's not bleeding out. He's bleeding, but it's a trickle because of the cauterization.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives you a look and says, "Look. We've all been working for the Briarwoods. They mean well. They have big plans, I know that. I don't know the details of it. They don't tell us. But we're keeping guard on them. We were supposed to stop this insurrection. These people. We rounded up folks. We were given basic descriptions and we hung people against the Sun Tree as a warning. We hoped it wouldn't come to any sort of conflict, that you would take that as a means that you weren't supposed to be here. But then we all saw what happened. What happened to Sir Kerrion and his house, and that meant that you were here and that you meant business, so Tylieri and Vedmeyer, we waited for a signal. And we heard that you were planning an attack, so we set up guards here and prepared, and sure enough, you showed up. Which let us know that our contacts are good, and we thought that would be enough. We didn't realize you'd be walking in with whatever the fuck this thing is. I don't even know what you are." And he looks genuinely frightened at the fact that you, with all of these bolts sticking out of your body, are still grinning above him. "Nothing should have survived that ambush."
Liam: Let's back this up a little bit. You hung people from the Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah, as a warning."
Liam: "Where I saw that child?" I slit his throat.
Matt: (extended choking sounds) With a wet gurgle, the life expires from his body, a pool beginning to form on the tile below him.
Travis: Nicely done, Vax.
Liam: Piece of shit.
Laura: So Percy and I are upstairs alone?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Can I check his body?
Matt: (laughs) You begin rummaging through the body. You're keeping an eye out. Make another perception check.
Laura: I go upstairs, and I get Percy up against a wall. I turn around and slam him against a wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: This is sexy.
Marisha: 27.
Laura: And I look him straight in the eye--
Sam: And kiss him.
Laura: And I say, "Are you all right?"
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Look me in the eye, Percy.
Taliesin: I feel cruel, but in control. This is controllable, at the moment.
Laura: "All right." I'm insight-checking him.
Matt: Go for it. Roll insight.
Laura: Shit, just shit. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: What's your charisma modifier?
Taliesin: My charisma modifier is two.
Matt: Okay. He's hard to read right now. His focus is divided amongst your intensity and trying to answer your question. The pause in his throat isn't because he's thinking, it's because he grasps the words to describe it, but there is a quiver to it, and you can see his hands are still shaking a little bit. And as you look down at his hands, you can also see the smoke is still slowly swirling his ankle.
Taliesin: I'm fine, for now. I'll let you know. You'll know if I'm not.
Laura: I will.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I follow behind him closely.
Taliesin: Let's keep looking.
Matt: Okay. You start seeing, now, the dark plume of smoke in the distance. Scanlan has apparently and effectively set the signal. You also do notice, as you're looking out, other people have left their homes now--
Marisha: And I cast my Skywrite spell-- ew, I just spit-- and I use the smoke in the distance and as it's rising up into the sky, start drawing out the de Rolo family crest in the smoke.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the plume of smoke and filter into the dark rain clouds and you make the smoke go to a thicker, thicker black and take the next few moments to begin sculpting in the air until eventually we have a very well-defined de Rolo crest now staring down at the entire city of Whitestone.
Sam: Oh! Something's happening! Something's happening in the sky!
Marisha: That's me.
Sam: I think it's a magic wielder of some sort. Something-- I must flee! (laughter)
Matt: All right. Investigation checks from both of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did I find anything on Smash-Face?
Liam: (sighs) That's what you rolled the last time.
Laura: I know!
Taliesin: 16.
Laura: I've got to put this one away for a while.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a nine.
Matt: Okay. The two of you take a while upstairs looking about the rooms. You manage to acquire from just some of the local bits of cabinets and dust, you gather about 230 gold pieces.
Laura: 230?
Matt: Just loose gold pieces that are around. There is a nice jewelry box that seems to contain most of the jewels and gems that this individual likes.
Laura: I'm going to take the whole jewelry box and sort through it later.
Matt: Okay. So say a box of Tylieri's jewelry would be what you've marked down.
Taliesin: Tylieri family jewels. (laughter)
Taliesin: That won't be confusing at all.
Matt: There you go. You do notice, however, that's all you're able to find for the most part, other than some few bits of clothing and outfit. The master bedroom has no bed.
Laura: Does he sleep in a coffin?
Taliesin: We're going to finish searching downstairs and then find the entrance to the--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'd like to wind my way up there, as well.
Matt: Okay, as you make your way up there you notice them stepping out.
Liam: Yeah. I'm still curious. I want to go have a look as well.
Matt: Go for it. Investigation.
Laura: That's better, thank you.
Liam: 16.
Matt: 16? You look through the room. Most everything of interest has already been picked clean. This room also doesn't seem to see much use other than the clothing that's in there. This room is used for dressing and presentational purposes but other than that, as a bedroom, it's pretty useless. As you guys go downstairs, we'll say for the sake of brevity you take a little bit of time to start looking through. You know you're a little pressed for time because you can feel the energy in the town begin to rise and you start hearing noises. You keeping an eye out?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: The people that rush into the rooms are now rushing back out, some of them wearing leather tunics and small bits of armor, their weapons gathered, and they're forming small bands.
Marisha: I come over the speakers once again, the ear pieces. "I think it's time to go. Whenever you guys are ready, I want to light this bitch up."
Travis: We need to check all the rooms that go downstairs first.
Marisha: All right, quick.
Travis: "Got an empty house." I run out to the door to the left. To the uncovered areas.
Matt: Okay. You go over to this hallway. You eventually smash the door, doesn't take too long. It leads into what looks like a small study or some sort of an office room. A big blue rug, a desk with a chair, some papers strewn about.
Travis: Can I grab the rug and yank it?
Matt: Yeah, pull the rug off, reveals a hatch.
Travis: (excited shouting) I found a hatch!
Laura: (cries out in pain) No need to yell!
Travis: Oh sorry. (quieter) I found a hatch.
Taliesin: Quick, I just want to do a quick round of the downstairs room before going to the hatch.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you find what looks to be a general sitting area, a music room, or a place where you would host guests. Also in fair disuse. And then beyond that, you find a room that's pretty bland, with a staircase that leads down into what was once servants' quarters that has been converted into a torture room.
Laura: Oh, lovely.
Matt: It's a little nicer in its presentation and tools than the duergar torture room that you encountered in the Underdark, but this looks to be like Tylieri had a definite interest in entertaining unwanted guests.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: Vax or Vex, will you come check this hatch for boobies? (laughter)
Liam: I jog on down.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. That's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, it does not appear to be trapped.
Travis: No boobies.
Liam: Okay. You want to open that, big guy?
Travis: Yeah! (growls)
Matt: (vroom) The hatch comes up. There is no ladder; it's just a ten-foot drop down into a basement.
Travis: Okay, I jump.
Matt: Land down there. A 20 foot by 20 foot room. It's very musty. However, you do see in the far corner there is a pad of fresh earth set up, and there is a dark box.
Travis: Um.
Matt: About eight feet long.
Liam: I hear him say "Um," and I jump down, too. With the Flametongue dagger out for light.
Matt: Okay. The room lights up a little bit and you can see across the way there is a not super-detailed, but a fairly well-crafted coffin on the opposite side of the room.
Travis: Ooh! I bet there's treasure in there!
Liam: You might be right. Yeah, let's go have a look.
Laura: Is there treasure? Did you find treasure?
Liam: "Hold, please." Perception check the coffin. That's a 20.
Matt: Okay. The coffin does not appear to be trapped?
Travis: Can I open it?
Marisha: He said that with a question mark.
Matt: It's always fun to do that.
Travis: Well, should I just smash it?
Liam: I really feel like this could be--
Laura: Smash it!
Travis: Three, two. Grog smashes.
Liam: I kick it off with the end of my foot. Little bit. Or try to.
Matt: Okay. (boof) The lid flies off and then slams on the ground. A smell hits you that's just like musty old mildewed earth. The inside of the coffin is, it's lined with like a fine purplish velvet material, the smell quickly fades. It looks like there are some small baubles in there, keepsakes. There is what looks to be a cape or a cloak that is laid across the bottom of this for comfort.
Liam: Roll it up. Put it into my satchel. I'm going to take a dagger out and I want to cut all the way up through that purple velvet. Just see, just in case.
Matt: Okay. You cut through the purple velvet. Rummage through underneath. It appears to be the back of the box.
Taliesin: I'm going to check his desk upstairs for anything interesting.
Matt: Okay. Want to make an investigation check?
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: As you're rummaging through the notes in the desk, a lot of them are ledgers involving the trade in and out of the city. He has his hands dabbling in elements of the timber trade, elements of the actual trade of whitestone. He talks about the-- and you understand, the reason that Whitestone itself is-- the stone that's mined here is so popular for construction and architecture and other elements is the stone that these mountains are made of, when properly prepared, there is a faint bit of residuum that is naturally ingrained in the rock here. No one really knows how it came about, but whatever it is, while it is not inherently magical, it makes it a little bit easier, faster, and cheaper to enchant the stone. So when it comes to, you know, enchanting a teleportation circle permanently somewhere or for traps or things-- not actual objects but actually enchanting anything made of stonework. It's easier to enchant, and that's why the whitestone of this area is sought after and a good trade element. So there's notes about that. But the stone trade has been halted, all stone has continued to be mined, but it's not being transported.
Travis: Is the desk made out of the stone?
Matt: No, there's just notes about it. So all the whitestone that is being mined is not being exported. It's being kept here, somewhere.
Laura: They're making something big.
Taliesin: They're making something big.
Liam: I think we need to get out of here.
Travis: I was going to ask, are you good with the coffin?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. I smash the shit out of it, in an effort to see what's underneath.
Matt: Okay. You take about 30 seconds of extreme violence against the wooden coffin, killing it into chunks and blocks. You get the feeling that this may have been the place the mist was trying to get to. But it did not make its journey. It got scattered by druid Sunbeam and destroyed, and the coffin is left in ruins. You do-- even you, Grog-- absorb the fact that when a vampire goes to mist form, you get the feeling that this is the home it needs to come to, to try and survive.
Travis: Not anymore.
Matt: Not anymore. Not that one.
Marisha: Do I see anyone coming?
Matt: Oh. You see another zombie giant coming up the way. You can see people attacking it, it's just thrashing them about, but this one seems less bothered by the group and is now moving towards a specific area, moving towards the fiery plume in the distance. They're all gathering in that direction.
Marisha: But no one seems to be rushing towards this house?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Travis: This one's not on fire. Yet.
Matt: All right, you all gather, you can hear the rainstorm itself is coming down in sheets. What do you want to do?
Travis: Light this candle!
Laura: Should we light this on fire, too?
Taliesin: Burn it to the ground.
Marisha: "Everyone out." And I start casting a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: We're out by now.
Marisha: Everyone out.
Matt: You guys all step out into the rain (whooshes) pouring down. What bits of guard blood that have been pressed against you washes off.
Travis: Aw.
Marisha: I peek in this foyer. And just (boof), right in the middle, and take a minute to move it all around.
Matt: A Flaming Sphere begins to corkscrew around this room, up over the banister, up to the upper area, and like an artist, you paint this entire room with flame until the entire interior of this main foyer is just an inferno. You can hear the flames licking and the light is very bright. You end up backing up and you can see people, unarmored folk in nearby homes that are pressed up against their windows watching this happen and whispering to each other. The children, those that are kept guarded and are not part of this rebellion, they are watching this with smiles.
Marisha: Okay, I think that's good enough. Let's go.
Taliesin: Head back to the curiosity shop.
Laura: Yeah, sneaky, stealthing.
Matt: Okay. As you guys run off into the alley behind--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace I cast on all of us.
Matt: Okay. How many more spells do you have at that level? Because you used it several times today.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine with Pass Without a Trace. That's a 1st-level. 2nd-level, but I'm fine.
Taliesin: Back to the alcove, then?
Matt: You guys all dart off into the alley under the cover of the shadows of the storm and the rainfall, to head towards the alcove, and we'll go ahead and take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: A quick break, I know I always say that, I'm not going to say five minutes, but.
Sam: This one's a real quick break.
Matt: We'll take it real quick because we want to try and get through as much of the story before we get to Critmas.
Laura: Critmas!
Liam: Critmas! Crimmas.
Taliesin: Oh dear god.
Travis: It's going to be a thing.
Matt: Which is going to, which is going to take some time tonight. Be back here in a few minutes guys, we'll see you in a sec.
Travis: Pizza! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Jumping back into the chaos, the party has scattered back into the rainstorm. I would like everyone to make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh, right. Plus ten for everybody.
Matt: Plus ten.
Liam: I did all right.
Taliesin: I rolled my disadvantage.
Travis: Does it matter on a one?
Matt: All right.
Travis: Ten?
Matt: Total ten?
Travis: Total ten. 11.
Laura: 11, technically.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 29.
Liam: 43.
Sam: I'm not there.
Travis: 43?
Matt: Well, you're making your own stealth, though. You're invisible, so just roll twice.
Sam: Natural 20.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Okay. So making up for the bounding chaos that is Grog throughout the city, you manage to still make your way largely as a group stealthed to-- are you heading to the alcove, you said?
Taliesin: That's where we had our little crash-base set up, right?
Matt: Correct. All right. You make your way to the alcove. As you're darting through, you can see in the distance small pocketed sounds of yells and the occasional sound of some sort of large-scale crumbling or crashing of wood and stone. Occasionally, darting past the streets, you see militant occupants of Whitestone: armored, rushing through, shouting orders to each other, some coming back wounded and helping their friends back. The midday rebellion has definitely started, and you get the sense that the initial surprise has been effective, but the longer this runs, the longer this wears on, the more and more of a body count this will be.
Travis: Seeing the chaos, can I get the Dust of Tracelessness and start trying to sprinkle it behind us?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Guys, we should do something.
Laura: I know, we really should.
Sam: Am I with these guys yet?
Matt: You have not, but you all meet up back at the alcove, communicating over your earpieces. You make your way to the front of the building. The doors are closed and locked.
Liam: The alcove?
Travis: Closed and locked?
Liam: I'll see about that. I'm going to check the door.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is ten. 23.
Matt: Okay. Seems to be a fairly simple lock.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Look for an ambush around. Can we look around?
Laura: Yeah, perceive it?
Travis: Rooftops? Sides of the building?
Matt: Make a perception check, guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: Not you, you haven't gotten there yet.
Liam: 20.
Travis: I actually rolled a 17.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 24.
Laura: 26.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, there doesn't appear to be any set ambush or anybody else here. You do hear the soft sound of pacing footsteps in the interior.
Laura: Should we knock on the door?
Travis: Canvass the building.
Liam: I can get in there and see who that is. I can go in, yeah.
Laura: They're right on the inside.
Liam: I thought it was upstairs, or you said right on the other side of the door?
Laura: Right on the other side of the door.
Marisha: Oh, for crying out loud. I push past them I just go, Jordana! Jordana, it's us!
Matt: Okay, there's a pause and a voice goes, "Who's us?"
Laura: Oh. Crazy grandma!
Marisha: And Vox Machina. (quietly) Does she know we're called that?
Laura: No. I don't know. (louder) Crazy grandma was staying with you. Crazy peasants.
Marisha: Allies.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Son of a-- nine?
Laura: Can I help?
Laura: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma can help!
Matt: I'll say since you're backing her failure up, go ahead and make it with disadvantage.
Marisha: Hey, you don't have to call it-- that sounds so sad when you say it like that.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. There's a pause. "Crazy grandma? Come in." You hear the sound of a locking sound and the door opens up ever-so-slightly. A very, very dimly lit interior, there's a small lantern, a hooded lantern across the room. Other than that, you see the shadow of Jordana as she ushers you all in out of the rain.
Laura: So, hey guess what? It's started.
Matt: "Yeah, apparently." She closes the door behind you, looks out the window that has the curtains closed and goes, "Okay. So. It's underway. It's not safe to be here right now."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Did anyone see you come in?"
Laura: No, no.
Matt: "Good. Who are you?"
Laura: "Oh. Well." How about Seeming? This whole time, have we looked like crazy peasants during the battle?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: We dropped it.
Laura: We dropped it?
Matt: You dropped Seeming before all of this.
Laura: Okay, just making sure Trinket wasn't a donkey that killed the--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: That would've been intense and awesome.
Matt: That would've been amazing. Donkey eating a vampire head? Aw, man.
Liam: This is hard to believe, but this is crazy grandma.
Laura: "I'm crazy grandma." I do a crazy eye thing just to show her.
Sam: Am I there, Matt?
Matt: You've just now gotten to that point, you see the door closing as you get there.
Sam: Hello. Hi. How'd it go?
Marisha: Good work, by the way! That was awesome! I mean, I saw the fire, I don't know what you did.
Laura: So it went well?
Sam: I set fire to the place, some shit went down, dinosaurs were harmed, but I know you got the smoke signal and used that to attack.
Marisha: The de Rolos have dinosaurs?
Sam: No, it was me. It's all good, though. I caused a ruckus, that's all I was supposed to do.
Travis: That's it, yeah.
Matt: "What is going on?"
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: We may have just started a revolution.
Marisha: Does he look familiar to you?
Liam: You don't recognize us, it's not safe to walk these streets for outsiders, so we were using a little bit of trickery. This is us. We're the same people you were dealing with before.
Travis: Vox Machina.
Laura: We just need to rest.
Matt: "Okay. You can rest here, but how long?"
Laura: Until we're healed, and then we'll go.
Liam: Overnight.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel like we should get word out to somebody, though, because--
Sam: To what? To hold the revolution?
Laura: I feel like everybody's going to die before we even get to the castle!
Marisha: That's the thing. I don't know if this is the time to rest.
Laura: But we don't have any spells.
Marisha: I'm okay. We can maybe make do.
Laura: I can't make do.
Travis: You might be cool, but we're fucked.
Taliesin: How about we stay here until 4 00, 5 00 in the morning--
Marisha: What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, I'd say you're close to three in the afternoon.
Laura: How do we tell the people to like hold off?
Sam: We need to briefly quell the rebellion?
Marisha: We started something. We can't stop it now.
Taliesin: We're going to be indoors. It doesn't matter what time we go to attack the castle.
Sam: Let's spread word. We can spread word. Let's find a few--
Laura: Can we send off a message?
Marisha: We sparked a hope in people. We now have innocent peasants, people who are not fighters--
Sam: Can you Skywrite something like "attack tomorrow" or "hold"?
Laura: What if we all take off in separate directions and we tell all the peasants we find that are fighting the time that we're going to attack?
Travis: Aren't there a bunch of zombie stone giants walking around?
Laura: Well yeah, we'll have to be sneaky about it, but we'll spread the rumors around. I look at Jordana. Joanna?
Matt: Jordana.
Laura: Jordana. And I say, can you get word out to people?
Matt: "To a few, maybe. I don't want to go outside right now."
Laura: I don't blame you, dear.
Taliesin: Let's let her stay. I say we just rest up and we attack tonight.
Travis: Tonight?
Marisha: What if there isn't a town to defend tonight?
Travis: Aren't they stronger then?
Taliesin: It's going to be indoors, anyway.
Sam: First of all, it's raining outside. It's daytime. There's no vampires out there right now, right? They don't like water, do they?
Laura: No, they don't like running water, in fact they hate running water! I didn't think about that.
Marisha: It's a lot of running water, though. I think they're all right with rain.
Travis: Yeah, they said a river is what the... right?
Sam: I'm sure they don't like it. In any case, the only thing that our rebels are rebelling against right now are six zombie giants, one of whom I'm pretty sure they killed already. Did I see them?
Matt: Best you could see, that group was doing pretty well and was hacking it down. Lost a few of their number in the process.
Marisha: Did we ever get a count of how many zombie giants there were?
Sam: There were six.
Matt: There were six that you saw while you were doing your overall flight.
Laura: What, so we go out and fight zombie giants?
Sam: No, but maybe we could--
Marisha: Why not? We are the most capable people in this town right now.
Laura: Well. We could go fight zombie giants and then tell everybody to wait.
Travis: Nah, it's going to fuck us. We've got to rest.
Marisha: Why don't we take a short rest, heal up a bit, get back out there, take down some giants. What do you guys say?
Sam: I admire this fire in your eyes, but it's so stupid.
Laura: What if we run out and tell people to stop fucking fighting and wait until tomorrow?
Liam: They won't. The giants are going to keep smashing them.
Sam: What time did he say it was?
Taliesin: It's about three. We could just do a round of the front courtyard and see what's going on.
Laura: Fuck! Fine.
Taliesin: Try and sleep through the night.
Laura: All right. We fight until we absolutely can't fight anymore.
Travis: What about the people who absolutely need a short rest at the minimum stay.
Liam: We stay for an hour.
Taliesin: We're short-resting right now.
Liam: Rest for an hour.
Marisha: This is going to go on for a while, but the longer we wait indoors, the more people are going to die, and if we're killing people to try and save the masses-- which is how I'm justifying this whole thing, by the way-- I feel like we can't leave the masses to their own devices.
Sam: Wait a second, what about that, what about that cleric, the religious man that you've talked to. Could he get a message out to everybody? What's his name?
Laura: At this point, though, it's chaos.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We literally lit the fire and we can't stop it now.
Sam: Archibald? Is that his name?
Travis: Yeah, they're standing up for themselves.
Taliesin: We also, somebody-- there's the point that somebody is informing on us.
Marisha: Someone is informing on us.
Sam: What are you talking about, why?
Taliesin: They were ready for us. They knew we were coming.
Sam: Of course they knew we were coming, we killed one of their--
Laura: They said there was an informant. They said that there was an informant when we were there.
Travis: Who did?
Laura: That guard. He said our contacts were right. Our informant was correct. Somebody is informing on us. It could be you.
Liam: I insight-check this woman.
Matt: Go ahead and roll insight.
Liam: 14.
Laura: Can I say it? Because I just said, "It could be you." Can I do the same thing?
Matt: Sure, go ahead.
Laura: All right. That's terrible. Okay. So.
Sam: What do you want to know?
Matt: Best that you can tell, she just looks genuinely scared and is uncomfortable with your presence right now but is letting it happen. She's still getting over the fact that you guys look entirely different than when you first talked to her about staying here.
Laura: Well, short rest and then we head out? We do some attacks and--
Liam: I've never fought a zombie giant before.
Laura: No, but everybody else is doing it. Those peasants are doing it.
Liam: That's what I'm saying. Let's see what we're up against. Let's take a breather and let's go pick one off.
Marisha: Jordana, do you have any books here on zombie giants?
Matt: "For the most part, necromancy is not studied in this town. At least, we never had to deal with it until recently, and we haven't had the opportunity to really study since."
Marisha: Well, I mean, zombie combined with giants. We've fought zombies and we've fought giants, so I'm assuming it with a vague--
Travis: What?
Laura: We keep our distance.
Taliesin: How long does it take to recharge Hex, by the way?
Matt: You need a long rest.
Travis: How many Sunbeam hadoukens do you have left, Keyleth?
Marisha: How many hadoukens? As in Sunbeams? I'm done on Sunbeams.
Sam: We need to rest.
Travis: If we get a short rest, how many do you get?
Marisha: I'm done. None.
Laura: We need a long rest to get spells.
Marisha: However, if I short rest, I actually haven't burnt any of my animal forms here recently and I can water elemental up, which would also permanently kill them. So I have other defenses that could still take down vampires if we encounter another one. I'm more concerned about these giants right now.
Travis: That's what I'm talking about. They're vampires.
Marisha: No, they're zombies. They're undead.
Laura: They're zombies.
Liam: They're undead.
Travis: Those are two different things, huh?
Matt: They are two very different things.
Travis: Grog learns. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what's the plan?
Laura: We short rest and get back out.
Liam: We take a short rest and then exterminate.
Sam: Wait, join the rebellion or ride around town telling everyone, "quell?"
Marisha: We're taking down these damn giants. These giants are killing people left and right; we watched them crush people on our way here.
Taliesin: We tell them that they take cover during the night.
Travis: I'm going to roll four hit dice.
Matt: Yeah, you guys go ahead, use your hit dice to heal up while you're taking your short rest for those who've taken damage.
Laura: Oh, Trinket. Can you heal Trinket?
Marisha: I can.
Laura: Heal him so much. Does Trinket get... oh, he does get hit dice.
Matt: Trinket technically does not. Trinket requires--
Laura: It says he does. It's written down.
Matt: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Also, another strange question  what creates initiative? Initiative is your dexterity modifier?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So with me, it's my dexterity modifier. Plus two.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm also currently wearing a Headband of Initiative, which I'd forgotten about.
Matt: Which...?
Taliesin: Gives me plus two to my initiative.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Oh, dear god almighty. Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Percy, Percy, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't mean to be doing this.
Matt: No, it's great. Just glad you didn't take the Alertness feat. Then things would have gotten stupid.
Laura: Are you healing Trinket?
Marisha: How much more does he need?
Laura: He's at 36. He needs 24 more.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to be using the Hat of Disguise just because it's probably safe. Does anybody want a Headband of Initiative?
Laura: Yeah. Do you not need it?
Taliesin: I can't wear two things on my head.
Laura: I don't have anything on my head.
Taliesin: So you've got plus two to your initiative, and I'm losing plus two to my initiative. It's called a Headband of Initiative.
Marisha: You already have an eight to your initiative.
Liam: It's very mystical.
Travis: How much time do we have before the sun that is being blocked by the rainclouds goes down?
Matt: Well, you guys are taking a short rest, about 30 minutes to an hour, so you have about two and a half, three hours before it goes down entirely.
Taliesin: That should give us enough time to do a quick tour. We already know their walking route, and I'm sure that the people are putting up a fight.
Marisha: I'm going to give him a level two Cure Wounds.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So do 2d8 plus ten.
Laura: Me?
Marisha: Sure. Me or you. Whoever feels more comfortable.
Laura: I'll do it. It was good.
Matt: During this rest, if you wanted to spend some time with that cape--
Liam: I do. I'm going to sniff it and shake it out.
Matt: For the most part, it doesn't appear to be enchanted.
Sam: No, I can sing a Song of Rest for all of us.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Sam: It gives us all 1d6. That's pretty weak.
Marisha: No, but that's...
Laura: No, it's fine. He's got extra hit points; don't worry about it.
Marisha: Well, Song of Rest just happens, right? Do you get that for free? You might as well, if you don't burn anything.
Sam: Okay. (sings) Health! We need some now. Health! Not just anybody. Health! You know you need someone.
All: (sings) Health!
Matt: That's not trademarked at all. I love it. All right, so you guys have rested up. Through the rest, you occasionally hear voices run by, yelling. As you guys get toward the end of your rest, you hear the (stomping) large heavy footfalls heading nearby. (groaning, crash) A loud, heavy impact, and you hear some short cheers outside.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Oh, he died. That's two down. Splash two.
Travis: Right out front, we hear it?
Matt: Out front, a little ways off. Not immediately.
Sam: Do we have horses? We don't have any horses, do we?
Laura: No.
Liam: They died.
Matt: Yeah, they got eaten by harpies.
Travis: Should we go outside and see how they're doing?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's check it out.
Travis: We go out front.
Liam: Time to kill some giant undead.
Matt: Okay. Jordana lets you guys out, locks behind her.
Marisha: Do we want to split up?
Taliesin: No, let's keep together.
Laura: Actually, before we go, I ask, do you have any holy symbols at all in here?
Matt: "I'm sorry, no."
Laura: Nothing?
Matt: "No. All those were kept in either of the two temples here."
Laura: Do you have anything magic that could help me?
Matt: "I already gave you everything of magic that I had here."
Laura: Oh, right. I forgot we took it.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: Shit. All right, thank you.
Travis: Once we're outside, how far away is that giant that was felled?
Matt: As you step outside and look, it's about 60 feet off, near one of the big crossroads near this area. And a zombie giant has been completely felled down, and there are three people now that are currently in the process of hacking its head off just to make sure. It's a group of about seven people that live here. They're all looking pretty messed up, but they're all eager and adrenaline-driven, they're all hacking away, then stopping and taking a breath (breathes heavily). You hear in the distance, (thunder crack) bolt of lightning coming down from the storm, and as it echoes, everyone shakes for a second, look at each other, (cheers) give a cheer of victory. They all hop off the body of the zombie giant and begin darting further in towards the center of the city.
Marisha: I look up. Is my de Rolo symbol still in the sky?
Matt: It's there. It's dissipating slowly, but it's still there. It's moved a little bit off-axis with the storm.
Travis: So that's it for the big houses, right? Just the castle.
Taliesin: Just the castle.
Sam: Except we haven't killed the members of one of the houses. By the way, my Song of Rest is a d8.
Laura: Awesome.
Sam: But we haven't killed the last one. Now, the one that you guys killed. What's his name again, Tylieri?
Matt: Tylieri.
Sam: He was a vampire.
All: Yes.
Sam: Because Sylas killed him. Right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: And then made him a vampire.
Taliesin: One would assume.
Sam: Didn't he hang him on the Sun Tree?
Laura: What? No. What? What are you talking about?
Sam: I don't know. Didn't that guy that we meet...
Matt: You do recall, actually, when you were interrogating the driver of the Briarwoods. Tylieri was the master of the driver Desmond, who beat him and subjugated him to various forms of torture and abuse before Lord Briarwood took Desmond and, to try and show extension of faith, revealed to Desmond Tylieri hanging from the Sun Tree. That was true.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: And then he became a vampire. Is that where they're spawning?
Laura: No. Maybe he was already a vampire and he hung him from the tree just to show--
Sam: That doesn't seem right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the Sun Tree, why don't we?
Laura: Let's head that direction.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Something to us about how when people die in this town. The guy you talked to at the bar?
Sam: Yes, we talked to a guy at the bar. What about him?
Marisha: He said when people die here they don't die.
Sam: Well, yes, we know that, yes.
Laura: They come back.
Liam: They could be-- yes, that could apply, too.
Marisha: I think this whole damn town-- I think the whole land is cursed. Is what I think.
Travis: I think that's--
Laura: Probably pretty fair.
Travis: Should we go to the tree?
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Just to see--
Laura: We'll make our way through the town and look for giants as we make our way to the tree.
Marisha: Let's look for giants. Let's go giant-hunting.
Matt: Okay. All right, so from the Alcove, you guys head in a southwestern motion, keeping off the main paths best you can. The main chaos seems to have died down a little bit in this area of the town. You come across another body of a zombie giant, surrounded by what looks like eight bodies of civilians of the town.
Laura: Are they all dead, or are they injured?
Matt: No, they are all very dead. Two of which are torn in half and just tossed to different sides, one appears to be half-eaten, and the rest are just smashed. But whatever troop was with them managed to take the zombie giant down. Eventually, you make your way to the center of the town square where the Sun Tree is and there is, across the way on the opposite side, what appears to be, in mid-struggle, one zombie giant that has a series of spears or javelins sticking out of its torso. It's currently swatting at a group of individuals that have torches in the rain, still trying to get up towards it and push it backward. The Sun Tree, at a glance-- roll a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: One. There's a tree!
Sam: Four.
Marisha: I rolled a 19, so 29?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Laura: If my passive perception's higher than my roll--
Matt: Active perception and passive perception-- passive is more something to keep track when you're not actively perceiving. So. Grog?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you pick this out in the rain, and it's hard to see, but from this angle, you see what looks to be eight ropes, currently, just dangling free from the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: The tree is the spawning spot.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Or maybe one of them.
Travis: Or maybe they cut them down.
Sam: We've got to cut down this tree.
Laura: Does it look like the ropes have been cut?
Matt: You can go closer to inspect it if you want.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're hearing in the distance the (roars) the battle's still raging about 65, 70 feet from you. You get up behind the tree and you take the ropes and inspect it. All the ropes are very finely cut.
Laura: Oh. They were cut. They cut them down.
Travis: They cut their dead down.
Marisha: Okay, so the nooses are gone.
Matt: Yeah. And you do see, there are a number. This close, you can see there are loops of rope all over the tree: some very old and weathered and aged, some of them are torn, some of them are cut, but the fresh ones that are the longest currently and that are placed closest to where the bodies were originally there are all very cleanly cut.
Laura: Can we spin around and look and see if there's anything around that looks like-- or look at tracking and see if it looks like somebody cut them down or if they fell on their own?
Matt: You glance around real fast and you can see to the south there is still the battle raging between the zombie giant and the crew of individuals, but you look back where you guys were from, and you see a large series of shapes stepping through the rain, coming from the direction you guys were.
Liam: I think they cut them down just like Tylieri. I think that this is where they hang them to ripen, and then when they're ready they pluck them off the tree and set them on their way.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you, keeping your eyes forward as he's saying this in your ear, you can see, as the light of the town is slowly beginning to vanish into a sunset--
Marisha: Is it still raining?
Matt: It is still raining. You see ahead of you, coming from the central roadway into the square of the town, what you can only surmise to be anywhere from 30 to 50 armored skeletal entities that are pouring from the north.
Marisha: Okay. I climb the Sun Tree.
Sam: Wait, what? We've got to get out of here!
Marisha: I'm climbing the Sun Tree.
Matt: Climbing the Sun Tree. All right. You guys see Keyleth scurry up the Sun Tree.
Sam: I blow my Horn of Fog to create a smokescreen. I don't know what the fuck she's doing.
Matt: Okay. (foghorn sound) The slow horn-blow comes out, and this fog begins to fill the area between this marching skeletal army and the Sun Tree where you guys currently are. Looking over your shoulder, you can see the zombie giant finishes smashing the last individual in that crew, picks it up and jams it into its jagged giant teeth.
Marisha: So there's a big army coming down, filtering down a street.
Matt: Down the street towards you.
Marisha: How far away?
Matt: You can't tell now. There's just fog along the way.
Marisha: I can't tell how far away they are right now?
Matt: No, you can't see them.
Marisha: I can't see them?
Matt: No, because Scanlan just created a whole bunch of fog between the two of you. The moment you saw, they may be about a hundred or so feet from you.
Liam: Keyleth, tell us what you're thinking, because the rest of us are taking this time to go.
Travis: You engage, they'll follow, we go, we fight another day, we sleep in the rafters and wait until daybreak.
Liam: Who are you?
Marisha: I might be able to do something.
Laura: What is it? Say it!
Marisha: I can do a big ice storm or do something to take all these fuckers out at once.
Travis: All 30 to 50 of them? Kill them all?
Marisha: It's a big range.
Liam: No. Keyleth, we've got to go.
Taliesin: I say we let her hit them, and we run.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you drop the fog just a bit?
Sam: Nope, not by magic.
Matt: He can't control it.
Laura: It's on the ground. You can probably see above it. Fog is low.
Matt: Well, the fog this creates is a magical fog that obscures an entire area. If you climbed to the very top of the tree, you might be able to get a little bit of a visual.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to climb as high as I can.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Laura: I'm going to climb up after her.
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: 11. Acrobatics or athletics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You make your way up to the very precarious top of the branches. You can feel the brittleness of it as the tree itself, its life force is withered over time and some of it cracks and some of the actual bark of the tree twists off in your grip as you get to the very top. You can look just over the bank of fog that Scanlan has created and you can see beyond that. The number of undead from this angle, what was initially like 30 probably pushes closer to about a hundred.
Marisha: Okay. And they're like a hundred feet away?
Matt: Starting about a hundred feet away, slowly marching towards you.
Marisha: Right where they are, I'm going to start a little ahead of where they originate, I'm going to start making an ice storm. I'm pushing all the way back to where-- just right down these fuckers.
Liam: I'm also just trying to stay underneath her as best I can.
Laura: Stop looking up her skirt, brother.
Liam: Is she in a skirt?
Sam: She's been wearing a dress this whole time?
Liam: I thought she was covered in leaves.
Taliesin: Stop looking up her fig leaf.
Matt: All right. What's the damage on that? Is it 2d8 bludgeoning and 2d8--
Marisha: They take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for both. And it's a save for half, right?
Taliesin: Inspiration?
Sam: Oh. Well. I didn't do it.
Marisha: 2d8 bludgeoning, that's seven bludgeoning... 4d6. Not great at all. Four, five, six, seven, eight.
Matt: Total of eight. Eight plus... what was the other one?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Seven, okay.
Marisha: And it's difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. So the first area. Suddenly you see some of the clouds above you begin to funnel downward, and a few bolts of electricity (crackle) through it. As the funnel hits, it grows dark, and then all of a sudden this cold wind begins to swirl around it. And with that, the cloud almost seems to tear open within itself and a sheet of jagged ice and sleet begins to pour downward into the center of this undead horde. As it does, you can see probably a good 25, 30 of these are just blown apart, bone shards scattered around and you can see bits of rusted metal weapons and armor thrown left and right. The ice then coalesces over the floor of this area and some of the skeletons just slip, but they keep marching forward. It definitely took a chunk, but as it continues pushing forward--
Marisha: Now we can run.
Laura: Good job. I grab the back of her shirt and yank her towards me.
Matt: You guys make your way down the tree. As you get to the bottom of the tree, the zombie giant has taken notice of the sudden flashing of light and the movement in the tree and is bounding towards the tree after you guys.
Laura: Are we running?
Travis: Are we going to the Alcove or going to the treeline?
Taliesin: I say we go to the treeline, and I say that you take a couple shots as we're heading--
Laura: I'm definitely doing that, yes. I'm going to shoot at the giant as we're running. Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark, turning around, looking at the giant.
Marisha: As she says that, I'm going to go ahead and start casting my Call Lightning spell.
Matt: Okay. So you land and you cast Call Lightning. The fog that you created, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Has formed up. You start seeing shapes; these terrifying skeletal faces begin to appear through the fog as the rest of the army begins to push through. The clouds coalescing above Keyleth as you get your Call Lightning ready, you marking the zombie giant, you guys begin bolting out of the way. Trinket comes running up behind you, Vex, and picks you up onto his back, and you guys begin rushing off toward the treeline-- to the west or the east?
Laura: Can I shoot him?
Marisha: Yeah, as I turn around, I Call Lightning on the giant.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: And it's cloudy, so I get how much more?
Matt: I don't know, how much do you get more on that? Call Lightning would be...
Sam: While you decide, which way are we going, Percy? West or east?
Matt: 3d10. It does an additional d10. It does 4d10.
Laura: And I'm going to shoot him through my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel as we're going away, too.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So the passage to the castle I'm aware of is to the west, and then the one that Stonefell mentioned is to the east?
Travis: Do we go to the treeline by the castle?
Matt: No, the one Stonefell mentioned was the same.
Taliesin: Was the same?
Matt: It wasn't Stonefell, it was Vouk.
Taliesin: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: But yeah. He was referring to the same one.
Taliesin: Treeline to the west so that we can attack first thing.
Laura: 22. Twice.
Matt: 22 hits.
Laura: And then three on the last one.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Laura: Well, it's technically 14 on the last one.
Matt: For him? Still hits.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: It's a big target. Big target, lot of hit points.
Marisha: And as she's brewing up her bow, I'm behind her and just bring down the bolt for 32 damage.
Matt: Damn. (lightning sound) You can see the bolt strikes the front of the zombie giant right as it starts swinging after you guys. The bolt hits its shoulder and blasts a chunk of its shoulder blade off. You see bone shards fire behind, and there's a giant piece of its torso now missing where the bolt hit. (groans) Stumbles back onto its back foot and catches itself, almost toppling over.
Marisha: Just start backing up. "Vex?"
Matt: It starts lumbering forward again as Vex releases her arrow, which splits into three.
Marisha: Vex?
Laura: 54 points of damage.
Marisha: Kill it!
Matt: Nice! (impact sounds) All the arrows blasting into its body, you can see they sink in and burst on the inside. There's a little, a dull glow as this burst of electrical energy hits from underneath its sickly zombified flesh. At which point, there's a slight delay before it (explosion sound) bubbles forth and a bit of its internal liquid just spews out like a boil. You can see it's definitely taking damage, and it keeps pushing forward. Yeah, it's still moving towards you guys.
Liam: How far away is it?
Taliesin: For gods' sakes!
Matt: It's about ten feet from you guys right now.
Taliesin: I pull out Bad News. I'm shooting it with Bad News, and I'm going for an aimed shot to the legs.
Matt: Okay. The moment it would take for you to stop and pull out Bad News, by the way, the moment you guys are turning around to attack it, it has gotten within range to hit, so this is all happening simultaneously, so it's going to get two strikes as you guys get your attacks, as well.
Marisha: What are you doing?
Matt: So. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Liam: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 27 and an 18.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: I got 28.
Matt: Okay. And against Percy, that is a 17 and a 20.
Taliesin: 17 misses. The 20 hits.
Matt: Okay. You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage as its fist comes down and (whack) slams into your side just as Bad News fires off and your daggers go (dagger sounds) towards it.
Liam: Keen Dagger, Flametongue, combined 20 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: And as soon as I'm able, I'm backing up and bringing down another lightning bolt.
Laura: Well, I've got another attack. That was just one attack that I did.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Sam: You need your spells. We need to hide. We need to run.
Marisha: It's okay, this is a concentration spell. I can keep doing it. I'm not blowing spells on it.
Taliesin: 22 points of damage, plus he's knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. Through the daggers--
Taliesin: Oh, he can make a con saving throw, though.
Matt: It doesn't matter. It still manages to keep its zombie form, though it seems like every single hit you're taking chunks off its body, but it continues to push through the damage until eventually it swings at you with the hit, Bad News goes off as it blasts through the center of its torso and takes out the back of its spine. It can't keep its physical form together, and as its body lunges forward, you throw both of your daggers, which go (thoonk thoonk) into each of its eyes. It falls forward. The torso seems to roll on impact and come after you like a slow-moving boulder for a few feet, but since you're all moving forward, you manage to outrun it, just barely keeping out of the way. The legs walk on their own for two more steps before it just falls forward into the mud, relieving all its intestines into the rain-soaked ground.
Sam: Let's get out of here!
Marisha: Go, go, go. Run!
Laura: Pass Without a Trace!
Travis: Aggressive flower girl.
Marisha: Do I see any other-- as we're running through--
Laura: Just run, Keyleth!
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the arm and I just pull and run.
Matt: You guys go running back and as you're looking over your shoulder you can see the skeletal army swarming the center of the square and pouring into the streets. It seems that the Briarwoods had their own reserve anti-riot campaign at the ready.
Laura: Oh, are they going to take out everybody?
Marisha: We can't go, we can't go!
Sam: We have to go. We have nothing left.
Matt: And with that, we're going to conclude tonight's session. (groaning)
Matt: We'll be returning next week on that note.
Travis: (laughs) You son of a bitch, I love it.
Matt: All right, so we're going to take a little break here while we set up for Critmas. Quick one, very quick, we'll be back here in just a few minutes, for those who want to hang in and watch how ridiculously amazing this community is.
Laura: Oh my gosh. There's like, there's a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, you guys are crazy.
Liam: Buckle up!
Matt: All right, quick break. See you in a second.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master. For those who are returning, good to see you again, and for those for the first time, welcome, and hopefully you're not too lost. So, Sam is on his way right now, being in the usual traffic from wherever he comes from, being a professional. Having a career that's functional and perpetually busy. Get here soon, Sam! Quickly, please! Drive safe. Don't drive with children in the street. Apparently, that was confusion from last time. People thought that he was actually driving in children. Like, he had problems with children and traffic, and thought children in traffic. So, keep your children out of traffic, if you don't mind. That's a general Critical Role request.
Marisha: PSA.
Matt: PSA, yeah. Before we get started in this, first and foremost, I want to say hello to our guest for the evening, Mr. Chris Hardwick. (cheering)
Chris hardwick: Good to be here.
Matt: Glad you could join us for tonight's game.
Chris hardwick: Also very excited to be here on Ravenclaw Appreciation Day: the best house, of course.
Marisha: Yes, that's true.
Chris hardwick: Wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure.
Laura: Hufflepuff!
Chris hardwick: Well...
Taliesin: Slytherin. Slytherin. Ravenclaw's pretty good. Pretty good.
Chris hardwick: If by good, you mean the best.
Matt: There you go.
Chris hardwick: I'm sorry, there's no--
Sam: Oh, shit! This is so awkward.
Taliesin: I thought we called you.
Chris hardwick: Can you stand near the bear?
Laura: His name is Trinket, all right?
Sam: Is this how I was fired from the show?
Chris hardwick: We thought we would do it on the livestream just to really help capture the traffic that that would bring.
Sam: Good luck. I think you're going to do great. These guys will take care of you.
Chris hardwick: I've been working with this guy for the last couple of years on Sanjay & Craig. He gets all businessy, he's a responsible adult in the workplace.
Matt: And then he comes here.
Sam: And then I come here. You're not, you're the same.
Chris hardwick: I can't wait to see this other side.
Sam: Where am I supposed to sit?! Right here?
Matt: Right there, yeah. Just scoot in.
Sam: Is that true? I don't know. Are we scooting over?
Chris hardwick: I would move over, but I need both. My legs are--
Sam: This is the most awkward.
Taliesin: It's like a New York subway over here.
Chris hardwick: Can you just rappel down that?
Matt: There we go.
Laura: This is so awkward.
Sam: I love it. No, no, I've got the half-table at the end here. It's great.
Chris hardwick: Matt, I don't like having people on my right side. Is this weird?
Matt: If becomes a problem, just raise your hand and scream.
Chris hardwick: It's already a problem.
Matt: Oh, damn it!
Marisha: I'm technically at the end. This is on Chris, really.
Liam: Can you scoot the whole bench down on this side?
Laura: Yeah, scoot the bench down. Look at how far the bench is on our side.
Travis: Put the leg of the table between here.
Matt: Very well-oiled machine, Critical Role.
Laura: Thanks for joining us this week.
Matt: The utmost of presentory quality we promise to you on a weekly basis. Thank you for joining us. All right, so.
Travis: Lock it up, right table, Jesus!
Sam: Sorry, we're ready.
Matt: Welcome, Sam, glad you could make it. Let's get through our announcements quickly for the week. Tomorrow, a bunch of us are going to be at Wondercon down at the LA Convention Center. Not Anaheim. It's always been at Anaheim, and I thought it was Anaheim when I mentioned it last week. But, no, it's in LA because everything likes to prove me wrong. We'll be there. 7:00-8:00pm is our Critical Role panel, so if you're in the area, you're coming to the event, come say hello, bring questions, preferably not punch me in the face for getting it wrong with Anaheim.
Chris hardwick: It used to be in San Francisco.
Matt: Even before that!
Chris hardwick: Yeah! I went to it at Moscone Center like six or seven years ago, and then Anaheim. It's getting closer and closer.
Marisha: Yeah, it's going to be in Lancaster next year.
Taliesin: And the year after, it's going to be at my house. It'll be great.
Matt: We will go there for that. Going to Lancaster for anything is a difficult choice. Sorry, Lancaster!
Laura: Longest announcements ever!
Matt: I know! We have, tonight--
Marisha: Shirts!
Matt: I'm getting to it! We had an issue last week where a bunch of our Gilmore shirts sold out really quickly.
Sam: This shirt, right here?
Matt: That shirt that you're wearing, the Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Laura: The one that everybody wants, but nobody can have.
Sam: I have it!
Matt: That's terrible.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Chris hardwick: Do I have to sit next to him?
Travis: The whole time.
Sam: Don't worry, I've already been emasculated. (laughter)
Matt: We're counting it as community service, it'll be fine. However, in trying to make sure that we can help our folks who don't get to see it live have an opportunity at these, we're going to be starting for a week a limited pre-order for Gilmore shirts. Should be up live now on the website. So if you didn't have the opportunity to go ahead and grab your own Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, go to GeekandSundry.com right now, go to their store, it should be available for pre-orders for the next week.
Liam: Grab this unicorn by the horn.
Matt: Yes. Yes. Grog-- Travis, but Grog. You're wearing a delightful shirt, there. Would you like to tell us a bit about that shirt?
Travis: This is the next of our shirt designs--
Sam: Oh, is that true?
Travis: -- the Strongjaw Ale shirt design, which will be on sale tomorrow at our Wondercon panel and the Geek and Sundry store as well.
Liam: That is manly.
Travis: Aged six months in a Bag of Holding. (laughter)
Laura: You can read?
Travis: Upside-down only.
Matt: Makes sense. Anyone else have any announcements they want to bring up?
Taliesin: Yeah, I can now be your companion, as of this week, in Fallout 4, if you build a robot and give it the male voice, I can be really polite to you for hours on end.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Yay!
Taliesin: You can have me be very polite. That's the only way you can have me be very polite.
Matt: You can make him very polite, and apparently be sexy Codsworth, which is the new internet thing. It's the Codsworth top with the normal legs at the bottom, and it's just sexy running Codsworth, with Taliesin's voice. So do that.
Taliesin: That horrifies me.
Chris hardwick: May I promote just a quick thing?
Matt: Of course, please!
Chris hardwick: We're doing the Nerdist panel Sunday at Wondercon, and then I'm going to do a signing right afterwards, I think 11 and 12 are the two times for that, and then, if you have a chance, I just posted on Facebook the full, unedited episode. We did a Trump v. Sanders debate on @Midnight last night, and it was really fun.
Matt: It's awesome.
Chris hardwick: And they extended it to an hour because it was so much fun, so it's on Facebook now, and just go and share it, please, because we enjoyed making it.
Matt: It's awesome, seriously.
Chris hardwick: Thank you very much.
Matt: Of course, of course, yeah, check that one out. I caught that earlier today, haphazardly, and I'm glad I did. And you'll be glad too.
Marisha: Did it trend on Twitter? That's where I saw it.
Chris hardwick: It did, yeah, last night it did and then we stuck it up today. And then a comedy special on Comedy Central, Funcomfortable, April 30th.
Matt: April 30th. Heck yeah, man, congrats. (cheering)
Matt: That'll be awesome. All righty.
Liam: Oh my gosh, 'critrole' is the code you need for free shipping if you want Wyrmwood Gaming boxes to hold your dice in them. We all have them. I have some at home. My kids love them. Critrole is the code you need for free shipping.
Travis: (belches)
Chris hardwick: I expected a bassier belch.
Travis: Yeah, I know, it comes from her, though, she's like a howitzer, it's a whole other thing.
Laura: Yeah. I'll surprise you with it, don't worry.
Travis: It'll make your shirt move, it's legit.
Matt: No, like, she'll actually surprise you, she'll wait until you're walking through a parking garage at two am and just over your shoulder (belches).
Travis: Telephone rings. Hello? (belches)
Matt: Exactly. She's good. Anyone have anything else they want to announce before we jump into the game?
Sam: I'm sitting on half a chair.
Matt: Thank you for that, Sam.
Chris hardwick: Scoot a cheek here.
Sam: No, no, I'm fine, I'm fine.
Laura: He's not fine.
Chris hardwick: It was important enough for you to bring it up, Sam.
Sam: I'm fine, Christopher.
Liam: His character is small, but he has a big personality.
Chris hardwick: How do you do this every week?
Matt: That's a good, good question.
Taliesin: Normally sedated.
Matt: All righty. So. Let's go ahead and jump into this wondrous--
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: So, to get you guys a little bit up to speed with some of the fun that's happened previously on Critical Role, our band of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, after having a horrible encounter with the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of chromatic evil dragons that has just torn through the Tal'Dorei countryside, destroying cityscape after cityscape, the party has fled and has been seeking information on how to possibly eventually topple these creatures and restore order to the land of Tal'Dorei. They began seeking these artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence that promise ancient power from wars long past that could aid them in this journey. After acquiring one, with a near-death experience by Vex'ahlia over there, they began their next step in the journey. However, as part of a recent scrying spell by Keyleth, the druid, they discovered that the Pyrah tribe of her druidic heritage, the Ashari, were decimated as their home of Pyrah was the portal to the fire elemental plane that they normally guard, was where Thordak the Cinder King, the great red dragon, tore through into this prime realm and managed to seemingly wipe out most if not all of the tribe. Vox Machina made the relatively grim journey back to the mountainside, finding it now brimming with volcanic rock and volcanic activity that previously lay dormant. Upon climbing the side of the mountain, you found remnants of the Pyrah tribe still alive, and making their way up the mountain, as damaged as they are, in hopes of sealing this now progressively swelling tear between the prime material plane and the elemental plane of fire. Not just that, there was aid that came to the Pyrah tribe. And it involved a number of Air Ashari, one of which was Korren, Keyleth's father. There was a brief, tearful exchange and reunion before the rest of you, steeling yourselves, began to walk in towards the center of the mountain's caldera, towards the remnants of the Cindergrove, the now-destroyed and sundered petrified forest, in hopes of closing this rippling tear to the elemental plane once and for all. And this is where we begin. So. The group of the six of you, gathering alongside the dozen or so Pyrah members, with various burns, Cerkonos, who is the leader of the tribe, now missing his arm, cauterized at the shoulder, all advancing forward quietly in this tense push of necessity. You can see in the distance, swirling between the trees, clusters of glowing elemental entities that are either spilling forth from this recently and have taken this landscape as their own, or are just enjoying in their-- elementals like to burn shit. And so you're seeing fire elementals wandering about, just tearing through what remains of this countryside, and let's see, you actually, Vex'ahlia-- as you guys are stepping forward, keeping an eye on these glowing distant entities, these creatures, you catch out of the corner of your eye what appears to be a number of other humanoids, a small cluster of shadowed individuals far off to the left, tucked around the bottom of a tree.
Laura: I ask everyone to wait. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: Can you look through your scope and see who that is?
Taliesin: I'll take a look.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: First roll.
Taliesin: Ooh. That's not bad. (eerie music)
Laura: The music.
Liam: The violins go south.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23. Glancing over in that direction, you see, towards one of the larger, broken petrified trees, right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, you see what appear to be a cluster of humanoids. Two of them have flesh. The other two do not. These skeletal creatures shuffle in place, clutching a blade to one side, while the other two appear to be in partially rotted states. They're mostly disinterested in their surroundings and stand there, head to the side, aimless--
Taliesin: Are they in the clothing of the natives, or do they not look to be Ashari?
Matt: From what you can tell, one of them does appear to have Ashari wardrobe. The other one does not.
Travis: -- he said in a weird way.
Taliesin: They look undead. Doesn't--
Laura: Are they from here?
Taliesin: Possibly. One looks vaguely familiar, but there's something wrong. We should proceed-- let's go up and find out what's happening. Slowly, and armed.
Matt: At this point, Korren, Keyleth's father and the head of the Air Ashari in your absence, puts his hand forth and goes, "I'm sorry, you're saying that you see along the way undead creatures."
Taliesin: Yes. There's something unnatural over in that direction. We should probably be the ones to investigate.
Matt: "All right. Given the nature of the elemental presence here, we're going to have to probably divide and attack the central place from multiple positions, otherwise they're going to have too strong of a fire-front at the edges of this border. Do you feel confident enough to handle your own sliver of this assault?"
Travis: (scoffs and laughs) Is he serious?
Marisha: Grog. I believe we can handle it.
Laura: We don't have a lot of magic wielders with us, though.
Matt: "That's all right--"
Sam: (clears throat) I'm pretty good.
Laura: A lot of magic wielders.
Travis: Yeah, you're better than good, buddy.
Taliesin: You're okay.
Matt: "Well, we'll keep an eye out. We'll have two of our druids overhead, keeping eyesight. If anything goes wrong, signal up there. You know how, Keyleth. And we'll send them down to aid you. All right."
Laura: Sounds good.
Matt: "The air Ashari will come from the northeast. Cerkonos, take the rest of your tribe, head from the west. You, continue on forward. If this troupe you've found of seemingly lifeless entities looks even remotely dangerous, do not engage. They are not our target. But if this is a scourge that has spread into the Cindergrove, I fear we may be in worse shape than I had originally envisioned. Regardless, stay silent, stay swift." He looks back to the rest of the Air Ashari, and all of them, their outer form shimmers as the wind begins to collect around their feet, ever so quietly, and they all with an intense speed begin to trek at an incredible pace, seemingly blending in with the rock surroundings as they go, disappearing around one side of the Cindergrove forest. Cerkonos and the others nod. Cerkonos looks to the rest of you, brings up his one hand and gives a touch to the top of his chest and sternum and bows his head and goes, "I wish you all great luck. See you on the inside." And the rest of the fire Ashari turn into burning fire elemental forms and begin to streak through the various broken rocks and pieces of glass-shattered obsidian that peppered this landscape in the caldera, leaving the six of you ready to trek forward yourself.
Travis: Scanlan, can you do that?
Sam: Ah, no. No, and I don't think I could learn.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Perfect. So.
Marisha: Let's go.
Laura: Avoid the skeletons?
Marisha: Avoid the skeletons.
Taliesin: Let's take a look, at least.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: We're supposed to make sure they're not part of something larger that's heading in--
Laura: They're in the way, Keyleth.
Marisha: Did you not just hear my father--
Taliesin: He said if they don't bother us, to leave them alone, but that we should just check to make sure that they're not part of something.
Laura: Are they in the path at all, do they look like they're going to be near us when we go?
Matt: They look like, wherever you're traveling-- because there's an open expanse of about 80 or so feet before you actually reach the edge of the Cindergrove, and they're right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, so lest you're very careful, they would technically see you if they're paying attention.
Travis: Yes!
Taliesin: Tread gently and see if they react.
Marisha: Do you have Pass Without a Trace, Vex?
Laura: I do. But, Keyleth, the minute we start fighting, they will notice us, and then they'll attack us from behind.
Taliesin: So it would be best to get their attention now when everything's quiet.
Marisha: We also don't want to waste all of our abilities on undead.
Taliesin: There's only two, maybe four of them.
Matt: There's four of them.
Liam: That we see.
Marisha: Why don't we just tread that way, and we'll see what happens.
Taliesin: That's exactly what we're saying.
Sam: What could happen?
Laura: I guess I use Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Taliesin: You did.
Marisha: Did we already have it?
Laura: Did we already have it? From last time?
Matt: As long as you're maintaining your concentration, how long does it last for? Concentration? I believe it--
Laura: It holds for up to an hour.
Matt: An hour, yeah, so you can still be under that effect.
Laura: Sweet.
Matt: So I would like all six of you to roll stealth checks for me, if you could.
Travis: With triple advantage?
Matt: No. Just the plus ten. Which is better than advantage.
Marisha: Triple advantage.
Travis: 25.
Taliesin: 30.
Marisha: 28.
Liam: 38.
Laura: 30.
Matt: 38--
Sam: 14. (laughter)
Matt: With plus ten?
Sam: With the plus ten.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Incredible.
Sam: Tra-la-la-la-la.
Matt: So as the entire group bends down into a ninja-like stance, just darting across as fast as they can, keeping low to the ground and using much of the shadow of the overhead clouds and smoke that has completely engulfed the above skyscape, behind you, bounding very loudly, is a gentle gnome, swishing brown hair--
Sam: I'm trying to do that thing that the Ashari just did.
Matt: Right. It's not working.
Liam: Hot, hot, hot.
Matt: And as you're darting across, you're jumping over little open globules of molten lava that is starting to pour out from various crevices in the stone floor, you try to hop around to avoid that, and in doing so, your foot catches the edge of a piece of stone, and you begin to go into a tumble. Make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Oh, yes. Mm-hm. Oh, disadvantage, because I'm exhausted.
Matt: You are.
Laura: Oh, shit. I forgot about that.
Liam: The honest gnome.
Sam: Okay. 14.
Matt: (laughs) You do manage to catch yourself, with a slight tumble, skid a bit on your ass, and land on your feet. It would've been a cool three-point landing if anyone else had attempted it, but you just barely catch yourself, look back at the group with a sheepish grin, and out of the corner of your eye, you see one of the undead entities turn its head and look right in your direction.
Laura: (whispering) Good job, Scanlan.
Sam: (whispering) I think it saw Grog.
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: It starts wandering in your direction.
Sam: Should we engage or keep going?
Marisha: I'm afraid if we engage, it could draw attention to an entire slew of what could be around.
Taliesin: Let's just put it down quietly.
Marisha: All right, Jesus Christ.
Taliesin: No magic.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Just weapons.
Laura: No guns.
Taliesin: No guns. I pull my sword.
Marisha: Vex, you might be the most capable of this.
Laura: I shoot it with an arrow.
Matt: All right, roll for an attack.
Laura: Okay. Just going for it. Okay.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: I'm literally, I think I cursed myself sometime between here and San Francisco.
Taliesin: The d20s talk to each other and they know that you're not true.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Can I attack on her heels when she's done?
Matt: At this distance, it'll take a little bit to rush up if you want to--
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: I'll say at this point they're roughly 60 feet from you, so if you wanted to--
Liam: That's my distance.
Matt: Oh, if you go full speed, you can.
Marisha: Daggers.
Matt: Oh, throwing it.
Laura: 15 damage.
Matt: 15 damage. On which one, the skeleton or--
Laura: Oh, that's sneak attack, right? Because I'm hidden.
Matt: It would be from you, yes. The--
Laura: Extra two.
Matt: What? Extra two. Okay. Is this against one of the zombies or one of the skeletons?
Laura: I was doing the one that was walking towards us, I thought the other ones were still in the area--
Matt: All right, then that would be one of the zombies.
Laura: Yeah, okay.
Matt: All right. The arrow streaks through the air, slamming into the chest, and it embeds itself, causing a piece of tendon to snap and curl back inside the torso. Its arm falls a little more limp than it was previously, and it just keeps walking forward.
Laura: I hide.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a stealth check. You--
Liam: They're all grouped together?
Matt: Three of them are grouped together by the tree. The one that noticed is slowly wandering toward you.
Liam: All right, so I'm going to throw at that one as well.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 39. Stealth.
Matt: All right.
Liam: I'm just going to throw one, and just to check, I'm hidden, yeah?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So this is Assassinate, I have advantage because it hasn't gone yet, and it's a crit because I'm surprising it.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. With that, as this zombie entity is hobbling forward, the dagger strikes it right in the center of the skull, right where its mouth and jaw hinge hit, severs the base of the skull to the spine, and the head just rolls off onto the ground underneath. The body takes two more steps before falling forward.
Laura: Yeah, do they all-- did any of the other ones notice that?
Matt: All the other undead creatures all of a sudden turn into the forest, as opposed to towards where the death happened--
Laura: Ah, shit.
Matt: And you see running out from the forest towards you, a blue-skinned humanoid, rushing out, arms in the air.
Chris hardwick: (in an Irish accent) Stop, stop, stop what you're doing! Stop it! What have you done? What have you fucking done? It wasn't hurting anybody! I don't understand it. Jesus Christ, these are not easy to make.
Travis: Are we killing this one?
Sam: No, no, don't kill him, he's precious.
Chris hardwick: What did I do?
Sam: Who are you? Who are you?
Chris hardwick: Who are you, you're fucking shooting at me, you're asking me questions!
Sam: But these are zombies, these are undead, these are creatures of evil!
Laura: They were attacking us, they were attacking him!
Chris hardwick: These were in my employ.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Well, you should keep a leash on them, then.
Chris hardwick: That would be inhumane, wouldn't it?
Sam: They're not human.
Chris hardwick: Well, they were, that's very disrespectful of you, I don't appreciate it.
Liam: Are they pets? Are they friends? Where were you--
Chris hardwick: They're friend-pets.
Liam: You have to be around, though. To keep an eye on them.
Chris hardwick: I know, but I've been traveling out here for a while, and so they provide a layer of protection. Certainly not great now. Now they were four, now there's three.
Liam: Well, listen, when we see these things without an owner around, we take them out, I'm sorry, it's pretty standard.
Sam: This can't be the first time this has happened.
Chris hardwick: It does happen quite a lot, actually, yes. Now that I think about it, it's probably a little bit on me, I suppose.
Sam: Can you make them vests or something that says 'service'?
Chris hardwick: That's a nice idea, as I'm a vest-maker.
Laura: Put them in a bright color, put a happy mask on them or something, so people know they're nice.
Chris hardwick: Certainly, yeah, yeah, masks and vests, that's a great idea.
Matt: You see agreeing before you a blue-scaled dragonborn. If you would like to describe yourself for the party.
Chris hardwick: Yes, sorry, I forgot. Where are my manners? My name is Gern Blanston.
Sam: No, it's not.
Chris hardwick: It's Gern Blanston.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Chris hardwick: This one's very rude.
Travis: He is.
Chris hardwick: You look exhausted.
Sam: This volcano-- do you live near here? This volcano really takes the piss out of you.
Chris hardwick: No, no, no, I don't live near here. Listen, I've been traveling, I'm a simple candlemaker.
Sam: What are you doing on top of a volcano?
Chris hardwick: A volcano is nature's candle! What a stupid question.
Laura: You make candles, but you also make undead?
Chris hardwick: Yes. They're-- yes. They're like people-candles.
Laura: Can I insight and see if he's telling the truth?
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Our lives are so bizarre now.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. He's telling the truth.
Chris hardwick: Why is my brain tingling? Is someone noodling around inside there?
Matt: She eyes you up and down, trying to get a feel for whether or not you're who you say you are.
Chris hardwick: I make special candles. I make special candles. I'm searching for some magical items up here in this volcano. I understand there was a wee bit of damage not long ago from a dragon that had torn through the region, and so I'm just searching for scraps to make these simple candles. That's why-- this is my dance vest. I think dancing is very important. I'm alone most of the time, it keeps me occupied. They have no appreciation for the arts, these undead creatures that are friend-pets, and, you know, I've just been digging around up here, seeing what I can scrounge up and find. What are you lot?
Travis: Wait, are they special candles or are they simple candles?
Chris hardwick: Well, some are simple. Some just create light, and others create tragedy for people.
Sam: They're magical candles?
Chris hardwick: Yes, in a word. Actually, magic is the perfect word.
Marisha: Who exactly is the patronage of your candle business? Who do you sell to?
Chris hardwick: I mean, I sell to no one in particular, really. I have to be a little choosy about who gets the candles, but it's something that I've crafted over the years.
Sam: Well, we feel dreadful about killing one of your pets.
Marisha: I'm so sorry.
Sam: Perhaps we can purchase a candle off of you to make amends.
Chris hardwick: Well, maybe you could just kill someone else, and then I could just bring them back, I mean, that would be a wonderful way to repay.
Laura: Well, you know what, we're on our way to do just that thing.
Chris hardwick: Really?
Marisha: Things do tend to die around us a lot.
Travis: Something larger things, sometimes smaller things.
Sam: Would you like a body to reanimate or something?
Marisha: You might get something even bigger.
Chris hardwick: Are you inviting me to come along with you?
Sam: I don't know. Are we?
Chris hardwick: Did I just invite myself to come along with you?
Travis: Well maybe, like, if you give us one of those tragedy candles, we can always light it for somebody. That could be good down the road.
Marisha: Oh, like candles for funerals? That's sad. We do have a lot of tragedy.
Travis: We bake somebody a cake, we shove a candle in the top, and we give it to them.
Chris hardwick: I don't think that would be a grand idea unless you didn't like the person very much.
Travis: Well, that's what I meant, yeah.
Chris hardwick: Well, I think for now I'll just hold onto the candles I have and just see how things pan out. I really don't know any of you.
Sam: We're Vox Machina, a traveling band of adventurers led by me, Scanlan Shorthalt, and these are my compatriots. We're on a very important mission to get-- what are we doing?
Marisha: We're trying to close this giant rift that we're walking into.
Sam: We have to break something big and scary.
Chris hardwick: What's your name again?
Sam: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Chris hardwick: No, what's the name of your group?
Laura: Vox Machina.
Chris hardwick: No offense, but that sounds like a shite band.
Laura: Thank you.
Chris hardwick: Are you musicians?
Taliesin: It's better than Tragedy Candle, really, I mean that's a shite band, to be fair.
Chris hardwick: (laughs) They opened for Vox Machina. They were fantastic. Oh, am I not thinking of the right thing? That's all right.
Sam: I'm a musician.
Chris hardwick: Excellent.
Sam: But these people, they can't really hold a tune so much.
Chris hardwick: Listen, seeing as how that you've killed one of my undead thralls, it'd be really nice if I could join you to see if maybe we can scrounge up some other things along the way.
Laura: Then you'll help us?
Chris hardwick: I mean, we'll see how it pans out, but I feel like everything would come to an abrupt ending if I just walked away at this point.
Laura: It would be very strange.
Chris hardwick: Thoroughly unsatisfying for anyone else who might be witnessing this exchange.
Sam: Your undead pets, are they going to try and eat our brains or anything?
Chris hardwick: No, no, they're just fine. That right there is Coral, and that's Stimpy, and that's Fatty Arbuckle.
Sam: Who was the one that we killed?
Chris hardwick: Oh, that was Carol. Very sad, very sad indeed.
Laura: Carol and Coral?
Chris hardwick: Carol and Coral. I get them confused.
Marisha: Were they sisters?
Chris hardwick: No, no, no, they were not initially related, but we became a makeshift family after a while.
Sam: Oh, that's very beautiful.
Chris hardwick: I notice subtle differences that most of the living doesn't notice.
Travis: Aren't we supposed to be doing something really like--
Laura: Yeah, tell you what, Gern, we're actually--
Liam: It's dangerous around us, I don't know--
Laura: We should probably press on, and you can join us with your family.
Chris hardwick: Please, that would be very nice.
Travis: What was your name, one more time?
Chris hardwick: Gern Blanston.
Travis: Yeah, okay.
Chris hardwick: Gern.
Travis: Well, let's go, let's move along then, Gern, yeah? You good to come along with your herd of--
Sam: Can you fight and stuff in case shit goes down?
Marisha: If you make magical candles, you must know a little bit of magic, correct?
Chris hardwick: I'm a little bit better of a spellcaster than I am a fisticuffs type of person.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Perfect. We're short on magic people. That's wonderful.
Chris hardwick: Excellent. No offense.
Sam: All taken.
Travis: We move along.
Laura: Are we still trying to stealth? Or does it even matter?
Liam: Your dead things don't stealth, I would assume?
Chris hardwick: They're not very delicate, unfortunately. No, no, they're really for protection. Now, the zombies can really take a lot of damage to the front of the chest and the skeletons are quite quick, actually. So, you know. They've been fairly good for a while.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: We head towards the thing.
Travis: Stealthily.
Chris hardwick: To the thing!
Travis: Shush! Stealthily.
Chris hardwick: (whispering) To the thing!
Matt: Go ahead and make a stealth check, if you don't mind, Gern.
Laura: Does my Pass Without a Trace work on him too, does it like envelop him--
Matt: Nope. He wasn't there when you cast it.
Chris hardwick: 11.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: 11?
Taliesin: He's not under Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: No, and then-- No. As you guys begin stealthily, there is a couple of (footfalls) heavy footfalls of the lumbering dragonborn.
Chris hardwick: These old dragon feet--
Matt: No tail on this one.
Sam: What happened to your tail?
Chris hardwick: Please don't ask me about that.
Sam: Okay, I won't.
Matt: The only other dragonborn you've seen without a tail was the paladin that worked in the Council. Tofor Brotorus. So, that does catch your attention a little bit. Not just the dragonborn lumbering, but now the three undead that are (groaning) stepping behind.
Laura: They're worse than Trinket, Scanlan.
Marisha: I don't know. I don't know if stealth is going to be a thing, going forward.
Taliesin: (whistling)
Travis: Yeah! (whistles)
Laura: Okay.
Chris hardwick: Sorry, these dragon lips can't whistle. Mostly just fire comes out.
Matt: And it's at that point you hear the cracking of what sounds like heavy timber, no more than 30 feet away from you. You all stop in place suddenly and you glance over and you can see the flickering of light of what appears to be a flame-based elemental energy that's tearing over the side of a newly fallen petrifoid-- petrifoid-- (mocking Chris' accent) petrifoid tree, look what you've done to me! This is your fault!
Travis: Gern, son of a bitch.
Chris hardwick: Purple hearts, green stars! Purple hearts.
Sam: Seen some shit.
Chris hardwick: Special veteran's edition of Lucky Charms.
Matt: Very, very Lucky Charms.
Chris hardwick: Very Lucky Charms.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: So!
Taliesin: Well, that got dark.
Matt: Yeah, how about that?
Liam: Back to normal, then, eh?
Taliesin: Yeah, okay.
Matt: So. As the flame begins to trickle and burn over the edge, you can see there is an intelligence to it. There are a couple of arms that writhe over the side and the head pops over and glances, and stops in place, frozen, staring over in the direction of the bounding dragonborn.
Marisha: It's a fire elemental?
Matt: It's smaller than what you're used to seeing, but it is indeed a creature made of elemental flame.
Marisha: Would he be considered a primordial?
Matt: It would be considered an elemental.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay. So you're using your transform--
Marisha: Seeing it, I'm going to transform and go into my fire elemental.
Travis: Is this the first time you've done that?
Laura: No no, she's done that.
Marisha: Is this the first time I've been fire elemental?
Matt: I think it's the first time you've been fire elemental, yeah?
Laura: Really?
Marisha: Yeah, learned from Cerkonos, yeah.
Matt: So, you guys watch as Keyleth's form suddenly erupts into flame, which freaks you out for a second, as you're uncertain as to whether or not she did that.
Travis: Keyleth! Are you all right?
Marisha: In fire elemental, just like--
Laura: Does it still look like Keyleth or-- what does it look like?
Matt: It has for a moment, an essence of Keyleth's more lithe form that most elementals would, but still these long, curling flame like-arms, these eyes that glow a bright white fire in the center of the face. Other than that, relatively formless other than what looks like where her hair would be, these wisps of flame curl up behind her.
Laura: Pretty freaking sick. Can you talk to it?
Marisha: That's what I'm going to go do.
Matt: So as you approach the elemental form--
Marisha: So I approach and I'm going to do the animal instinct thing and poof up and make myself a little big.
Matt: The creature behind the form, you can see, is drifting away from the trunk of the tree.
Marisha: Oh, it's running from me?
Matt: It's turned away and is moving away from you, yeah.
Sam: That was easy.
Marisha: Deuces. And I roll back.
Laura: I thought we were supposed to keep them from coming out into this world.
Marisha: Are we-- wait. Are we in the fire plane yet?
Matt: No no, you're just-- you're in the caldera to--
Marisha: Oh, we're in the caldera.
Matt: Yeah, you haven't traversed the plane. You're making your way into the remnants of the Cindergrove.
Laura: Maybe you should ask it to go back.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to say "Halt!" in Ignan. Which I'm assuming it speaks.
Matt: You guys hear in the distance this echo of this weird sucking-crackling sound that goes-- It halts for a second, looks over its shoulder and then goes into double speed, disappearing into the trees. Away from you.
Travis: Kind of following your lead here.
Marisha: I follow after it and I say, in the name of the guardians of this realm, you will stop!
Matt: Okay, as you follow it past the initial treeline, it's where a bunch of trees have fallen over and formed a small blockade in this portion of the forest. You glance over as you're shouting that and you can see what appear to be another of the same small elemental that this one has gone to, to have a brief conversation. Beyond that, you see a larger one, roughly your size, that has just turned around and noticed your presence, and all of them look over at what appears to be another humanoid creature, but instead of a lower torso of legs, it's an elongated snake-like body, its black and red scales across its entire form, two human arms and a humanoid face but these webbed red spines down its entire back.
Sam: Gern, is that one of yours? That's you, Gern. Gern.
Chris hardwick: No, I don't know who this is. I don't-- I'm not familiar. I'm not familiar with who this is.
Laura: I take my potion of fire resistance.
Chris hardwick: I could send them a present in the form of a candle, if you prefer.
Laura: Do it.
Matt: At this point in time, Keyleth, as you're standing there, looking over this edge, they all turn and the creature, the weird-- I'll say it-- a salamander-like creature, begins shouting out phrases in Ignan, which you understand. It says, "Go! He's not here yet! Alleviate this uncontrolled one!" At which point, they all begin to swarm towards you.
Marisha: At which point I'm going to do a fire intimidation tactic. I'm going to do a fire radial thing. And I'm going to say, as the leader of this realm, as the Kaitaki of the Fire Nation, you will heed my word.
Chris hardwick: Quite dramatic, isn't she?
Matt: As you guys are watching this from a distance, all you hear is (guttural noises). It's really confusing and a little hilarious, to be honest.
Laura: I think it's going well.
Matt: I need you to make an intimidation check.
Marisha: No, that one fails me a lot.
Travis: Yeah, sure it fails you.
Matt: What you got, Keyleth?
Marisha: It does! Shut up, Travis. Natural 20!
Travis: Ha. Thought I made a point.
Matt: All right. As this happens, the two smaller elementals shrink down and glance over at the larger one. The larger one looks about and shouts back at you in Ignan, once again: "Do you serve him?"
Marisha: It doesn't matter who I serve, for I am above him. I am your master now. This is not your realm. Get back into the fire plane. Where you came from.
Matt: He looks back at the long snake-like humanoid who's standing there who glances at the other one and goes, "She wants us back. Very well." And they all turn around and begin to slowly drift back towards the center of the Cindergrove where the flickering light was.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Laura: Good job, Keyleth!
Travis: We don't know what happened, why are we clapping?
Laura: They're turning around, they're heading back in that direction!
Marisha: I fly back over to them, still in fire elemental form--
Liam: Whoa whoa whoa!
Marisha: And I'm like  You guys! Did you see that! It was really crazy! Did you see? Did you see? They think I'm their leader! They think I'm their god!
Travis: Is she talking in normal, or is she talking in the (flickering flames).
Matt: (flickering flames)
Travis: Yeah, no idea what you're doing or saying.
Laura: You're very scary right now, dear.
Chris hardwick: Is she going to be sick?
Travis: I think so. I might have to tackle you if you don't calm the fuck down.
Marisha: I chill out. I chill out, I can't revert back, though, guys, because I want to stay in this.
Matt: So the fire elemental is just like (calm whoosh). And it's more of a smoldering sad elemental at the moment.
Marisha: I give them a fire thumbs-up.
Matt: There you go. Strong sad elemental.
Liam: First word. Two syllables.
Travis: So, they're going back. Do we move on?
Laura: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to take off, leading in my fire elemental form, deeper towards the rift. Keeping my eye out for any elementals that might be escaping.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is her game.
Travis: Yeah, but it's on fire.
Matt: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
Laura: What?
Chris hardwick: 18.
Matt: Okay. Vex, make a perception check.
Travis: Roll high.
Laura: Pressure!
Taliesin: Use one of your good dice.
Laura: Perception.
Liam: And roll bad.
Laura: Shut up.
Taliesin: Should've used the good dice.
Laura: 30. No. 28.
Matt: 28?
Sam: Yep! Wait, are you exhausted?
Matt: Yeah, you are.
Laura: On everything?
Matt: Skill check. Roll again.
Laura: No, even better!
Travis: Even better.
Liam: So it's the earlier.
Matt: So it's the earlier one, yeah. Okay. You just see, as you're all just walking along, your new blue dragonborn friend just reaches down and snatches something from the dirt, pockets it and keeps walking.
Laura: I follow behind him and keep watching him. Can I see what it was?
Matt: You have no idea. You just see a little cluster of ash and dust on the ground that's been partially disturbed. All right. As you continue to press forward, you hear in the distance a loud cracking sound echoing, and you can see what appear to be a number of trees in the far-off side to the northeastern side of the forest, as a brief whirlwind flickers up. You assume this is probably from the Fire Ashari, who've taken that side of the entranceway, and you can see two flickering lights drift up in the air before sparking out in the distance.
Travis: Ooh, really?
Laura: Should we let them know we're in place, then?
Marisha: I'll throw up a Skywrite. Or actually, as a fire elemental, can I just be like (fire flares) in fire elemental form?
Matt: I mean, you can make some localized fire happen.
Marisha: Can I send up a little bit like a flare?
Matt: Not in the way you would want to, you'd have to drop form for that and cast a spell.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: I'm going to set an arrow on fire and shoot it up in the air.
Marisha: I don't realize she's doing it.
Matt: Okay. As you go ahead and take the arrow-- What do you have around the edge that are going to-- are you just going to light the shaft on fire?
Laura: No, I'm going to tie some of my cloth from-- you know-- that I have-- The thing.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I take some cloth from the Bag of Holding, from one of those old fancy cloaks that we have.
Travis: Better ask first.
Laura: (sighs) Seriously?! Can I have some of the fancy cloak? Grog, out of the Bag of Holding, please?
Travis: Oh, are you hot right now? It's so weird.
Laura: Jesus Christ. Please.
Travis: Oh, all right. Fancy cloak.
Matt: There you go. The arrow arcs off. Vanishes across the little bit of the remaining treeline.
Laura: No idea if they saw that.
Matt: All right. Do you guys continue to press forward?
Marisha: Hold for a second. And wait for Team Three's response?
Sam: There's a third team?
Marisha: Right, there's a third team. Three teams, right?
Laura: All the other teams already responded. We were the third.
Marisha: Oh! One, two, we were three. Okay, yeah.
Matt: Okay. You begin to push further forward towards the center of the Cindergrove, as you're noticing more and more of these trees are pushed flat. It's almost like that Russian forest the meteor had landed in and exploded; all the trees are flattened--
Chris hardwick: Tunguska.
Matt: Think Tunguska, thank you. Where you begin to climb over a number of these flattened portions of the forest, and in the center you can see that one river of molten rock that had been trickling down the front of the mountain is sourced here in the center, where once previously you guys had performed a ritual to pass into the elemental plane, has now torn into this extremely bright rift that flickers. It's like looking into the sun, you have to avert your gaze; you cannot look directly at it without actually hurting your eyesight. And you can see, there are multiple paths of this molten lava, pouring out from this new volcanic activity. You can see it burbling up and bubbling underneath, like the very presence of this tear itself is causing the activity to just raise and grow more fervent. At the base of the rift, you can see a number of other elemental creatures that are in the process of surrounding this opening-- (door creak)
Matt: -- and you can-- Everything all right, Ryan?
Ryan: I am not here.
Matt: You're not here, okay?
Sam: You don't know.
Matt: I don't know.
Chris hardwick: You guys see him too?
Matt: Perfect. As you can see, all these elemental entities are swirling around. There are two more of these strange, snake-like humans, these salamander-like creatures that are discussing, and one really large one that stands there holding this strange trident-like structure, and it's shouting out commands left and right, and you can see these salamander entities and a number of these elementals are all gathered around the portal, and they're all just focusing this slow, steady beam towards it. And as you can see it tearing, flickering and slowly expanding with each popping expansion of this doorway, the ground itself shifts and rumbles.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark the big one.
Matt: All right.
Chris hardwick: Can I send a candle?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah.
Chris hardwick: All right, what am I looking at, here? Fire? There's a bit of fire?
Matt: There's a lot of fire. Most of these entities are either fire essence or just made out of straight flame.
Chris hardwick: I'd like to call over the skeleton known as Fatty Arbuckle. I'd like to give Fatty Arbuckle an Ice Storm Candle.
Matt: All right.
Chris hardwick: And ask him to kindly deliver it to the center of this melee that's happening just up ahead.
Sam: Won't that kill your friend?
Chris hardwick: Oh. He's had a good run.
Taliesin: I'm feeling a lot less guilty, suddenly.
Chris hardwick: Well, I can do it! What I don't appreciate is when other people do it.
Sam: That's fair. That's fair.
Chris hardwick: You know, it's my choice. Never said it was okay for you to start lighting them up with arrows. Jesus Christ, whoever that is.
Laura: I'm Vex'ahlia, nice to meet you.
Matt: Fatty Arbuckle, skeletal claws clasped around the side of this marbled-looking, bluish-white candle, and clutches it and just goes (snarl).
Chris hardwick: Yes, off you trot, go!
Sam: You don't have to demean him as he goes.
Taliesin: I was really hoping for a Fatty Arbuckle skeleton impression. I was really, really hoping for it. What you did was cool, but like, that was just my heart.
Chris hardwick: They can't speak. They don't have voice boxes or anything.
Matt: As it shuffles forward, down this ashen pit towards the dome where the lava itself is beginning to pour forth and the doorway is, you can see the shadow of its form as the light passes. It looks like the cover of The Thing, how it's just bright light coursing past this dark image of the skeleton, walking away from you.
Laura: Maybe we should duck down, so that nobody knows where that came from.
Chris hardwick: Oh, yes, get ten feet back, I should've said that already.
Matt: It's walked quite a distance, thankfully, at this point. It's probably a good 40 or 50 feet before it reaches the first salamander. And you see, as it begins to step forward, they all turn and look, and one of them shouts over (snarling). One of them glances over, reaches out and pulls out a long, brass-colored longbow and begins to notch an arrow carefully, as it hobbles forward. They look at each other. One of them shouts out in Ignan, which you understand, Keyleth, shouting, "You! Who walks here?" Just keeps walking forward like a little wind-up toy made of bone. Until eventually, the one with the bow gives a nudge with its head, and the other salamander entity draws a heavy-bladed object and begins to step forward towards it, ready to go ahead and cleave it. As the skeleton steps forward, it gets right at the corner of its range. Do you want to command it?
Marisha: I feel like Helen Hunt in that moment in Twister.
Chris hardwick: Squeeze the candle, Fatty Arbuckle!
Matt: At which point, the skeleton, just as the blade sweeps past and crashes into its torso, shattering the rib cage, the arms go (crack). The wax bends and cracks in the center, and there's a brief pause where nothing seems to happen. And a swirl of sudden, localized storming blizzard just encases a ten-foot radius, hitting both of those salamander creatures. What does it say on the candle specifically?
Chris hardwick: On the Ice Storm Candle. All affected must make a dexterity saving throw, DC 12, or suffer 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: That's a fail and a save. And it's half damage on success?
Chris hardwick: Half damage on success.
Matt: Great. Okay, so one of them failed and one of them saved. So go ahead and roll 4d6 damage.
Travis: Dang. I think that's a good way to start.
Chris hardwick: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh boy. Three, six, nine.
Matt: Nine? Okay, nine and five cold damage to each. So (bang) it blasts open. Oh, and a dexterity check for your buddy, who makes it! So, Fatty Arbuckle actually walks out of there with a mere five points of cold damage.
Laura: Nice, Fatty!
Matt: Out of ice and frost. His busted-open rib cage, though, he did suffer...
Liam: Super duper!
Travis: Putting on the Ritz!
Matt: Did suffer seven damage from the impact of this weapon. So Fatty Arbuckle, pretty damaged, but still standing there just going (snarling).
Chris hardwick: Keep standing, Fatty, you can do it! I love you, Fatty!
Matt: Is everyone just going to sit back at this, or--?
Laura: No, we should probably attack.
Matt: It's up to you. Or you can watch this horrible bludgeoning of this skeleton in the teeth of death.
Travis: When I see the salamander take out the big, shiny sharp thing, I go into a rage.
Laura: I hide.
Matt: All right. Travis, I assume you're going to be rushing in there, then?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Anyone who wishes to immediately go into battle now, let's roll initiative.
Taliesin: All right. I'm in on this.
Matt: All right. Let me go ahead and--
Sam: For Fatty!
Marisha: So these are all fire elementals. Should I continue--
Taliesin: Oh, hell yeah.
Chris hardwick: Ah, nice.
Laura: Should we roll for stealth again, or are we still stealthed?
Chris hardwick: I was just shouting at a skeleton.
Laura: Oh, I know, I was trying to hide, though. Like, back away from you as you were doing that.
Travis: The candle turned into a blizzard, so. Ooh!
Taliesin: Is it a candle, though? It's like a thing, like there's no--
Liam: And I mean, Gern was shouting.
Taliesin: It's a candle the way the wheelie things are hoverboards. I think it's weird.
Chris hardwick: And they also catch on fire. They also explode.
Matt: All right, so this is quite a ways away from the portal itself. Lava flow traveling around that side.
Taliesin: Oh, look at that!
Matt: All right, and we have Keyleth over here as the fire elemental.
Laura: You're at the portal.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: That's okay. We're all going to die.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: Where's the big one?
Matt: The big one that you haven't seen yet?
Laura: The big one that I Hunter's Marked.
Taliesin: That one. The one holding the tridenty thing.
Matt: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Whoa. Look at how pretty those lava bubbles look!
Sam: Is that Gern?
Matt: That's Gern right there. We have Fatty Arbuckle.
Taliesin: Fatty!
Matt: And chilling over here, we have Coral and Stimpy.
Travis: What is that crater? Is that just a crater?
Liam: I think that's the portal they were trying to--
Sam: So these are fire elementals, yes?
Matt: They seem to be fire-based creatures, yes.
Liam: Hey, DM!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: You said they were ripping open the portal? Where is that on the map?
Matt: It's back, it's this far back.
Liam: Way back, okay.
Travis: That crater's just a crater, though?
Matt: Yeah. There is a pool of magma that goes this way. You guys are on one side of it, and pushing this way further, the rest of the actual portal's back this far. All right. So, initiative order, we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Sam: 22.
Taliesin: 27.
Travis: Fucking Percy. Jesus. Every time. You motherfucker.
Taliesin: I'm fast as fuck.
Matt: Okay. 20 to 15.
Travis: 17.
Chris hardwick: 19.
Liam: 16. Carl!
Matt: All right.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. Keyleth?
Marisha: Four.
Matt: All right, great. So, top of the round, Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my pistol. I'm going to do a trick shot for the arms. Actually, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my bonus action to-- you know, actually, I'm going to hold off on that. I'm going to make an arm shot to the one with the trident.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That was my first shot. And that's 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: And that's a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is going to be a 20.
Taliesin: That just barely makes it.
Matt: Aw. The blast of your impact (bang) hits the arm. He manages to hold onto his trident-like weapon.
Taliesin: That's fine. He's going to take his damage, and then he's going to take another one of those, because eff that.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: Because eff that.
Taliesin: That's 13 points of damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage. All righty.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to take another shot.
Matt: Go for it. Scanlan, you're up on deck, by the way, so be ready.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: Strength check.
Matt: That's a nine.
Taliesin: He dropped that.
Matt: Failure. (gunshot) You see his fingers are pried off as one of his pinky fingers is actually blown off from the impact, shooting dark, deep crimson blood that seems to burn the landscape around as it drips, the trident tumbling to the ground and getting lodged in a piece of rock, almost ready to spill into part of the lava.
Taliesin: And that does seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage, all righty.
Taliesin: Third shot's going to be a sharpshooter shot.
Matt: All righty. So minus five to the attack.
Taliesin: That's probably going to miss. 14.
Matt: 14, unfortunately, misses.
Taliesin: All right. That misses. I'm going to take a run behind and hide behind that rock outcropping.
Matt: There? Okay. Got it. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I see that big thing in the back?
Matt: This big thing here? Yeah, the fire elemental. You see that.
Sam: Okay. And the thing next to Fatty Arbuckle is also a baddie, yeah? They're all baddies?
Matt: These things are all baddies here.
Sam: All right. I'm going to take 15 feet, step to my right to put me in a straight line with the guy next to Fatty and the big guy behind him. And then fire a Lightning Bolt straight ahead to hit both of them. I hope they're not immune to lightning. We'll find out.
Matt: All righty. So, and you watch out of the corner as well, Gern, you see this tiny little gnome step to the side, conjure some arcane purplish-blue energy, and then thrust his pelvis forward as a bolt of lightning energy just rockets forth, tearing--
Sam: From my penis.
Chris hardwick: Nice. Of course.
Sam: Just felt like I had to make that clear.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I don't think I've ever seen that happen before.
Taliesin: We have.
Laura: So many times.
Chris hardwick: Have to get that looked at.
Matt: Slamming both into the larger salamander creature and the elemental behind it. Go ahead and roll 8d6 damage. What's the DC on this?
Sam: Is it my spell save DC?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: With the hand-cone?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Ooh! That is a failure and a failure!
Travis: Yes!
Matt: All right. So full damage against both.
Sam: 27.
Matt: Oof. All righty. As the bolt of lightning energy tears through both of them, eventually absorbed into the stone behind them, the elemental flame form flickers and falls to the ground for a second, trying to reform itself, while the salamander looks down at this blackened, burned char mark in the center of its torso from where the bolt entered and exited out of its back to strike its compadre. Not too happy, and confused how such a large, damaging thing came from such a small little creature.
Sam: It's powerful. Then I'll turn to our new friend Gern, and I will inspire him. I'll say, please, help us, and to inspire you I will sing you a song. And I will sing--
Chris hardwick: Pretty inspired by your dick lightning, to be honest.
Sam: Oh, there's more.
Chris hardwick: You think a song's going to get better than that?
Sam: It might! It might. And so I sing (singing) To everything, Gern, Gern, Gern. There is a season, Gern, Gern, Gern. I just like to sing your name, Gern Blanston. Did that help?
Chris hardwick: Do I have to roll to determine if that was helpful or not?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Chris hardwick: Certainly.
Matt: Roll a d20 for musical taste.
Chris hardwick: Four.
Matt: Four. It catches you by the ear with delight.
Chris hardwick: It's not bad, actually. It's not bad.
Matt: Your general frustration with modern music is completely bisected by the more oldies, classical sound of his tune.
Chris hardwick: I quite enjoyed how you worked my first name into that, actually. No one's ever done that before.
Matt: So you get a d10 inspiration dice.
Chris hardwick: All right.
Matt: So just keep that on the side. If ever you make an attack roll or a saving throw that isn't as high as you want it to be, you can then roll that and add the d10 to that roll.
Chris hardwick: Okay, great.
Matt: So you just have that in the wings, as you feel inspired.
Taliesin: We'll try and remind you if something affects it.
Chris hardwick: Thank you very much. Excellent.
Matt: All right. That brings it to the elementals' turn. Now, this flame elemental is going to streak over (whoosh) to Blern who's-- or, no, sorry, this is to Fatty Arbuckle. There's too many weird names tonight. And this larger fire elemental here is going to--
Chris hardwick: Oh, Fatty. He served me well.
Sam: I don't know, he's got a fighting chance. I love that we were scrambling for d6's when we have this right in front of us.
Chris hardwick: Are there any dice around anywhere?
Sam: Where are we going to find...?
Taliesin: I'm just waiting for the hand to go in and just--
Chris hardwick: I found this polyhedral vase and I had to fill it with nine pounds of dice.
Travis: He went the long way.
Matt: He's not doing anything, he used his whole round to get there.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Matt: But now, as the larger elemental burns into the center of Scanlan, Percy, you can feel, just his presence itself is extremely, dangerously hot. The air around you is blistering. You can feel your hair curl back in its presence. The small elemental is going to go ahead and make two attacks against Fatty Arbuckle.
Chris hardwick: Ah, shite.
Matt: That's going to be a nine to hit. I think his AC's 13, so I don't think it's going to hit, yeah. Second one rolls a one.
Sam: Fatty lives!
Travis: Fatty just don't want to die.
Taliesin: Can't keep Fatty down.
Liam: Bob and weave, Fatty, bob and weave!
Chris hardwick: Don't step too hard, Fatty! You won't be able to take it!
Matt: And with that, Grog, it's your turn. So you go into your rage at the top of your turn, and then what would you like to do?
Travis: Can I use, I guess, my entire action to run towards Scanlan?
Matt: What's your speed again?
Travis: 50.
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40. You can get right there between Scanlan and this creature if you want to.
Travis: That's about it, huh?
Matt: I'd say that's your movement. You can move ten more feet if you want to.
Sam: You can leap over me.
Travis: Nah, we need to spread out. Can I go back and arc the other way? Can I run to the left as far as I can?
Matt: This way?
Travis: No, from where my starting point was.
Matt: Oh, you mean like this way instead?
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, back towards you, around the pool.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get, right there. If you do not attack anything, you would lose your rage.
Travis: I fall out of my rage, yeah. So I fall out of it. Can I throw something? I guess I can, yeah.
Matt: You can throw your weapon if you want to.
Travis: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to Craven Edge? And I'll throw it at trident-less bastard right there, yeah.
Matt: Go for it. So you watch as this muscle-bound goliath comes leaping around the corner as it affixes a chain to the edge of its weapon, flinging a two-handed sword like a giant boomerang and--
Travis: Only 14.
Matt: 14, against the larger one?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Unfortunately, it makes an impact, but it just ricochets off of its plated body armor, and then tumbles to the ground. You can go ahead and make your--
Travis: Thing to pull it back. Strength. 18.
Matt: Okay, no problem. You pull it back with the chain and catch it mid-air. Ending your turn there?
Travis: Keeping my rage.
Matt: Indeed. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, so I rev up the Boots of Haste and I'm going to run right next to Vex'ahlia, on the very edge of the map. And the fire elemental there's right up against Percy, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. I'm going to stab him three times in his fire buttocks. First one is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a 16.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is a 14.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Hits, okay. So, first one's sneak attack, so, shite. An eight-- I'll add that on at the end. Here come the dice. Two, four, seven, ten, 16, 21, 27, 28. 28 plus two is 30, 36, for that first with sneak attack damage.
Matt: Oof! His form flickers briefly for a moment from the sheer impact of the dagger hit.
Liam: Second dagger does seven, and third swipe does nine.
Matt: Nine. All righty. The two other daggers impact, partially passing through its form, not quite as impactful as the first. That first one did seemingly cause the creature to have a hard time coalescing its fire-wreathed physicality. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Gern, you're up. So you're right there.
Chris hardwick: I'm right there. How far can I run and cast a spell at the ones around Fatty?
Matt: 30 feet is how far you can run, and that's about six squares.
Chris hardwick: If I were to cast a bit of-- how about a Cone of Cold, could I cast a Cone of Cold at the fire elementals?
Matt: You could, you could very much so.
Liam: That sounds delightful.
Chris hardwick: I could cast Ice Storm, but that's a general malaise of middle-aged couples living in a neighborhood, becoming aware of their dead-end lives.
Matt: All right, so you want to move around here?
Chris hardwick: Yes, let's move around that bit right there. And I'd like to cast Cone of Cold. I might unfortunately have to take out Fatty, but--
Matt: Yeah, there's probably a good chance, this is not going to be-- After everything else Fatty's survived, his own master deals him the possible finishing blow.
Chris hardwick: I feel like I should be the one to do it.
Sam: Of course.
Chris hardwick: It's much more humane.
Sam: It's poetic.
Chris hardwick: I think so.
Marisha: You brought him into this world.
Chris hardwick: This is what Fatty would've wanted.
Matt: Everything under that area gets affected. So yeah, you could do that.
Chris hardwick: Yeah, don't worry about it. It's fine. No big thing. This old spell? I mean.
Liam: Y'all want to go to the DQ and get a cone of cold?
Matt: What's your spell DC? It should be at the top of your spell page.
Chris hardwick: It is 16.
Matt: 16, all right. And it is a constitution save, let's see if they make it. That is a failure, a failure, and a failure.
Sam: What about Fatty, did he succeed?
Matt: Oh, I'll roll for Fatty. Fatty does not succeed. Nope.
Laura: It was inevitable.
Matt: Nope. All right, go ahead and roll 8d8 points of cold damage.
Sam: Jeez. Oh man, these are not used a lot.
Chris hardwick: I have four. Let's see, I have a whole-- there's another one here... They're not that easy to get to. Two, four, six. I need two more.
Sam: Two more? Good gravy.
Chris hardwick: Is this one?
Sam: Yep.
Chris hardwick: Here's one, and... D'oh!
Laura: This is why I sort my dice at the beginning of the game...
Chris hardwick: Sorry, it sounded like there was something coming from the other side of the room.
Sam: Taliesin, you don't have a d8?
Chris hardwick: Do you have a d8 I can borrow?
Taliesin: I actually don't. I don't know what happened to my d8's. I'll buy some at the convention tomorrow.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: By the way, guys, if we hit 16k before the end of tonight's show, we're going to go ahead and have a sloth come into the studio.
Laura: What?!
Matt: 16K and a sloth!
Marisha: 16K and a sloth!
Marisha: I know! I know!
Laura: When? When?
Travis: What?
Sam: An actual sloth?
Liam: Is it going to play with us?
Laura: Can we hold it?
Travis: Focus, focus.
Chris hardwick: Seven, 14, 21, 27, 31, 34, 38, 44!
All: Oh!
Matt: 44, all...
Laura: (mocking Gern's accent) Farty-far pints o' cald damage!
Chris hardwick: I don't think I appreciate that very fucking much! I'm saving all your fucking arses out here! For crumb's sake!
Matt: As he's shouting out at you, releasing this amazing, condensed blast of pure winter hell in front of him, it comes scattering across this way, freezing the corner of this, turning partially some of the lava here to stone just by proximity, blasts past these entities, and as the arcane snow comes to rest, you can see the fire elemental here itself is having a hard time keeping itself together. Its flame is (whoosh) sputtering and flickering, barely keeping itself together. However, by its side you see three very still frozen-solid statuettes of the remnants of the two salamanders and Fatty Arbuckle. Taken by the cold of winter.
Marisha: Oh, shit. That was awesome.
Sam: Maybe you can reanimate him.
Chris hardwick: It's too late. He's no good any longer.
Sam: Freezer burn?
Chris hardwick: Move on. I have.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of remembering that, too, put a couple of: frozen, frozen, and frozen.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Let it go, let it go.
Matt: All right. I believe that ends your turn, Gern? All right. It would be the salamanders' turn, but they're frozen. Damn, they got pummeled. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Awesome. Wait, so they can unfreeze? Or are they basically frozen until something--
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: (groans) Okay. That yellow one behind me, that's Keyleth, right?
Matt: You believe so.
Laura: Okay. I know, right? I'm going to flip backwards like ten feet.
Matt: All right, right behind it.
Laura: I don't want to be around anybody else, so I'm going to flip over the lava pit and go out there.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Oh, don't burn your foot. Ooh!
Laura: That would be 38.
Matt: Without issue, you land-- not even, no. Two-point landing, on your feet, knee down, still clutching your ready-to-go bow, unscathed by the boiling cauldron of molten rock.
Laura: And I Hunter's Mark the guy attacking near Percy and Scanlan and I shoot two arrows into him.
Matt: Okay, right there. Go for it. Two attacks.
Laura: Ugh. Where is my thing? Hold on, sorry. (giggles)
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth.
Laura: 21?
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: And 17.
Matt: Both hit.
Travis: That's nice.
Laura: 17 on the first hit.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And then 18 on the second hit.
Matt: Nice! Both arrows burn to ash when they impact, but the sheer blow and the magical energy behind it from the bow that you threw it from hit it and you can see it begin to shake its form even more, itself. Did you do the Hunter's Mark damage as well?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, good. Cool. That end your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Work with me here.
Matt: Okay. All right, whatcha got, whatcha got?
Marisha: So here's what I want to do. I want to go low and dive into that lava pit in front of me.
Sam: Ooh! Sounds scary.
Marisha: And I want to-- using the lava around me to rise out of the lava and look really scary and badass, and then I'm going to shout to the living elementals, I'm going to be like, hear my warning! I am your new master! Retreat to the Fire Plane or meet your imminent demise! This is your last chance.
Sam: Pretty good. Pretty good.
Taliesin: Way better than last time.
Marisha: Thanks! Thanks, guys. And if you'd like to meet for coffee later I might be available.
Matt: I'll say, given the use of lava control in this, they are still elementals, go ahead and make a persuasion check. No, intimidate, this would be intimidate.
Marisha: Okay. Okay. That's better than my persuasion. Let's do this one, that one rolled a one. Get out of here. Get out of here. 15?
Matt: 15? You can see the smaller elemental here that just watched its friends get frozen solid, as well as whatever that skeleton was, turns towards you, and (snarls) and begins to make its way this direction.
Marisha: Away? That's cool.
Travis: Towards the portal.
Matt: Yeah. The large one doesn't seem prominently fazed by your display.
Marisha: Okay. But that one's peacing out? Do I still have an action?
Matt: I would say that whole thing of bringing up the molten rock and the shout and everything would be your action.
Taliesin: You knocked one off the plank, Keyleth.
Marisha: I knocked one off the plank.
Matt: There you go. All right, ends your turn, Keyleth, brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm toe to toe with that one right there, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, it's right up in your space.
Taliesin: It's in my space. Okay. I'm going to draw my sword, I'm going to try to do a back and forth. Let's see how this goes.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a swipe at it with my sword.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a 30. That hits.
Matt: That hits. You take nine points of fire damage, as just striking it, the flames burst back and burn towards your face and torso from the impact.
Marisha: Did I put fire resist on you? At the end of last game?
Taliesin: Yes, you did! I have fire resist on me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you take half damage.
Taliesin: So that's how much? How much fire damage?
Matt: That would be four. Four damage.
Taliesin: Four damage? Four damage. Four.
Matt: All right. And roll damage for your strike.
Taliesin: Ooh! 15 points of damage.
Matt: Hmm! All right. Do you want to make a second attack, you said? Or are you just going to keep going back and forth, what's your plan? Whatcha doing? Whatcha doing, Percy?
Taliesin: He's being a dick. I'm going to try and break away and back up, I'm going to try and roll away from him to be on the other side of the rock.
Matt: Okay. As you roll away, it's going to take an attack of opportunity at you. That is an 18 to hit?
Taliesin: My armor class is 18, but I'm going to use my shield for plus five to my AC, so that won't hit.
Matt: Okay, so you use your shield brooch, okay. As it strikes out towards you, streaking its elemental claws outward, you back away, instilling the power of the brooch, and you see an arcane shield temporarily ricochets, pushing its claw away from you. You run away unharmed to the other side of the rock.
Taliesin: Instead of going to the other side of the rock, I'm going to run straight back, and I'm just going to shoot at it as I run away. I'm going to make two more shots at it.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm going to take one more shot, because I have to reload. That's a 15.
Matt: 15 hits.
Taliesin: Wow! Holy cow.
Matt: Elementals aren't very hard to hit.
Taliesin: No, that was amazing. That's ten points of damage. And then I reload.
Matt: All right, and you reload. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Who's behind me back there, way at the edge of the map?
Matt: Over there?
Laura: That's Vax.
Sam: That's Vax? Oh, he'll be fine. Okay, I don't want to be near this thing, probably. Right?
Matt: That's your call.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to take a step towards Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And away from Gern, right? So is Gern 15 feet away from me yet, so far?
Matt: He's 15 feet from you, yeah.
Sam: Okay. So I will then cast Thunderwave, which should not hit Gern, but will hit Vax.
Matt: Is that a 15-foot radius?
Sam: It's a 15-foot cube.
Matt: Cube, so you can just make the cube here, and it'll hit none of them.
Sam: Oh! Oh, great. I'll do that. And I'll do it at level two. Thunderwave.
Matt: All right, level two Thunderwave. Coming on up. Oh, it's a self. A 15-foot cube originating from you, so yeah, so you can hit that guy.
Sam: Yeah, originating from me.
Matt: All right, cool. So, level three, that's 3d8, let's see if it makes its constitution saving throw. It does not, not with a natural seven. So go ahead and roll your damage, 3d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Not very much -- Ooh! That's pretty good. 20.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: 20! How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Scanlan Shorthalt!
Sam: I send the Thunderwave out by cracking my knuckles, and as I do so, I do: ahem, Gern, might want to check this out.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I'm looking at something over here.
Sam: Gern!
Chris hardwick: I'll be with you in just a minute, I'm dealing with something.
Sam: Gern, I'm doing something really cool here.
Chris hardwick: I'll be with you in just a minute.
Sam: Fuck. So I do it anyway but with a scowl on my face.
Chris hardwick: All right, what did I miss?
Sam: Fuck!
Chris hardwick: Oh, I was just, why didn't you wait? I just said a minute.
Sam: Oh, forget it, you had to be there.
Chris hardwick: All right. I was here, but you didn't-- you should've told me.
Matt: You even missed your own Thunderwave spell, you were so distracted with your frustration. You look back, you cracked your knuckles, and it's gone, but you didn't see it happen and it's a little disappointing overall.
Sam: I kick the dirt.
Matt: All right. You guys look over as this elemental runs off towards the glowing doorway you see further down this passage. It's not that far away from you, but you do see the flickering doorway that's like (sputtering). You can see other entities beginning to step out of it, and you can see one larger form. It looks fiery, humanoid, just (crackling) comes out, lower body made of ash and cinders.
Marisha: I rush that way and look for my other tribe. Can I see any of my other tribemates?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: You're running at them.
Travis: So if they're frozen, does that mean they're dead?
Matt: You can go find out.
Laura: They'll probably melt eventually.
Travis: Yeah, can I walk over there close to them?
Marisha: That's better. That one keeps fucking me. What'd you say? Perception?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Currently, from where you stand--
Marisha: No, sorry, sorry. 24.
Matt: 24. From where you stand, you can look off in the distance, you can see parts of the treeline across, down the Cindergrove, shifting and moving, and you hear the distant sounds of combat, but you do not have a visual perspective. It looks like the other teams have not quite made their way to the center. You're actually the first team to get here. And you made your way around a possible encounter, and in doing so, arrived before the other teams did. However, it looks like a secondary line of defense is now pouring out of this doorway.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Can I make my way to the two frozen statue-types?
Matt: There's three statues, actually.
Travis: Or three of 'em, yeah.
Matt: Including Fatty Arbuckle.
Travis: Fatty Arbuckle. Can I make my way over to one of them and-- should I just make sure they're dead?
Laura: Yeah, just push 'em over, smash them.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, can I push Trident-dick over?
Matt: Yeah. As you shove-- and it's a pretty heavy form, especially with the ice that's, you know, formed around the body--
Travis: Come on.
Matt: --but not too hard for you, Grog, because you're Grog. You give a little shove, and as it topples over, it just shatters into 100 pieces.
Travis: Ooh, like the T-1000.
Liam: What?
Travis: Yeah, I dunno.
Laura: Do the other one now.
Travis: Oh yeah, can I go over and do the other one, like, (giggles).
Matt: Yeah. This time, you give this one a full push, this one actually gets about ten feet in the air.
Marisha: Cow-tipper!
Matt: Before scattering across the ground, pieces of it actually spilling into the molten lava. And there stands, frozen in place, Fatty Arbuckle, chest destroyed, arm limp to the side, just--
Travis: Can I pick him up and walk him back over to Gern and go: sorry.
Matt: You see the half-giant goliath handing you the frozen body of your skeletal friend.
Chris hardwick: Well, I don't know what I'm supposed to do with this, now.
Travis: You don't want him?
Chris hardwick: I mean, he's not very-- maybe we could have a quick burial.
Laura: You could hang a coat on him.
Chris hardwick: So we basically would just carry him around as a coat-rack.
Liam: Don't we have company incoming?
Laura: We have a Bag of Holding. Oh, there's a giant monster. I Hunter's Mark it. Is it close by?
Matt: We'll get to that as soon as we come back from this break. We're going to take a quick bathroom break and we'll see you guys back here in about ten minutes or so to continue this next step in the adventure. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Last we left off, the party was making their way towards the center of the caldera where the portal torn open to the fire elemental plane resides over a flow of molten rock pouring in three directions from the center of the mountain. Seeing a number of entities swirling around, and some pouring forth from this open doorway, Vox Machina and their current temporary ally by the traveling dragonborn wizard/necromancer/candlemaker named Gern Blanston have made their way in this direction. Now, before we start, just to remind you guys, I guess we're getting pretty close to 16k subscribers, and when we hit 16k something with a sloth is going to happen.
Laura: Not tonight, though.
Matt: No, not, I don't think tonight.
Sam: We have a sloth on standby.
Matt: There will be a sloth apparently that will come here for 16k and a sloth. And if you want to watch Laura freak out--
Laura: Ah, so much!
Matt: Also, we have a giveaway winner for the evening; ToastKingJr is the winner of tonight's Critical Role giveaway, congratulations. Well done, you, we'll be sending you a lot of fun goodies your way very shortly, so--
Chris hardwick: Our regards to ToastKing senior.
Matt: Oh yes; well, you've made him proud. Make sure to let him know. We'll give him a little a little pipe or something inside too, it'll be good. All right, so you guys gather yourselves, stepping through the battlefield you had just encountered, the shattered and slowly melting pieces of ice that once were some of these fire elemental denizens scattered around your feet, you step forward as you see the somewhat human, somewhat flame-based entity come pouring out of the void, surrounded by other elementals, and one of the other standing salamander general-type individuals. You can see--
Marisha: This is coming out of the rift?
Matt: Yes, coming out of the rift.
Laura: Is that behind him, is that what the--
Matt: This is the actual doorway right there.
Marisha: Oh, and so this is a pool of lava that they're coming out of?
Matt: Yes, this is all molten--
Marisha: Molten fire plane, more or less?
Matt: Well, this is actual lava from the inside of the mountain that has been called forth and cracked through the surface, because of the presence of the tear.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Chris hardwick: Probably fine.
Travis: Probably. I don't think this will be bad
Taliesin: We did not take a short rest, did we?
Matt: No, you did not.
Taliesin: There has been no time.
Marisha: I'm going to, and upon seeing this, drop my fire elemental form and I say: oh shit, I have a feeling this is the 'him' they were talking about. And I have a feeling he's not going to believe that I'm the real new master. So there's that.
Laura: So do some cold stuff, like this guy.
Matt: I'd like you all to make a stealth check, by the way, as this is transpiring, and these entities are now making--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace? Is that still in effect?
Matt: No, you cast Hunter's Mark, so the concentration on that ended, unfortunately, sorry.
Chris hardwick: 14.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Oh wait, with Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No.
Marisha: 24.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: As you guys are all having this conversation, hushed behind this barricade of broken tree elements, you can see this salamander general turn and hiss in that direction, look over, and point his trident in the direction of where you all are. You can see the larger fire elementals all of a sudden turn their attention in the direction of the party, as the humanoid floating about five feet off the ground, his lower form just this swirl of cinders and black ash, chuckles with his arms crossed. Points forward, and the elementals begin moving forward.
Marisha: Can Keyleth do a quick ancillary action before shit happens?
Matt: Well, this would be the initiative order now, so everyone roll initiative.
Liam: Maybe they see something behind us.
Travis: Fuck!
Marisha: Jesus, sucking it up today.
Matt: All right, folks, this brings us to 25 to 20?
Liam: 20.
Sam: Hey!
Travis: Jude.
Chris hardwick: Don't make it bad.
Taliesin: (singing) Take a bad roll...
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Chris hardwick: Yes, I'm 16.
Matt: 16 for Gern.
Liam: ErmahGern!
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13 for Percy. Ten to five?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Eight for Grog. Scanlan, what's your--
Sam: Oh, ten, sorry, ten, ten.
Matt: So that would be just below you, Percy. All righty. I believe that's all on that end there. And that brings us to--
Marisha: I'm seven, by the way.
Matt: Oh, seven, thought I got you.
Laura: Nobody cares, Marisha.
Marisha: I know, I'll just... be back here... caboose.
Matt: There we go. So right before Grog is Keyleth. Great. All right. Top of the combat round.
Marisha: Yeah, nope. Not leading.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Shitty initiative roll.
Sam: It's going to be fine.
Taliesin: He's cut things out of cardboard. This doesn't look fun.
Marisha: There was planning. There was a thought process.
Travis: Oh shit, towers.
Taliesin: There was an instructables involved in this. This is just really-- we're doomed.
Travis: No, no, he was down in the play zone before!
Matt: Tell me who wants to roll an arcana check as you see this entity rising up--
Travis: Oh, absolutely.
Sam: I will, as well.
Matt: For people who are proficient with it.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Oh, with disadvantage, right?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: So tired.
Chris hardwick: 24.
Travis: Whoa! Get out of here, dragonborn!
Sam: Look at the big brain on Gern.
Chris hardwick: I'm very smart.
Matt: (laughs) And as you say that, you recognize this entity and blurt out its name, just instinctually as you get a proper view of it. One of the many denizens of the fire elemental plane, this is an efreeti, it is a fire genie.
Sam: A nefreeti?
Matt: Efreeti. Yes, the species is efreeti, but an ee-frit, ee-freet, however you want to pronounce it, a flame genie, generally hailing from the City of Brass and/or spaces around and in the fire elemental plane.
Taliesin: I could feel it from that side.
Liam: I was thinking it.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, I could feel it.
Matt: Floats above all of you, arms still crossed, opens its arms and as it chuckles, both hands just are engulfed in flames that congeal into these large fiery balls as it flings them both down in the direction of the party.
Travis: Feel like we're in MegaMan. A MegaMan boss.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah!
Matt: This is going to be at Scanlan and Vex.
Laura: What?!
Sam: These are Fireballs, right?
Matt: To Scanlan, that is 13?
Sam: No way.
Matt: Vex, that is 15.
Laura: No!
Matt: Both just (fireball impacts), cracking into the ground to the sides of where you're standing, barely missing them. It keeps glaring down at the rest of you with a smile. Ending that, it brings us to Vax. You're up.
Liam: I got a high stealth right beforehand, so am I hidden at the moment?
Matt: As far as you know, depending on the individual. You don't know who saw you and who didn't.
Liam: As far as I know. All right. Balls. I'm just going to throw three daggers at the salamander, right from where I am.
Matt: Right from where you are? All right.
Liam: Yeah, okay, so. First is a 20, second is a 14, third is a 19.
Matt: Okay. The first one was what?
Liam: 20.
Matt: The first and the third hit. If you are hidden, though, which you would technically be hidden from this individual, you do have advantage on those attacks, so you can reroll the--
Liam: And if I'm hidden it's a surprise, right? On that guy? You tell me.
Matt: No, no, it's a sneak attack if you're hidden. A surprise round is if they have no idea that you're there.
Liam: Okay, I thought it was a-- okay, great! Fine. Love it. Okay, so.
Laura: You have advantage, so maybe one of those would be a 20 if you rerolled them with their advantages.
Liam: All right. No, and other one, no. So, four, eight, 12, 13, 16, 20, 31, 35 for the first. And the second one is a ten.
Travis: Kick us off strong!
Matt: Not bad! Flinging both daggers, one strikes it square in the sternum and the blade cracks and pops as it hits the center of the chest. It (gurgle), you know, it can't make any sound as it disappears from the wound, returning to your belt. The second dagger manages to come towards, it tries to parry out of the air, but in doing so just gets it embedded in its forearm and it shrieks out in pain, as that too vanishes and appears once again in your belt. Are you going to move, or stay where you are?
Liam: I'm going to move. I'm going to skip to my right and stand behind Grog and spank him on the ass and say: go get 'em, tiger.
Matt: "Go get 'em, tiger." Right there. All righty.
Travis: My name's Grog.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Are those trees, do they have any substance at all, or are they just there to look pretty?
Matt: I mean, you could get behind them if you want to, they're maybe about that wide.
Liam: They're like Charlie Brown Christmas trees?
Matt: Practically. As far as the Cindergrove's concerned, they're pretty sad-looking. A lot of them have been destroyed and torn and pushed down around.
Laura: All right. I'm going to try to use one as protection. I'm going to hop behind the one over this way.
Matt: This way, here?
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark the efreeti.
Matt: All righty. Mark the efreeti.
Laura: And then I'm going to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to shoot him three times!
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That first one probably does not succeed. It is a 16.
Matt: That does not hit, nope.
Laura: What about 23?
Matt: That does hit.
Laura: All right. How about... mega miss. So one of those hits, because I'm a loser.
Matt: Streaking past, and the third one hits as he's holding the flame balls in his hands. Seeing the small impact, he just glares at you though the impact.
Travis: You need to sacrifice a small mammal. Maybe we can find a squirrel or something.
Laura: 11.
Travis: A pagan ritual.
Taliesin: I can hook you up. I have a kit.
Travis: (laughter) Why am I not surprised?
Laura: 17 points of damage and that's it because I suck.
Matt: 17 points of damage. And you are hiding behind the tree?
Laura: I am hiding behind the tree.
Matt: That's the end of Vex's turn. It is now the elementals' turns.
Laura: These piece-of-shit dice.
Matt: This is going to move in and actually consumes the space of Gern and his followers.
Taliesin: That's not even a figurine, it's just a chunk of plastic.
Matt: So as you're sitting there, you just see this fire elemental just streak around real fast and all of a sudden step into the space where you and your two undead followers are, flames whirling around you. All of you immediately take five points of fire damage, you and your two allies. Stimpy and Coral, poor guys.
Chris hardwick: Weren't there-- oh, they killed one, that's right, and you guys fucking killed one, too.
Matt: With that, it's going to make two strikes towards you, Gern. The fire elemental rushes in and just (slithering fire noises).
Chris hardwick: Not the vest, not the vest!
Matt: That is going to be a 13 to hit. What's your armor class?
Chris hardwick: 13.
Matt: Just hits you. And that's a natural 20. (sighs and groans)
Matt: So you take 14 points of fire damage from the first one.
Chris hardwick: Doesn't feel very natural.
Liam: Thanks for coming, thanks for playing.
Matt: 19 points of fire damage from the second strike. And you are currently engulfed in flame. You caught fire from the impact with the fire elemental.
Chris hardwick: It doesn't hurt, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm part dragon.
Laura: Do dragonborn have natural fire resistance?
Matt: Certain ones do, not blue ones.
Laura: Oh no!
Chris hardwick: If it was lightning, it'd be fine. But no.
Matt: That ends that elemental's turn. This one is going to step into the space where both Percy and Scanlan are. Both of you guys immediately suffer seven points of fire damage.
Taliesin: I'm halved because I have resistance.
Matt: Correct, so you'd take three points. And it's going to make a strike on each of you. That's going to be a 14 versus you, Scanlan.
Sam: That does not hit me.
Matt: And then versus Percy. Same roll. 14.
Taliesin: (laughter) Ah, you're adorable.
Matt: Misses you both with a series of terrible attacks. That ends their turn. Gern, you're up. At the start of your turn--
Chris hardwick: It's my turn.
Taliesin: But first you have to take your fire damage.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I'm still on fire.
Matt: Yep. At the top of your turn, because you're now on fire, you take six points of fire damage. You're just wreathed in fire, all around. It's a bad, bad Sunday for Gern.
Chris hardwick: Oh boy. I'm trying to find something that won't destroy-- How close is everyone to me? Everyone's pretty close.
Sam: No one's near the big guy.
Chris hardwick: No, but I'm standing right there.
Taliesin: Here, you can see it right here. You're that little red ring right there, and then your two followers are right there. If you have anything that goes in a cube, you'd be fine. Do you have anything that's a cube shot?
Chris hardwick: And which way am I facing?
Taliesin: Whichever way you want to be facing.
Chris hardwick: I mean, I guess-- I'd like to run around and throw another Cone of Cold aimed at that guy, and then up at the prick hovering above everyone.
Matt: This direction, you mean?
Chris hardwick: Yes. Aye!
Matt: So you can move around to this side of the elemental, pushing past your allies, whip around, you get a little bit of a view through the fire and flames swirling around you. You concentrate and release a burst of cold energy. It might not be close enough.
Chris hardwick: Of course it is!
Matt: It'll be enough to get those two there.
Chris hardwick: All right, well, I suppose that's better than nothing at all.
Sam: That's impressive.
Matt: It's better than nothing. All right, so constitution saves on the elemental. What's your DC?
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: 16. It fails. On the salamander, that's another big fail with a 13. So go ahead and roll 8d8 damage.
Chris hardwick: (counting) 40. I'm sorry. What was that last one? Shit. 35.
Matt: Nice, 35 points of cold damage to both the salamander and the elemental in front of you. Great. So you see as a blast of winter arcane energy just skirts forward, casting most of the dark area here in snow and ice and sleet. You can see the front of this lava pond is cooled for the moment and actually can be walked across probably for one or two more rounds.
Chris hardwick: You're welcome.
Liam: You're still on fire, by the way.
Matt: Yes, you are also still on fire. Someone has to take an action to try and douse the flames on him, whether it be himself or possibly your allies. You can still give actions to your two undead buddies.
Chris hardwick: Oh. In that case. I think I'd like to ask the zombie character, who I believe was-- no, Stimpy was the skeleton, this is Coral. I'd like to have Coral rip-- is my skin on fire, or is it just my vest?
Matt: Both, actually. The scales are starting to crisp.
Chris hardwick: Those are really hard to get!
Sam: The vest?
Chris hardwick: Yes!
Taliesin: You could just have them swat you. Like (zombie grunting noises).
Chris hardwick: I need to have the zombie hurl its body on top of me, onto the ground, and roll around on me, to get the flame off. It's a very stinky enterprise.
Matt: Okay, I'll allow this. You're intentionally going prone, so you start your next combat round on the ground, which means you'll have half your movement. As Stimpy hobbles over (zombie groan).
Sam: This is Coral.
Chris hardwick: Is there like snow or ice on the ground?
Matt: There is behind the elemental, yes.
Chris hardwick: Can he scoop some up?
Matt: The zombie can take one action, unfortunately, it's not a super intelligent creature. One or the other.
Chris hardwick: All right, then, I suppose he just has to roll on top of me.
Matt: You guys glance over out of the corner of your eye and you see is the dragonborn all of a sudden jumps to the ground, sprawled out, snow angel style.
Chris hardwick: Do it! Just do it already! What are you waiting for?!
Matt: As this undead begins flailing about on top of his body. You're starting to get elements of decaying goo and--
Chris hardwick: Yes, it's fucking terrible!
Matt: But the flames do eventually go out, over the next five to six seconds or so. What would you like Stimpy to do?
Chris hardwick: I mean, I guess-- I would have to give him a candle, wouldn't I?
Matt: You would, yes.
Chris hardwick: Right. Maybe he just scoops up as much ice and snow as possible, and attacks the--
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Snowball fight?
Chris hardwick: Snowball fight.
Matt: He picks up some of the frost on the ground with his skeletal hands. Flings it. Funnily enough, it hits.
Chris hardwick: Fuck yeah, it does.
Matt: Because it's right there. We'll say for that particular instance, it takes--
Chris hardwick: What, like a hundred points of damage?
Matt: Three points of cold damage. (cheers)
Matt: Immediate steam, in the face of a fire elemental.
Chris hardwick: I smell like cooked cow anus at the moment.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Weird question, what saving throw does a creature have to make with your sword?
Travis: Wisdom.
Taliesin: It's a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: No, it's constitution.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. Good to know.
Travis: I just answered the first thing that popped into my head.
Taliesin: That was wisdom, fascinating. Okay, I'm right in the thick of it, aren't it?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm going to break away, I'll take the hit. I don't like attacking these things straight on.
Matt: At the top of your turn, by the way, you take nine points of fire damage, down to four, because you are also engulfed in flame, as is Scanlan for having passed over the space there.
Taliesin: Nine points of fire damage, down to four. Okay. I'm going to break away and take a run for it towards that crater in the far right corner.
Matt: This way here?
Taliesin: Thank you, yes.
Matt: Running past the fire elemental, it does get an attack of opportunity on you, swinging out with its flaming appendage. That is going to be a 13 to hit.
Taliesin: That ain't going to hit. That's fine, I'm going to take my bonus action, and I'm going to cast Hex on it.
Matt: On which one?
Taliesin: On the one I just ran away from.
Matt: Okay, that elemental is now currently Hexed.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage on constitution saving throws.
Matt: Oh, okay!
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: Teamwork!
Travis: I don't think he has any blood, though.
Matt: Is it saving throws, or is it ability checks?
Taliesin: Ability checks.
Matt: That does not affect saving throws, unfortunately.
Taliesin: God damn it. All right, never mind. That's fine. Since I've broken off from him, I'm going to take some shots at him anyway. I'll take three shots.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: First one is an 18.
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: That's seven points of damage. Second one's a sharpshooter. That's 25.
Matt: 25. And with that shot (boom). (cheering)
Travis: Jeez, leave some for the rest of us, big boy.
Marisha: Oh, wait, why did it go back?
Matt: Sorry, this is the one that took all the damage from the Cone of Cold, so this one is still fine. Robbed you of victory!
Chris hardwick: That was so weird, he disappeared for a moment and then came right back!
Taliesin: I haven't actually damaged him yet, have I?
Matt: You did seven damage.
Taliesin: That was the first damage. The second damage I haven't done yet.
Matt: No, you have not.
Taliesin: 20 points of damage.
Matt: All right, nice. You're adding your Hexes to this, right?
Taliesin: No, I'm not! Oh, shit.
Matt: Add d6 to each of these, buddy.
Taliesin: So that's six extra points, and that's seven extra points total. Third sharpshooter shot. Thank you for reminding me on the Hex. That's a 12, that's going to miss.
Matt: 12 misses, unfortunately. You shoot too far. It actually separates its body for a second, the flames flickering away from the impact of the bullet, passing through, no effect, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Weird thing. Can I spend an action surge and put myself out of the fire?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: You know what, it's just fire. I will be on fire.
Matt: You will be on fire, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to be on fire.
Marisha: It's just fire.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: What is holding the thing that's floating in the sky aloft? Is he flying? Is he supported on a column of fire?
Chris hardwick: No, he's brought a plastic shelf with himself, apparently.
Sam: Oh, of course.
Chris hardwick: He's just standing on it.
Matt: It's Ikea-made, you just have to build it.
Travis: It's the "schlogel."
Matt: It appears to be flying. The very essence of this creature is partial flame and magic, and it's levitating as its lower form is a tiny dervish whirlwind of black ash and flame.
Sam: And he's a larger creature or smaller?
Matt: Large.
Sam: He's a large creature or smaller. Okay. I'm going to make him the boy in the bubble. I will cast Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: What is that?
Sam: I'm going to make a bubble around him.
Matt: First you take four points of fire damage, because you're on fire.
Sam: Oh, sure, whatever. No, wait, but it was nine, right? You said? Just four?
Matt: That was when it originally got to you, and then you're still burning every turn until you put yourself out. The range on the resilient sphere is 30 feet, so you're going to want to get closer to cast it.
Sam: Oh, okay. I'll walk. He's going to hit me, isn't he?
Matt: This is cool, currently, if you want to go across. You can get there, and that'll be enough distance.
Sam: I'll do that, and then straight up in the air.
Matt: Okay, so it has to make a dexterity saving throw. What's the DC? The DC on your spells is a 20 right now, right?
Sam: It is.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: And it rolled a 19. 18 plus one.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Matt: And, with that, suddenly you guys see Scanlan concentrate, shouting the magical incantation through the hand cone--
Sam: You're in a ball, motherfucker!
Matt: You see a pink-purple-hued globe of crystalline, magical arcane energy just form around the creature, and the efreet goes (grunting).
Sam: Does he fall, or can he continue to fly?
Matt: The sphere is weightless, so no, he stays where he is.
Liam: And is it a good witch, or a bad witch?
Taliesin: Science check. Does oxygen penetrate the sphere?
Sam: There is still air inside.
Taliesin: Damn it. Because that would've been amazing if he just died.
Chris hardwick: I was looking away, what just happened?
Sam: Oh, fuck!
Chris hardwick: What?
Sam: Always look at me!
Chris hardwick: Oh, I was looking at some grubs over by the--
Travis: Grubs?
Chris hardwick: I'm hungry.
Sam: Oh, and I'll turn around and I will heal Gern, because he's not doing great. With my bonus action, at a second level, I will cast Healing Word, and I will sing to him again, because he loves it so much.
Chris hardwick: You know, I think I'm fine with 26 hit points.
Sam: (singing) Gern, baby, Gern! Candle inferno! Gern, baby, Gern! Burn that mother down!
Matt: All right. Second level, that's 2d4 plus--
Sam: Five.
Matt: 2d4 plus five you heal.
Chris hardwick: Oh, do I roll that?
Sam: Do I roll, or does he?
Matt: Whichever one. Doesn't matter to me.
Chris hardwick: Okay, so nine.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I believe that ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. I will never again not watch your spellcasting! You tiny bundle of adorable creature!
Marisha: Is that guy and that guy within 30 feet of each other? It's hard to tell with the thing on it.
Matt: There is 30 feet between them, yes.
Marisha: A 30 foot long spell could hit both of them, correct?
Matt: A 30 foot long spell could-- It could only hit one. It's 30 feet between them.
Marisha: Okay. But this guy-- oh, damn it. What about this guy and this guy? They're within 30 feet, right?
Matt: 35 between them. These two, there is definitely.
Marisha: Actually, yeah, let me do that. I am going to cast a Tidal Wave right here and I'm going to go outward in this direction, and it's ten foot wide and 30 foot long, so let me back up a little bit out of it.
Matt: So it's ten feet wide, and it'll go (rushing water) like that, you mean?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you back up to there?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right. Okay, dexterity save on each of them. Dexterity save on the first one.
Marisha: Since it's water, do they have disadvantage?
Matt: No, not for the saving throw. The first one does make the saving throw, however, that is a 19 plus three, so 22. On a success, it takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone, so it takes half. The other one, however, does fail.
Marisha: Do they take more damage because it's water?
Matt: How much is in the spell?
Marisha: It does 4d8 damage.
Matt: Right, go ahead and roll that. I'd say, how many gallons would that be? That's a shit-ton of gallons.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 12 plus eight is 20, plus another eight is 28. Math.
Taliesin: That's a d8 there.
Matt: 14. Okay, so that's 14 and 28. I'd say that Tidal Wave, how many gallons of water would we say each one of those is?
Marisha: It's 30 foot tall.
Matt: Well, it's ten foot tall, ten foot wide, so that's...
Marisha: And 30 feet long.
Taliesin: Four gallons, easily.
Matt: I'd say we're looking at close to 50 gallons of water, right?
Taliesin: Probably way more than 50 gallons.
Laura: That's a lot of gallons, for sure.
Chris hardwick: I think it's like a million gallons.
Sam: Somewhere between 50 and a million.
Marisha: Why didn't we switch to metric?
Taliesin: It would be a few hundred gallons of water.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, for the width of it and the space you had to pass it through, we'll say roughly 60 gallons of water passes through each of these elementals. Water susceptibility, for every five feet the elemental moves in water, or for every gallon of water splashed on it, it takes one point of cold damage, so they both take an additional 60 points of damage. Which destroys both of the elementals.
Laura: Fuck yeah! Do that again, Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay, I will!
Taliesin: Again, again!
Matt: So Keyleth, you have more movement still, if you want to move somewhere.
Marisha: Oh! I'll scootch up a bit, start moving towards...
Matt: There?
Marisha: That's good, that works.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to rush up where Scanlan is, and attack that little guy on the ground there.
Matt: Right there?
Sam: I'm the little guy on the ground.
Travis: No, not you, the other guy that's next to him. And can I use a reckless attack--
Matt: Are you raging first, or are you--
Travis: Oh yeah, raging. I would like to rage. And then use reckless attack against him!
Matt: All right, so you got two attacks, reckless attack.
Travis: 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: Awesome. 18 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: 23, nice. All right, so as you rush past, looking over at the cooled rock that's starting to crack, and bits of steam vents are starting to push through underneath your feet, Scanlan. The area you're standing on isn't very sturdy, you're probably going to want to move pretty soon. However, you see this barreling form of pure anger and blade come rushing past as Grog slams into the salamander twice with his blade. That fails first constitution, and fails second. So you gain plus two strength, salamander loses two strength.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: However, because you've taken... With each strike within melee of the salamander's heated body, it's so intense by its proximity that you suffer six points of fire damage from the first melee attack against you.
Travis: She gave me resistance, so halved to three?
Matt: Halved to two.
Travis: Halved to two.
Matt: The other one would be 12, so you take six.
Travis: Eight total.
Matt: Total of eight fire damage just from slamming and attacking this salamander. All righty, that brings us to the very end. It is now the salamander's turn. After being hacked twice by you, Grog, it turns around, takes its trident in both hands, looks at you with this horrible snarl. You can see now these glistening, almost ruby-like sharp teeth in its wide grin. (snarl) These long catfish-like tendrils that waft off its face as it slams down the spear towards you.
Travis: Oh, you brought a fork to a sword fight.
Matt: That is going to be a 23 to hit.
Travis: Oh shit, that hits.
Matt: You take 12 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: Halved to six. And it's going to also turn around and its tail, its long snake tail (whoosh) whips you. That is going to be an 18 to hit.
Travis: That misses!
Matt: It misses, all righty. The tail comes towards you, and you knock it out of the way with Craven Edge. That will end its turn. Top of the round, I'm going to make a roll for the consistency of the currently cooled lava pool. It maintains. However, you feel your feet cracking beneath--
Sam: I think I'll stay.
Travis: Feels nice here. Maybe a timeshare.
Matt: This efreet-- let me look at the logistics of this spell now, because--
Travis: It's pissed off in a ball.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, this spell is awful.
Sam: It can't do anything.
Matt: It is enclosed for the duration, up to a minute.
Liam: Sorry, Matt. Sorry, Matt.
Travis: He's like, first the beholder, now my flame genie.
Matt: It's pushing against, and it takes these two flame balls it conjures and throws them out towards you guys. They just go (impacts) against the sphere and then go out, and it's just (growling). It's really, really pissed off. It can't do anything.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Like a genie in a bottle. Got to rub me the right way.
Liam: Can we all collectively look up at him, look sad, and go, aw.
Taliesin: I'm looking forward to rolling it back through the rift.
Marisha: Oh my god, can we do that? Like a hamster ball.
Matt: All right. Ending its turn, because it can't do anything, Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm going to scoot up right in front of Keyleth on the edge of the frozen-over pool of lava, but I'm not going to stand on it. And I'm going to chuck three daggers at the salamander in front of Grog.
Matt: Okay. Right there, about?
Liam: Right in front of her. Between her and the-- yeah. There. One, two, three to the salamander.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: 21. Then 25. And then 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit.
Liam: All right, and because he's flanked by Grog, the first one gets sneak attack damage. Two plus eight, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 25, 31 for the first.
Matt: Nice.
Liam: And then ten for the second and eight for the third.
Matt: All right. Good to know. (whoosh) As you jump in front of the way of Keyleth, you unleash all three daggers in rapid succession, each one finding its mark (impacts) into the body of the now profusely bleeding salamander. You can see now streaks of its own blood are pouring down, boiling on contact with air, the significant difference in temperature from the exterior and its actual interior body causing it to change from a liquid to a gas.
Travis: That's our rogue.
Matt: End your turn?
Liam: I look over my shoulder at Keyleth like a dumb schmuck for a second, and then back at the salamander.
Matt: Okay. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. Am I hiding? Am I hidden?
Matt: You can roll a stealth check. A hide action is a hide action. As a rogue, do you have the--
Laura: What is that number?
Matt: I don't know what number that is.
Laura: It's completely smooshed off of the dice!
Liam: That means that existence is about to end.
Laura: There's literally--
Liam: Just roll this. Roll another one.
Matt: Technically, you do not have cunning action yet, that's a 2nd-level rogue ability, so you would use your action to hide.
Laura: But I had my skirmisher stealth.
Matt: If you go from hide to hide you can do that, but you are not hidden at the beginning of the round.
Liam: It's a rookie rogue mistake. It happens in the beginning.
Laura: Yeah. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. All right, then I'm just going to...
Liam: At the higher levels you mess up the assassinate thing.
Laura: Everything's a concentration thing, so I'm just going to lightning arrow the giant fire guy.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for attack.
Laura: Okay. 30!
Matt: That'll hit.
Sam: That'll hit anything.
Liam: She just hit a sparrow on a paraglider.
Laura: That's 4d8 lightning damage on a hit.
Matt: Correct, yep.
Liam: Oh. Well, half good, half bad.
Laura: 18. That's it.
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So as you turn around the side of the tree, releasing the arrow. As it goes through the air, streaking, it suddenly bursts into an arcing bit of energy (crackling energy), a bolt of lightning that strikes into and begins to spill around the insides of the elemental. You can see it shakes it off as the energy disperses.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my bonus action to hide then, with the skirmisher's thing. For my skirmisher stealth, I can use a bonus action to hide.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you have to... If you go from hiding to hiding, you can do it.
Laura: You told me, I swear!
Matt: Read the ability, read the ability!
Laura: Okay, where was it?
Liam: Right now, on the air.
Laura: Okay, where is it? I don't know where it is. I'll find it, and then I'll find out. And then I'll roll for stealth then if it works.
Matt: I'll say for the sake right now of the distraction, go ahead and do it for now, and we'll correct it later if need be. I would rather you have fun than not. So, what's your stealth roll?
Laura: My stealth roll is 15, it doesn't even matter.
Liam: 15, she said 15.
Laura: It's not in the book, it's in the--
Matt: No, it's in the PDF. Anyway, what did you roll?
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15, okay. Good to know. End of your turn. This elemental creature--
Liam: Oh jeez. Here it comes.
Matt: Comes up over-- (yelling)
Liam: Oh, he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
Marisha: He tripped at the finish line!
Matt: As another one tears out of the portal and begins making its way here at full movement to there. This one's going to go ahead and make two strikes towards you, Scanlan.
Sam: Two attacks towards me?
Matt: Yep. That's going to be 11.
Sam: Is that the attack roll?
Matt: The attack roll. And a natural one. Elementals can't roll today. And you're already on fire, so its fire form won't make much of a difference to you either way. All right, so that's going to end its turn, and the other elemental pours in, that's the end of their round. All right, that brings us to Gern.
Chris hardwick: Oh boy.
Sam: Feel the Gern, feel the Gern.
Matt: Flames are out, you push-- not Stimpy-- Coral off of you, Coral standing (groan).
Chris hardwick: Does it count as my turn if I ask him a question about the orb?
Matt: No, you can make a quick little aside. You have to shout it out, though.
Chris hardwick: If I attack the genie, is it just going to attack the orb, and then he's going to be free?
Sam: Yes! I'm not looking at you, by the way.
Chris hardwick: It really hurts, I didn't realize how much that hurt!
Sam: Yeah, I know!
Chris hardwick: I've learned a valuable lesson today, while I've half-caught on fire. Can I cast some type of a mental spell through the orb to the fire genie?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Chris hardwick: Would it be too crafty if I were to cast Modify Memory? Could I modify the fire genie's memory to forget to not kill himself? I'll take that as a no. Can I modify the fire genie's memory into thinking that he's completed the task that he came to this realm to complete, and that he might go home?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Chris hardwick: I'd love to try.
Matt: Okay. What's the range on the spell?
Chris hardwick: Infinity. (laughter)
Matt: Modify Memory, where is it? There we go, 5th-level.
Taliesin: Oh, God, I hope this works.
Matt: It's a 30-foot range, so you're going to have to get a lot closer. You're getting up from prone, which is half your movement, so you only have 15 more feet you can move, so you wouldn't be able to even get into range.
Chris hardwick: Oh, shit, I can't cast Modify Memory anyway, I've already cast two spells like that today.
Matt: That's true, Cone of Cold. You're out of fifth level.
Chris hardwick: So which way-- is there a chain of people? I see a couple right there.
Marisha: Here's a laser pointer if you need it.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. This guy's new, right?
Matt: Yeah, and this guy hasn't been touched really, except for her lightning arrow.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I can shoot lightning breath, right?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Chris hardwick: Should I shoot at this guy or this guy?
Sam: Well, the guy next to me might hit me, but whatever!
Chris hardwick: I'll throw some lightning breath at this person right here.
Matt: Okay, as you stand up and dust off yourself, your fantastic zipper-covered dance jacket, brushing it off with your hands, you lumber forward to the outskirts of this newly cracking rock crust that once was a lava pool and will soon be once again, inhale. As you guys look around, you see this glow, this blue crackling blow-- glow on the inside of his mouth. The blow is how he got to the mountain and then got inspired to shoot the lightning.
Chris hardwick: I'm flying high, but I can't get an erection. I've done so much blow.
Matt: Gern Blanston. Flying high, no erection.
Chris hardwick: Sad.
Matt: This crackling electric energy in the back of his toothy mouth as he-- (snarl) releases this blast of lightning energy forward, striking into the chest of the fire elemental that freshly stepped out of the portal. What's the saving throw DC on that?
Chris hardwick: 14.
Matt: 14. It rolled a nine, so go ahead and roll the damage on the breath. How much is it?
Chris hardwick: It's 4d6.
Travis: Love the way you're rolling today.
Matt: I'm rolling really bad tonight!
Chris hardwick: Four, ten, 15, 16!
Sam: Yeah, that's good.
Matt: 16 points of lightning damage to that elemental. (impact) It pulls back from the blast. You can see its form has to reconvene. There's a little bit of black and gray smoke that billows out from the wound as it turns to you (snarling). You've definitely got its attention.
Chris hardwick: Hello!
Matt: With your bonus action, would you like to do anything with your compadres?
Chris hardwick: Oh, right. I still have two left, don't I?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: You do like dancing.
Chris hardwick: I'd like to send them off to start dancing just to the left of this gentleman right here. Just to distract him a little bit, because I seem to have caught his attention, so I'd like to start a little dance party right there. This fellow right here, the zombie, can do a little break dancing, and then the skeleton can do a bit of the bird, and then maybe the worm.
Matt: All right. As the skeleton leaps down into the worm (crash), just flat laid out, cracking part of its pelvis...
Chris hardwick: Dancing without music.
Matt: Yep. No music whatsoever.
Chris hardwick: Is the zombie like (zombie groaning). The tip of his arm falls off at the ulna.
Taliesin: Pop and lock! Pop and lock!
Matt: All right. I'm going to go ahead and--
Chris hardwick: These guys are great!
Matt: I'm going to ask you to go ahead and roll a performance check.
Sam: We never do those!
Laura: I feel really bad that I killed Carol now.
Marisha: Oh, that was almost bad.
Taliesin: Wait, plus, plus--
Sam: Oh, you have inspiration!
Marisha: You do!
Laura: Use it!
Sam: Use a d10!
Liam: This is the time.
Chris hardwick: Oh. So seven, plus performance plus one, eight, and then a d10.
Liam: Roll the d10, add it.
Chris hardwick: Jesus Christ. Ten.
Matt: Ten. Trying to recall and hum the song that Scanlan once sang to you, naught but ten minutes before, you don't recall it much at all, and it comes out (tuneless humming).
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern, Gern, It's Gern. It's Gern time!
Sam: Pitchy, little pitchy. Flat.
Chris hardwick: (singing) It's Gern, time to Gern!
Sam: Well, now you're sharp.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern it all the way. I'm doing great!
Sam: Yep, your name was in the song!
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern is my name and this is definitely the song that I'm singing.
Matt: It's discordant enough that on a low wisdom save I'll say the fire elemental's next attack has disadvantage. That was the strangest round of combat I think I've ever had in D&D. All right, Percy, you're up. Follow that. First, top of your round, you take nine points of fire damage.
Taliesin: That's halved to five.
Laura: I have the skirmisher stealth! As a bonus action at the end of your turn, you can make a dexterity (stealth) check to hide again.
Matt: All right, cool, there you go. Perfect. Wasn't sure if you had to be hidden at the top to do it.
Taliesin: I'm going to shift my Hex to the tiny little (Irish accent) fucker. God, you've got me doing it now. Damn it. It's a plague.
Chris hardwick: It's contagious.
Matt: To which one, this guy there?
Taliesin: No no no, the one furthest from me.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, right there. I'll move my Hex to him. I'm going to bust out the Bad News rifle, I'm going to sit, and I'm going to take a nice, calm, calculated sharpshooter shot at him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And Bad News just goes (click).
Matt: Did you misfire?
Taliesin: I misfired.
Matt: Oh no! You get down with the gun and (click). You look at it and you can see some of the metal bowing in the centerpiece like, "That's bad. That's bad. That's bad. That's bad!"
Taliesin: It's fine. I put it down, I pull out the pistol, and I'm going to take a shot.
Marisha: It's hot. It's really hot. Just keep going.
Taliesin: That was really awkward.
Marisha: Maybe the heat made you misfire.
Travis: Just roll the dice.
Liam: You're also 60 feet apart at the moment.
Taliesin: That's a 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits. Sharpshooter? No.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: That's sharpshooter? Wow. Nice roll.
Taliesin: Six, 12, 22 points of damage. And I reload, and that's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. Okay. Finishing up Percy, that brings us to Scanlan. You're still concentrating on Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.
Sam: Oh, yes I am.
Liam: The gnome has got this.
Sam: Hey, how's that stuff under my feet?
Matt: Pretty rough. You're going to want to step off of it very soon, probably.
Sam: I'm going to step into it.
Liam: Love you, Scanlan.
Sam: So I can fire a Lightning Bolt and hit both of those guys.
Matt: Oh, snap. Okay.
Sam: And yeah, that's it. That'll be my--
Matt: You can still move after that.
Sam: Oh, good! Okay, good, thank you for saving me.
Matt: So the bolt arcs past, go ahead.
Chris hardwick: I saw that, it was great!
Sam: Oh, for once! Thank you! Thank you, it was for you!
Chris hardwick: Much appreciated!
Matt: Five, no. And a 12 plus three, 15, no. Both fail their saving throw.
Sam: Okay, so 8d6?
Matt: 8d6 points of lightning damage to both of them. It's a wonderful display, Gern.
Liam: I ship Scanlan and Gern.
Chris hardwick: Shh, guys, please.
Sam: 33.
Matt: 33, nice roll.
Chris hardwick: Oh, that Lightning Bolt was so big. And wide!
Sam: It's the width that really does it.
Chris hardwick: It really does. It's not so much the length.
Taliesin: It's the girth of Gern.
Sam: And I will re-inspire Gern. Oh, wait, you're still injured, aren't you?
Chris hardwick: Yeah.
Sam: I will heal Gern.
Chris hardwick: Please.
Sam: With another Healing Word. This time at third level.
Matt: Technically, a second spell can only be as high as second level. You used two spells in one round.
Liam: It's still very romantic, though.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a 2nd-level Healing Word, and I will sing to him, because I'm running out of things that rhyme with his name: (singing) Gern down for what! (EDM beat) Gern down for what! That's it.
Chris hardwick: Might I remind you I am unable to get an erection at the moment?
Matt: However, in spite of that, the blue pill does give you ten additional hit points healed.
Laura: Did the skeleton and the zombie start dancing better, after that?
Matt: Yeah, it actually does pick up their pace a little bit now that they have a backtrack.
Chris hardwick: What is the elemental doing while they're dancing?
Matt: Well, it's currently being surrounded by a swirl of Hex shadow and looking around very confused and wondering why it got up in the morning.
Taliesin: Where did the glow sticks come from?
Matt: Do you want to move out?
Sam: And I can move out?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Sam: Will he take a swipe at me?
Matt: It will yes, but better than possibly falling in.
Sam: I'm still on fire, right?
Matt: Yes, you are. Takes an action to put it out, though, unfortunately. That's 18 plus six. I believe that does hit you. You take 12 points of fire damage.
Sam: Plus whatever I was on fire for.
Matt: You already took that damage earlier.
Sam: Oh, I did? At the beginning of my turn.
Matt: Yeah, I rolled for that already, you take nine points of fire damage, I think it was.
Sam: Oh, okay, plus 12?
Matt: Plus 12. If I'm wrong, whatever, it's fine. All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Keyleth.
Marisha: So we have these two assholes in front of us.
Liam: My name is Vax.
Marisha: Well, depends on the day. So, that guy is still alive too, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, all three of these guys are alive. And this guy's in a hamster ball.
Laura: Being pissed!
Taliesin: It's just like a weather balloon.
Matt: Yeah it's a rover just holding him in place.
Marisha: I'm going to Tidal Wave again. Tidal Wave! Right here, this way, fucking with these two guys.
Matt: All righty, let's go ahead and roll some saving throws on their end. ('The Prisoner' theme starts playing)
Taliesin: Thank you, thank you.
Matt: Yeah. Six and an eight, both fail. Who is number one?
Chris hardwick: I am not a number, I'm a free man!
Matt: So good, so good. The original one, not the remake. Patrick McGoohan. Two failed saving throws, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: It's really good, I'm warning you right now. Seven and seven is 14 plus another six, brings me to 20, plus eight, 28, again. That's what I had last time right? 28.
Liam: Kismet.
Matt: 28 points of water damage, plus the additional blast of water gallons surging through them, manages to completely scatter both these guys.
Taliesin: We actually had a Critter tweet us how much water.
Matt: How much water would be in a Tidal Wave?
Taliesin: 225 gallons.
Matt: Oh, there is no way they're surviving that.
Marisha: And then technically in Tidal Wave it says the water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in the area within 30 feet of it.
Matt: Unprotected flames are different than lava pools. Water doesn't cool it, it just evaporates.
Taliesin: We've got steam.
Matt: You do. You have a very heavy cloud of steam now, that is (steam sound) to the side. The dancing skeleton and zombie are now just these shadows lit in this cool music video light now as they're (groan) dancing.
Liam: As if this were a Telltale game, at the top of the screen it says, 'Keyleth will remember this'.
Matt: Exactly. Tidal Wave on fire elementals is nasty, man. ("Thriller" starts playing)
Marisha: Can I use my bonus action--
Matt: Perfect. This is happening, guys. Is that the rest of your turn, Keyleth? Do you want to move somewhere?
Marisha: Question.
Matt: Yes, what's your question?
Marisha: Can I theoretically cast a Grasping Vine coming out of the hellmouth?
Matt: No, Grasping Vine is a 4th-level spell, I believe, and as a bonus action you can't do anything more than a 2nd-level spell in the same round.
Marisha: Fuck, never mind. Actually, no, that's not true. I will take my bonus Healing Word to toss another Healing Word, just 1st-level, over to Gern.
Matt: Everyone's keeping the dance master alive over there.
Chris hardwick: Oh my god, amazing.
Marisha: So you heal eight points, Gern.
Matt: Eight points of healing to you, Gern.
Sam: He's gone.
Matt: We can't save him. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I use another reckless attack and I make the first strike against the guy right in front of me.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Jesus. Better. 14.
Matt: 14 misses, unfortunately.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: Are these with great weapon master?
Travis: No, just reckless attack. This one is with great weapon master. Nope. Better. 16 plus nine is 25, minus five is 20.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Yahtzee! Five, ten, 18, 28!
Matt: 28 points of damage, okay. This time, as you release the first blow of your sword forward, he catches it in the blade of the trident and deflects it off to the side, slamming it into the ground, almost pinning the weapon for a second. He gets up in your face and grins (snarls), and the actual breath that emanates from its teeth begins to burn and singe the edge of your beard hairs. That infuriates you, and you lift up Craven Edge between the blades of the trident. It's a test of strength as you both tense, and eventually you lift it back, and with the backswing, slash him right across his chest with that blow. You see a strike of extremely hot, hot blood splatter across, (sizzling), singe the front of your chest and leave little burn marks on you.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: Like freckles.
Liam: You don't want to fuck with his beard!
Matt: He does make the save.
Chris hardwick: She has a name.
Liam: Sorry, Laura.
Matt: Well played. Does that end your turn?
Travis: Yeah, that's the end of my turn.
Laura: Why am I laughing at that?
Travis: Darling, shush.
Matt: Efreet's going to start pushing against the ball, which is going to begin to coast through the air this way.
Liam: Does he spin the globe?
Matt: Just gliding through slowly.
Travis: Genie hamster.
Matt: Yeah, that's about all he can do this turn.
Sam: Sorry!
Matt: No, no, it's what you do. It's what you do. All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Man, all right. I'm in a good spot, I'll just throw three more daggers at the salamander that Grog has not yet killed. First one is a natural 20, the second one is a 13, and the third one is, aw, fuck, is a 14.
Matt: Okay. Hold off on those two attacks, just in case how much your critical sneak attack does.
Liam: Five, six, seven, eight, 12, 18, 21, 25. 25, so you double the dice, is 56 for the first one.
Matt: Okay, so as you throw the dagger, it goes right past Grog's ear and you hear the (whoosh) of the wind as it just brushes past your face. After you finish your backswing with Craven Edge, as the salamander creature rears back from the impact, it looks towards you, and its eyes twitch ever so slightly to your right as it sees the incoming blade a little too late as it (impact) right into its right eye socket. Its tongue lolls out of its jaw as it falls onto its back, and its tail moves and twitches for a few seconds before it eventually goes limp.
Travis: No, no, he's still alive! And I kick him. Now he's dead.
Matt: Grog stomps it into the ground. The twitching stops, the salamander now destroyed.
Travis: Does the dagger stay in his eye socket?
Matt: It's currently in the eye socket, yeah.
Travis: Ooh. Can I reach down and grab it?
Matt: Yeah. You reach down and grab the dagger, and as you pull it out, (poof) it turns into smoke in your hand.
Travis: Holy shit! I look back at Vax.
Liam: Grog, how did you do that?
Travis: I don't know! I think maybe I'm a magic user now! And I start trying to cast reanimate person on the dead thing.
Matt: Okay.
Chris hardwick: That's not how you do that!
Travis: No, no, no, I've got to concentrate!
Chris hardwick: All right.
Travis: (straining)
Laura: Hey, Scanlan!
Sam: Oi!
Laura: What are we going to do with this giant ball?
Sam: We need someone to bring him down to earth. Keyleth, can you vine him down? Or, Gern, do you have something that can move things?
Marisha: Can I--
Chris hardwick: Go ahead.
Marisha: No, go, you first. Please, Gern.
Liam: Does anyone have a large purple hand they could use?
Taliesin: I think he would lose--
Marisha: Yeah, it's a concentration spell.
Matt: Yeah, one spell at a time.
Chris hardwick: I thought I had some sort of a Telekinesis spell, but I guess I don't.
Sam: Chromatic Orb?
Marisha: No, that's an attack.
Laura: Can you bring it down, Keyleth?
Marisha: I can try. Can I do a Grasping Vine from the bottom underneath of him, and see if I can?
Liam: He's over lava.
Sam: He's got something!
Chris hardwick: Oh, sorry, go ahead.
Matt: What are you doing? I know what you're doing, what are you doing?
Chris hardwick: I could either manipulate his memory, or I do have a flying broom.
Sam: What?
Liam: Yes?
Chris hardwick: Yes, I have a flying broom.
Travis: Like you do.
Laura: Are you going to bat him down like you're sweeping the sky?
Chris hardwick: I could fly up and gently glide him down.
Laura: How come everybody flies?
Matt: Are you doing your vine as well?
Marisha: Let me see how this goes first.
Matt: So, without any other command, your two friends, Coral and Stimpy, are still over there dancing as the mist slowly dissipates from the deluge. You pull out from the side of your little satchel there your flying broom, which is a pretty decent, medium-sized broom, places it in the air and it rests there, slightly shifting in place. You leap up onto it and grab onto the front as you shoot up from the side.
Chris hardwick: Going up to catch the golden bitch!
Laura: There's flying brooms?!
Matt: As you place yourself on top of Otiluke's Resilient Sphere, placing all your weight onto it, it sinks a little bit, then it comes to a halt. About three feet it sinks, as you're just standing on top of it.
Marisha: That's as far as it goes?
Matt: What do you want to do?
Chris hardwick: I'd like to try to cast a memory spell on it, if possible.
Matt: Okay. Well, you've already cast a 5th-level spell twice, how many 5th-level spells can you cast per day?
Chris hardwick: Two.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately you're out of 5th-level slots.
Chris hardwick: Could I cast it on you to forget that I've already cast it twice?
Liam: Scanlan, how much time do we have with this bubble?
Sam: A minute, but about 30 seconds have gone by.
Matt: Yeah, you're getting down to about the 40-second mark.
Taliesin: Can I put myself out while all of this is happening?
Matt: Yes, you can do that.
Sam: Can he push down?
Matt: You can jump onto it and begin to push down.
Chris hardwick: I'm going to push down with all my might, to try to get him down on the ground.
Matt: You leap in the air and jump on it again and as you do the orb (sinking noise) and just slowly, over the next 15 seconds shove it down to the point where you're over the orb on the very top, as you can feel the spell about to dissipate.
Liam: Grog, Grog! Stop trying to reanimate that thing and hit the freaking red guy into the hole!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and roll an arcana check.
Sam: Oh, he's the best at arcana.
Liam: 20. Get it. Get it. Reanimate that fucker.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six. This isn't working.
Travis: Must be a rookie mistake.
Sam: What are we trying to do, shove him back into the hole?
Taliesin: Shove him in the hole!
Liam: Grog, shove that fucking thing in there.
Travis: He's over lava.
Liam: You are made of hit points!
Travis: All right, fuck it-- This is your thing.
Marisha: Can I do the vines from out of the portal?
Matt: No, it has to have an anchor point somewhere.
Travis: All right, fuck it, now I just run, in a rage, I run into the lava and I start shoving him straight toward the flaming vagina hole.
Matt: Okay, I want you to make an athletics check. Actually, no, this would be a full strength check. Just roll a strength check. You have advantage because you're still raging. Although you wouldn't be raging anymore because you spent time concentrating on the spell, you could go into a rage for this if you'd like to, spend another use of your rage.
Travis: Yeah, I'll use another one.
Matt: Okay, you go into a rage. All right, as you step into the lava, you suffer 26 points of fire damage from wading up to your knees in molten rock.
Marisha: Halved.
Matt: Halved because of your resistance.
Travis: So 12. I rolled a 22.
Matt: 22. With that you, (boof), you shove the sphere, which shifts back about halfway to there. You have to catch yourself on the side, grabbing the broom and holding it out here as you're stepping the other direction. I want you to make an acrobatics check.
Chris hardwick: All right. Seven.
Matt: Seven.
Taliesin: You have inspiration!
Sam: Nope. He used it.
Matt: As you (slipping noise) slip off the top of the sphere, begin to fall back toward the lava behind you, in a very Lord of the Rings Gollum tumbling into Mount Doom type of view. (sploosh) Back first into the lava.
Laura: Oh shit.
Chris hardwick: I feel fine.
Matt: Actually, you take six points of fire damage. Impacting-- rolled really low on that. (sploosh) You can feel the back of your scales and the flesh on your back immediately begin to burn with horrifying pain. You're holding your broom aloft, 'cause you don't want that to go in the fire.
Laura: I run forward to try to help him out.
Sam: And steal the broom.
Matt: And with that, the sphere breaks. (disgruntled moans)
Liam: Crap.
Marisha: Can Keyleth run up, do I have an action?
Matt: Right now we're going back to the initiative order, since combat has re-initiated with the sphere opened. That brings us to the top. The efreet, now freed from its sphere, is going to go first.
Liam: He's mad.
Matt: He is livid. All right.
Travis: I just want you to know, I was trying to free you.
Sam: I don't know these people.
Liam: These assholes.
Travis: Can you believe how rude these people are?
Matt: He's going to fly back up. (groans)
Matt: Keep away. Let's see. It's going to cast Invisibility on itself, then it vanishes from view.
Marisha: Great.
Sam: As it does that, do I recognize the spell?
Matt: You do.
Sam: I cast Counterspell.
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll-- Oh, wait, no, it's a 2nd-level spell. It auto-- Yeah. Yeah. Because it is a 2nd-level spell.
Sam: Hi!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: As its form begins to vanish, Scanlan, what do you do to counter it?
Sam: I'm going to sing-- No! I'm going to distract it with this.
Taliesin: With an app?
Sam: With an app. (airhorn) (song starts) Oh, wait that's not what I wanted to do!
Chris hardwick: Keep going! Distract him with your morning radio program!
Matt: And that bit of chaos is just enough, as he begins to cast his innate Invisibility spell, it looks over. "What in the-- Shit!" And loses the spell concentration. The invisibility field vanishes, and it stands there above. All right, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: Oh, shite. All right, I'm going to leap over the lava pit.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Yeah. That'll be a 28. I run up behind Grog, and I should be within--
Matt: Darting around the side there, because you are hasted with this, so you can actually just dart around the side.
Liam: All right, right behind Grog. I should be within 60 feet of the efreeti.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And I'll throw three daggers at it.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First one is a 34.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a 27. Third is a 29, so they all hit.
Matt: Shit, jeez, 34.
Liam: But there's no sneak attack on these--
Matt: How did you get 34 on your attack?
Liam: I don't know anymore. I rolled really high, and I rolled my attack bonus, like a 19 plus 11? A 30?
Matt: 30, okay.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: That's okay. A 30 works.
Liam: Math looked right when I did it.
Matt: 34, I was just like (groaning) bleeding from the nose, I couldn't deal with it. 30 hits.
Liam: There's no subterfuge, it might be stupidity. First one's a ten, second one was a ten, and the third one is a seven.
Matt: Seven. Got it. Cool. That ends your turn, Vax. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right. It is...
Laura: It wasn't, because I used Lightning Arrow, so it dropped the concentration on it.
Matt: That's right, so you Hunter's Mark once again. Put that back on there. All right.
Laura: Although it doesn't really matter because I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on him and I lose my Hunter's Mark again.
Travis: Trauma from the earlier episodes. Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right, so Lightning Arrow again, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: Oh yeah! Oh, that's 31?
Liam: 79!
Laura: 31!
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay!
Matt: Gern, you're on deck.
Laura: 23!
Matt: 23 points of damage, all righty.
Laura: That's better.
Matt: (impact) The lightning slams into his chest, and you can see it arcs through its scimitar that it's holding up in its hand, and it shakes and almost drops the weapon, and catches its arm as the electricity disperses out the edge of the blade and looks back at you. He's now glaring at both you and Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to use my movement to run up around the molten lava and hold my hand out for Gern, so that he can use me to get out of the molten lava.
Matt: All right, that's as far as you can get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Gern, top of your turn, you take 24 points of fire damage from the lava as you're sinking into it. (sizzling)
Chris hardwick: So, can I jump up and then cast a spell?
Matt: Right now you can try and cast, in this area, but you would have a hard time concentrating. I'd say you'd have to take a concentration check to even get a spell out, because you're in so much pain. I'd say you would probably want to move out of the lava before you do that.
Chris hardwick: All right, I'll get out of the lava.
Matt: So you (straining) stand up.
Laura: Take my hand!
Matt: It's too deep and you're having to basically wade your way through, which is burning your hands as you get over there.
Chris hardwick: What about my broom?
Matt: You were holding your broom! So here's what you do. You go ahead and you lift yourself up out of the lava onto the broom and then (blowing) push. You're not fully on it, and it's hard to engage its mental commands directly with the current amount of chaos around you, but you do manage to skirt yourself to the very edge of the lava and land on your feet, which are numb after the sheer amount of pain you've suffered, and you don't even want to look down at what you look like from the waist below.
Laura: Do you need me to hold your broom while you cast your spell?
Chris hardwick: Please!
Laura: Thank you!
Sam: Oh, don't do-- Okay.
Matt: So she takes the broom from your hand. What are you going to cast?
Chris hardwick: Disintegrate.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Disintegrate?
Sam: That's a spell?
Liam: That's a big one, we've seen that happen.
Sam: We have?
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Who did that?
Liam: The giants got disintegrated.
Chris hardwick: I'm fairly pissed at the moment.
Matt: As you should be. All right, so you get to go ahead and roll.
Liam: Get the fucker, you dirty bastard.
Matt: Let me get to the spell here real fast. Disintegrate. Oh, it just makes a dexterity saving throw! It doesn't even get a chance. All right, what's your spell DC again?
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: 16. It rolled a two.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: That's going to be bad. All right, roll 10d6 plus 40 damage. Damn!
Travis: 10d6?
Matt: Disintegrate doesn't mess around. It's an all or nothing spell. If they make the save, nothing. You don't make it, (explosion).
Chris hardwick: 27, 33, 36... So 76!
Matt: 76 points of force damage. As you get out, you can see your vest itself is burning, there's still elements of embers burning at the edges of the leather and the cloth. The bottom part of your scales are a combination of blue, black, and little bits have cracked open where you can see red flesh underneath. There's a lot of burn damage.
Chris hardwick: The zippers are very hot, I might add.
Matt: They're really glowing. However, as you turn around, as your fin jewelry on the sides of your face jangles with the speed as you spin around and point your finger upward, the arcane energy forming at the end of your finger, this singular beam of dull green arcane energy streaks forward. The efreet, who is currently focused on Scanlan and watching Vex run past, looks down just in time to see you release the spell. Opens his eyes and attempts to dodge out of the way, unfortunately not fast enough. It blasts in the side of its shoulder and you can see as a whole chunk of its back muscle, shoulder, and lower torso are just turned to dust, exposing bone and elements of its musculature and flesh underneath. It goes (snarls) and looks down. It can't even make a loud emission of pain, it's just gutturally whispering its horrible suffering. As it looks down, it reaches up with its hand and cauterizes the wound on the back of its body, leaving it a charred cinder. It glares down at you, extremely angry. "I hate you most of all, scarecrow!"
Chris hardwick: Go back to your fire slit!
Matt: Percy, you're up. Unless you want your dudes to do anything, by the way. They're still over there dancing.
Chris hardwick: They should get a little bit closer and dance in front of him, just to make sure. They get very self-conscious if no one's paying attention.
Sam: Of course.
Matt: They're just cheering on.
Travis: At least they're dancing while I'm standing on fire.
Taliesin: Can I knock him down a notch? Can I try and shoot him to drop him out of the sky a bit?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I'm going to try. First of all, I'm going to Hex him. He's hexed. I point.
Matt: All right, so the Hex moves over.
Taliesin: Hex moves over. And I'm going to take a shot to try and drop him. I'm going to take a grit shot to drop him.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: And that's, what's the saving throw for that? Strength throw.
Matt: Strength? 23.
Taliesin: Aw, really?
Matt: Yeah. Sorry.
Taliesin: That's fine, he'll just take his damage.
Matt: Little bitch. Plus 1d6, don't forget.
Taliesin: Yes, thank you.
Matt: Wow, Disintegrate spell fucked him up.
Taliesin: That's 17 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot again.
Matt: Is this with your pistol?
Taliesin: Yeah, just with the pistol right now.
Matt: And what's your first range increment on that?
Taliesin: 400.
Matt: The pistol?
Taliesin: Yeah. 1,200 for Bad News.
Matt: Your first range increment.
Taliesin: I'm sharpshooter, I have no range increment.
Matt: That's right. Good call. All right, so fire again.
Taliesin: Range increments are for-- We don't do that here.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits, roll damage. Scanlan, you're up next, by the way.
Taliesin: And that's 16 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. (two impacts) Just as it manages to cauterize the wounds from the Disintegrate spell, both bullets blast into its torso, and you can see it's now, thinking the height advantage would be helpful, after being locked in a hamster ball and now being repeatedly blasted from every which way, it's not enjoying its current experience by any means.
Taliesin: It's going to get worse. All right, and now I'm doing a sharpshooter shot.
Marisha: Pew pew.
Taliesin: Pew pew. That's 18?
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: And that's 12, 18, 28 points of damage.
Matt: Nice! This one (impact) blasts into the center of its chest, and you can see part of its pectoral muscle tears open and flame erupts from the impact. It reaches up and (snarling).
Taliesin: Action surge. Fuck this guy. Same thing, sharpshooter. I'm going to be rolling sharpshooter.
Matt: Go for it, okay.
Liam: Get the other nipple, now?
Taliesin: The other nipple.
Marisha: Matching piercings.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. This is going to be a rough round for him.
Taliesin: 27 points of damage.
Matt: Ooh!
Taliesin: Reload and one more shot!
Laura: Jesus Christ! I mean.
Taliesin: Reload, one more shot.
Matt: You got it.
Taliesin: That's 17, 27, 29--
Matt: That's a hit. Go for it, roll damage.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: Damn, man.
Taliesin: 21 points of damage.
Matt: All right. (two impacts) These holes are beginning to appear in its body where the bits of fiery flesh are being blasted away from the impacts of your weapon. All right, that brings us to Scanlan!
Laura: It didn't kill him?
Taliesin: No, but he's a sieve now.
Matt: You guys held him--
Liam: He just took 100 points of damage.
Taliesin: He took a lot of damage.
Sam: Hey, that Ioun stone that I have? Does that allow me to cast a fourth level three spell?
Matt: If the spell you put into it was a fourth 3rd-level spell, yeah.
Sam: It was a 3rd-level spell, so it's an extra 3rd-level spell?
Matt: Right.
Sam: I'm maxed out on 3rd-level spells, but I still have that thing.
Matt: Yeah, so it wouldn't be a 4th-level spell because you didn't cast into it as a 4th-level.
Sam: No, I mean, the fourth time I've cast a 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Oh, got you. It wouldn't count against your daily. It's in addition to that.
Sam: Okay! So I will, for the first time ever, use that stupid Ioun stone and cast Lightning Bolt again. I'm just sticking with my method here.
Matt: All right, all right. With a five, it does not make its saving throw. Go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.
Sam: 8d6, thank you.
Liam: Here comes the cube.
Chris hardwick: 23, 28.
Sam: Thank you. Did you do this one too? 28!
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Both kills! Both of them!
Sam: I think I would like to, if there's a way, I'd like to angle it somehow so that he will drop right on top of Grog. I feel like Grog can do something to a falling behemoth.
Matt: It's hard-pressed from this angle, unfortunately. Grog is at an angle where you wouldn't really be able to do that.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: Mind you, when you blast him, he'll plummet close to his feet, if you wanted to.
Sam: All right, yes, let's do that so Grog can feel like he gets part of this, too. And if I can, I'd like to burn a big S in his chest.
Matt: So, as you charge up and blast the lightning bolt from your crotch region, you then do a little dance maneuver with your waist, causing it to (crackling) carve a Scanlan S into the torso of the efreet. As it plummets to the ground, slamming into where the lava would be, while the fire doesn't hurt its form, you can see, Grog, as it stands in the ground (groaning). Its form is turning into ash around you. It's actually just dissipating and turning to ash as its eyes roll up and meet with yours.
Travis: I run over in the lava and I go, I'd like to cast Beheading!
Matt: All right. You suffer 26 points of fire damage, reduced to 13 from taking another round in there.
Travis: Not a problem. Totally worth it for the spell.
Matt: As you take Craven Edge and take the head off. As the head rolls away--
Travis: I grab it!
Matt: You grab it! It turns to ash.
Travis: (panting) I run out of the lake.
Matt: You get out of the lava, stand on the side, and look over just as the rest of the head turns to ashes.
Travis: Aw, shit.
Laura: I walk up to Grog.
Liam: You did it again!
Laura: I pat him on the shoulder, and say, that was so impressive. A genuine mage! And I use sleight of hand to shove the flying broom into the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay. Roll sleight of hand.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Liam: Yeah, girl.
Chris hardwick: Am I allowed to roll a perception?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Liam: Come on, Vex. Come on, sister.
Laura: 18?
Liam: Get it.
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: Plus?
Taliesin: No.
Matt: Total of 16?
Chris hardwick: 15 plus one, yeah.
Matt: As you're dealing with this, you have no notice of this. You may question it later, if you like, but you have no idea where it went, and didn't see any of this transaction happen.
Laura: Oh no! Oh no!
Sam: What, what is it?
Laura: Your broom fell in the lava!
Chris hardwick: What?
Laura: I saw it!
Chris hardwick: I just turned around for a moment!
Laura: I tried to give it back to you and it fell in the lava!
Chris hardwick: Are you sure?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: You shouldn't have looked at me when I cast my spell!
Chris hardwick: This is why I never looked at you before!
Sam: I was wrong to doubt you!
Chris hardwick: No! No, you're a constant source of disappointment!
Laura: 18.
Chris hardwick: Where's my fucking broom?
Matt: Make an insight check now.
Chris hardwick: Insight. 13.
Matt: 13. She's telling the truth, man. That broom just went straight in the lava.
Sam: You're a horrible person.
Chris hardwick: You know, I'm really good at reading people, and I know that you're telling me the truth right now.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Chris hardwick: No, I feel your sorrow. I feel it. I feel bad for you, that you have to experience that! It's just a broom. Right? It's just a flying broom that's very difficult to find, no big deal.
Laura: I wouldn't know. I don't even know.
Chris hardwick: That's all right. You know, it actually-- It sterilized me, actually, I'm quite glad. It has very dirty properties. Anyone that would put it between their legs to fly around would be in horrible danger. Horrible danger. So it's actually probably for the better.
Sam: Communicable diseases?
Chris hardwick: Yeah, so many STDs. It's really just like a disease tampon, is really what it is.
Liam: A what? Is that like a magic candle?
Chris hardwick: It's sort of like a magic candle.
Laura: A tragedy candle.
Chris hardwick: It's a tragedy candle.
Taliesin: A Blanston candle.
Chris hardwick: Yes.
Liam: I don't understand sorcery at all.
Matt: At this point, you hear the flickering of flame and the portal itself has begun to expand even further, glowing brighter.
Marisha: Keyleth throws up a Skywrite spell and says, we're taking the portal.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, the flames themselves grow higher and higher. The lava begins to boil and roil. As you guys all move up to the side, you can see the lava is beginning to (bubbling) splash out and spray bits are starting to scatter as some of the nearby trees tumble over. You can see the four Fire Ashari as well as Korren come across one of the clearings. The other way, you see what looks to be another salamander gets thrown about 15 feet from the trees, hits the ground, skids, and is motionless as you see Cerkonos with the rest of the Pyrah, the Fire Ashari stepping through. "Keyleth. We saw your symbol. Is it time?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "All right. Let us try to close this rift." And the rest of the druids all begin to gather around the outside of this portal. As it's flickering, you can see, piercing into the extremely blinding light, Keyleth, you take a moment, and using your attachment to the Fire Ashari and the Fire Elemental Plane from your last passage through it, you can see past the brightness and see beyond the doorway. You can see on the other side, there appears to be probably another half dozen or a dozen or so of a few other elementals and salamanders that are now making their way towards the portal.
Marisha: I stand next to my father and join the rest of the druids.
Laura: Grog, you should probably help them with all of your magic powers.
Travis: Do you think so? It feels like it's an intimate thing.
Laura: Just hold your hands up, hold your hands up.
Travis: All right.
Matt: All right. As the rest of the Ashari begin to gather around the portal and concentrate, they are managing to hold the rift in its current size. You see as beads of sweat begin to pour down Korren's face, not used to this type of terrain. He goes (gasps), "We need more power!"
Travis: Okay!
Matt: "If you can aid, whatever you have to bring to this, please, now is the time!" Does anyone wish to help with the ritual?
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Chris hardwick: I'll help.
Matt: All right, how would you wish to help?
Sam: What a nice guy he is! Certainly not someone we should swindle!
Liam: Strange that you would say that.
Chris hardwick: I would know if someone were trying to swindle me, believe me.
Sam: That's true. That is true!
Chris hardwick: You all have honest faces. Particularly her, over there. Very honest face. What can I do to help?
Matt: What do you think would lend itself to a fire gate-sealing ritual? It could be a spell, it could be a use of a skill. How would you like to--?
Sam: A candle? Do you have any candles that could aid?
Laura: Like fiery candles, maybe?
Chris hardwick: I have a-- No, this one casts-- This is bright light, there's a thunder candle. Blink candle. Destroy-- No, that destroys dexterity. I have a thunder candle, but I don't know if that would work.
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Chris hardwick: 19.
Matt: 19. The Blink candle, which you crafted from various parts from blink dogs and other creatures that have natural translocation capabilities, might have the capability, as this is a doorway between planes, and teleportation magic is based on creating short-form doorways between similar spaces, might have some impact on the ritual if used properly.
Chris hardwick: I have this Blink candle. It's formed from various animals that blink and if-- that has trans-dimensional properties, very good properties. The best kind of robust properties that I can throw it in, and it might help stop the-- from-- all of that.
Travis: That makes perfect sense.
Chris hardwick: Right. So we're all in agreement, then.
Sam: Well-explained!
Chris hardwick: All right. So I'm going to hand Blink candle to Coral and I'm going to have Coral walk into the portal.
Travis: Brave Coral.
Chris hardwick: Brave Coral. Fuck, I've lost two and my broom. What a fucking terrible day.
Matt: As Coral takes the candle, (groans) turns around and begins to just slowly melt, steps into the lava.
Liam: Run, Coral, run!
Matt: Nine points of fire damage to Coral who was already sitting at--
Chris hardwick: Six.
Matt: And had taken six damage, right? So 15 from 33. Coral's at half health. Coral, as this is rough terrain, gets part of the way there, then continues walking forward the rest of the way. Takes an additional 17 points of damage.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So that's 32 points of damage. What's Coral's hitpoints? 33 is the max?
Laura: That's what you said.
Matt: Yep. On the sheet right there. I can read my own text. 33 hit points. Coral, at one hitpoint, gets up to the lava, take the candle and (boof). As the energy expands from it, you can see a ripple, a heat wave ripple, that billows outward. Coral vanishes entirely and the portal shrinks down by about five to six feet, actually closing in its space
Chris hardwick: Oh, Coral, I forgot to tell you somethi-- fuck.
Matt: Suddenly you hear a (zip) and Coral appears about ten, 15 feet in the air--
Chris hardwick: Oh good, there you are. Listen, did you see my broom?
Matt: Smack! Coral falls those 15 feet, taking six points of bludgeoning damage. Let's see if Coral survives this with Undead Fortitude. Nope. That is a roll of eight versus a total DC of 11 with the damage taken, and Coral just splats like a really, really old orange just slammed into the concrete, just (splatting).
Travis: Like an old orange.
Matt: One of the Fire Ashari goes (cringing, gagging) and just ends up concentrating on holding the gate.
Chris hardwick: I'm starting to think you're all very bad luck.
Matt: However, that did aid the ritual. We have two more folks who could aid in this ritual.
Laura: I can use-- I don't know if it will help, but I have a really great diamond of awesomeness that's precious.
Matt: How would that help the ritual?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Am I a part of the people who could be included in the ritual too?
Matt: Yeah. Oh yeah.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to cast a 7th-level Plane Shift to help smush it closed.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a nature roll with advantage. This is your understanding of the natural elements of the world around you and the connection you have with the fire elemental plane.
Laura: I don't know how this magic stuff works.
Travis: Oh, I'll teach you later.
Marisha: 12. Oh, with advantage. 23
Matt: 23. As you begin to concentrate, your hands instinctively burst into flames to coalesce your connection to the Fire Elemental Plane. As you complete the Plane Shift spell, your form shimmers for a second, and for a moment it looks like she's only partially there. She's actually translucent, as flames begin to lick up the sides of her body. At this point, you can see the lava flow in the mountain begins to slow and the bubbling begins to come to a stillness. The portal itself shimmers again and then shrinks down to the size of a normal doorway, about five foot by ten foot tall, and it's just barely holding on. As you're concentrating on holding it in its place, you can see now the rest of the druids around are sweating profusely. Who wishes to take on the last part of this ritual?
Travis: I have a Firebrand Warhammer. I could hit it. Anybody else got anything better?
Laura: Do you have any magic stuff, Scanlan?
Sam: I can inspire them. I mean...
Travis: Your Dimension Door?
Marisha: Do you have your Dimension Door?
Sam: Dimension Door what?
Marisha: A door. I did Planar Binding, which technically really wasn't supposed to do what I just did--
Matt: Planar Shift you said.
Marisha: Planar Shift, I mean, yes. 7th-level.
Matt: Finding ways to tailor magic essences into this type of a ritual.
Sam: Do I know that that will work or help?
Matt: You don't know. You'll find out. However you wish to aid this ritual and justify how it would be helpful in this instance.
Liam: There's something I could do.
Travis: Yeah, spit it up.
Liam: I whip the Cape of the Mountebank out of my pocket and run at that door and jump off the edge and just try to balloon umbrella it down over with that red cape.
Matt: Hmm. Okay.
Laura: Matador it.
Liam: I'm doing it. I'm matadoring it.
Matt: Okay. I will say-- hmm. How do I make this work? I'm going to want you to go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. That is a 25.
Matt: All right. You rush up, leaping off the side, spinning in the air. As you, do you unfurl the cape and turn it into a limited parachute-type projection and as you slam it down towards-- I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom check to see if you have the capability of triggering the magic of the item at the right time to be impactful.
Liam: Cross your fingers, everybody.
Travis: Come on, Vax.
Liam: No bonuses here.
Chris hardwick: No whammys.
Marisha: We don't still have our fancy feast, do we?
Sam: Oh, yeah, are we still feasting?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So what does that mean? Advantage.
Marisha: You have advantage on wisdom throws.
Liam: That's better. That is 13.
Matt: 13? That's better. As you come down, you take the cape and encase, you trigger the magic, at which point the remainder of this doorway just blinks out entirely, the cape gone. The doorway, gone.
Liam: Hot hot hot hot hot.
Matt: As Vax (splashing) right into the lava.
Marisha: I take a Grasping Vine from the edge and try and yank him back.
Matt: Okay. You take 22 points of fire damage as you splat into the lava.
Liam: The Deathwalker's Ward is set to fire.
Matt: So it resisted to 11. So you (splashing) in the lava. All of a sudden, images flash in your head of the time that you lost most of your foot in the Underdark. And you go--
Liam: No no no no no no no no!
Matt: And, before you can even react, all of a sudden, something wraps around your waist and yanks you out as a vine pulls you in an arc and slams you into the hard obsidian floor on the outside of the lava flow. The rest of you gather there as the rest of the druids finish their concentration. The lava pools themselves have gone still and you can see elements beginning to cool, and there's currently no sign of a tear between the elemental planes that's currently bursting through.
Travis: Nice job, Vax!
Liam: Where am I, am I near her, on the ground?
Matt: She would be back here. You're on the ground, right next to a dancing skeleton.
Marisha: I moved up, I moved up. I would be over there.
Matt: You would be part of the ritual. But you fell next to the dancing skeleton.
Liam: Okay, I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I'm an idiot.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I already knew that. It's fine. You did good. You did good. I reach down and I help him on his feet. How bad are you?
Liam: I'm pretty bad.
Marisha: I Cure Wounds, level four.
Travis: Yeah, cool, do that. I'm going to walk out of the lava now. (laughter)
Matt: Taking another 21 points of fire damage. Reduced to ten. The druids look around and give a nod of acceptance. All of them acknowledge you, who they have not met and don't understand quite where you came from or why you're here. One of them, who is currently missing an arm on one hand. Dark, weathered skin, long jet black hair cruising down to the middle of his back, approaches you and his one right arm he puts on the shoulder and says, into your eyes, "I do not know you, friend, but you have come to our aid at an hour when we really required it."
Chris hardwick: Great, sure, I just thought I'd come and lose a couple of thralls and my fucking broom. But great to be here. Everyone seems nice. Especially her, she's great.
Matt: He removes his hand. "Very well."
Chris hardwick: Let me know if I can do anything else! Do you want a candle?
Matt: "Candle?"
Chris hardwick: Well, I make candles, just various candles.
Matt: He does this and his finger bursts into flame and you can see a flame flickering. "We do not need candles here in Pyrah. But thank you."
Liam: Is that the finger? Or is that the finger?
Matt: Insinuated, actual finger. At this point, Korren, your father, approaches you and places a hand on your shoulder, and turns you around to look you in the face. And you can see there's smears of dirt and still glistening from sweat from the whole ritual and looks a bit weathered and winded from the experience. "Keyleth, I'm proud of you."
Marisha: Thank you, Father.
Matt: I think we will stay here and help the Pyrah try and rebuild.
Marisha: Oh. Okay.
Matt: And he takes your chin and pulls it up and looks you in the face with a broad smile on his face, he says, "The road before you, Keyleth, is hard and fraught with loss and sadness. To live is to struggle against the void. But it's those moments of darkness that define the joy of the world around them. Learn from the loss and push forward as a beacon of perseverance, of hope for life after pain. This is one of the pillars of strength of a leader. One that I have learned with the loss of your mother. But you are my beacon of hope. And to many more than you even expect." And he looks back towards the four other members of the Zephrah tribe that are all just looking at you, and they nod.
Marisha: I hope I do not fail you, Father.
Matt: "I trust you will not. Go forth, while we stay here. I want you to grasp your destiny, vanquish this terrible beast that lies on the shores of Tal'Dorei. Complete your Aramente."
Marisha: How do you know that this is my destiny?
Matt: "Whatever your destiny is, grasp it. But you've chosen this path, and all destiny really is, is the choices you make, leading towards a goal that perhaps you do not yet understand. But when you've returned I wish for you to teach us the wisdom you've gained on this journey."
Marisha: Kaitiaki, father.
Matt: "Kaitiaki, Keyleth."
Chris hardwick: Did you see a broom lying around anywhere?
Matt: "No."
Chris hardwick: Sorry.
Matt: "It's all right, we will keep an eye out for it though."
Chris hardwick: Please. And tell everyone #feelthegern. They'll know what it means.
Sam: What is a hashtag?
Chris hardwick: I'll explain later.
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Well, unless there's anything else, we have business to attend to in restoring this area. I wish you all great luck. "
Marisha: Korren, If we should ever need you-- if I should ever need you, or the assistance of the Ashari, what is the best way to get hold of you?
Matt: "Call to Zephrah. Come home. And we will come with you." As he looks over all of you, giving each a look of-- a nod of respect and appreciation-- ("Don't You" by Simple Minds plays)
Liam: Wow.
Taliesin: I felt it coming.
Matt: Glances past to Grog, Vex, and lingers a very long look on Vax, and just gives you a nod.
Laura: His diamond earring is glistening in the light.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Did I stutter?
Matt: "Stay safe. For her sake." And Korren turns around and walks back, as the rest of the Zephrah Ashari walk along with him. You, through all this chaos, get a little bored and frustrated with all this weird nonsensical stuff, look at the ground and realize there's a lot of hidden treasures scattered amongst this vicinity.
Chris hardwick: Probably so. You know, I might stay behind a bit and dig around for a little while. You know, candlemaking's a difficult business.
Sam: Is it now?
Chris hardwick: Aye.
Taliesin: Well, if you're ever looking for more customers, you'll always find them in Whitestone. So, if you make your way north.
Chris hardwick: Excellent!
Taliesin: You're always welcome.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. Could someone heal me a bit before you leave? I'm quite singed.
Taliesin: Oh my!
Laura: I walk up and I cast Cure Wounds on him. I've got jack shit.
Chris hardwick: She's so nice!
Sam: She's great.
Chris hardwick: She's the nicest!
Laura: At a level three for you!
Chris hardwick: That's really nice of you.
Travis: You're a really good person.
Laura: I am! I am. 20 points.
Travis: Holy shit!
Sam: Vex?
Laura: Yes?
Sam: This gentleman has done nothing but aid us.
Laura: I know, and it's so kind of him.
Sam: He's suffered the loss of three of his--
Laura: Look at all these treasures he's going to find here for his candles!
Sam: Is there anything we can do to repay you?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: That scimitar that the genie had, did it fall into the lava?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 18.
Matt: As you look down and say "all these treasures around," you get a closer look. The ground here is rugged rock and black ash and dust and pieces of charred and burnt, petrified wood, and right around the outskirts of where the lava pool is, you can see what look to be broken slivers of soot-covered dragon scale just peppered throughout the landscape. Barely visible until you look real close, thanks to the constant barrage of blacken soot and dust that falls from the nearby area.
Laura: Do you collect dragon scales for your candles?
Chris hardwick: Oh, I forgot to tell you. I sold out my own kind because I was enslaved by dragons who had tails who consider themselves royalty and therefore better than me and I don't have a tail. And so I spent my whole life trying to figure out how to turn scales into weaponized candles. Anyway, got to go, everyone have a great time! Thank you!
Matt: You just leave?
Chris hardwick: I leave! Scoop up some of the few scales and piss off.
Matt: You guys watch as Gern Blanston begins walking around and, like a gutter snipe, or one of the people on the beach with a metal detector, starts combing through.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Don't you forget about me!
Laura: Gern! Before you leave!
Chris hardwick: Aye?
Laura: You know, we're killing a very, very large dragon, hopefully rather soon.
Chris hardwick: Very interesting! Where would that be?
Laura: Well, he's in Emon now, but we're gathering our forces in Whitestone.
Chris hardwick: Good to know! I might catch up with you later on.
Laura: All right!
Chris hardwick: Good-bye!
Laura: Good-bye!
Matt: Which she says with a strange doppler effect even though he's but 20 feet away from you and has chosen to ignore the rest of your party to go about his business.
Chris hardwick: It's just like an NPC, just Skyrim.
Matt: As your skeleton's in the background dancing.
Chris hardwick: There's only one left!
Matt: Yeah, only one left.
Taliesin: He's freezeframe.
Matt: There's plenty of charred corpses littered all over this mountaintop you could make undead from.
Travis: Does the skeleton go with him, or does it stay?
Matt: It follows him. All right, so the rest of you, what is your next course of action?
Liam: I sidle up next to my sister and stand there for a moment and deadpan say, boy, the more things change, the more they stay the same. And then I walk away. (laughter)
Taliesin: Keyleth, why don't we head home?
Marisha: Which home?
Sam: How do we do that?
Travis: Whitestone.
Laura: Can we get to Whitestone, can you bamf us?
Marisha: I can, yeah.
Laura: Let's go there and rest up.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Hey, thank you guys. Thanks for coming, for helping.
Laura: Your dad is very noble.
Sam: Your homeland is, you know, I mean, the volcano, the magma, the monsters, the fire torn in the sky, it's lovely. It's charming, really.
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. This isn't my homeland. I appreciate how well you know me after all these years.
Sam: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you lived here.
Marisha: No, this is the Fire Ashari's camp.
Sam: You're not a Fire Ashari?
Marisha: I'm an Air Ashari.
Liam: It's all right, it's only been a couple of years.
Sam: Aren't all Ashari the same?
Marisha: You know what, Scanlan, that might be the most questions you've ever asked me about myself.
Sam: I don't even know your last name!
Marisha: I don't have one.
Sam: Hey, what's a hashtag?
Laura: Hey, Gern! Gern! Gern! Gern!
Chris hardwick: Hello?
Laura: Is it just dragon scales, or is it any dragon parts you use?
Chris hardwick: You know, mainly dragon scales, but I do like to see them blown apart, so that part's merely for pleasure.
Travis: You could give him five pounds of dragon scales.
Marisha: I pick a tree that's big enough to fit all of our fat faces.
Matt: You already cast Transport via Plants this day, that's how you got here.
Marisha: Maybe we should rest.
Travis: Do you need me to help you with the tree spell?
Laura: Maybe we should just sleep here and rest up and spend the night, wake up in the morning, head back to Whitestone.
Taliesin: He's going to still be there next week, by the way.
Matt: And with that, Vox Machina leaves Gern to his business as they go and camp out at the base of the mountain.
Chris hardwick: Did someone lose an orb?
Matt: And with that, we're going to finish tonight's game! (laughter)
Chris hardwick: Can I say something from this realm?
Matt: Yeah.
Chris hardwick: I'm delighted. We showed a thing tonight on @Midnight of someone lounge singing Stand By Me to Donald Trump and putting the name Donald in there, so I told everyone, please tweet that to @Wilw, and people are fucking doing it.
Travis: That's amazing.
Chris hardwick: So, if you find the guy singing a very poor rendition of Stand by Me to Donald Trump, please send it to Wil Wheaton, he'll love it! Favorite thing in the world!
Matt: You heard it, guys. Critters' call to action. Make it happen.
Chris hardwick: #FeelTheGern.
Liam: CritterStrong.
Sam: Feel the Gern.
Matt: All right, well, guys. Chris, thank you so much for coming and hanging out with us.
Chris hardwick: Thank you, this was so much fun!
Taliesin: A week without crying!
Travis: Feel the Gern!
Chris hardwick: The best DM in the world! This is a wonderful party, and you're all fantastic. Thank you so much. I'm not even upset that you stole my broom.
Laura: Don't judge me, Scanlan, you didn't see me do it!
Sam: I didn't! I didn't!
Laura: Sam's just judging.
Sam: I'm judging you, Laura Bailey. (laughter)
Matt: There is a definite distinction.
Liam: Don't worry, everyone will judge you when you take it out and use it for the first time.
Sam: Vex is fine. Laura Bailey? Awful.
Travis: She's wanted to fly so much.
Liam: Beat him by one.
Matt: Well, thank you all so very much for watching tonight. Hope you enjoyed tonight's episode. We return next Thursday, 7PM Pacific time once again to pick up the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Everyone, show your love on Twitter to Chris, @hardwick. Thank you again for coming and being an amazing wizard for all of us. And is it Thursday yet? See some of you guys tomorrow, and if not, next week.
Travis: Peace out!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons. So, welcome. I know we had a two-week hiatus. We had some birthdays-- in fact, the twins had a birthday. (cheering)
Matt: Awesome. A lot of really amazing community art came out of it, because you guys are ridiculous, and we'll probably see some of that at the break today. But before we kick into the game, let's get through our announcements for the evening while we also wait for Mr. Sam Riegel, Scanlan, who I think we all can consider is pretty important to tonight's events, seeing as how he's currently being digested in the belly of the dragon.
Laura: Oh shit!
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: That didn't happen.
Matt: Yes it did. Yes it did. No. So. Starting off our announcements for the evening: first off, I am going to be flying out bright and early tomorrow morning to A-Kon in Dallas. I'll be out there doing panels and signings with a bunch of other great guests. I understand the same weekend is also Dallas Comic Con, because what the fuck, Dallas? At which Mary and Steve are there also, so don't choose: come to both! No.
Travis: Wade the waters.
Matt: Exactly. But I'll be doing signings, panels, and meeting a bunch of you Critters that are out in that area, so come by and say hi this weekend. And if not, go say hi to Steve and Mary, wherever that happens, in the lesser part of Dallas. I don't know if it is, I just like--
Travis: Yeah, there's a lesser part of Dallas, totally, over with the lesser-- are you guys throwing up because of how nervous you are?
Laura: What? No. Oh, my dice! Where are my dice?!
Matt: Where are your dice?
Laura: I'm so nervous, I don't even have my dice!
Travis: I'll go find them, I'll go find them.
Matt: Travis is going to get them. Wow. Two weeks to stew on this and it's already falling apart.
Liam: This is the exact icy, steely demeanor that I depend on.
Laura: Oh my god, are they in there?
Matt: While he looks for those--
Taliesin: I have extras, if you need some.
Matt: I do want to also say the newest Dear Abby article series for Critical Role characters went up-- or goes up tomorrow, right?
Marisha: Tomorrow, Fridays.
Matt: Friday. And whose is that one?
Marisha: Who goes up next?
Laura: What? Who goes up what next?
Matt: The next Dear Abby?
Laura: Oh, I think it's me!
Matt: Oh! Then we'll have Vex tomorrow coming up. See her answering questions to various distraught people throughout the realms of Exandria, and her I'm sure very astute--
Laura: I'm a really good giver of advice. I learned that about myself.
Ashley: It's true.
Liam: More about quantity than quality? Maybe?
Matt: Possibly. This is very true. So look for that tomorrow on geekandsundry.com, that'll be fun and exciting. Also, for those who didn't catch it yesterday, we had an awesome event at Meltdown Comics with the official Dungeons & Dragons crew announcing: one, their new storyline, which is the Storm King's Thunder, I think is what it's called. Really awesome, bringing the giants back into the world with a very fleshed-out story. I'm super excited about it, and keep tabs on that whenever that comes out, should be in the next few months, I think. I've seen some stuff behind-the-scenes and it looks really, really cool. But as part of that event yesterday, we also kicked off and announced a new video series campaign that I'm doing with the actual Wizards of the Coast Dungeons & Dragons team. Me and Chris Perkins wrote and designed together a story that I fleshed out and am running for a series of celebrity guests, one of which is our fantastic Ashley Johnson there.
Ashley: Hey!
Laura: You're a celebrity!
Marisha: You're a celebrity!
Matt: That was pretty great, guys. I'm not going to lie, that was pretty legit.
Liam: Just keep vamping. Keep vamping until the bard gets here.
Matt: That's right, we're waiting on Scanlan to get here. Other guests include Utkarsh, Shelby, Jonah-- I wrote all the first names down because the last names, some of them were hard to pronounce, but you can look up the actual announcements to get the full names. I'm really bad at this. It's been two weeks, give me a break.
Liam: You're busy. You're busy.
Matt: Nah! I've got so much free time. But it's going to be a great group, and I look forward to announcing it soon on when those will begin to air throughout the summer, because it's going to be a lot of fun. And I get to play in Forgotten Realms, which is something I've wanted to do again for a long time, and hope I don't mess up all the existing fantastic lore that Ed Greenwood has developed since he-- oh, are you okay, Laura?
Laura: No, I really feel like I'm going to throw up.
Travis: There's literally up-chuck going to happen. Just do it in a little thing and I'll feed it back to you like a little bird
Liam: Just go in there.
Laura: (retching noise) I threw up so many dice!
Travis: I'll talk about our sponsor this week.
Matt: You want to jump into that? Yeah, so we have a new sponsor coming in, sponsoring this episode of Critical Role this evening. (cheering)
Matt: So Travis, you want to take it away?
Travis: Our amazing sponsor this week is Backblaze. Backblaze is an amazing, unlimited cloud backup company for your Mac and PC, for just five dollars a month, it's incredible. We have an amazing representative from Backblaze in the studio. He's a crazy, crazy uber-fan. Yev, wave to me baby, blow me a kiss. He's incredible.
Laura: You should check out his Twitter page because he has printed out Flat Mercer and he's chronicling his adventures, and I'm pretty proud of it.
Travis: Yes! We're on you, we're talking about Backblaze right now.
Sam: Hey guys. Backblaze is a great service. (laughter)
Sam: It offers unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. They're supporting the show tonight. I was saying this in the car on the way over. (laughter)
Matt: Well, please continue, we're not stopping you.
Sam: Guys, no shit, I just installed it yesterday on my home computer. It's currently backing up right now. It's an online file backup system for all your stuff. Your documents, your media, your Critical Role fanart, your videos of Scanlan singing things. There's no gimmicks or additional charges, it's just five dollars a month, and! You don't want to go to Backblaze.com, you want to go to backblaze.com/criticalrole, where you can get a fully-featured 15-day trial.
Travis: How many days, Sam?
Sam: 15 days, free! If you like it, keep getting it, pay five bucks a month, that's nothing. Or if you don't, whatever, it doesn't bother me. But it's only for Critters, and also if you go to backblaze.com/criticalrole right now, you'll see pictures of us, quotes from us. It's actually really cute.
Taliesin: Yeah, it was pretty cute.
Sam: And I am such a supporter of these guys that I even wrote a song for them.
Marisha: What?
Sam: It's very short. Okay.
Matt: Please, go ahead.
Sam: (singing) I'm backing up in Backblaze of glory! Take me now, download the truth. I'm backing up-- okay, that's it. (cheering)
Sam: I need a drink now.
Matt: You did good Sam, you did good.
Laura: There's some Guinness in the fridge.
Matt: It's been cool having sponsors come to the show, partially because they all come to us from being fans of the actual show, and that's the driving force behind this, so we want to make sure that things are on-brand from people who are genuinely interested in our community and have things to offer that'll be useful. I can say this as I have a web series I directed many years ago and spent a whole year doing, I lost all the files because of the hard drive that I had-- the external hard drive failed, and I don't have any of those anymore. And so since then I've been very, very careful about backing everything up. So this service would have been really helpful back then. So don't make the same mistakes I did. There Will Be Brawl only lives as final video files. It kills me. I couldn't even fix stuff. Still have the watermark on the last three videos for the Escapist that I can't remove. Anyway. Learn from my mistakes. So! Do we have anything else any of you folks want to announce?
Laura: E3's next week!
Matt: E3 is next week.
Laura: Oh wait, no it's not. It's two weeks from now.
Matt: No, it's two weeks from now.
Laura: It's two weeks from now. I'm sorry.
Matt: I believe nothing coming out of that mouth now!
Taliesin: E3 is two weeks from now, and I'm also going to be at Amazing Comic Con Vegas two weeks from now. And Signal Boost is currently in its second week, which is hilarious, and amazing, and you should totally check it out because it's weird.
Marisha: Yeah. You're like the most interesting man in the world.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: It's fantastic.
Laura: I've always thought that about you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Oh. Thanks. I'm now... yeah. I'm going to die today, thank you. (laughter)
Laura: No you're not!
Travis: Pike's got us covered. Right, Pike?
Matt: All right, great. So, without further ado, and no further delaying the inevitable--
Travis: You got a little something on your--
Matt: Little thing on my nose, right there?
Travis: You might need to go the bathroom, check it out.
Matt: No, it's great. So let's go ahead and roll the intro and start playing Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: So. Continuing where we left off two weeks ago. The intrepid party of adventurers known as Vox Machina, after recently freeing the town of Westruun from being occupied and ruled by the roving Herd of the Storm, which Grog once hailed from, cut down their brutal leader Kevdak and temporarily restored power to a combination of himself and Kevdak's son, Zanror. An accord was made between the two of you to agree to go after and destroy the ancient black dragon Umbrasyl, a member of the Chroma Conclave, and marked for you to eventually destroy anyway, but who had currently made a deal with the Herd in exchange for goods, gold, and ruling over the town, would let them live and be essentially undisturbed, seemingly. You gathered an army, you forged a plan, and an ambush was set for the next time the dragon swooped down from atop the mountain Gatshadow to retrieve its package. At this time, the trap was sprung, the dragon held fast by hooks and chains, a giant metallic trap designed and orchestrated by Percival, and everything was going great. The dragon had sustained quite a bit of damage and seemed to be in a rough place until it broke free and left much of the Herd fallen, dissolving and screaming. Also, Scanlan and Vax Dimension Door'd into the inside of the dragon and have spent a number of rounds now deciding how to get out of it maybe?
Sam: Tiny Vax. Tiny Vax.
Matt: Tiny Vax. Thanks to a potion that does that. You managed to go ahead and put in an Immovable Rod within its stomach, which held it up for a moment before it decided to truly gain the advantage it needed to escape the circumstance, allowed it to tear through its body, as well as an arrow that was shot by Vex towards her brother, in hopes of-- I don't know, being a signal of hope or to put him out of his misery? I'm still trying to figure it out. At this point in time, Umbrasyl took to the sky and began to coast off towards Gatshadow, seemingly the domain that it's carved for itself in this region. On its way out, Grog had thrown his newly acquired Bloodaxe and his Chain of Returning into the dragon, left it, and is now being dragged behind it now, dangling as it flies off. And that, my friends, is where we kick back into the story.
Travis: That's when they knew they fucked up. (laughter)
Matt: So we have, as you guys-- Grog, your feet leave the ground as you swing forward, unable by the momentum pushing forward to keep up with the sheer speed of this dragon and its size, its mass, its full stretched wings, it is far faster than any of you expected and it whooshes off towards the mountaintop. You, just looking behind as the ground just fades further and further away. The rest of you, Vox Machina, seeing this happen, see essentially half of your friends, your party, only one of them visible, now beyond your reach. With that being said, for this circumstance, let's pick up where we were on the initiative order between you three.
Laura: Just straight into it!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm ready.
Matt: We left at the right time for that, guys.
Liam: I cannot feel the lower half of my body. (laughter)
Matt: Here, how about this? Because I can't find the original initiative order, we'll just say for this circumstance we'll roll initiative based on what action's going to happen here. So we're going to have you three roll initiative.
Travis: Come on, lucky dice. I get advantage on that.
Sam: I got 12.
Liam: 13.
Travis: 13 also.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Sam: Starting off right.
Matt: All right. So. As it crests into the sky (whoosh), blackish dragon blood dripping from wounds, you can feel every single tension of its upper torso muscles with each swoop of the wings crushing against you in this rhythmic pattern. What little bit of air currently has been placed at the top of the stomach, based on your Thunderwave, is all you have to maintain any semblance of hope. You, there's an arrow in darkness. However, Umbrasyl at this point, who does go first in this order, is just concentrating on survival and continues gliding upward. You hear a rumble within the inside of the body, and the essence of a growling, angry voice creeps through. "These foul creatures. Get out of me!" (straining sound) I need you guys to both roll strength saving throws right now.
Laura: He's trying to puke you up?
Sam: Or just crush us.
Liam: Strength saving? Nine.
Sam: Yeah, not great. 15.
Matt: 15. You manage to put your arms against the side, and using whatever forceful arcane cantrips to keep the walls at bay before it actually finds you, and you slip out in time. You, however, do suffer six points of bludgeoning damage as the muscles once again tense against you. Umbrasyl is very much aware that there are now living things inside the stomach squirming around and as the muscles relax, the voice just growls again, "Try all you want. Don't worry. I can eat you now or later."
Liam: Can't hear you.
Matt: So. We had two 13s and a--
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12. All right. So Grog, Vax, what are you guys doing?
Liam: I'm taking--
Matt: The Bramblewood is now beneath you, you're heading towards the mountain, you can see the edge of the forest now.
Travis: Maybe I go first, just in case something--
Liam: Yeah, go for it.
Travis: The Bramblewood? I'm holding on, right? With the Titanstone Knuckles. Whereabouts is the axe lodged? Can I see where the chain is attached to?
Matt: You can see it curving up ahead of you and with how high the sun is in the sky, it's around noon, there's a heavy bit of shadow, and at this distance? Make a perception check.
Travis: (laughs) That went one and then a 13. Minus-- zero. 13.
Matt: 13. It seems to be somewhere around the base of the tail, like where the tail meets the rest of the actual body itself, the torso area.
Laura: It's in his butt.
Matt: No, it's not quite in his butt, it's more in his side.
Travis: How high am I?
Matt: Looking down? Numbers are hard for you to pick up. It's a long way.
Travis: A long way.
Matt: It's a long way. Like-- yeah.
Travis: Well. Only one way to go. And that's up. I would like to try and pull myself up the chain towards Umbrasyl.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Athletics or strength?
Matt: Athletics. Which is better, technically.
Laura: It's a strength saving thing, so--
Matt: Yeah, it's strength plus your proficiency bonus.
Travis: Oh! I get an advantage or?
Matt: You get your proficiency bonus. You're no longer raging, because this is more fear-struck at this point.
Travis: Oh, 14 plus five-- 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. You begin to ascend the chain. You get closer to it, and you can now see the axe itself is embedded and is starting to wiggle and pull out. So you're making your way up the chain with the full round at this point, you're almost to it, but that's going to be the rest of your action this turn.
Travis: Yeah, okay!
Matt: So what are you doing?
Liam: I'm taking the dragon sword and I am shoving it along the angle of the arrow that's coming in toward it, to try to go parallel.
Matt: Okay. The arrowhead is still poking through--
Liam: Through, and I'm sending it along that line.
Matt: Okay, okay. All right. Go ahead and make a general dexterity check. To see if you're able to--
Liam: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. Using the essence of where the actual shaft of the arrow has pierced the hide and is stuck through, you take the blade and use your understanding of precision weapons and implements to find the slight opening. And the blade thankfully is very thin. Slide it through with minimal resistance. You can see the muscles are still pushing against it, but the already preset wound from the arrow does guide it through, and you manage to go straight to the hilt, and it's found its way all the way through the wound. No additional damage is dealt necessarily, but it has gone--
Liam: This does not count as an attack on the creature?
Matt: You said you wanted to put it through an existing hole.
Liam: The hole is this thick.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Like a straw, and the blade is this, that's not piercing damage? There's no piercing damage. Whatever you want.
Matt: Do you want to roll an attack for this?
Liam: Yes, I want it to be an attack.
Matt: Right, now you would make the attack as the blade. The idea being that you wanted to guide it through the hole.
Liam: I'm going to use one of my Lucks. I've got two left. Better.
Matt: Didn't you use any Luck for the battle?
Liam: I used one last time.
Matt: Right, so you have two left.
Liam: 12 plus strength, which is low, is 14. The dragon sword-- is the dragon sword plus anything, guys? I don't know that I have the--
Matt: Plus one.
Liam: Plus one. All right.
Matt: Yeah, and then it does additional damage against dragons.
Liam: Oh, and I have to roll-- I'll just say I missed. For my bonus action, I'm going to slide the dagger up along the same line and try to widen that gap.
Matt: Okay. This roll will be at disadvantage.
Liam: The last one was too, which is why I just scrubbed it.
Matt: Right, right, right. Go ahead and make the secondary attack.
Liam: No.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so, the blade is in there and it has found its way through the existing wound, but you don't quite have the strength to actually wrench it enough to do any real, serious damage as it is a very, very hardy and well-defended creature from its natural mass. The fleshy interior of a dragon is almost as dense and as protected as the armored hide on the outside, and that's one thing you weren't counting on when entering its form.
Liam: And what did I just do, though, with the dragon sword, did I widen the hole?
Matt: You've put the blade through the hole and so now you have that blade lodged in, you can then use that to try and widen it in successive turns in itself and that will prevent you from having disadvantage on the attacks with that blade going forward, because it's already in a soft place and you can just wedge it, but it's going to be a strength attack for each of those rounds. The dagger unfortunately, you just can't find any purchase at that point there in the time given, because of the movement and the squishing. You do also suffer an additional seven points of crushing damage.
Liam: Okay, and I forgot. One other thing I want to do-- I have movement too, can I use my legs to push as hard as I can forward a foot or something? I know with movement over difficult terrain it's halved, and I'm in the most difficult terrain.
Matt: You are in the most difficult terrain there probably is.
Liam: But if I use my movement could I shove and go like a foot towards the outside, half a foot or anything?
Matt: Pushing towards the wound?
Liam: Pushing in. Using my legs to go--
Matt: Okay. I would say that would be part of your attack next round. Actual movement within, you would be able to move a few feet but you'd have to release the blade to do so. Any actual blade pushing forward would be your next action, so hold off for the next round. Scanlan, what you got?
Sam: Oi. So I'm in a beast. As we all know, intestines are my favoured terrain-- (laughter)
Travis: I remember him saying that years ago!
Matt: This is true!
Laura: Back when we first made these characters, I remember you saying that.
Sam: So I held up that rod, clicked it, and then it was pulled out of the body pretty close to where I am right now. When it went, did I see air? Did I see daylight, when it went out of there?
Matt: It was very small. It's the equivalent of a bullet going through, because the rod when it punched through it didn't-- it's a very thin, elongated object, so it pierced through like a metal rod at a very high speed.
Liam: So the dragon got very lucky and it went through like that, and not like that.
Matt: If it would have hit-- at whatever angle it would be, even then, it's only that wide and it would still puncture a tiny slit, and due to the density of both the muscles of the creature and its body, it took damage and there's a little bit of blood coming from the wound, you imagine, but it's not like it's going to leave an open, cavernous hole.
Sam: It's a cut.
Matt: Yeah, it's a cut.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: But you did see where it (tearing noise) through.
Sam: And when it went out, I didn't see any daylight or anything. Just disappeared.
Matt: You just saw it (tearing noise) through the creature's stomach. You do see a little bit of blood beginning to pour out of where the wound was.
Sam: Okay. Oh boy.
Travis: Do it, baby.
Sam: I don't know, I got nothing. All right, I'll just try something and we'll see if it works and then I'll try something else next time. I won't die in one round, right? I'm going to Polymorph into a Tri-- not-a-ceratops. Into a small, poisonous snake.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: And I'm going to go straight into that wound.
Matt: Okay, well, before that happens you do take four points of acid damage from the stomach before you take the form, because that would be the top of the round. So, at which point you turn into a small poisonous snake, now floating amongst the acids, and find your way along the surface. And you're heading towards the wound?
Sam: I'm going into the wound.
Matt: Okay, all right--
Sam: With a swim speed of 30!
Matt: Right, you do. (laughter)
Matt: Let me check.
Sam: But I don't know if it's swimming, it's more squeezing.
Matt: Through the acid, it's swimming. Once you get to the actual wound, this is more squeezing. And that's going to be more of a strength-based element. So that being the case here, a poisonous snake, I'm going to need you to go ahead and roll a strength check to push against the wound.
Sam: Sure, man. This is a strong snake.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: Which, just as a heads up, is a minus four to its strength, so that's technically a negative three.
Sam: (bink) Going well, guys!
Matt: Yeah. You just dive in headfirst and with all your snaky might, you slither and slither and slither, just getting nowhere. No headway. This is bad. (laughter)
Liam: Why don't you bite it, dude?
Sam: Oh yeah! Sure, I'll take a bite.
Liam: Poisonous bite.
Matt: Sure, go for it. Roll for an attack.
Sam: 14 plus-- I have no idea.
Matt: Plus five.
Sam: Hey! That's a 19. That doesn't hit.
Matt: A 19? The inside of the stomach is not as well-armored as outer parts of the body. A 19 would hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: What do I roll?
Matt: This would be-- oh no, you don't roll. It takes one piercing damage. (laughter)
Sam: Guys, we knocked it down a point!
Matt: And it has to make a constitution saving throw versus your poison. That's an eight plus 14, at a DC of ten. So yeah, it doesn't take any additional-- oh, it takes half damage. So go ahead and roll 2d4.
Sam: Ooh! Seven.
Matt: It takes three points of poison damage. (laughter)
Sam: And it is considered grappled. Okay. Plan A, cross it off the list. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Top of the round. Okay, so, Umbrasyl is still flying up, looking down at its form, is glancing about...
Travis: Don't see me! Don't see me!
Laura: You're in its butt. How can it see you?
Matt: Grog. As you're holding onto the axe, you see before you, just pass underneath the leg and the front arms that are reaching down, this giant, dark, looming projection comes down and looks right towards you. The horned front of the dragon as Umbrasyl stares right into your face and goes, "There you are." (draws in breath, exhales) And unleashes a torrent of acid towards you. I need you to go ahead and make-- this is going to roll a dexterity saving throw. You have disadvantage.
Travis: I do?
Matt: Because you're currently holding onto the chain, but I believe you have advantage on them because you are a barbarian.
Travis: I have Danger Sense. So just one roll?
Matt: Yeah. So just roll.
Travis: That's not great. 11.
Ashley: Can I-- do I see them?
Matt: No! They are way over-- they're like a tiny little dragon speck in the distance. We'll get to you guys here in just a moment, but their situation is a little more dire and immediate, so I have to figure out what's going on with them right now.
Laura: What if we could've chased after them? Right away?
Matt: You can if you want to. Did you want to go after them?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: I would have chased after them, immediately, when it took off.
Matt: Okay, we'll get to that in just a minute. As it is-- the dragon's speed is it can fly 80 feet per round.
Laura: That's really fast, though.
Matt: Yeah, and it's making double-dash manoeuvring here, even at your fly speed on the broom--
Laura: What do great eagles have? Giant eagles, I think, have really fast speed too.
Matt: Let's check that real fast. Giant eagles--
Marisha: 80.
Matt: 80 feet. So the eagles are able to keep up. Do you want something that way?
Laura: So, if the eagles were to pick up somebody--
Matt: First off, Grog, you take 62 points of acid damage.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Wait, you have acid resis-- no, you don't, because Keyleth-- it went away.
Travis: It went away?
Laura: Yeah, remember? Because she used--
Matt: She took damage and it dropped.
Marisha: I took damage, I'm sorry. It wasn't my fault. I lost concentration. Blame the dragon that did 40 damage.
Matt: So, as the stream pours past you, you feel your flesh burning, and elements of your skin are actually sloughing off and plummeting beneath you like a thick oatmeal.
Laura: Gross!
Matt: You still maintain your grip on the axe through sheer force of anger and willpower. Umbrasyl slows down a little bit in not doing the double-dash maneuver. That's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. So you sent the eagles after--
Laura: Well no, I wanted the eagles to pick up Pike and Percy.
Matt: So the eagles swing by--
Marisha: Wait, not yet. Stone! Stone!
Taliesin: Throw her the teleport stone!
Ashley: Gatestone! I pull it out of my bag. Pass it to her.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop on an eagle.
Laura: I literally am sending the eagles as this is happening and I dash out of the tree on my broom, and go for the Immovable Rod, just long enough to stop and grab it and keep taking off after the dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you retrieve the rod, grab it, and head off in that direction. So we now have both of you, on eagle-back, heading off, with you trailing behind as you can't quite travel at the same speed as the eagles.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and clear my gun while I'm up there, too.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: You've got a ride. Animal handling. I'm going to drop and I'll start focusing on the Gatestone.
Taliesin: So, situated, I'm just going to try and clear the gun and see if it's an easy fix.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Nope. Gun's broken.
Laura: It's broken?
Taliesin: Yeah, gun's broken. I've got another gun, but big gun's broken.
Matt: Yeah, Bad News is out. All right. As you're flying off you're having a hard time with the bumpy ride, as this eagle also has been near death due to being partially dissolved by the acidic attack from the dragon before. It wasn't the acid, it was something else that wrecked it.
Laura: No, it was a bite or a claw.
Matt: Yeah, I think it was a bite or a claw, because the acid would've destroyed it. So the eagle's heavily wounded, and due to it shuddering and trying to keep up it just causes you to end up bending a portion of the actual weapon.
Taliesin: Damn it. I put it away.
Matt: All right. So you guys are keeping up. You're concentrating on the stone.
Marisha: One minute, baby.
Matt: Bringing us back now. Grog, you're recovering from this attack.
Travis: I look down and I see my beautiful body tattoos melting away like instant oatmeal. Not even like the nice apples and cinnamon kind, it's like the maple brown sugar that no one--
Laura: That's my favorite kind of oatmeal.
Travis: Nobody likes that; you're alone in this. And it makes me so angry that I go into a rage?
Matt: Do recall, you do have one point of exhaustion since your frenzied rage did wear off beforehand.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Matt: So you go into a rage.
Laura: Oh but we have Heroes' Feast, is that good?
Matt: It doesn't help with that, no.
Travis: All right. So I go in a rage, and I would like to try and continue climbing up the remainder of the distance to Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay. Athletics check, with advantage.
Travis: That was a one.
Laura: Oh, that's way better!
Travis: That's much better. That's a 29.
Matt: You find your way up, grabbing onto the edge of the tail, and you actually pull yourself up onto the base of the tail. You're on the back of Umbrasyl right now. The chain is still currently attached to its side.
Marisha: Khaleesi!
Travis: Mother of dragons! Do I have any more movement?
Matt: It's taken your whole turn to really get up there. Are you going to dislodge the Bloodaxe, or leave it there?
Travis: I'm going to dislodge it, because it was already so weak.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and make your check to remove it. It's a DC 12, I think.
Travis: That's a one. Yep.
Matt: You pull on the chain, but the reason it managed to hold your weight this whole ride up was it was wedged pretty well into its armored hide. And thank god it did. However, at this point, it's proving that that is now coming back to haunt you, as it is really hard to pull it from where it's stuck in the dragon. That's going to be the end of your turn. Vax.
Liam: First turn I'm going to use the dragon blade to attack and slice downward and try to wedge that hole open a little bigger.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That hits. Well, I don't know if it hits. Nine plus my strength for this sword, right, not dexterity?
Matt: Correct. I'm letting this one be a finesse.
Liam: I probably hit him before. So that's a 25.
Matt: 25? You carve an opening in the side about a foot and a half in full length there. As you drag it you hear a roaring. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: It's 1d8 plus your dex--
Liam: Yeah, I know, I got that written down, thank you. 16.
Matt: 16? All righty.
Liam: And then, this is a game rules thing. Grog's within five feet of this thing and I'm no longer at disadvantage. Or am I?
Matt: This is less rules and more narrative. You don't understand the body or where you really are in the body of the dragon. He's not threatening the creature right now. If anything, it's potentially threatening you. This would not be a sneak attack.
Liam: I'm not arguing, I'm asking what's possible.
Matt: No worries.
Liam: I'll use the dagger to hit. Am I at disadvantage with the dagger still?
Matt: I'd say yes, because the only reason you didn't have disadvantage with the other blade is because it was within an existing wound and then you pulled back.
Liam: Then I miss.
Matt: Okay, the other dagger, you go ahead and stab again, this time it hits a dense part of muscle and does sink in, but not enough to do any serious damage from the inside.
Liam: And there's air queefing in and out of this slot? (laughter)
Matt: A little bit, yes. It's about that wide. You staying there?
Liam: Yes. No. I'm going to slide my body and try to stick head and dagger arm out of it and hang half in and half out, if possible.
Matt: Yeah. Go ahead and make a straight strength check.
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13? That's fine. Thankfully, the DC's lower because you managed to carve the large wound in. You plant your feet against the other muscle wall that you are between and you push off and get yourself through. And in the most awkward, tiny birth, just above your armpits, your head and arm emerge out the side. Immediately a gust of wind hits your hand as you realize and look down: you are hundreds of feet above the ground. Bramblewood right beneath you. But you are partially out of the dragon.
Laura: You can breathe!
Liam: (gasps for air)
Matt: Take a deep breath. You take three points of crushing damage as the muscle walls around you are still squeezing in on you in your current placement. That ends your turn. You! At the top of your round, your snake takes acid damage. Only one point of acid damage. How many hit points does your poisonous snake have?
Sam: I don't think he has very many.
Matt: It may have less than one hit point, in which case, you're just going to turn right back into Scanlan.
Sam: I think he's dead.
Matt: Let's find out. It has two hit points!
Sam: Oh god! Oh no, but wait, I took damage last round, too.
Matt: That was before you transformed. It was at the top of your round.
Sam: Hey, I'm still a snake! (laughter)
Sam: Well, I'm not going to try that any more. If I drop form, is that my whole round?
Matt: No, you just let it go.
Sam: I'm going to drop the snake. Snake was a try and fail.
Matt: It was a good idea. Just not a very strong snake.
Sam: I drop the snake, try to get that little bubble of air (gasps), and I'll fucking cast Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Okay! So, using that little pocket of air, you bring your hand up, you do your quick somatic components, shouting the phrase, and Bigby's Hand appears and is currently being squished between some of the walls of the stomach.
Sam: Can he move at all?
Matt: Yeah!
Sam: Okay. I would like to fist the wound. Jam it, find a finger and-- how you like that?
Taliesin: You're fingering the wound. Okay! (laughter)
Sam: This wound will never heal.
Matt: I don't-- yeah. (laughter)
Sam: So would it be a forceful hand?
Matt: This would be a very forceful hand. This would be the definition of Bigby's Forceful Hand. Go ahead and roll an athletics check for Bigby, which is strength 28, so add plus eight to the roll.
Sam: 12?!
Matt: Total of 12?
Sam: Yes!
Matt: The finger pushes partway in and gets about halfway up to its second knuckle. (laughter)
Matt: It is just chilling right there.
Sam: This is so embarrassing! Wow! (laughter)
Matt: I'm blushing, man!
Liam: All about phrasing.
Sam: Wow! Okay!
Matt: All right, that's your turn.
Sam: I have movement, right?
Matt: You do have movement, yes.
Sam: I can't move anywhere! I have climbing stuff with me. Can I move my arms at all?
Matt: You can move your arms, yeah.
Sam: I would like to take out a grappling hook and grab onto the inside lining of the stomach.
Matt: Okay, make a strength check.
Sam: Nope! Six!
Matt: Six. You take it and (ting, swish). It just slips along the very heavy mucous material lined interior of the stomach. There's a little scrape line, but that's about it.
Sam: I can't do anything! It's great.
Matt: Top of Umbrasyl's round. Breath weapon does not return. However, is going to use one of its legendary actions and attempt to beat its wings to shake you off of it, Grog.
Laura: Are you raging?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Which I have advantage on. 18.
Matt: 18. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage, which is reduced by half, so you're only taking seven. However, you are knocked prone.
Travis: (laughing) On his back.
Matt: Yes, which causes you to begin tumbling off the back of the tail. The wind of it-- (thump thump)
Travis: Shit!
Matt: The chain of returning is still attached to you, however, and as you go tumbling off the back of the tail, it catches you, and you are now swinging towards the back of the creature, of the dragon now, back where you started. Only the dragon is very aware of your presence. But you didn't plummet to your death!
Travis: That's good!
Matt: That was the end of your turn. Now it's the top of Umbrasyl's turn.
Sam: These dragons are hard to kill!
Matt: Yeah, imagine that! At this point, now, as this has gone on for a little while as you guys began to ascend and it went upward, it's now partway up the mountainside. You can see the forest has gotten more sparse. There are trees scattered across the top of the mountaintop.
Liam: We're close to Gatshadow already?
Matt: You can see it. You're not there, but it's going across the forest top and it's coming towards the actual mountain base. It hasn't quite ascended it completely.
Laura: What about giant eagles with people on them?
Matt: They're keeping in tandem with it. They're not able to quite catch up entirely, just due to the nature of the fast dragon.
Liam: Arrow range?
Matt: Not for her, unfortunately, no.
Taliesin: We're not within 400 feet of it, are we?
Matt: You, at this point, jumping on, would just be on the outside of the range if you wanted to try. You're at disadvantage on these attacks because you are on the back of a flying, wounded bird.
Laura: Don't let the bird get hit by Umbrasyl!
Taliesin: Fuck it. Taking a shot. At least taking one shot to see what happens. Ooh yeah. Natural 20.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Do it again.
Taliesin: 18, that'll do. 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh, and he still has-- no, I lost Hex.
Matt: You lost Hex, yeah.
Liam: You're doing great, de Rolo, come on! Keep your head in the game.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage.
Matt: Gun goes off. You hear a whizz go by your ear as the bullet hits the side of Umbrasyl. (grunting) The head looks back towards the rest of you, now approaching at a distance.
Laura: Do not let the bird get hit! You will plummet to your fucking death.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend the rest of my attack pushing the eagle down to fly at tree level.
Matt: So, at the top of Umbrasyl's turn, as you guys are pushing forward and you're still concentrating, the dragon growls under its breath. (spellcasting) You can't hear it. You're too far away.
Ashley: She can read lips!
Laura: I'm so far away! I just want to know what he's saying.
Matt: The outer view of the dragon shimmers for a second and then vanishes from sight.
Liam: Are we visible?
Matt: No.
Liam: We're not like Wonder Woman inside the jet? What about my hand hanging out?
Matt: Yeah. You see the dragon.
Sam: What about Grog?
Matt: Grog is dangling from nothing right now. Grog is kiting through the air.
Taliesin: You have Hunter's Mark.
Ashley: So we can see Grog?
Matt: In theory, yeah, if you can keep a bead on him.
Travis: I'm enlarged.
Matt: A very heavy Grog.
Laura: Is he Hunter's Marked still--
Matt: He would be. You haven't taken a lot of damage yet, or at all.
Laura: I haven't taken any damage.
Matt: Then you still have Hunter's Mark on him, yeah. Continues upward. That comes to the next part. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I had one question. I drank that Potion of Speed. It hastes me for a minute. How many rounds is a minute?
Matt: That has gone away, unfortunately.
Travis: Well, there's nothing to do but to climb back up the chain!
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Up the chain! Fucking weiner snap. 15.
Matt: 15? All righty. You manage to pull yourself halfway up the chain. You get back to where you were towards the base of the tail. That's the extent of your round there. The wind resistance itself, you can see the axe itself, after you tried to tug it forward, did bring it a little loose. So its position is still a little precarious.
Travis: Might as well say something cool. I can do this all day! I'm really not confident.
Matt: All right. Vax.
Liam: I would like to use my movement, if I can, with the blade I used to go this way, and I cut a big foot-long thing. I want to try to use my movement to reverse the direction of the blade and stab inward.
Matt: It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack. It wouldn't use your movement. It would be part of the attack to draw it out and attack with it. It wouldn't use your movement.
Liam: My dagger hand's the one that's out. I want to try to maneuver the sword around and stab inward and keep cutting bacon in here. I want to attack the dragon, but still from the inside with the hand that's inside.
Matt: Okay. You're in a weird position now where the blade's at your side, so pulling away from the body, there's very little strength to pull that way, since you punched through the wound. So you're essentially holding the blade right here.
Liam: Then if I did this, can I just continue to saw in the same direction and do an attack?
Matt: You'd be at a disadvantage on it.
Liam: Visual. I don't know what I'm seeing.
Matt: T You stabbed through, you cut a wound. Holding that blade, you punched through, and the thickness is about most of your body's length. So most of your body is still in the wound. You've just barely pushed through, and you're still holding the blade back this way. There's no real strength to attack from this position because you're being squished.
Liam: Then I'm going to attack at disadvantage with the dragon blade, and then I'm going to stab with the dagger that's outside.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Dragon blade on the inside rolled a 15.
Matt: 15?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: There's just not enough strength to get it though. You try and pull upward and the blade comes loose, comes towards your body, but doesn't actually find any additional part of the muscle to cut through.
Liam: Dagger on the outside is 21.
Matt: 21? Just scrapes across the hide. Not strong enough to pierce it from the outside. You do also take one point of bludgeoning damage as the wound tenses around you once more. Scanlan!
Sam: For my bonus action, I'm going to fist the dragon again! Just going to jam it in there!
Matt: Roll an athletics check with plus eight.
Sam: 20!
Matt: 20! The hand pushes into the wound, causing it to tear open and rupture part of the stomach. As it punches through, temporarily leaving an open wound in the side of its stomach area, Bigby's Hand is partially outside the dragon now.
Sam: Great!
Matt: It takes 11 points of damage from the wound. And you currently have a little bit of light that's visible before the wound closes.
Sam: Before the wound closes.
Matt: The muscles re-tense. You watch it punch through and everything (gasp). It's the moment of impact.
Sam: I'm going to jump in the hole.
Matt: You leap in after Bigby's Hand just in the wake of it slamming into the side of the muscle of the stomach walls. In that one moment, you're rushing past, you can feel the actual muscles tensing behind you. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Dexterity saving throw. 18!
Matt: 18! Okay! You manage to leap behind Bigby's Hand and grab onto the side of it as the hand punches entirely out of the dragon's body, the wound slamming shut behind.
Sam: Oh god, I'm outside the dragon?!
Matt: You are now outside the dragon.
Sam: (screams) Shit!
Matt: Holding onto Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Is he flying? Does he stay still? What does he do?
Matt: He is flying.
Sam: He can fly?!
Matt: Bigby's Hand!
Sam: Not as fast as the dragon.
Matt: Bigby's Hand can move up to 60 feet, so no, it's slower than the dragon. Starting to drag a little bit behind as it's moving.
Sam: God. Okay! Hand can't do anything else, right?
Matt: No, that was its action. That's most of your turn, really, at this point. That was your movement to push through after the bonus attack, so you have your action. I'll give you your action.
Sam: You're not going to let me cast another spell, probably.
Matt: You have an action, so you could, technically. You look out as you punch through. You look down below you suddenly after you take a moment to look, and you can see part of Vax emerging from the side of the dragon. And then the whole dragon and Vax vanish.
Sam: Oh shit! Wait, I see Grog?
Matt: You do see Grog, dangling from the chain, slowly pulling his way up towards the back.
Travis: (screaming) Scanlan!
Sam: I'm holding onto the hand?
Travis: (screaming) What the fuck?!
Matt: You are now right there with Bigby's Hand. (laughter)
Sam: The Hand can't do anything else.
Matt: Not this turn, no.
Sam: Shit. I just got out of the dragon. I don't know what's going on. I didn't even know we were flying. I'm just going to shoot a Lightning Bolt at him.
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Advantage on the dexterity saving throw. What's the DC of it? The DC of the Lightning Bolt?
Sam: It's my spell. It's not through the Hand Cone, I assume.
Matt: Nope, you are clutching both hands onto the side.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18. It makes the save. Roll damage, and it takes half damage.
Sam: 26.
Matt: 26. All right, so it takes 13 points of lightning damage. (blast) The bolt streaks upward, hitting the sides of the wound that you just came out of it, and arcs up the side of the body. Most of it is absorbed from the hefty, scaled hide of the black dragon, but it does (unhappy groan) roil with pain. You hear it yelling, and with a very slight shifting of light, you notice the dragon is still there, and you recognize this. This is an Invisibility spell. That ends your turn.
Sam: I guess so.
Matt: So, the rest of you guys, trying to keep up. The dragon's far out of range of anything you have, and it's just seems to be coasting as fast as it can out of the way, so you have nothing, I don't think, that can really go past a 300, 400 foot range. So you're just keeping on that eagle, holding on. You as well, you're behind the others, just slowly falling behind.
Laura: How fast can my broom go?
Matt: I think it's 50 feet. I can look it up again real fast. It's not a racing broom. Quidditch broom. I'll find it for you.
Laura: And my boots of haste don't do shit to a broom.
Matt: I'm going to look it up right now, just to let you know, so we can all relax.
Travis: It's the fastest model yet! I love Harry Potter.
Matt: I gather that. (laughter)
Matt: I love it, too. Broom of Flying. Flying speed is 50 feet. You can't even see it now. Grog's just become this little speck in the distance. All right, so as that's going on, are you doing anything?
Taliesin: I'm going to keep my eyes peeled on what I can see and try to keep up as best I can at treeline, like below.
Matt: Back to the top of the round. The dragon, Umbrasyl, now (wings flapping). Even you are being dragged behind nothing, you can hear the wings beating. You still have full sight of the dragon at this point. The voice growls out of its throat, "Fine. Let's see how well you hold on, insects!" It begins to spin and do a barrel roll. I need both of you, as also its muscles tense, to roll strength saving throws.
Travis: I have advantage on those.
Liam: Six.
Matt: Six?
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. You get swung around, the chain taking the brunt of all the weight across its back. (popping) Comes free. Thankfully, you were in an up arc, but you are now arcing in the air. You also get ejected from the wound from the muscles tensing behind, it almost squeezes you out. Before you can even get a grapple on, the dragon vanishes from sight and you're now falling backwards.
Liam: I'd like take a chance to say, here, that when I went into this dragon, I was lost, and a wanderer. As I am shat out its side, I come forth a paladin of the Raven Queen. I have multiclassed and leveled up. And the last thing I'm thinking as I shoot out this hole in its side is: if you have any wings to lend me, now is the time.
Matt: Okay. As you emerge from the body of Umbrasyl, there is a streak of shadow that scatters into a burst of darkened raven feathers that fill the air around you. You still plummet, but as a nature of your prayer, that brief moment of understanding, it appears there is some reaction. That'll be that element there.
Marisha: Where am I in my minute?
Matt: Oh, you're like 20 seconds in. 30 seconds in.
Ashley: Are they all falling?
Matt: You guys now watch as, suddenly, Grog and Vax just (rush of air). Vax appears out of nowhere and is falling. Scanlan's being held aloft by a distant Bigby's Hand, and Grog is arcing in the air. At that point now, Grog, Vax, what are you doing as you're falling backward?
Travis: I take out a case of fancy wine and-- (laughter)
Travis: I pull out a fancy robe, of which there are two, and pull it out. I'm going to drop the Bloodaxe. I'm going to grab both ends of the fancy robe and just make the shittiest parachute of all time.
Matt: (air puffs)
Travis: There ain't much else to do.
Marisha: Shitty G.I. Joes.
Matt: Yeah, it's like 25 cent quality, above you, Grog, as you squeeze your eyes and hold on. Plummeting down towards the Bramblewood. Vax.
Liam: Hey, I'm a brand new paladin. Lay on Hands, which is going to do fuck all for me, but is that a bonus action?
Matt: I believe it's an action.
Liam: An action? Okay. I'm going to cast Lay on Hands on myself. And I'm going throw my poison dagger at the dragon as I fall. That's a 23.
Matt: 23 does hit.
Liam: That is ten points of damage with poison on it. It's a DC of 15 for poison. I'm sure it makes it.
Matt: Yeah, it makes it. It would've had to roll a one to not make it, unfortunately.
Travis: Could I add one bonus thing at the end of mine?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Can I see Scanlan and Bigby's Hand at all? Or is the world just a clusterfuck?
Matt: Make a perception check, just glancing around you.
Travis: Four.
Matt: Four. No. You see earth beneath you, sky above, mountain to your left, and the inevitable plummet coming at you.
Liam: I'm thinking about my mother as I fall backward through space.
Sam: Distance between me and them?
Matt: Vax is about 20 feet from you, Grog's about 60, 70 feet from you.
Sam: What's the range of-- shit.
Taliesin: 50 feet.
Travis: Remember, we're going to be going the same direction.
Marisha: They're both falling, yeah. Vax will hit the ground first.
Sam: Vax will?
Travis: I'm higher.
Matt: The dragon's moved ahead to this point now since you guys have fallen off.
Sam: Is anyone higher than me?
Matt: Grog is. Vax is a little bit below you.
Sam: And he's not flying or anything, is he?
Matt: He's trying. He's holding a scrap piece of fabric that's just (rustling fabric).
Travis: I've seen Percy make shit, I can do it, too! (blows puffs of air)
Taliesin: You're doing very well. You're doing very well.
Sam: Wow. This didn't go well.
Marisha: I'm hoping you can hold on for a minute.
Sam: Okay. Yeah! I'm going to drop Bigby's-- 60 feet is not plummeting speed? I can't catch up to them as they fall?
Matt: Right now, you could catch up to one of them.
Sam: All right. Because Grog is over me, right?
Matt: Yeah, Grog is in an arc, so you would have to meet him as he fell.
Sam: I'll try to catch him then.
Matt: Okay, so you clutch onto Bigby's Hand and move as he plummets.
Sam: Shit, wait. Wait.
Matt: What are you doing? What are you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: Shit. Vax is below me, though.
Liam: He said you can get to one of them, so it's just a Sophie's Choice.
Sam: It's a Sophie's Choice.
Marisha: But who's on the lowest hit points?
Sam: Yeah, I would go for Grog if he's above me, with the hand.
Matt: Okay. The hand comes forward, sends out this cupping motion, the fingers below. You, eyes closed, clenching tight, (impact). All of a sudden, the wind stops, and it's like you're being held by your mother again, a memory you haven't recalled since you were a child. You open your eyes slowly, and you're still above the ground! Holy shit! But there's a giant purple hand around you and a very freaked out Scanlan clutching the outside.
Travis: Look what you did!
Sam: Hi, friend. Shit. We've got to go to Vax. I'll start moving us slowly down, I guess.
Matt: That was the turn to even get to him and catch him.
Sam: Then-- fuck.
Matt: You still have an action if you have anything.
Sam: I can't see the dragon anymore, right?
Matt: No. You have a vague idea of where it might be.
Marisha: Do you still have Polymorph?
Sam: Yeah, concentration.
Marisha: Fuck.
Sam: Yep. I mean, I can make Grog deaf so he won't hear us die. (laughter)
Matt: That's useful.
Taliesin: That seems like a really good use.
Sam: I got Grog. Fuck. Okay. I'm going to drop Bigby's Hand and Polymorph Grog into an eagle.
Matt: Okay. So, as you look over at Scanlan, with a big look of relief and thank you, he gives you a cursory look as the hand vanishes.
Travis: What. What?! (screams)
Sam: Holding on to him!
Matt: He grabs you real fast, and suddenly you have feathers! What the shit! And, strangely, you become smarter! As giant eagles have an intelligence of eight.
Liam: Quick, come up with a plan!
Travis: It's a new day, baby.
Sam: His brain is just geometry.
Matt: It's a Beautiful Mind moment in the middle of the sky. Suddenly you understand, the instinct hits you, and (whoosh). You have wings. You feel Scanlan's tiny hands grasping the back of your neck.
Sam: And I just yell at him, dive, motherfucker, dive!
Travis: (caw)
Matt: All right. You guys start seeing this happen in the distance and a little sparkle of hope hits you, whatever it may be. Coming back around to the top, Umbrasyl is taking a double dash motion. He's past.
Liam: He got away.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: Can I see that flurry of black feathers streaking downwards of this guy?
Matt: You do, and it is a perpetual flurry. They're coming out of nowhere. It is this long, visual line of black feathers that are being tossed from beneath Vax's flapping cape.
Travis: We're going full Point Break terminal velocity, straight down towards Vax.
Sam: I hope I can hold on! There's nothing to grab onto, is there?
Matt: There's just heavy feathers and digging in.
Sam: Luckily, I have a grappling hook. (dink dink dink)
Travis: Maybe in my dive position I could squeeze your legs with my wings, how about that?
Laura: You're really smart. You would think to do that.
Travis: I would.
Ashley: Yeah, you would.
Travis: I would also think, what idiot was just flying behind the back of this dragon on a chain? What a fool.
Matt: So as you go into a full dive, that's 80 speed, that's 160 feet. (whoosh) You manage to just crest underneath the plummeting Vax, the trail of black feathers, trailed by a long line of brown feathers being plucked out from Scanlan, feverishly trying to grab onto your back for some sort of purchase. Pain. You deal with pain all the time. It doesn't dissolve your focus. Vax, I need you to go ahead and attempt to grab onto the eagle as it swoops beneath you. Go ahead and make a single strength saving throw.
Liam: No, wait, Luck! I have one last Luck.
Matt: This is the time to use it.
Laura: Oh my god!
Liam: 21.
Matt: As the eagle swoops underneath you, you reach out. You don't even see it, you're looking up into the sky as you plummet, the trail of feathers going past as you concentrate on the acceptance you've made to the Raven Queen, and the understanding that perhaps, if there is a chance to survive, let it be through this leap of faith you've taken in the direction of an entity that you've been so fearful of and scoffed at since she came to you in your dreams. A moment, you see the feathers begin to trail off and subside from beneath your cloak, and a voice whispers in your ear and says, "Left." Without thinking, your hand reaches out, without even seeing, and you (impact) grab the edge of Scanlan's cloak.
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: As you're dragged behind, you (choking) from behind.
Sam: It's worth it, it's worth it!
Matt: You can barely breathe as the eagle swoops up, you can feel the heartbeat, the blood flowing in the back of your head, your ears hot (heartbeat) as you slowly reach over and grab the back of the eagle. Is this Keyleth? You don't know. All you know is Scanlan swooped in and in this moment of need, seemingly, a prayer was answered. So what are you guys doing?
Laura: And you're itty bitty still!
Liam: I prefer raven-sized.
Matt: Yeah, he's tiny. That's the only reason I'm not having him tear you off the back of the eagle, because of the size.
Travis: Unless I hear otherwise, I'm making a controlled descent towards the ground.
Matt: Okay. You guys see this in the distance as now the eagle captures the falling Vax and then begins to head down towards the base of the mountain where the Bramblewood meets.
Laura: I guess we head down that direction.
Ashley: Yeah. Make the eagle follow.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way downward towards the bottom. Keyleth, you finish your concentration on the stone. (whoosh) Suddenly, you step through, being pushed through a tunnel of blue light and energy, and for a moment, all you see before you is Vax's face, his tiny little raven-sized face.
Marisha: So cute!
Matt: (whoosh) As you guys watch Keyleth apparate right in front of Vax, and go speeding past you, as she's now plummeting from the air, having summoned to your side.
Marisha: I'm technically an earth elemental still.
Matt: You're still earth elemental? So yeah, you see Keyleth as a giant boulder that appears at the side. You have to dodge out of the way (whoosh) as this giant rock being, out of the corner of your eye, appears before you. However, she sinks straight past you. You're flying as low as you can, you're going terminal velocity, and there is this (rumble) rock entity plummeting at the same rate.
Taliesin: A meteor.
Marisha: You know, it was a good idea when he was still in the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, I know. It was.
Liam: (singing) I came in like a wrecking ball!
Matt: At about 200 feet up, you continue to plummet.
Marisha: 200 feet? That's all right.
Matt: All right. You're not doing anything else? You're going to take the fall?
Marisha: Well, what's below me?
Matt: The very edge of the Bramblewood and the base of the mountain. You're not quite sure where you'll land. You see treetops and rocks.
Taliesin: What's the worst that's going to happen?
Marisha: I would hit zero hit points as an earth elemental and go back to Keyleth.
Matt: And then the rest of the damage would carry over.
Marisha: Right, but 200 feet. That's survivable.
Matt: That's 20d6.
Sam: You'll be fine. What's that? 60 points.
Marisha: Yeah. It's roughly 60 points, and I've got 67 left as this earth elemental.
Matt: All right, so you're going to take it?
Marisha: Hang on, wait. Wait, wait. If I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it right. I'm going to ball up like a cannonball and light up my hands, that I keep forgetting because I didn't know I could do them in elemental form, by the way. Thought it was only beast form. I'm going to light myself on fire and go meteor.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as the earth elemental curls up, forms this streak of flame and smoke behind, and now a plummeting Keyleth meteor goes slamming into the base of the mountain just past you as you pull up from impacting at terminal velocity.
Marisha: I was trying to leave an impression. No pun intended.
Matt: You suffer 76 points of bludgeoning damage upon impact.
Sam: Of Jor-El damage. (laughter)
Matt: (boom) This giant crater is left around your form as now there is this somewhat smoke-swirled Keyleth sprawled out in the center of this.
Marisha: I drop, and I stand up, Keyleth, in the middle of a giant crater.
Matt: The rest of you all eventually catch up. The eagle-back carriers, you on broomback, finding your party bruised, hurt, but ultimately survived this moment of the encounter. As you've all had this moment to yourself, Vex, you hear a noise to your left coming from the exterior of the Bramblewood.
Laura: Can I see what it is?
Matt: You glance off to the side, and you can see, emerging, slowly from the forest, a single humanoid standing before you.
Sam: Is he single?
Matt: No. You see, slowly coming forward, a woman. An older woman, an older goliath woman, missing one eye and missing her forearm-- her left arm, right at the elbow. The right arm clutches a very tall quarterstaff that is being used as a walking stick as she wanders up. You can see dirt smeared in her face, darker dreadlocks pulled tight against the back of the head that dangle past the shoulders, tattoos similar to the ones that adorn Grog across the face and shoulders. She slowly walks towards the party. Let's go ahead and bring our guest for the evening out. You can go around the other way. Let's welcome Chris Perkins!
Liam: Welcome, Chris, welcome!
Taliesin: Is he coming to this side?
Matt: Right to the edge, next to you, Keyleth.
Sam: Do you know how to play this game?
Chris perkins: Keyleth meteor, what?
Marisha: Yeah, that's me.
Matt: As she steps up and emerges from the forest, everyone turns and sees the worry on Vex's face.
Laura: (laughs) Vax pours a drink.
Liam: It was very frightening.
Laura: Halt! Who are you?
Chris perkins: My name is Shale.
Laura: What's your business here?
Chris perkins: I was following a scouting party out to the mountain. But these old bones don't take me as far as fast as they used to.
Travis: Do I recognize Shale?
Matt: You do, actually. Not very well. Shale has been around longer than you have as part of the herd, but is mostly considered past her prime as a warrior. Since she lost her arm, was set to the side, and a lot of the herd seems to not value their elders when they become less powerful in battle, but even still, she carries a bit of spit and vinegar to her. But it's been a while since you've seen her, and to see her surviving out here, both curious and honorable.
Travis: Shale.
Sam: Sorry. You're still an eagle.
Matt: (caw)
Travis: (caw)
Sam: Grog, do you want to say something?
Chris perkins: I will brandish my quarterstaff, my rune-covered quarterstaff, and try to hold this big creature at bay.
Matt: Shale's holding her staff out.
Chris perkins: Stand down, bird!
Liam: I love you! Let me love you!
Sam: All right, all right. I'll drop the form. I'll drop the form.
Travis: Thank you, god. Shale.
Chris perkins: Grog? Is that you?
Travis: Yeah, it's me. I know, you can't tell.
Chris perkins: You're kind of a blur. What's on your face?
Travis: It's a beard.
Chris perkins: You've gotten big.
Travis: Yeah. Lots of lifting. Lots of running, getting strong.
Chris perkins: Last time I saw you, you were the runt of the goatball team.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: You were a runt, Grog?
Travis: No, when I was born, she means. When I was born.
Laura: Was he rather small?
Chris perkins: He was puny.
Travis: Puny compared to mountains and stuff.
Ashley: What's goatball?
Chris perkins: It's a game you play. You stand on pillars of rock, and you hurl balls at each other.
Laura: Made of goats?
Chris perkins: Made of goatskins. Skins, my dear.
Marisha: Sounds kind of fun.
Chris perkins: The object of the game is to knock the other opponents off their pillars.
Liam: That's more civilized than what we were imagining.
Travis: It's a lot of fun, actually.
Laura: Shale, what were you doing out here with a scouting party? It seems--
Chris perkins: We were spying on the dragon. Damnable beast.
Laura: Did you succeed?
Chris perkins: No. The scouting team did not fare well.
Marisha: Are any of them still alive?
Chris perkins: No. They're all dead.
Sam: How did you survive?
Chris perkins: I was slow and stupid. I shouldn't have gone at all. I couldn't keep up with them. By the time I got to them, they were corpses.
Sam: You sound like an excellent addition to our team, then.
Chris perkins: She says, I would have killed the dragon as soon as it came upon us, when we first arrived in Westruun, but that damn Kevdak formed an alliance with the beast.
Laura: Wait, you think you can kill a dragon?
Ashley: Wait, what did you just say? Oh.
Sam: We knew that.
Ashley: Yes. Realized it as I was saying it.
Chris perkins: That is how I wanted to die. Fighting the dragon.
Marisha: It's funny, we almost just died fighting the dragon. How ironic.
Travis: We put a good hurting on it, yeah. Do you-- I mean, not like I'm questioning what can you do, because I don't think it's very much.
Marisha: I'm actually great. I'm just in a smoldering meteor and look like a badass.
Matt: Which caught your attention, the large, crashing boom.
Chris perkins: That was it.
Liam: I yank on Vex's hand from down below and say, pick me up! Put me on your shoulder!
Laura: What's the matter? Can you not see anything down there? I pop Trinket out and put Vax on top of him. Don't you feel so tall now?
Liam: I am tall.
Marisha: How much longer is he going to be tiny?
Matt: How long does the potion last?
Liam: I rolled a three, so that's three hours.
Matt: Yeah, three hours.
Travis: Sweet.
Liam: We have to decide what to do. He's gone back to his hole. He's going to rest. He's going to heal.
Marisha: I just have such a hard time taking you seriously right now. I'm so sorry.
Travis: So you had to have been a part of this party for a reason. What's in your bag of tricks? What can you do?
Chris perkins: I smash things with my stick.
Travis: With your stick. Does magic come out of your stick?
Chris perkins: It is a magical staff.
Travis: Oh, well, that's good.
Sam: Yeah, we could use more of those.
Travis: Is it a magical staff of dragon killing?
Chris perkins: It will be if we get on with it.
Travis: I like that.
Liam: I like her, too.
Marisha: So, Shale, did you and your scouting party find out any additional information that might be handy?
Laura: Maybe how to get into the lair without it knowing?
Marisha: What she said.
Chris perkins: I know nothing of use.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Liam: You never made it up to the cave entrance, did you?
Chris perkins: I made it up to the dead ones. That's as far as I got.
Laura: How far were the dead ones?
Chris perkins: A ways.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: I hate to tell you this, but Kevdak is gone.
Chris perkins: No great loss.
Sam: Your whole herd may have perished fighting this same dragon.
Liam: Not all of them.
Marisha: A lot of them.
Travis: But it will all be worth it if we can remove the head of this shitty black dragon.
Chris perkins: I agree.
Laura: Plus, Zanror is still alive, as is his wife. I think.
Sam: Maybe.
Marisha: We hope.
Taliesin: Possibly.
Travis: So, how far would you think that we are from his lair?
Chris perkins: I'll just crane my neck up the mountain.
Matt: It's a sizable climb. Gatshadow-- While this portion is the south part of the Cliffkeep Mountains, which get higher the further north you go, this mountain is called Gatshadow because it is dark and ominous and stands out amongst the rest of the mountains. While the other ones crest at about maybe 4,000 feet up, this one's nearly a mile, a little over a mile high.
Laura: Well, we can obviously fly.
Matt: There are sparse trees, most of them dead or dried out towards the top, but other than that the vegetation is pretty sparse.
Travis: Look, I'm a little jacked up. I think those two are a little jacked up.
Marisha: I could use a short rest.
Travis: It's fair to assume that he will do the same thing, yeah?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Go brush his teeth, have a deuce, all that stuff.
Marisha: We're trying to catch the dragon while he's still debilitated, right?
Liam: The longer we wait, the harder it will be.
Ashley: What if I just heal everybody and we keep on?
Sam: Yeah, that's great.
Ashley: I don't want to lose the damage that's on him.
Sam: Yeah, heal us and let's keep going. Quickly. How long has it been, a minute? Two minutes?
Matt: Since you guys landed here? It's probably been about two, three minutes.
Sam: We've got to move.
Travis: Can we travel a mile up a mountain quickly?
Sam: We have eagles.
Matt: Even at your fastest pace, eagle speed...
Liam: The broom and the two eagles at this point?
Matt: The broom is slower than the eagles. Eagle speed you're looking at about-- I'm estimating somewhere between ten to 20 minutes.
Liam: That's enough for a short rest for it. He's not going to go back to full strength, but he's going to go back up a bit.
Laura: Would we know that?
Marisha: We don't know what he has access to.
Matt: You would know, being as dragons are your favored enemy, and you have information on that. Generally, they don't-- They themselves can recover over time, and if given a full day or so, they can largely recover from the wounds they have sustained almost entirely, especially a dragon as powerful as an ancient. You would know that, because they understand and fear their demise, or at least are arrogant enough to think it's not possible, they will have certain reserves to try and help them recover if they ever find themselves in a dire circumstance. Occasionally, depending on the intelligence of the dragon and what resources it has at its disposal.
Marisha: Reserves. What do you mean?
Laura: Healing stuff?
Matt: Some semblance of healing magic, items they may have acquired that can help. The longer you wait, the more it can recover, is essentially what it comes down to.
Liam: We need to go now. We need to go.
Sam: Should we mist form it there? Can we do that?
Laura: That takes too long to think about.
Marisha: I can get us there via trees.
Sam: But you'd need to know a tree that's there.
Marisha: I need to know a tree that's there. I could Scry, look for the closest tree, teleport us there, but by the time I'm getting there, I'm exhausted.
Liam: Are you able to see a tree from a great distance?
Marisha: If I Scry.
Liam: Not even by eyesight?
Marisha: I mean, I guess I can look around and take a guess.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Mass Cure Wounds on everybody.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and do that. And Shale, you feel nice and warm at full health as the Mass Cure Wounds tickles you.
Laura: Is your arm back?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. If only!
Sam: The temporary hit points never go back up, right?
Matt: Correct, no. They were just for that little bit of damage.
Chris perkins: Lost it in an avalanche, I did.
Sam: Today?
Chris perkins: No, turd.
Matt: The Scrying will take you about ten minutes or so.
Laura: Are we going to Scry it or are we just going to go? How long would it take if we just flew up? 20 minutes?
Matt: That's if you were all on eagle-back. Which you don't. You have eight people, and you currently have two summoned eagles.
Liam: Speed of the slowest.
Matt: Yeah, the speed of the slowest here, you're looking at walking up the mountain.
Marisha: Yeah. So I can teleport us closer and then walk, or we can take a very short rest so I can get my beast shaping back, and then could fly a few more of us. It's a gamble.
Chris perkins: You take your rest, love. I'll start up the mountain.
Matt: Shale walks away and starts hiking up the rocks at the very base of Gatshadow.
Travis: Can I just say that we agree that the reason we didn't do what Zanror wanted and go to the lair is because it's a fucking death trap?
Sam: Yes, but the dragon is injured now.
Travis: But he's going to heal up by the time we get there.
Sam: Not all the way.
Travis: Pretty good.
Liam: It's still the best chance we have. We have to kill it now.
Travis: In its lair?
Chris perkins: It's your destiny to fight the dragon, Grog.
Marisha: Wait, what? What was that, Shale? Is that true?
Chris perkins: No, it's not true. (laughter)
Ashley: Everybody is healed 27.
Chris perkins: It's just a thing old women say.
Marisha: Just let him believe it.
Liam: Kiki, may I have my-- Sorry. (higher voice) May I have my cloak back?
Marisha: Oh, yeah, sure.
Liam: Thank you. (flump, whoosh)
Matt: To attune to it will take you a short rest.
Marisha: So are we resting?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Liam: I don't know. But I'm still putting it on.
Travis: When I turned into the eagle, what happened to the Bloodaxe and chain?
Matt: Actually, you check, and the equipment that you have attuned to you and attached go into the form with you, so at this moment you realize, "Oh, the axe!" You look behind you, and it's just been dragging behind you in the dirt, carving this path in the rocks and rubble.
Travis: Yeah. That's nifty.
Matt: Like a kid with a deflated balloon you're just dragging behind you.
Laura: Can I-- well, I can't sense anything about it with Hunter's Mark, I just know where he is.
Matt: You know where it is.
Laura: And he's up in his lair.
Matt: He is up at the top of Gatshadow, somewhere in that mountain.
Laura: Moving around, or is he chilling?
Matt: At the moment, seems chilling.
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: Short rest or not, what are you guys doing?
Marisha: How long would the hike up the mountain be? An hour?
Matt: It's about a mile up. You're looking at the better part of a day.
Sam: Oh, a mile up.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Unless we fly.
Taliesin: What if we take shifts with the eagles?
Matt: Take shifts with the eagles? Back and forth?
Taliesin: Eagles fly a group up, fly down, pick up another group and bring them?
Matt: Probably about an hour.
Taliesin: But that's an hour with a short rest for everybody as well.
Matt: If you're going to do it that way, yeah.
Liam: Half could rest at the top while the eagles fly back, and the ones at the bottom could rest.
Taliesin: So there's a short rest.
Liam: Shifts of resting, yeah.
Matt: You're still looking at about an hour and a half at that point, with people moving there and back and getting enough rest. You can't short rest on the trip, and the short rest is about an hour, half an hour.
Liam: Eagles drop off, they rest while the eagles return, and the people at the bottom rest while the eagles are making the trip, no?
Matt: Right, but you still have to have the eagles that went to the bottom to pick up the second team to get there, so you're still looking at about an hour and a half to two hours.
Laura: I could also use another spell and summon a couple more eagles.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: I could summon two more eagles.
Liam: That's worth it.
Laura: And that could get how many of us up?
Liam: All of us up at the same time.
Sam: But one is just for Grog, right?
Laura: But two more eagles would get all of us up?
Matt: It's a concentration spell. You can only have one of it up at a time.
Laura: It is?
Matt: Yeah. And it only lasts for an hour, and you've already been at this for probably about ten, 15 minutes.
Laura: So they're about to go away.
Matt: You have about another 40 minutes of the eagles.
Marisha: So we couldn't do round trips anyway. They'd dissipate.
Matt: You'd just have to recast it.
Marisha: Well, yeah.
Sam: That seems like our fastest option. What's the other option? A short rest and then we bamf.
Marisha: We rest and then go. If we rest for 30 minutes, and then I switch and then we have the eagles, then we can get up in another 30 minutes, and then it's an hour. Theoretically, short resting is our shortest.
Matt: You said you have Transport Via Plants, right?
Marisha: I do.
Matt: If you wanted to Scry up that mountain and look at one of the trees at the top, you could do that. That would be, technically, the fastest way.
Marisha: But then we'd still have to hike. How long would the hike be?
Matt: It depends on how close the nearest tree to the cavern would be.
Sam: Let's do that.
Marisha: I'm tapping myself-- I can do it, but I'm tapping myself out. I'm burning literally all my top level spells and I have no beast shapes left. But I can do it. It's what we think is most important.
Laura: What if we use the eagles, send them up. Once they're used up, they're gone at the top, and then I'll just summon two more and send everybody else up? Once the people make it up the top, that way it takes less time. A couple people hop on the eagles right now, because we only have a little bit of time left.
Marisha: Can I rest? Can I rest while the first round goes?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: We're fighting a dragon in its lair! In the worst place we could possibly fight it!
Sam: We've also dealt so much damage to it.
Matt: Umbrasyl was looking pretty rough.
Sam: I fisted through it!
Taliesin: He said looking pretty rough.
Travis: That's because he's a liar and a bringer of death, and he is smiling at you while he does it.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: What are we going to do today with Chris Perkins? Talk, or go fucking kill a dragon?
Taliesin: Would you like a tour of Whitestone? It's really lovely this time of year.
Chris perkins: I'm judging you!
Liam: Grog, she's right. It is your destiny.
Travis: In your tiny voice.
Liam: What are you laughing at?
Laura: Everybody hop on an eagle.
Ashley: I hop on an eagle.
Taliesin: Hopping on an eagle.
Sam: Well, no, half of the people hop on an eagle.
Laura: Two of the halflings-- two of the gnomes can get on.
Ashley: Scanlan.
Sam: I'm in back?
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: I'm sort of a halfling. Can I get on too?
Matt: At your size? The three of you would probably be able to take one eagle, because you are tiny.
Sam: Oh, that's right, he's a little one.
Laura: All right. You guys go.
Liam: See you in a bit, sis! Bye, Keek!
Matt: So we'll say, for the purposes of this, it'll take an additional cast of your spell, so mark off a second casting of Conjure Woodland Beings. However, that brings-- What level is that?
Laura: That is level-- Oh, good. Level three.
Matt: Conjure Woodland Beings?
Laura: So I've got two level threes left. With my Pearl of power.
Matt: Conjure Woodland Beings is a 4th-level spell, Laura.
Laura: I have Conjure Animals, not Woodland Beings.
Matt: Animals, there we go. Sorry, so yeah, that is 3rd-level. So yeah, mark off your second casting there. You guys manage to make a short rest between the journeys, making your way up towards the dark, blackened rock peak of Gatshadow. We're going to take a short break here for restroom. We'll be back here in a few minutes. In the meantime we have an awesome video from Backblaze to show you guys--
Ashley: Yay!
Taliesin: It's really cute.
Marisha: It's for you guys!
Matt: We'll be back here in a few minutes guys, stay tuned for apparently the attack on Umbrasyl's lair. See you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. We've had a little break here. A quick announcement for you guys, the rebroadcast tonight will be delayed for about 30 minutes as we have to shoot something directly after this so we can all go home. So, if you guys are in chat after and folks are showing up going, "Where's the rebroadcast?" Just let them know it'll be around, about a 20-30 minute break between. We appreciate you guys carrying that thread over to them when they arrive. So we've had a break. If you wanted to use any of your hit dice to heal up during the short rest, now's the time to do it. You've re-attuned to the Dragon Slayer Longsword. And just so you guys know, both Grog and Vax leveled up to 14 as well. Vax took a level of paladin during the short rest. Grog also took his 14th level as a barbarian. As a berserker, a lot of you know what that means.
Sam: I don't know what that means.
Liam: We'll find out. I'd like to re-attune to the Cloak of Displacement. And the Boots of Haste, are they spent for the day for anybody? If I were to wear them, could I get the juice or no? They're done?
Laura: They're too big for you, teeny.
Liam: They would shrink to me. I'm going to re-attune my Keen Dagger, then, for the moment. So it's Deathwalkers Ward, Keen Dagger, Cloak. Three items.
Matt: Okay. I'll let it happen. Usually, you attune one item in a short rest.
Liam: Oh, okay. No, I can do one.
Matt: I think it's fine for this. You get attuned as you walk up the rest of the way. It's fine.
Travis: I've rolled all nine of my hit dice.
Matt: So you're out of hit dice?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. Everyone else good? Ready to jump back in?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: (laughs)
Sam: Does anyone need more healing? Are we okay?
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Laura: And because I Conjured Woodland Animals, I lost my Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Yes, you did, but you know loosely where it was.
Sam: All right, let's hurry.
Matt: As you guys slowly make your way up towards the peak of Gatshadow, you all come to rest maybe, from what best you can tell, is the entrance cavern that Umbrasyl currently calls its home. Across this blackened, dark craggy surface, you see clumps of dead, petrified trees. Leafless, gnarled, and devoid of any life. There are signs of melted stone, soot. Long ago, there may have been a fire that claimed the top of this mountain and set its visual presentation that got its name. However, this is your moment, should you wish to make your way towards your conflict with Umbrasyl. How do you wish to prepare?
Laura: I want to sleep for a day.
Marisha: Yeah. I want to rock back and forth in a corner.
Liam: I'd like to go stealth and I'd like to see-- is there one clear, main entrance to this place?
Matt: There is a cavern opening.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: There are a few small little inlets into the mountain at certain points, but the path that you guys land on that ends? You're going to have to climb around the mountain to get to the entrance of this. There is no walk-up path. Actually, just an opening on the side of the mountain.
Liam: So we're further down still. We're not near the entrance?
Matt: You're about 400 to 500 feet away from the entrance.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: You stealth ahead and look a little bit and you notice the path comes to an end. You probably have about a hundred feet that you have to scale the side of mountain to get to the entrance.
Liam: From where I am, I can tell that we need to climb around it. If I look very hard, do I see any little holes or cracks or anything above?
Matt: You see one other small entrance about maybe 60 feet below it, a little bit to the left.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Pretty cool sound effects
Chris perkins: It's freaking me out.
Laura: Is that your music?
Matt: That is not my music. That's the atmosphere.
Taliesin: Shale, Shale. The scouting party. Where did you find the bodies? Where were they left?
Matt: Which actually you-- this was probably a couple hundred feet back. They made it near the peak. However, they were spotted upon the approach, and you heard the battle. The very short battle that ensued. Heard the screams of them, far from your eyesight.
Chris perkins: I will have pointed them out, then.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So that's why I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Liam: How far above our position is that smaller entrance-- (noise of hissing gas)
Matt: It's all atmosphere, guys. I paid them to do it. I know. All right. Towards where the actual walkable portion of this mountain cliff ends, you have about 40 feet of scaleable wall, at an upward angle, before you can reach that small little inlet that you saw there. An additional 60 feet beyond that is the larger entrance where you saw, the best you can tell, Umbrasyl retreat towards-- or exit before, when you were watching him emerge from the mountain. That's it.
Liam: What do you think? Do you think I should climb in that little hole?
Laura: Do you want-- say that again?
Liam: There's a main entrance above. But there's also a smaller, little gap lower down. He cannot fit in there.
Marisha: I can try and scry inside the cavern.
Laura: See if it's something that would be worth--
Marisha: Get a battle perspective?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. You have to give me a few minutes. Is everyone all right with that?
Laura: Can I use my ranger skills to try to camouflage us into the side of the mountain? To make us even more non-seeable?
Matt: Yeah. Totally. So we'll say for the purposes of that, anyone at this point who'd like to make a stealth check, to go ahead and keep yourselves hidden from any onlooking parties.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Laura: Add ten.
Liam: Natural 20!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: Add ten for Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: 17.
Taliesin: 24.
Chris perkins: 22.
Travis: 16.
Ashley: 29.
All: Whoa!
Ashley: What?! (laughter)
Liam: Why, I do declare.
Ashley: Well, I do declare I'm invisible.
Matt: The armored cleric cannot be seen. (laughter)
Laura: 32.
Matt: With Vex's help, you guys manage to take bits of the mud, soot, and the burnt remnants of the once lush forest that dotted this mountainside, and darken your exteriors to help obscure the vision of anything that wished to pry, along with the magic drawing the shadows to your forms. You're pretty confident that most of you would be fairly difficult to be spotted by most creatures.
Liam: I would just like to point out that my complete total is 45.
Ashley: Of stealthing?
Laura: Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out.
Liam: Yes. It's mostly for your benefit.
Laura: I appreciate it.
Matt: That's ridiculous.
Ashley: How?
Laura: How?
Liam: Natural 20, plus my 15 benefit, plus Pass Without a Trace. Poof! (vanishing sound)
Matt: You've stealthed through time. People who had seen you previously in your past, have no recollection of ever actually seeing you. (laughter)
Liam: Marty McFly's holding a photograph.
Matt: Exactly. All right. So, what's up now?
Marisha: I take a little of the soot, and I give myself some druid battle make-up.
Matt: There you go, just smear it.
Laura: Yeah. Did you scry yet?
Marisha: I'm about to.
Laura: Okay. I do the same thing. I soot my face up, too. Let's all make battle paint while she's scrying.
Taliesin: Absolutely not. (laughter)
Marisha: Pretentious asshole.
Ashley: I want to do a hand. (laughter)
Laura: I get soot on my finger and walk up to Percy and just put a line from his forehead down his face.
Taliesin: I feel violated, but thank you.
Chris perkins: I'll ask Grog if he wants any soot on his face. I'll walk over.
Travis: I'll put soot on your face if you come near me with that wicked, wicked staff of yours.
Chris perkins: This is not wicked. It's just a staff. It doesn't even have a name.
Travis: What?! How could you have a staff and not give it a name?
Chris perkins: Only men name their things. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah. My staff doesn't have a name. It's so true.
Chris perkins: You know, if you kill this dragon, you'll be the greatest goliath that's ever lived.
Travis: No.
Chris perkins: Yes!
Travis: Really?
Chris perkins: No one else has killed a dragon of this size. Not among us. Not among the Herd.
Ashley: Grog.
Travis: Pike killed a dragon.
Chris perkins: Did you, now?
Ashley: Well, we all did. But it wasn't this big.
Laura: It was pretty small.
Ashley: It was pretty-- it was a lot bigger than me.
Chris perkins: I'm sure that experience will come in handy.
Sam: All right, let's do this.
Marisha: All right. I scry. I focus really hard on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. On Umbrasyl?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Do you need any of his stomach bile to help you scry?
Marisha: Sure! Can I have some of the-- I scrape a little stomach bile--
Sam: Does that help? Does that help?
Matt: Well, here. Let me pull up the actual specifics for Scrying here.
Chris perkins: This is going to go well, I can feel it.
Marisha: Wait. He's going to sense what I can scry, can't he? Maybe I can just try and scry inside the lair?
Matt: It largely depends.
Sam: What do you want to do?
Marisha: I mean, he knows we're coming, yeah?
Laura: Can you scry that little cavern to see where it leads to? Can you scry your mind up the cavern?
Marisha: Yeah. Actually, can I do that? Like it's a camera drone?
Matt: It's more like picking a location, as opposed to an actual--
Marisha: Sure. I want to try and focus on Umbrasyl's whereabouts, but I want to see if I can get a nice bird's-eye view of inside the cavern.
Matt: Okay. You are familiar with the target as you've done battles, that does adjust the saving throw for the scry. So, without further ado, what's the DC of your spells currently?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. Hmm. As your eyes close, your vision projects itself beyond your form, beyond the craggy landscape of Gatshadow, out beyond the mountain pass that ends abruptly. Beyond the cavern entrance, you are pulled within the darkness. Suddenly, you find a little bit of light scatters across the damp stonework of the inside of this cavern. You see stalagmites. You see pools of murky, greenish-brackish liquid, ever so gently disturbed by the wind that curls in and out of this cavern. You see towards the back an elevated platform next to another pool, where a large outcropping of stone that has just slowly pulled itself out of the rock, nearly touching the very height of this cavern. You don't see anything in there. All you hear is (low breathing sound).
Sam: He's asleep.
Chris perkins: (loudly) What do you see?
Marisha: Ah! (laughter)
Marisha: Well, nothing now. That's it? That's all I see?
Matt: That's all you see.
Laura: Did you see Umbrasyl?
Marisha: No, but I heard him. He sounds very rough, or possibly sleeping? I don't know, there was a lot of heavy breathing. Very deep-- not, you know, shallow breathing. Not impassioned breathing, Scanlan.
Laura: Could he still be invisible?
Marisha: He could I guess still be invisible. Also the cave was covered in acid pools and dark and dingy and everything else we would expect.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I know.
Travis: Let's do it.
Sam: Okay. We're going in the small hole or the big hole?
Marisha: I don't think he caught my presence. I don't think he's necessarily expecting us. We can have the element of surprise, here.
Liam: Let me check out that hole on top. You guys can watch me do it.
Laura: Go in the little hole, then.
Liam: I'm little now. It's a big hole. It's quite big, actually.
Laura: It's roomy.
Liam: I'd like to climb up to it.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead--
Liam: Spider-sense tingling the whole time.
Matt: All right. So you manage to find bits of rock and pull yourself across the way. It's not too long a distance but enough to the point where I need you to go ahead and make a basic strength check.
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. It's hard and you feel part of your muscles build up lactic acid from the exertion, from the previous round with Umbrasyl and you not being necessarily the strongest individual of the troupe, but you do manage to scurry your way up to the edge of this small opening in the mountainside. Getting inside, you get a look: this hole continues for about 15 feet into the mountain before it ends abruptly. The only other thing you notice is there are currently four long-dead skeleton corpses within this hole. Perhaps some sort of mountain-climbing expedition or travelers that found their way there, and couldn't escape. There are remnants of a small camp. Perhaps a small fire that is long iced-over through winters past. A layer of dust sits on everything and other than the occasional gust of wind that finds its way in here, largely undisturbed for a long period of time.
Liam: I want to look through the remains.
Matt: Okay. You rummage through the remains. You find roughly 85 gold pieces amongst their corpses and spare change in silver and copper--
Liam: I don't take that.
Matt: Copper. The pennies of D&D. Poor things. Copper dragons everywhere are just so disappointed. You do find an oil lantern, climbing gear for four people, some long-spoiled rations. And you find a very moldy diary.
Liam: I take out the Flametongue Dagger and give myself some light.
Matt: As you're scanning through most of the pages that are still intact and not completely molded over or destroyed, it appears to be a journal that contains writings of what was an expedition to reach the peak of Gatshadow, because there was some sort of movement, some sort of activity up there that nobody could really discern. The rumors speak of some sort of creature that would stalk out in the night and steal mountain goats. (belches) Pardon me. Goats! Steal mountain goats, steal or find and kill anybody who lived in-- there used to be a smaller village that lived north on the mountainscape that is now abandoned because of this creature the folklore of the time said supposedly lived at the top of the mountain. It speaks of the entrance, the place that Umbrasyl now calls the lair, and this leads you to believe that this is a fresh lair. Umbrasyl did not appear to always live within Gatshadow, but is only currently making it its lair at the moment.
Liam: Is this a dead end? Does it look like it goes further in?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: By the light of my dagger.
Matt: Actually, this would be investigation.
Liam: Investigation? All right. 20. No, wait-- Yeah, 20.
Matt: 20. Feeling along the walls, you find elements of the rocks that are easier to break off than others, but this is predominantly the end of this cavern.
Liam: It's a cave. Okay. I tell my sister  it's a dead end. It's nothing. Coming.
Matt: So Vax finds his way back to the group.
Sam: It's a dead end? Jesus. This ain't going to be good. Shale, would you like to lead the way?
Chris perkins: Yes. Now, I may not survive this. I'm quite old, and I can only see about 30 feet ahead of me--
Laura: Well then, maybe she doesn't lead the way. (laughter)
Liam: My sister and I should lead the way. You stick to Grog, will you, grandma?
Chris perkins: I whack him. (laughter)
Matt: (whack sound)
Liam: Wait! I don't get to dodge?
Matt: No. Because, unexpected, she is swift, and she is strong for being one-armed and of her age. The sting hits the side of your shoulder before you have a moment to really understand and your diminutive form is thrown about three or four feet back before you catch yourself.
Travis: (laughter)
Liam: I skitter off ahead of the group.
Marisha: I cast Protection from Acid on Grog, again.
Chris perkins: Now, if I don't survive, loves, I do have some magic on me. So this staff has runes. You can scratch them off and magical things will appear! And this horn, if you blow it real loud, it will let out a tremendous thunder that could bring down the entire cave.
Sam: I don't think you should be planning for your own death!
Laura: I'll take the horn.
Chris perkins: It might explode.
Sam: It might explode?!
Chris perkins: It's a little unstable.
Laura: Scanlan, you should take the horn.
Sam: She's not dead yet!
Laura: I'm saying when she dies. If she dies.
Sam: We're not going to divvy up her stuff! That's bad luck!
Liam: She's bequeathing it to you in her will.
Chris perkins: And this pendant here, which looks like a dragon tooth, it's a dragon tooth. And if you wear it, it will close your wounds.
Laura: Could I insight check her? I feel like she's lying through her teeth. (laughter)
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: Maybe we should just kill her now and take the stuff.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: Really? So, Chris?
Chris perkins: I'm being super sincere.
Laura: Oh. I really want all those things--
Chris perkins: She honestly believes. (laughter)
Marisha: Shale, you seem almost like you're--
Chris perkins: My hide armor ain't worth shit.
Marisha: As I was saying, you seem like you're almost expecting to die, or you're looking forward to it?
Chris perkins: Well, I'm very old. And if I could die fighting a dragon, well, there's no better way to go. If I don't die, great! Wonderful!
Marisha: All right. Just checking that we wouldn't disappoint you if you don't die.
Travis: Wait, just to be clear  if we kill the dragon, are you going to say you killed the dragon or would you say I killed the dragon? Who's going to be the greatest goliath?
Chris perkins: Why, you, of course.
Travis: Yeah?
Chris perkins: I'm past my prime.
Travis: We'll shake on it?
Chris perkins: I will shake on it.
Matt: Which is easy because you put out the proper hand for the one arm she has.
Chris perkins: You want to mess with her, put out your other hand. (laughter)
Marisha: Shale, what type of magic do you wield, exactly?
Chris perkins: I wield this staff.
Marisha: Okay. Very clear.
Taliesin: This is going to be great! I'm on board and committed to this. This is very exciting!
Sam: Thank you, Shale. Let's try to live.
Marisha: So remember, acid pools everywhere. Do we have any type of cohesive plan, or just--
Sam: We're just going to go in.
Taliesin: Just be very quiet.
Liam: I'm already looking for traps, looking for danger.
Matt: So you're coming up to the entrance.
Liam: I'm not going to go in the entrance, but I'm going to try to climb up and peer over the edge and look as carefully as I can.
Matt: Go ahead and make another strength check.
Liam: 17.
Matt: You manage to climb your way up to the larger mouth of the cavern. It's about 40 feet across at the very front of it. And about 50 feet up. It's this large--
Liam: 40 feet, 50 feet?
Matt: Yeah. And the rest of you guys? Are you pursuing?
Sam: I'm going to come.
Matt: Rest of you climbing along the mountain as well?
Sam: Wait, is that the way in?
Travis: Is there anything you can do to make the dragon visible with his invisibility? Set fire, or your faeries?
Marisha: I do have Faerie Fire. You combine the two things that you said and it's fantastic.
Travis: Totally meant to. Okay. I'm just climbing. I'll follow them.
Matt: All right. Everyone who's climbing, I need you to roll a strength check.
Marisha: Wait! Who's climbing where?
Matt: There's no actual walkway to it.
Laura: Does anybody want to ride the broom with me?
Taliesin: I'll ride the broom. I'm not a climber.
Sam: My Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, are those attuned items?
Matt: I don't think they are, no.
Sam: I'll put on my Gloves of Swimming and Climbing, which I got two years ago.
Travis: 26.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: I don't know what they do.
Matt: Advantage on the roll.
Sam: Oh, great! 16.
Matt: 16? Okay.
Chris perkins: 18.
Matt: 18. All right.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay. And you're floating up?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All of you begin to shimmy across the surface. The wind is piercingly cold. The clouds up here are dark and there isn't enough moisture to rain, but there are flashes of some sort of wild lightning storm that go off in the distance in the roiling clouds. As you're making your way across, Pike, your foot skips across one of the stones, it breaks and falls beneath you and you almost lose yourself. Grog grabs you, and holds you in place, and pulls you back up.
Ashley: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nobody saw anything.
Ashley: I thought I would be stronger, but I'm still not.
Travis: You're a champ.
Laura: Wait! Aren't you wearing the strength gauntlets?
Ashley: Yes, I am. That brought me to 12. (laughter)
Matt: You all slowly make your way to the very mouth of the cavern. You've been at this point, as well. You wanted to go ahead and make an investigation?
Liam: Scootching in, yeah.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. Feeling around the exterior, there are two rocks that are nearly identical, placed at each side of the cavern entrance. Upon approaching, their texture and their weathered appearance is far younger than the rest of the stone around them, and that catches your attention.
Liam: Do I need a further investigation check to discern their nature?
Matt: The nature is some semblance of a magical enchantment. This is a little beyond your understanding unless you want to try and roughshod it in the way you know how.
Travis: Call me up to the front. We got this.
Liam: Scanlan, do you want to grab that big...
Sam: Big what?
Liam: Shale.
Sam: Oh, Shale.
Liam: And yourself.
Sam: You got a trap up there, friend?
Liam: Something. There's rocks up here that look a little funky and I don't think they actually are rocks.
Sam: Rocks? Hey Keyleth, you should go. There are rocks. You could do something with rocks--
Marisha: I love rocks!
Sam: Yeah, I know. Go up there with Shale. Shale's a rock. Go.
Marisha: Okay. What's happening? Where am I?
Liam: Just come up a little bit slowly. There are a couple of rocks up here that look a little funny to me. Don't step on me.
Marisha: Oh right! You're so tiny right now. I keep forgetting that.
Chris perkins: You're very brave for someone so small!
Marisha: Do you want me to put you in a little pouch? Could be like a kangaroo?
Sam: We're going to die!
Liam: Another time.
Matt: As Keyleth and Shale approach the threshold that you're currently standing at, the rest of you are a little ways behind. He points out these two stones. Go ahead and both of you guys make an arcana check. Shale, just from what you've seen in the world.
Chris perkins: Right. 13.
Marisha: I think like, seven. Pretty sure my arcana-- It's seven.
Matt: Oh, druids. You ascertain, Shale, just from stumbling upon such constructions, this is-- There's some sort of magical essence to these rocks. It's old magic, which is the only reason you really recognize it. It's not the hoity-toity-learned-in-a-tower magic all the stupid people in the world tend to learn. This is old magic. That's all you were able to pick from it.
Liam: You know what it is?
Chris perkins: Old magic. (laughter)
Liam: Hey, dirty bard, could you come up here?
Sam: Oi! I'm here now. Sorry. I thought that the rock people could handle it.
Liam: All hands on deck.
Marisha: Scanlan, it's a very pretty rock--
Sam: 11 on arcana.
Matt: It's old magic.
Sam: This is old magic. (laughter)
Sam: Not the kind you learn in those hoity-toity towers.
Ashley: What's going on down there? (laughter)
Sam: Can't you just melt the rocks, Keyleth?
Marisha: Pike, these are very attractive rocks. What does it look like?
Sam: It looks like a rock. Melt it!
Marisha: No. What does it look like? Is it like a slate?
Matt: There are two stones about three to four foot in diameter that are almost matching, that are younger, less weathered than the rest of the stonework around them.
Chris perkins: Is there any way to circumvent them? Or are they in opposite sides?
Matt: They're on opposite sides. You could circumvent them, they're not in your path.
Marisha: I can alter their shape. I can melt, I can do something with them.
Liam: No. Just, they're not real. A few steps back. Trickfoot's--
Marisha: What do you mean, they're not real?
Ashley: I walk up.
Laura: Can you dispel that shit?
Ashley: Yes. Is it magic--?
Sam: It's old magic. (laughter)
Chris perkins: It's old magic. (laughter)
Taliesin: Not the kind of magic you learn in ivory towers.
Chris perkins: Older-than-me magic.
Ashley: That's just old. (laughter)
Sam: It sort of has that old smell to it.
Liam: Hey, fuck it. I'm going to take a good, hard look at this rock.
Marisha: Hang on. We might be able to circumvent it. Right? Can we go around it?
Ashley: I have Dispel Magic, but I wonder if we should use it.
Sam: Dispel that magic!
Ashley: But that's one of my last spells!
Laura: Well then, let's avoid them. Let's just go around them.
Marisha: Is there room on either side of them?
Matt: They are embedded in the sides of the wall. So you could pass through them, over them, however else you want to try and circumvent them.
Marisha: How about this? I'm going to cast Stoneshape, and can I carve out a little path around one of them, on the edge? Carve a little recess?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Sam: See? Rocks! I told you!
Marisha: Rocks!
Taliesin: Old rocks. Not the kind of rocks one finds in ivory towers.
Matt: Yes. Your 4th-level Stoneshape. You cause a portion of the rock wall at the side of the cavern to actually forge itself into a tunnel, circumventing the exterior rock on the left.
Laura: Could you just do that the entire way into the cavern?
Marisha: I can do it two more times. All the way into the cavern.
Sam: Okay. Let's go through the new hole.
Liam: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to keep doing the same. Come on, you big giant dummy.
Laura: I'm on a broom, do you want to ride it with me? Just kidding-- Percy's already on.
Liam: I'll stealth ahead and look around.
Matt: Okay. So roll your stealth check.
Liam: A new stealth check?
Matt: Yeah, because you've come out of stealth and back into it.
Liam: Okay. Well, I still have Pass Without a Trace, right? So I'm at 40.
Matt: So you make your way into the next portion. You're actually able to start seeing--
Taliesin: Whoa! Slowly!
Liam: You people don't see shit.
Laura: Oh, that's acid!
Matt: --in a raised platform, in a pool of somewhat pungent-smelling liquid as you get even remotely close to it, the fume causes your sinuses to open and burn and tingle.
Liam: They barely get in.
Laura: Yeah. (cutesy voice) It's too small...
Liam: I'm just going to hold still for a second and listen. Do I hear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27? You hear a very faint breathing. Breathing that is trying to stay quiet, but by the sheer immensity of the beast creating the sound, you can pick up the very subtle movement of air through the normally still cavern. (faint breathing noise)
Liam: I'm going to quietly take-- I'm going to back up 15 feet. (whispers) For everyone who's next to me, and for those who are not, it is in here. It is awake. And it is waiting for us.
Chris perkins: What did he say?
Liam: Pike. Don't. Move.
Ashley: I'm so still.
Liam: Just coming running to go when shit goes down, but don't move.
Travis: (whispers) What about putting her on my back?
Liam: Grog, don't move yet. I'm going to go back in for another look.
Sam: Alone?
Matt: Stealth.
Liam: Well, yeah. I'm not a barbarian. I'm going to go along the edge closest to you and move back to where I stopped to listen.
Matt: About there would be in tandem with where you were.
Liam: And I'm going to go another ten feet in, looking.
Matt: As he curls back, the cavern is revealed further. The pool does come to an end. There are pieces of stone that jut out of the floor. You do see now, scattered across the grounds, occasionally a bit of shine, a little coin-- gold, silver-- elements of wealth that've been dragged deeper into the cavern that have left behind them some remnants in the process of being carried and carted in.
Liam: If I look back, can I see my sister from where I am?
Matt: Actually, no. Because she's really well stealthed.
Liam: She can't see me either?
Matt: No. You guys have no visual perspective on each other. You've all stealthed away from your own party.
Liam: Okay. There's a pool of acid right by me, yeah?
Matt: Yes, there is.
Liam: Is there dim light here?
Matt: The light grows dim at about this point, then it becomes darkness at about this point.
Liam: But you said that I can see a pool of liquid, right?
Matt: Yeah. What little bit of daylight that's coming in the cavern entrance would be over here.
Liam: Is the surface of the liquid flat as far as I can see?
Matt: What you can see, it is flat. There's a little, very faint breeze that occasionally comes through so there's a slight disturbance here and there, but no specific visual disturbance.
Liam: How far along that pool can I actually see? If you had to do a cut-off point?
Matt: Because of your darkvision, being an elf, you can see pretty much to the edge of this.
Liam: Okay. So it doesn't look like there's a big divot?
Matt: There's no displacement of the pool.
Liam: I'm going to creep along the wall towards that pillar. I'll stop in that corner, and then move towards you one. Does it give me a better view?
Matt: A little bit of a further view, just the cavern continues in that direction.
Liam: Can I still hear the same thing?
Matt: You can hear it very faintly. You can't quite make out the source. There is something about the room and the air that's travelling through here. The sound itself, you're just barely catching it and it seems to be reverberating to a small extent off the walls of this cavern, which carry sound very well.
Liam: What do I see if I look up?
Matt: You look up, you see about 60 feet, 70 feet in the air, just past where your vision begins to fade-- The only reason you know there's a ceiling there is because there are a few points of rock, the top of the cavern does descend into stalactites-- it is?
Chris perkins: Stalactites, yes.
Matt: Yes. Thank you.
Liam: There's no large outcrops that this thing could be sitting on?
Matt: Not from what you can see, no. The mineral build-up of the inside of this cavern leads to a direct, slick surface in the walls. The minerals rounded off most of the stone.
Liam: I'm going to backtrack. I'm going to find my sister. And I'm still very little. It's at the back of that cavern. It's not in the pool of acid that's near the front, and it's not just past that. It keeps going back. So if we're going to do this, and we're all just going to throw ourselves into it, and let the chips fall where they may. The best thing that I can do right now is take it unawares, hurt it for as much as I can--
Laura: Are you kidding me right now?
Liam: I'm not kidding you! I want to kill this thing. This is the first stepping stone, and I could potentially take it out. Catch it unawares before it vomits on all of you. I want to do it, and I just want to know that you're going to come in after and finish it if you need to. I told you what I want to do.
Laura: All right. I will give you a minute head start to get across the room. After that, I'm coming in. So you better hope you're at the dragon by that point.
Liam: I start off. Come back and tug. (whispers) Jenga.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: I'm going back to where I was.
Matt: All right. What is it?
Liam: With Pass Without a Trace? 43.
Matt: All right. So you're back where you were. The rest of you, what are you doing?
Chris perkins: Well, he's a mad little one, isn't he?
Sam: He's not usually little. (laughter)
Liam: I'd like to go around the column, and around the edge of the wall.
Matt: This opens up slightly more, and you get to see a portion of the mineral growth-- a lot of the moisture that has coalesced into the ceiling has come into a central point, and over time, it just built up these central columns of rock and natural materials. A few pools have gathered towards the base. You see portions of the ground where elements of the acrid liquid that filled the pool over here just dripped in. Whether they began this way or turned by the dragon's presence, you are unaware. But that's as far as you can see.
Liam: Further along the wall, that little rock-- yeah. And just a little bit past it. And then closer to you.
Matt: At this point, you can make out that additional pool of acid, the far back corner and a risen platform, you see the portion of the cavernous stone beginning to mass into a higher level towards the far back corner.
Liam: I listen.
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. You listen in... Silence. Stillness. The very faint whisper of wind far behind you.
Liam: Around the entire wall. Further, past that pool of acid, even. Further corner.
Sam: Has it been a minute yet?
Taliesin: About half a minute.
Matt: As you come around this corner, being as careful as you can, looking around you-- (impact). Your shoulder hits something.
Liam: Stab.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Liam: I'm going to call it. I mean, mostly I'm 14. I'll take it, that means 19.
Matt: All right. So you have just bumped into the currently invisible form of Umbrasyl lying in wait in the far corner of the cavern. That would be a 20 initiative from Umbrasyl.
Liam: Fuck. You.
Laura: How long has it been?
Matt: At this travel pace, it's been about 45 seconds or so.
Liam: Jenga! (laughter)
Matt: You hear "Jenga!" out of the back of the earring as, let's say the rest of you guys are right here.
Laura: I still want to be stealthed on the broom but I take off into the cavern.
Matt: I assume Trinket is in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. This is going to be you, with your big stick.
Chris perkins: Awesome!
Matt: Chilling here with the rest of the party. So, at the top of this round, you just hear the growl, the snarl. (snarling) You say "Jenga," blades already at the ready, you go to stab as (swooshing) all of a sudden, you hear this swishing sound of air being cut through at such a speed that it causes a high-pitched whine. Claws and teeth come spinning out of nowhere. You can't even see your attacker but you feel the brunt force behind each of these blows.
Liam: Because it's invisible, is there no Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: No, you've still got Uncanny Dodge on one of the attacks. Just from your roguish instincts.
Liam: Displacer Cloak.
Matt: Correct. It gets disadvantage on the first attack, which is going to be a bite. That's a natural 19, and a two! With the two, that brings it to a 17.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: So with that, you (whoosh) see for a split second, the ripple of teeth snap before you, missing your face by mere inches before they disappear once again. Two more claws (whoosh) towards you. The first one, that's a 19 again and a seven. That's going to be a 22.
Liam: Just hits. Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Oh, your AC would be 20 because you're not hasted right now.
Liam: Oh, you're right. Thank you.
Matt: So that would put you at 18 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Halved to nine.
Matt: Halved to nine. Also your displacement is gone from your cloak.
Liam: For this round?
Matt: Yeah. For the next attack, it's a 19. Misses you? 20? Yeah. The second claw swings through, at this point, from the pain of the first strike of the dragon claw hits you, you back up to the very edge of the cave and duck out of the way as you hear the wind change. As you do, you hear the stone crash behind you as the claw misses you, slamming instead to the side of the cavern wall. It's now your turn.
Liam: I'm going to stay right here. I'm going to hold my turn until one of my friends is on top of this thing and then I'm going to stab it.
Matt: You hold your action until one of your friends is on it and then you move? Okay.
Liam: Not on it, but against it, attacking it. Melee attack.
Matt: So that ends your turn. Everyone else, I need you to roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh, shitballs!
Travis: Balls of shit.
Marisha: Whoa! Percy!
Matt: Your initiative from before was--?
Liam: 19.
Matt: So 25 to 20?
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 30.
Marisha: He rolled a natural 20!
Matt: (laughs) Percy!
Laura: Are you on the broom with me still?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm hanging so I can drop.
Matt: So that's 20. 20 to 15?
Chris perkins: Another 19.
Matt: Another 19! Nice!
Marisha: 17.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Nice, Pike!
Matt: So Pike then Keyleth.
Travis: A mere 16.
Matt: Scanlan, what did you get? (laughter)
Sam: I got an eight.
Matt: And Scanlan taking the rear. As you guys hear the crashing of stone at the far corner accompanied directly after the whisper of Vax's cry-out of "Jenga!" you already know shit is going down. Percy, you're up first. Clutching the bottom of the broom that has not moved yet, what are you doing with your turn?
Taliesin: I'm going to drop down. I'll let go of the broom. I'm going to just fire blind where I heard the noise coming from.
Matt: So you're firing in this direction?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Go ahead and make your attacks at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Disadvantage. That is a 25.
Matt: Due to the massive size of this currently still invisible entity, you do manage to catch an odd bullet towards its form. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Ten points of piercing damage.
Matt: All righty. (gunshot sound) Gun goes off, echoes, little bit of dust comes loose from the ceiling and falls down as you ready for your next shot.
Taliesin: I'll take the next shot. Forget it. Might as well go for it.
Matt: At disadvantage.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: This time, the shot goes the second time (gunshot sound) poofs against some stone in the distance, not hitting its mark.
Taliesin: Third shot for the run. Fucking--
Marisha: Natural 20.
Taliesin: And a one.
Matt: So with that, the third shot (click), nothing emerges from it. And you look down. It's not been a day for Percy.
Taliesin: It's not been a day for Percy. I'm going to start making a dash into the corner there, up in the--
Matt: Not a dash, because you used your action.
Taliesin: No, I'll make a run. Yes, to the wall.
Chris perkins: Is that some sort of weapon?
Taliesin: Not anymore, it's not!
Matt: As she takes her one good arm and cleans out, missing an eye now or maybe missing an eardrum. (laughs) That's going to end your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Oh god, this is a terrible idea. I'm going to roll and hide behind that pillar behind me. If that's okay?
Matt: This one, right here?
Taliesin: Yeah. I've got to fix this.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Yes. I'm going to fly on my broom as far in as I can. And land, maybe on that? And just shoot arrows towards where I heard it coming from. I feel like I have one blazing bowstring left, because I used it once in the last battle, right?
Matt: You would still have one more use, yes.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to try it through the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Go for it. At disadvantage on this shot, as you cannot see the actual entity. You're firing into the darkness.
Liam: Natural 20. And another natural 20?
Laura: Piece of shit! 19.
Matt: 19? Nope!
Ashley: Oh! War God's Blessing.
Matt: Okay. As your reaction, you guide her-- though the blazing bowstring was unfortunately used on the first attack that missed.
Laura: That was just for the first attack. I rolled twice for disadvantage. So that's the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay, I misunderstood. As you go for the attack, you see the actual arrow bursting into flames, not quite sure where to fire. You're about to pull back and aim and Pike shouts to you, putting her hand out. Suddenly, a spark of divine energy hits the front of the bow and corrects its course, beyond your actual arm motion, and you release, based on the faith you have in Pike. The arrow strikes true. You hear a slight growling roar from the distance. Go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: Strike good and true!
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22, nice.
Laura: On my first attack! If I release Trinket, is that an attack? Or is that a bonus action?
Matt: It would say in the actual item.
Laura: Raven's Slumber. You can make a melee attack. No, that's not it. Bonus action to release it! I'm going to use a bonus action, and I'm going to shout at Trinket to go run towards my brother. I'm going to attack it again.
Matt: You send Trinket out, ten feet in front. Trinket is going to go-- it's 40 feet, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Trinket rushes forward there. You go make your second attack. Trinket goes: (angry bear growls) big old grizzly bear charging into the darkness, growling echoing through the cavern.
Laura: Oh, disadvantage. 27.
Matt: 27 with disadvantage still hits, yeah. Your honed senses to dragon-kind, you can remember the mass, and general size and placement based on the sound you heard from the growls from the first impact you made. You just strike again in the same direction, hitting true. Roll damage.
Laura: 12.
Matt: 12 damage.
Laura: Is that sneak attack because my brother is next to it?
Liam: It's occupied with me.
Laura: So I would have gotten the sneak attack on both those? Or just on the one?
Matt: Just on the one. Yes, I'll allow it because he is currently threatening it. It was a lucky shot. It was a very lucky shot.
Laura: Additional five.
Matt: All righty, good to know. So, total of--
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. Thank you. Both arrows done. Trinket rushing in--
Laura: I want to duck down if I can, behind that whatever that I'm standing on now.
Matt: You can duck down, but you've used most of your action in this turn to sail in, and you can't hide per se.
Laura: Okay. I just want to duck behind it so I'm away from anything flying at me.
Matt: Makes sense. All right, so we're now at 20. At this point in time, the roar hits (roaring), echoing through the cavern. As the echoing begins to vibrate and the noise doesn't subside, the low hum turns instead to a (buzzing) as seemingly out of the pool of acid, a cloud of biting, stinging insects emerges.
Marisha: He did Insect Plague.
Matt: (buzzing) Floats in this direction, getting the three of you right there. I'll say for the purposes of this that you guys are both in that radius. Anyway, this cloud of insects moves in to-- I need Percy, Shale, and Vex to make constitution saving throws.
Chris perkins: Aw, eight!
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. So you guys both, being dexterous and quick, but also able to maintain your form-- the best you can at this turn-- manage to pull out of the way without too much impact. However, poor Shale is surrounded by the insects.
Chris perkins: Slow and half-deaf.
Matt: You take 12 points of piercing damage as the insects riddle you with bites and stings.
Sam: Shale, do you have any gold teeth or hidden savings accounts that we should also know about?
Laura: She can't hear you, she's deaf.
Matt: At this point now, you hear a few footfalls, Vax. You see a splash in the pool next to you that almost scatters against you, bits of it hitting the edge of your armor, but the armor absorbs the blow, being attuned towards acid resistance. A few other steps as it begins to walk away. I'll allow you to make an attack of opportunity with disadvantage--
Liam: With disadvantage, but-- Yeah, okay.
Matt: Yeah, as you sense that it's moving away, you wildly swing out in front of you.
Liam: Nah. 15.
Matt: 15. Whiffs on air. However, (heavy footfalls) moving forward. A voice comes roaring out into the area, "You dare soil my home after what you've done below?! I will watch you dissolve before I suck down your liquid forms!" I need Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Scanlan, and Percy to all make dexterity saving throws.
Taliesin: Do I not have cover?
Matt: Not enough to prevent this. It's a lobbed stream of liquid acid that comes and surrounds, corroding.
Laura: Do we get advantage on any of it?
Matt: Not unless you have something that gives you advantage on him.
Taliesin: I'm spending a Resolve because that was bullshit. Can I burn another Resolve? Goddamn it.
Matt: Nope. All right, so.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words to buff my roll?
Matt: You use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Sam: But not to-- That seems right, yeah. All right. 18.
Matt: 18, all right. Hold on, I'll just double-check while you're saying this. Just to bring up the ability.
Sam: I should know this.
Matt: It would have to be a damage roll, because there's no attack roll. There's no other roll incorporated on this other than the damage roll.
Sam: Got it. It just happens.
Matt: Right. But it reduces the damage roll, which affects everybody.
Ashley: Wait! I think I cast Resistance. I cast it on Keyleth, I cast it on--
Laura: Me. And I think you cast it on Scanlan.
Matt: It's faded since it's a concentration spell.
Taliesin: Scanlan's got the armor.
Matt: Yeah. If you were to use Cutting Words on this, it would reduce the damage all of you would take from it.
Sam: All right, I will use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Matt: What are your cutting words, Scanlan?
Sam: My cutting words are, "Your lower intestine smells like shit!" (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll your bardic inspiration die.
Sam: A ten? Shit roll. Three!
Matt: So 18 saving throw. What was yours?
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Vex? One. Pike?
Ashley: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, reduced by three, you all suffer 47 points of acid damage.
Sam: Including me, with my acid armor?
Matt: You take half of that.
Laura: Aren't you glad I gave you the armor?
Matt: You take 23 points of acid damage. After its long, angry, boastful diatribe, as it rears back to blow, your words confuse it, and the spray seems a little off-center than what it intended. However, most of you are now currently dealing with the searing pain of the acid pressed against your bodies. Ending that turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Did I see where the ejection of acid came out from?
Matt: You did. It came from there, this area.
Liam: Am I still at a disadvantage even though I saw right where that crap came out?
Matt: Correct. Because you don't know if it moved away or not. You don't know exactly where it is. You just know it's somewhere in that vicinity.
Liam: I'm going to throw two daggers at it. I hope that Trinket's near it, but we'll see. So, at disadvantage. Bollocks! That's 15.
Matt: Nope.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22 just hits. Trinket, however, is actually adjacent to Umbrasyl. So you could do sneak attack damage.
Marisha: Whoa! What's up?
Liam: Keen Dagger. It's 26.
Matt: 26. All right. So one dagger just vanishes into the darkness. The other one sticks into the hide for a second before disappearing in a plume of smoke, reappearing at the side of your belt. You hear a low (snarling grunt).
Liam: Can I use my movement to go along the back edge of the cave as far as I can? Directly opposite from my family.
Matt: All right. Looking at the rest of this cavern--
Laura: Look at all the gold, hiding over there!
Matt: There is what seems to be the majority of the funds that were gathered from Westruun, and whatever else of the previous dragon's hoard have currently been brought over to the new lair. Who knows how much has been--
Liam: I thought that was his magic healing spot, but I guessed wrong.
Matt: So, that end your turn?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Now it comes to Shale.
Chris perkins: I'm with insects, right?
Matt: You are currently surrounded by stinging, biting insects.
Chris perkins: Okay. I will stride forth. I'm slow and old. I move 20, so I'll use all my movement, 40, to advance.
Matt: There you go. You come pushing through, brushing them off with your stump and your staff, waving it in front. Angrily growling, you come to rest at the side of this one pillar that juts out of the ground, with Vex right above you.
Chris perkins: I'll dimly look into the darkness and see if I can see, hear, or there's just gray mist in front of my eyes right now.
Matt: You can't see anything. But you do hear right in front of you a growling, snarling bear. You see elements and flashes of the bear that you saw Vex summon forth from her throat.
Travis: And the dagger disappeared into something, right?
Chris perkins: All right. But I can't hear the dragon? At all? It's stomping around.
Matt: It's stomping around a little bit. You saw where the actual projectile came from, so you know it's somewhere in this vicinity.
Chris perkins: Well, you're not very brave, are you? Invisible! Hiding! Afraid to show your face? Taunt it. Oh, bollocks! (laughter)
Chris perkins: Well, that would be a nine.
Matt: A nine. You hear, slowly curling out from the darkness ahead of you, "Bravery means nothing. Survival and victory mean everything!"
Chris perkins: Oh, shut up, you flying suitcase!
Matt: And that's how you end a round. Pike, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, it's something my grandma would say. So good.
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to hold my action and I'm going to backpack onto Grog.
Matt: Okay. So you move over and leap up onto Grog's back, holding tightly. What's the trigger for your action that you're holding?
Ashley: On his next attack on somebody.
Matt: The next time you sense the dragon is attacking somebody?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All right. What action are you holding? Is it a spell?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: So you begin preparing the spell. You are now concentrating on it, as you're holding the back of Grog. Okay. Holding that bit, that brings us to Keyleth. What are you doing?
Marisha: If I move through Insect Plague, will I take damage? Or is it if I end in it?
Matt: You don't know.
Chris perkins: I seemed to waltz through it.
Marisha: That's true. You waltzed through it. And you didn't start in it, did you?
Chris perkins: I did.
Marisha: Oh. But you took the damage up top, you didn't take damage again after you got out of it. All right. I want to see if I can move. I'm having a hard time seeing, Matt. Can I get my full movement of 30 feet into this corner here?
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're going to get up around there, unless you want to try and go over the top of the rocks. That way is going to require a climb check.
Marisha: Oh really, I can parkour it? Yeah!
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Yeah, it's not too hard. You ran up, grab, leap over the side. You can get right there.
Marisha: Oh, okay. I think the dragon is roughly here?
Matt: In this vicinity. You can see Trinket is currently snarling and lashing out and biting in this area of the cavern.
Marisha: I'm really sorry, Grog. I'm going to cast Faerie Fire, roughly-- Yeah, somewhere where I think he is.
Laura: Why is that bad?
Marisha: Means you don't have acid resistance anymore. It's a concentration spell. But none of us can see him, yeah.
Matt: All righty. So, Faerie Fire. You guys watch as suddenly, this burst of somewhat violet-ish blue light, like a small, tiny explosion of glitter and starlight just hits the area and outlines the entirety of the large dragon Umbrasyl.
Marisha: And with my bonus action--
Matt: Yeah, failed saving throw.
Marisha: Damn right, he did. With my bonus action, I'm going to go into my--
Matt: Actually, you know what?
Marisha: He's going to do his thing, isn't he?
Ashley: You know, you don't need to.
Matt: Yeah, I do. Third and final legendary resistance. You get a glimpse of where Umbrasyl is and then the magic dissipates. Umbrasyl vanishes from sight.
Sam: Shit.
Taliesin: You've burned his third legendary action. You've burned it. It's gone.
Sam: Matt, did it also negate my disadvantage from Cutting Words, on the save?
Matt: He can succeed automatically. It's a choice to succeed.
Sam: Balls. So that's dead, too?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Does he use the legendary action before he fails?
Matt: No. That's true. Yeah.
Sam: So it kills that too?
Matt: It does, yeah.
Sam: Nice. No, my thing's dead too. He double-fucked us.
Marisha: Great. Fuck you, asshole!
Laura: He doesn't save it like that?
Matt: Well, no. Essentially he rolled at disadvantage to make the saving throw. Failed it. And then decided to succeed using legendary resistance.
Marisha: Okay. But it's gone! They're gone.
Ashley: They're gone, gone?
Matt: As far as you know, from previous experience with dragons, there are no further uses of its legendary resistance.
Marisha: What a dick.
Matt: Does that end your turn, Keyleth? It's a level one spell, you still have more up your sleeves if you wanted to try it later.
Marisha: I know. I don't think I'm going to go into my beast shape form so I can do another spell next turn. Can I just tuck and see if I could take a bonus action to hide in this little nook and cranny here?
Matt: You can't use a bonus action to hide, unfortunately.
Marisha: Because I'm not a rogue?
Matt: Because you're not a rogue. Sorry, girl.
Marisha: Can I hug that pillar and say, (panting)?
Matt: You can totally do that. And you are currently hugging in the pillar going, (panting). At the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use two of its legendary actions to wing attack. It's going to beat its wings, everything within 15 feet, which right now would only be Trinket, has to go ahead and succeed on a dexterity saving throw. Go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw for Trinket.
Laura: I'm going to roll the brown dice for Trinket. Dexterity? 12.
Matt: 12. Okay. So Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage--
Laura: He's resistant to bludgeoning!
Matt: Because of the armor?
Laura: Yes!
Matt: So takes seven points of bludgeoning damage. However, he is still knocked prone from the blast of wind that whooshes through the entirety of the cavern, causing dust to raise up. The cloud of insects gets shifted a little bit before having to reform back into its place from the sheer force. In doing so, suddenly, there's a rush of air, and two giant slamming sounds, as feet have placed themselves right up front with Shale and Vax. Vex. I've got a lot to concentrate on.
Sam: When I die, I'm coming back as a character named Vix.
Matt: Then you can find another Dungeon Master. All right, so that ends Keyleth's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I take the tiny Pike backpack, and I would like to run along the right, the farther wall from you. Opposite direction.
Matt: This way?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 50 feet, using diagonals to try and get as far around that pool as I can.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get there. So that's movement with Pike on your back. So, that's your movement?
Travis: Yep. And I'll use my bonus action to go into a rage.
Matt: All right. (growling)
Travis: Hey Pike, gimme a slap!
Ashley: (slap)
Travis: (growls)
Matt: Sends you into the rage. You still have your action. Anything you want to do?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: Are you holding your action for any particular thing?
Travis: Well, I can't really hit him from here.
Matt: All right. That ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I can't see him, right?
Matt: Not from what you can tell, no.
Sam: Balls. I can see Vex, right? And Shale? Oh, shit. I can't do much without seeing him. Oh, here's what I will do: I'll start by inspiring Shale. I will just step out and sing, (singing) And I will always buff you! And then I will pick a place and cast Stinking Cloud.
Matt: Okay. You take your d10 inspiration die.
Chris perkins: Excellent.
Matt: And Stinking Cloud. Haven't seen that in a while.
Sam: No! Oh well, it's too late, I already said it.
Matt: Stinking Cloud. Where are you setting it?
Sam: Can I have a pointer? Well, I'll just come over. Right here.
Matt: Right there? All right. We'll put this over here to keep track of the Stinking Cloud, we'll just know the insects are in this vicinity as most people have passed beyond it. With that, Umbrasyl is going to attempt a constitution saving throw. Three plus 14, that's a 17. What's the DC?
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. That will technically be at the start of its turn, but we will carry that over. All right. The cloud appears in this space. You can already hear (coughing). Are you going to move or stay where you are?
Sam: There's no more cloud of insects, yeah?
Matt: It's still in this vicinity.
Sam: Is there any way to avoid it? Move up to where Kiki is or anything?
Matt: Yeah, if you want to make a strength check to climb.
Sam: All right, I'll do that. I'll move up to where Kiki is. 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, you actually hopscotch up, leap over Percy and get up on top next to her over there.
Sam: Oh, Percy! Didn't notice your bald spot there.
Taliesin: It just grows in lighter.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. With that, it's going to use its third legendary action this turn to attempt a tail attack against you, Vex.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Liam: That's Vix.
Matt: I will stab you. That is a 19 to hit.
Laura: Nope. 20.
Matt: 20! With that, you dodge out of the way. You feel the impact of some large, heavy slam onto the stone right next to you. Pieces of it break off, and then withdraws, barely dodging it in time. All right, that ends--
Ashley: Since he made an attack, can I?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Ashley: I would like to Command him to be visible. Reveal himself.
Matt: What's the word?
Ashley: Reveal! Appear!
Matt: Appear. There you go! Oh, that's cocked. All right. That is a19 plus 11. I'm pretty sure it makes the save.
Ashley: Fuck you!
Matt: Sorry.
Ashley: Do I still get a bonus action?
Matt: That would've been during your turn. You can only hold your action.
Ashley: (snarls frustratedly)
Matt: Good try. Brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh god! Okay, I'm going to take a second to try and pray that my second gun doesn't break because that's going to get really ugly! And it doesn't! My gun is fine.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: My gun is fine. But that's it. I'm going to start running straight down, as far as my legs will take me. Not that way, towards the pool.
Matt: Towards the pool?
Taliesin: Right there. Oh no, that's the insects, that's right. So, yeah.
Marisha: As long as you get out of it.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll around to the stone to the right, then. As far as I can go.
Matt: You can get there. You're outside of the insect cloud, not a worry. As you're running, you're cleaning it, polishing, loading it. Okay, looks good.
Taliesin: Oh, yes. I'm going to spend my bonus action to do a quick heal.
Matt: Okay, your Second Wind?
Taliesin: My Second Wind.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Oh, god. That was awful. That's okay. So, yeah. Good. You can move on, sorry.
Matt: Okay. Vex.
Laura: Do I have any kind of sense of-- Ugh, your Stinking Cloud is right there.
Matt: Yeah. You do see some elements of the cloud are displaced in places. It's not showing you exactly where it is, but you are aware that the entity of Umbrasyl is directly in front of Shale, and nearly directly in front of you.
Marisha: Enough to negate the disadvantage?
Matt: No. Not to mention the fact that you are technically in its melee range. So any of your ranged attacks--
Laura: Are at disadvantage again, right?
Matt: Unless it's five foot. Is it five foot, or is it melee? Trying to remember. I think it's five feet. But regardless, it's close to you, it's bad news.
Laura: If Trinket gets up, does that use any of my stuff? Trinket can move freely--
Matt: Trinket can move independently of you.
Laura: So Trinket is going to get up.
Matt: It's half-movement, yeah.
Laura: And he's going to bite Umbrasyl's tail to try to distract him, so I can run between his legs.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket's going to go ahead and-- roll a perception check for Trinket.
Liam: Trinket, snack attack!
Laura: Oh, he's got a keen sense of smell, so he's got advantage on smell perception.
Matt: But there is a Stinking Cloud right there. Roll again. We'll see if Trinket can discern between--
Laura: Well, I rolled a 15. And I don't know what I add to it.
Matt: That would be Trinket's wisdom--
Laura: --oh, perception, seven. So 22
Matt: 22. Okay. Trinket (bear sniffs and growl) runs past here, but can only make 20 feet of its movement because he used the rest to get out of prone. However, strafes aside and begins reaching out and starts snapping, so you want to give Trinket--?
Laura: He's going to attack him.
Matt: Okay. As part of your attack action? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to have Trinket do one of his attacks so I can move and run.
Matt: As your bonus action on it? Okay, go for it. Have Trinket roll for an attack. With disadvantage because it is invisible.
Laura: That doesn't count? I feel like it still counts, though. It's only 15.
Matt: 15. Trinket slashes out in the air. With the obfuscation of the Stinking Cloud and the invisible dragon, Trinket's just getting mouthfuls of air.
Laura: What does Stinking Cloud do to me?
Marisha: Makes you sick.
Sam: Makes you sick.
Laura: Fuck. I try to run away. I try to run around and run past Umbrasyl.
Sam: You're not in the cloud.
Laura: But I would go through it if I tried to run between its legs. I'll just try to run along to the side.
Matt: On the broom, still?
Laura: Sure! Why the fuck not?! I'm on the broom. Does it matter?
Matt: I mean, that will give you a little more action, you just can't attack from the broom because you'll have disadvantage on your attacks since you haven't finished your set-up yet.
Laura: Jesus. I just want to run, on the broom, and use my bonus action. Is that as far as I can get?
Matt: As far as you can get on your regular feet.
Laura: On my broom, though?
Matt: There.
Laura: And can I use my bonus action to hide? Can I try to hide?
Matt: You are completely out in the open. You have no way of hiding right now. You be can like, "Hide! You don't see me!"
Liam: You can dash and get further away.
Laura: I'm going to dash and I'm going to get further away.
Liam: Rogue bonus action? Hide, dash, disengage.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Laura: Yeah! I'm going to hide behind those things.
Matt: There?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can get there. However, as you rush by, Umbrasyl does get an attack of opportunity on you. He's going to make a bite as you rush by. That is going to be a 30 to hit?
Laura: I think that hits.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Isn't it at a disadvantage since he's in smoke?
Matt: Huh?
Laura: Because he's in farts?
Matt: No. That's not quite what it does. (laughter)
Matt: Oh, that's a d10. Sorry. You take 25 points of piercing damage. Plus an additional eight points of acid damage from the inside of its mouth.
Laura: Cool. Tight, tight.
Matt: A total of 33 points of damage as you rush past. All right, that ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Oh, that it does.
Matt: All right. The insect cloud fades away, insects just dying off and dropping to the ground in piles of currently twitching insects. However, the acid pools suddenly begin to rumble and expand and reach out.
Laura: I'm glad I hid by another acid pool.
Matt: Any creature within 20 feet of the pool has to make a strength saving throw. So that will be Shale, Grog, Pike and Vex.
Laura: Yay.
Chris perkins: Five!
Sam: You have inspiration, if you want to use it.
Ashley: What are we rolling for?
Laura: A strength or a dex saving throw?
Matt: Strength.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23, good to know. Pike?
Ashley: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. And? Five. All right, so you guys both manage to, as the pool swishes out and comes up to your knees, Grog, and you just pull back and lean against the wall. As the pool subsides back, no immediate effect. Just barely manages to catch you. However, both Shale and Vax are pulled 20 feet into the pool--
Laura: Vex.
Matt: I'm sorry. Vex. I keep saying it now. Over and over again. Pulled into the actual acid pool.
Laura: It's like adding insult to injury. You're going to die and I'm going to call you your brother the entire time.
Matt: Yep. I'm sorry about that. You both are knocked prone and pulled into the water. Because it is an acid pit, you both also suffer 12 points of acid damage. Both Shale and Vex.
Marisha: That's a thing that can happen. All right.
Matt: All right. Now Umbrasyl, who failed the saving throw--
Sam: Gets to spend his entire turn coughing.
Matt: I can't believe Stinking Cloud worked.
Sam: Spends his entire turn.
Matt: The creature spends its action retching and reeling.
Liam: I hope he coughs his innards out the hole in his gut. Dragon hernia.
Matt: Yep. So the action is spent, the dragon is just (coughing), which is good because it rolled a five and got its breath weapon back. But it can't use it this turn because it's coughing and "You-- I will-- " It rears back, about to spit the acid before (coughs) and bits of it come streaming out of the nose, like the milk-in-the-nostrils thing except for it's acid. That's the dragon. Okay. That ends its action. It is going to move out, see if it's-- I forgot to roll concentration for the Invisibility on the last attack that happened. I just rolled a one. With that, it appears once again on the map. The Invisibility spell no longer there.
Marisha: Oh, thank god!
Laura: Now we can watch it kill us.
Matt: It's going to stomp over, out of the cloud, right there.
Sam: Does Trinket get an attack?
Matt: He does, actually. Go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: Yeah, he does! I don't know which one to roll here. They've all been betraying me. 17.
Matt: 17? That misses. Or it hits and Trinket's claws streak across the back of the dragon's hide. No damage sustained. But good job, Trinket. All right, so--
Laura: He's trying, man. He's out. He's so brave.
Matt: He's doing great. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to dart out behind the pillar of stone there. And I'm going to chuck a dagger at it.
Matt: All right. What's the far range on it?
Liam: 60. I'm a Sharpshooter, so there's no disadvantage.
Matt: He's out of range.
Liam: Then I'll move closer. I mean, I know how far I can throw a dagger, so I want to get up close enough to be within range to throw a dagger.
Matt: Still can't get close enough, not with your full movement. You can move 30 feet.
Liam: Where are you? You're in the acid?
Laura: I am in the acid.
Liam: Oh! I'm going to go to my sister, I'm going to drag her out and I'm going to pop the one healing potion I have down her gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to pull her behind, so we're both behind that pillar.
Matt: Okay, so you pull her behind the pillar. You go ahead and feed her the healing potion. That is your turn. He dragged you out of the acid pool.
Liam: Potion of greater healing.
Matt: All right, so that is a 4d4 plus four healing to you. That ends Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.
Chris perkins: All right. I'm going to stand up if I can and make my way back onto firm rock. Do I take any damage when I start my turn?
Matt: You do, actually. You take six points of acid damage. You've now stepped up right there. The dragon is fully visible to you.
Chris perkins: Pick on someone your own size! And I whack him on the derriere with my staff.
Matt: Go for it. You have three attacks, correct?
Chris perkins: The first one is a very sad 14. I'm not going to waste the d10 on that.
Matt: Across the hide, no damage.
Chris perkins: Oh my god!
Marisha: No, Chris, no.
Sam: Inspiration?
Chris perkins: Natural one.
Matt: As a level 13 fighter, don't you get a third attack with your action?
Chris perkins: What's that? Oh, yes, you're right. That one, I rolled a 19. I will spend the inspiration die and turn it into a 26.
Matt: Okay. Roll damage with the quarterstaff.
Chris perkins: I do 11 points of whacky-whacky damage and try to bait this thing into turning on me.
Matt: Okay.
Chris perkins: I will also use my second wind.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Chris perkins: To regain 15 hit points.
Matt: 15 hit points to you, go for it. Ending Shale's turn, that brings us to Pike. But at the end of Shale's turn, the dragon is going to use a legendary action to attempt a tail attack against you, Scanlan, as you are the source of the Stinking Cloud that caused it to cough. It goes, (growls) "Foolish bard, get back into my stomach!" And as it whips around, its tail comes streaking overhead and it rolls a natural one! (cheering)
Matt: As it spins around, that's when your staff actually hits the back of its hide. As it does, it gooses it a little, in a sensitive place, and the tail arcs strangely and slams into the stone, next to you, missing you by about six inches.
Sam: Ah! Great. I'll take it.
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: All right. (sing-song) I'm going to Guiding Bolt him right up the butt! (laughter)
Matt: You're in the position for it.
Ashley: Yep!
Matt: What level are you casting Guiding Bolt?
Ashley: Third.
Matt: Third level on Guiding Bolt. All right. That will put it at 6d6. So go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll 6d6 and we'll double it.
Ashley: And double it?
Matt: It's a critical hit.
Ashley: I've never done that before!
Chris perkins: Right up the butt!
Marisha: Monstah! Kill him!
Liam: Kan-cho!
Taliesin: Kan-cho!
Marisha: Kan-cho!
Ashley: Oh my god, 24! One more! So, 50 points.
Matt: 50 points of radiant damage right up Umbrasyl's posterior. Suddenly as Pike, still clutching onto the back of Grog, you reach and grab the symbol of Sarenrae, leaving your sword to the side of your sheath, hold it forward. And as you do, you concentrate, a glowing beam of radiant energy shoots forward just as Shale knocks the backside of Umbrasyl. The tail streaks overhead to hit Scanlan, leaves you a nice, direct shot right at the dragon rump. There's a dull (impact) sound, and Umbrasyl sits straight up for a second (confused noise, explosion) as there's a burst of divine, explosive energy right in the posterior (painful growl). Looking back, there's now a shiny glow, pulsing from the back of Umbrasyl's body. And the next attack has advantage against Umbrasyl.
Ashley: Still alive!
Matt: That's your action. You still have your movement and bonus, if you want.
Ashley: Okay. I think I'm going to stay, and then bonus action, I'm going to throw up a Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want your Spiritual Weapon to go? What level is Spiritual Weapon, Second level? Yep.
Ashley: Yeah. A really large meathook.
Matt: All right. Where are you setting it?
Ashley: Right at his back.
Matt: All right. Sitting right there at the tail of Umbrasyl, this giant, glowing, radiant meathook appears and makes its strike. Go ahead and make your spell attack against Umbrasyl.
Ashley: 27.
Matt: All right. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It's a 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Ten.
Matt: Nice, all right. Going to stay where you are? Or you going to move?
Ashley: I'm going to stay with my Grog.
Matt: So you're still piggybacking on Grog. Got it. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up. Actually, at the end of Pike's turn--
Ashley: You know what, I'm sorry, I'm going to get off his back.
Matt: Okay. You're staying where you are, though?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be there. At the end of your turn, Umbrasyl's going to use another legendary action to make a second tail attack at Scanlan again, frustrated by this whole circumstance.
Sam: I'm sure he is.
Matt: That's a 20.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words?
Matt: You may, if you want to.
Sam: All right.
Matt: It's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh?!
Matt: You could reduce the damage though, with your Cutting Words.
Sam: All right, I'll do that.
Matt: Probably for the best. For that, you suffer 28 points of bludgeoning damage. As the tail swoops down, finding its mark, slamming into you, sending you against the wall of the stonework, and you stumble forward back into place, feeling already the impact of the bludgeoning wound.
Sam: That's a four, so.
Matt: So you reduce that to 24.
Taliesin: That halved? No, that's not halved. Sorry-- brain!
Matt: So 24 points of bludgeoning damage from the attack. However, Umbrasyl's next saving throw is at a disadvantage because of Mythcarver. Now, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. Faerie Fire (poof) right in front of me. Right on top of him. It gives everybody advantage on attacks against him.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Laura: That's great.
Marisha: I hope he's got enough hit points to make it worth it.
Matt: With disadvantage on the saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah, take it, bitch! Glitter bomb! It's like a Kesha music video.
Matt: So that's a four plus nine because of the disadvantage. I rolled a ten and a four. That will bring it to 13. It does not succeed. You watch as a second burst of purplish energy surrounds Umbrasyl, radiating a glow.
Chris perkins: Who's the prettiest dragon?
Marisha: You're so pretty!
Matt: Gilmore would love this right now. "Fancy dragon! Now we're talking!" You went from being not able to see the dragon to very much being able to see the dragon. All right.
Marisha: I'm going to use my bonus action to turn into a water elemental.
Matt: Okay! Look at you being a druid and shit.
Marisha: Yeah. That's how I roll.
Travis: Get it, girl! Get it, get it, girl!
Marisha: Get it, girl! Get it, get it, girl!
Matt: Water elemental Keyleth. Are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Can I move?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Marisha: Am I in his range of attack?
Matt: You gather, yes. Pretty big range.
Marisha: Honestly, Umbrasyl is so fucking big, I can't see what's going on in front of me.
Matt: You're right there.
Marisha: Is Scanlan in front of me?
Matt: Scanlan is right next to you, to the right.
Marisha: Can I step in the front and shield Scanlan?
Matt: Unfortunately, the cliff ends right there. So you couldn't get in front of Scanlan without dropping onto a lower platform.
Marisha: What about anybody else?
Matt: Percy is down there. You could fill some of Umbrasyl's space but you're not going to be able to guard anybody from an attack, unfortunately. Especially being an entity made of water, not a whole lot of defensive strategy in there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm next to Shale as well, right? We're all in the shit together?
Matt: Shale's over here.
Marisha: Oh, Shale's over there.
Matt: Flanking from the side.
Marisha: You know what, I'm just going to stay there!
Matt: All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to run along the side of the pool, and up on his left side, closest to the entrance of the cave. Right there would be delicious.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. A regular strike on the first.
Matt: You already have advantage on all the attacks because of Faerie Fire. So you don't need--
Travis: Yeah, not reckless. Not great weapon.
Matt: Yeah. Go for it.
Taliesin: Is that a 20?
Ashley: Oh, oh! That would be a natural 20!
Sam: Oh! That's not going to be good for him.
Matt: Barbarian crits, man.
Travis: I keep rolling, yeah?
Matt: Well, do the damage for the critical, yeah.
Taliesin: This and the next round are going to be really ugly.
Marisha: Kill it. Fucking kill it!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay.
Travis: Is the roll and then, what? Double it or add another--?
Matt: The dice roll is? Well, you roll 1d12. What was that, the first d12 you rolled?
Travis: That was a 15. Oh, the dice roll? 12.
Matt: 12. So make a-- it was a 12?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, shit! Okay, that's a 24. And then you add your modifier. And then roll two more d12s. So, that's 24 plus, is that seven?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Plus the two for the axe. Oh my god! That'll be at 33. Plus the necrotic-- oh, fuck! And that's doubled too.
Travis: So that's an 11 for the second d12.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Should we write these numbers down?
Matt: Yeah, we have to now. So it's 24 plus two for the axe, plus seven for the strength.
Travis: Plus five for the necrotic--
Matt: Hold on, getting there. We're getting there. It's getting math crunchy here, guys. So 24 plus nine, so that's 33, plus-- the necrotic?
Travis: Five.
Matt: Times two, which is ten. That's 43, plus the two other d12s, which is an 11. So that's 54. Plus your last d12.
Travis: It's a ten.
Matt: You did 64 points of damage with this one critical hit.
Ashley: He's a monstah!
Travis: Monstah!
Marisha: Monstah!
Laura: Monstah!
Matt: All right. So that's your first attack.
Travis: Yeah.
Chris perkins: Dragon's like, hello!
Marisha: Disco dragon!
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. The first strike swings wide and slams deep into an already open wound left by a rogue earlier in the sky. This time, the axe sinks deep into its body, and Umbrasyl roars out in immense pain. You see spittle and blood both being jettisoned from its mouth under the sheer pain that it's feeling. You take the axe, and you push even deeper, and push even deeper and withdraw. As you do, the blade is entirely covered in deep purplish-black dragon blood. You swing for a second strike. This time it puts its claw out and catches the axe in the middle of the air. You manage to wrench it free from its grasp, but it turns its head toward you, angrily.
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again?
Matt: That is Channel Divinity? I'll go ahead and double-check here real fast.
Marisha: We also have Heroes' Feast up, by the way, if that makes any amount of difference.
Matt: It won't do anything. It helped you with the temporary hit points, it helped you with--
Sam: Fear?
Marisha: Fear?
Liam: Fear?
Matt: It helped you with the fear-resistance to begin with. That was a big one. Channel Divinity, War God's Blessing and you can Channel Divinity twice. So you can do it a second time, you can. Wait, didn't you use it-- between rests, yeah. You could do it a second time if you want to.
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: All right. So with that, with a plus ten brings it to 30. So, as Umbrasyl grabs the axe, stopping it in mid-air, you just grin, reach forward with the axe, and push it into its actual claw. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: You nasty, boy! 27.
Matt: 27 points of damage. All right. And do you want to use your bonus action?
Travis: I do.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Travis: Let's do it great weapon master, just for kicks.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 26 minus five is 21.
Matt: 21. As you push the blade into Umbrasyl's hand, (angry snarl) it rears back its head and snaps toward you. You duck out of the way, pull the blade back and go for a third strike. This time however, it actually rears its torso up, putting its claws in the air, and you (slicing) find air right beneath it. Does not strike true.
Travis: Cool. Good beans.
Matt: Yeah. That finishes Grog's turn. At the end of Grog's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make a-- Actually, no, its going to hold onto that legendary action. All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Jesus, it's not dead yet?
Matt: Scanlan, because you took the tail attack earlier, I'll have you roll a concentration check for Stinking Cloud. You have advantage on it though, so add your constitution bonus.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine.
Sam: Great. I've got my Stinking Cloud, still. I would like to move the Stinking Cloud. Oh! No, I can't do that.
Matt: You can.
Sam: You can move a Stinking Cloud?
Matt: I think it moves from a short breeze, actually.
Sam: Eh, it's fine.
Matt: Older versions, I think you could.
Sam: I don't want the Stinking Cloud to move. All right, he's right on us, he's got a legendary action. This is not good. Okay, I will reintroduce him to Bigby's Hand, (singing) Bigby's Hand! And I'm going to use it as an-- Ugh, so weak! Interposing Hand.
Matt: Bigby's Interposing Hand, all righty.
Laura: What is that?
Sam: It will block him. It's a talk-to-the-hand move.
Matt: The idea is, you can use your bonus action to set it each turn to what you want it to do. So right now, you're having it as an Interposing Hand. So, yeah. It prevents it from moving--
Sam: Wait, just moving? It can still attack?
Matt: The Interposing Hand interposes between you and a creature you choose until you give it a different command. It stays between the two of you, providing you half-cover against the target. So it helps from ranged attacks.
Sam: Oh. But it won't block an attack. So in that case, I'll just attack with it.
Matt: Okay, so you're just going to go and Clenched Fist?
Sam: I'm going to try to finger it right in the hole that I came out of before.
Matt: Of course you are! Go ahead and make a melee spell attack.
Sam: He's the Bigby and the dike!
Matt: That would be over here
Sam: What do I roll? d20?
Matt: d20, add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: Oh! 27. Oh! With advantage? 27.
Matt: 27, that hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 force damage, as Bigby angrily jams the magical finger back into the wound.
Ashley: Rage fingering?
Liam: This dragon is being violated in so many ways.
Sam: It's just ten. 4d8 plus what?
Matt: It's 4d8 force damage.
Sam: That's it, ten.
Matt: Ten points of force damage.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not like this!
Matt: All right, Scanlan, are you going to move or stay where you are?
Sam: If I move, he'll kill me, so I won't. Instead, I will-- where's Vax?
Matt: Vax is over here.
Sam: Way over there?!
Liam: Playing medic with my sister.
Laura: Hey!
Sam: Jesus. Who can I inspire? I guess I'll inspire good old Shale again. You don't need inspiration, you're fine! This is an old lady! I'll turn to Shale and say, I don't normally do this, but I find you so attractive! For an old lady!
Chris perkins: Focus on the dragon!
Sam: I can't! With your eyes-- eye? Eye so beautiful! So twinkling when it looks at me! I just want you to hold me in your arm tonight! (laughter)
Chris perkins: Have you ever had sex? (laughter)
Sam: No!
Taliesin: It was just hanging there!
Sam: Yes, I've had sex, Shale! I have a daughter.
Matt: He says this as a giant Bigby's Hand is just (impact sounds) at the side of a giant, black dragon. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Percy, it's your turn. Oh my god.
Taliesin: Okay. How close am I to this dragon?
Matt: You are about ten feet from it right now.
Taliesin: I'm walking right the fuck up to it.
Matt: Okay, Percy. You walk right up to the dragon.
Taliesin: I'm pulling out the sword. And I'm going to fucking town, screaming like a little girl the entire time.
Marisha: Kill it! Advantage!
Taliesin: With advantage.
Marisha: All day! Advantage all day!
Laura: Kill that fucking dragon.
Taliesin: 26!
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: All right, first damage. 23 points of damage.
Matt: 23 points of damage, all right.
Taliesin: For shot number one. Shot number two.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies. That's good!
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Sorry, excitement.
Taliesin: Ten, 16, 16 times two is 32. 39, that's 39 points of damage. Number three! Oh, it gets worse. I'm going to die. Okay, I can do better than that. No, he can't. 22.
Matt: 22 just hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 18 points of slashing damage.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Action surge, motherfucker!
Matt: Go for it.
Chris perkins: Going Ginsu on this dragon.
Matt: I know, seriously.
Taliesin: It is not an awesome hit, it's just a hit. I'm really excited. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Shot number two.
Sam: Oh my god.
Taliesin: That's a hit.
Laura: Natural 20?
Taliesin: Natural 20. This is to make up for all these fucking ones.
Laura: Why doesn't Percy just always attack melee?
Marisha: He's bad at it most of the time.
Taliesin: 47 points of damage. Final attack.
Sam: Wait, what?
Liam: How is this possible?
Marisha: Because he's a fighter, he gets three attacks per round.
Taliesin: Plus an action surge for a second attack set of three. So I'm basically going-- Yeah.
Marisha: It's like a John Wu film.
Taliesin: It's just a fucking John Wu attack. Oh my god, it hit. Just barely, because it was a one, otherwise. And that final hit is-- oh, that's good. 27 points of damage, and I'm done.
Matt: As you unload on Umbrasyl, the pent-up anger and frustration, you start slashing over and over again. You guys watch as the blade shines in the air in the presence of its naturally designed enemy. You see at the corners of his outfit little tufts of dark smoke beginning to appear. The scar of Orthax still shows when the fury builds within Percy. As each blow strikes, cutting away hunks and bits of dragon flesh and scale, Umbrasyl is heavily wounded and looking desperate. That ends your turn, I believe?
Laura: Oh my god, he's still alive?
Matt: You guys gave it time to rest.
Taliesin: Fuck it, bonus action, I'm putting on the mask and standing my ground. Fuck it.
Matt: Amazing what a dragon can do in two hours.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm done.
Matt: All right. Vex.
Laura: Hi. Okay. I'm going to--
Matt: Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, he's going to use his third legendary action, knowing the source of the Faerie Fire and extremely frustrated by the fact that it has lent to a very difficult round, it turns towards the now water elemental quivering before it, and the tail comes down to smash towards your liquid form.
Marisha: (burbling)
Matt: Speaking of natural 20s.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Marisha: Come on, bitch. Come on.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Marisha: Totally fine. I'm an elemental for a reason.
Taliesin: You are totally fucking fine.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved.
Matt: Halved, because of your elemental. Does water elemental have resistance to damage?
Marisha: Yeah, it has damage resistance against acid, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing from non-magical weapons.
Matt: All right, so half that. So 32 made to 16. 16 points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to go ahead and roll a concentration check.
Marisha: What did you say?
Matt: Roll a concentration check. So roll a d20 and add your constitution modifier.
Taliesin: Even if it goes, it was worth it.
Marisha: Not bad, not bad. Hang on, sorry. Just my straight modifier, it's not a save? Okay, 18!
Matt: You maintain concentration. You needed to beat the 16.
Marisha: Whoa, daddy. All right.
Matt: Well, half the damage. No, it would've been ten, actually, because it's half the damage you receive.
Marisha: Half the damage I receive, so yeah, I'm good. I'm golden.
Matt: All right, cool. So Vex, what are you doing?
Laura: Oh, jeez. Who all is within five feet of it? Is everybody within five feet of it?
Matt: A lot of them are. Pretty much the whole party aside from Pike, you, and your brother.
Laura: Then I'm just going to attack it twice.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Sam: Oi, Matt. My Bigby's is concentration, so that cloud's gone, by the way.
Matt: Correct, thank you.
Laura: 19 plus 12 hits.
Sam: Did you shoot it in the back?
Matt: Yes, it does. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: As a bonus action?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Good memory on that one.
Laura: 19 on the first hit.
Matt: 19 damage? All right.
Laura: Then the second one hits as well, 17 plus 12.
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and roll damage for the second hit.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. All right. So, ending your turn, comes to the top of the round. Umbrasyl, now gripping into the stone, "I will not fall!" Suddenly, darkness begins to sweep into the area. In this area, a 15-foot radius all completely around Umbrasyl, all of you in this area, your vision goes dark.
Liam: Cancels out Faerie Fire and the golden butt?
Matt: Cancels out Faerie Fire. This is magical darkness.
Sam: It's not a spell, right?
Liam: For those of us on the outside, do we see a bubble of darkness where Key and the others--
Sam: A spell, Matt?
Matt: No, this is an effect of the lair. Actually, Faerie Fire would still affect it if you attacked it, per se, but it doesn't reveal its location currently within the darkness. However, it is technically larger than the darkness. Regardless, all of you guys that are in there, it would negate the advantage you would have from Faerie Fire. It would just be a central attack.
Marisha: So it wouldn't give us disadvantage, it would just be straight rolls?
Matt: A little bit of it's piercing through, because it is magic on magic. However, the rest of you see most of the party disappear into a giant sphere of magical darkness that fills the space.
Laura: So we on the outside, we can't use Faerie Fire? It's just a bubble of dark? Or do we see Umbrasyl peeking out?
Liam: He said he's bigger than the dark, so we see his head coming out.
Matt: You see the wings poking out the sides of it. You still see where he would be. Okay, so with that, Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and take a risk. He's going to lift his wings and head upward to move into an advantageous position.
Sam: No, it's not!
Marisha: Come on. Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm going to say, you leave when Burt Reynolds says you can fucking leave! And I will Bigby's Hand, and I will bring him back down, because I get a spell on his retreat.
Taliesin: I love watching him look at the phone.
Marisha: Consult the helix.
Matt: Unfortunately, you have to be grasping it or grappling it to attempt to--
Sam: No, I get a full spell action. It's my lore feature. I get to cast a brand new fucking spell when he lifts off.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: College of Lore. If he retreats, I get to cast a spell. This is the exact same thing that happened last time.
Matt: Trying to remember how this works. College of Lore. I don't know if it is. Because what you do is you grapple--
Sam: Oh, no, it's a War Caster feature.
Matt: Oh, War Caster! Thank you, that clarifies it. I was like, I don't see this in the College of Lore! You're confusing me! So as a War Caster, when a hostile creature's movement provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can use your reaction to cast a spell at the creature rather than making an opportunity attack. So yeah, if you wanted to go ahead and attempt to grapple--
Sam: I will grapple him and pull him back down.
Matt: You can totally attempt that. Bigby, go ahead and make a strength athletics check to beat a dragon's strength. Bigby is just slightly under the strength of the dragon, so let's see. It's a roll-off.
Sam: It's a roll-off! Oh my god. This is a critical roll. That's a two.
Matt: It was a 19 on my end. Natural 19. As Bigby's Hand reaches forward, the angry, wounded, frustrated, furious Umbrasyl just kicks the hand away, pulling up.
Taliesin: Do we get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Attack of opportunity from you, you, you, and you.
Marisha: Down, bitch, down!
Ashley: And the Spiritual Weapon, right? And the Spiritual Weapon?
Matt: No, it does not get attacks of opportunity.
Marisha: Without advantage, even though he's retreating?
Matt: Without advantage, because of the magical darkness that has surrounded you guys.
Marisha: Even though he's retreating in Faerie Fire? That doesn't double it?
Matt: The darkness would give you disadvantage, the Faerie Fire negates that. I'm letting you do this.
Marisha: Okay. Letting you do this! Be thankful of what you have! 22 exactly.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: 20.
Chris perkins: My staff bounces right off.
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right, so Grog and Keyleth both get a hit in. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Shit. Balls. Low. Shit. Eight damage from the elemental.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, all right.
Travis: 25. Plus the necrotic.
Matt: Good to know.
Marisha: And we decided I don't get my fire hands when I'm a water elemental?
Matt: Because that's bullshit.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: That would just be steam.
Matt: So as you swing out, you arc, and the axe strikes across the back of Umbrasyl's hide. You slam with your water elemental form. The flight is staggered, and barely lands on his feet. Umbrasyl, "I will take you all down!" Unleashes.
Marisha: Here it comes.
Matt: I need a dexterity saving throw from Shale, Percy, Keyleth, and Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, it's that whole table!
Sam: Seven!
Chris perkins: 24.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: All right. Shale actually succeeded on that one. DC 23.
Marisha: DC 23!
Matt: So you take half damage on that one. That's going to be, doing the dice rolls here. So that's 62 points of acid damage down to 31 to Shale, and 31 to you because you're resistant. So 62 points of acid damage to both of you guys.
Sam: My armor, does that do anything?
Matt: Your armor takes it by half, so you would take 31.
Taliesin: 62? Okay.
Chris perkins: Cursed lizard, we're going to give all your treasure to the poor!
Matt: And with that, it takes the rest of its action to move further back at its 80 foot flight, and it's going to end up right about there.
Sam: It's too big to fit in its own house.
Matt: I know! Leaving the Spiritual Weapon there. All right, that's going to end its turn. That now brings it to Vax.
Liam: The twins still have advantage because it's got the Faerie Fire on it, right? You said everyone in it?
Matt: Oh, you need to make a concentration check, by the way, from the damage you just took.
Marisha: Did he get out of the darkness?
Matt: He did.
Marisha: Ooh, ouch, not good at all. What am I making, just a constitution check?
Matt: Add your constitution modifier.
Marisha: I don't think it's going to be enough. Eight.
Matt: The Faerie Fire fades as the acid consumes you, no longer affected by it.
Marisha: Shit.
Matt: All right. Vax, it's your turn. To answer your question, no.
Liam: Nobody's near it anymore, right?
Matt: Nope.
Liam: Okay. I would like to scrabble up behind it, as close to its treasure pile as I can get.
Matt: Okay, that would be about there.
Liam: And I'm going to throw. Shit. No, cancel that. I'd like to run up its tail.
Matt: Okay. You go rushing, clambering onto the back of its tail. It swoops around and sees you doing so, but you're already quick and on it. What are you going to do?
Liam: I'm going to hold my action until somebody gets up on this motherfucker, and as soon as somebody gets close and catches his attention I'm going to stab into it.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that takes the end of Vax's turn. Shale, you're up.
Chris perkins: I stride up to the dragon and smack it on the nose.
Travis: Atta girl, Shale!
Matt: Speed of 20 feet, you said?
Chris perkins: Yeah.
Matt: You can't quite get to it, unfortunately. That's about as far as you can move this turn. You can dash if you want to, but even so, you still can't quite get to it.
Chris perkins: All right then. I will use all my action to get as close to it as I can.
Matt: Okay, there we go. All right! Ending Shale's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I didn't realize I was up so quickly. All right.
Chris perkins: Although, actually, I have action surge.
Matt: You do, actually.
Chris perkins: So I will then whack him on the nose.
Matt: That's true.
Marisha: Fuck yes.
Chris perkins: All right, so that's going to be--
Taliesin: I have 13 hit points.
Sam: 13? I thought that said 93.
Taliesin: I count up.
Chris perkins: 22.
Matt: 22, that just barely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Chris perkins: So I whack it for nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage, got it.
Liam: I'm above it. Do I get advantage for that?
Matt: Technically, because you are behind, you are flanking it, so as we'll use the flanking rules for this, you do have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Okay, so, good. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with sneak attack.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24, all righty.
Liam: And is the bonus action gone because of holding the action?
Matt: Correct, yeah, you just get the one action to hold.
Liam: Add one point to that. It was the keen dagger.
Matt: So as part of your action surge, you get two more attacks.
Liam: I didn't add the damage! Add eight to that. Not one, add eight to that. Sorry.
Sam: Add seven more. Then add three.
Chris perkins: Nope, and nope.
Sam: You have inspiration!
Chris perkins: I used it already.
Sam: Goddamn it!
Chris perkins: But thank you, it was very helpful.
Sam: You're useless!
Chris perkins: A fickle lover.
Matt: The one hit, it snorts in reaction to it. As it pulls back, you swing twice more, pretty sure the head was in the same place it was going to be, but unfortunately, meet air. Curse your sight!
Chris perkins: He had a bit of an itch on his back, that's what it was.
Matt: Caught the attention. All right, that brings us to Pike. What are you doing?
Ashley: I'm going to cast Prayer of Healing over to everybody over there. So, Keyleth, Percy, Scanlan, Shale.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm into this.
Chris perkins: I'm sort of right under the dragon. I'm actually quite far.
Ashley: Yeah, she's gone. Who's that down there? That's you, Percy, right?
Taliesin: Trinket.
Matt: What level is Prayer of Healing?
Ashley: I'm going to do it at fifth level. It's a second level, but I'm going to do it at fifth level.
Matt: Within 30 feet of you, so five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30.
Sam: You can heal my hand.
Liam: You could also run closer and do it.
Ashley: Okay. Yeah, I'll run closer. And I'll run around, not into the pool of acid death.
Matt: That's as close as you can get right now.
Sam: Is that close?
Liam: It's close enough for Scanlan.
Matt: It's enough for Scanlan and Keyleth.
Sam: Don't do it.
Marisha: Percy needs it.
Ashley: Percy needs it?
Matt: Percy's not in range.
Ashley: Fuck. Can I go the other way around?
Sam: You can go through the acid.
Taliesin: No.
Travis: It was only 12 points of damage.
Ashley: I don't have a lot left. All right, then.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Liam: Do what you can.
Ashley: Okay. Fuck. Can I stay where I was at, then?
Matt: You can. Stay right there.
Ashley: Okay. Sorry, I'm going to not do that. I'm going to Guiding Bolt then.
Matt: Okay. You can just barely make out the position of where Umbrasyl is. You can go ahead and make the attack, but it's going to get cover bonus to the range.
Ashley: Can I peek out? Can I move out?
Matt: You can move here if you want to, and it'll help a little bit. It'll only give it a minor bonus. Go ahead and make your attack.
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: Go ahead and make your spell attack. Is this basic level Guiding Bolt?
Ashley: Basic level Guiding Bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Nope. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You try and reach around and as it's moving its wings about, you manage to strike the stone just blocking half of its form. It splashes with energy and dissipates with no effect, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right. Can I tuck back in?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: And I'm going to move the Spiritual Weapon with my bonus attack, or can I not do that?
Matt: You can do that, yeah. 20 feet? To there.
Ashley: Okay. That's it. That's what I can do.
Matt: Is that as far as you can move it? Spiritual Weapon can move, I believe it's 20 feet. Yeah, that's as far as you can get it.
Ashley: No, 60 feet!
Matt: The range of the spell is 60 feet, but as a bonus action, you can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack.
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm up? No shit. Wow. Okay. It's really far away though now, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Way more than 30 feet, right?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: What is he? How far away is he from me?
Matt: You're not sure.
Liam: He's about 40 or 50 feet or something.
Marisha: Yeah. You're holding your action for someone to get up close.
Laura: He already did it.
Marisha: Oh, you already did it. Yeah, I guess I'm going to dash and see if I can get to him.
Matt: Okay, what's your movement as a water elemental?
Marisha: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet. 60, you're so close. Fucking dragon wings. There you go, you're so close. We'll say you're there, that's fine. That ends your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: I guess so.
Matt: All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to stride over to Bigby's Hand, and can I take out a level-- It's not level two, what do you call it? Not superior, but the middle one.
Sam: Moderate?
Travis: Can I take a moderate healing potion?
Matt: There's healing and then greater healing, so I imagine it would probably be greater healing.
Travis: Can I take the greater healing potion and chuck it to Percy?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Just a toss while standing at Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw to catch the tossed potion at that distance.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: You don't even look.
Travis: And I will hold my attack.
Matt: You can keep moving if you want.
Travis: I want to stay right by Bigby's Hand. I'll hold my attack until Bigby's Hand twitches.
Matt: All right. Finishing Grog's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will inspire Grog with a little ditty that I like to call, Who Let the Grogs Out?
All: Who? Who who who who?
Sam: Who let the Grogs out?
All: Who? Who who who who?
Matt: I'm conflicted in giving that inspiration. Take it, it's fine.
Sam: I can try a different one, if you'd like.
Matt: No, it's perfect.
Sam: And I will pick him up, with his blessing.
Travis: Please.
Sam: And throw him at the dragon.
Matt: Throw?
Sam: Or, you know, send him.
Matt: Okay, so Bigby's Hand will move with you 60 feet.
Sam: You want to go up to his head?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: All right, yeah. He's going up top.
Matt: Okay. We'll go ahead and use some of the platforms today.
Laura: Yeah! Cut his horns off!
Liam: Don't land on me.
Ashley: Kill him!
Laura: Cut his wings off!
Ashley: Tear his head off!
Laura: Jump off those head things!
Taliesin: We have done a lot of damage to this thing.
Matt: Problem with leaving it to heal, man.
Sam: He's only got 400 hit points left.
Laura: He's looking rough.
Matt: Should be more like there, we'll say.
Sam: Release the hounds.
Travis: Can I make two reckless attacks?
Matt: You may.
Laura: Reckless?
Travis: Yes, reckless. I'll use the inspiration die. That's a ten, so that's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Sam: Yeah! That helped.
Travis: 23.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26, got it. All right, second attack.
Travis: 24.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 24.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: Thank you. 29. I'm not used to that.
Matt: All right. As Bigby's Hand lifts you up, you reach out and swing with the axe, one hit, a second hit, both streaking across the face, the second one actually cutting through one of the eyes. The eye bursts against the blade of bloodaxe, and you can see now the fluids and material that once were contained within are now spilling down the side of Umbrasyl's face.
Travis: Ain't you pretty?
Matt: All right, Scanlan.
Sam: What, me?
Matt: That was your bonus action.
Sam: Oh! Well, okay. I didn't know that. I will try something else then. I will send-- shit. I will send my Lightning Bolt. Can I see any part of him that's not inhabited by one of my allies?
Matt: I'd say there's an arc you could probably hit, yeah.
Sam: Right in the heart?
Matt: Sure. The heart region of the dragon.
Sam: I'm going to shoot him right through the heart with lightning.
Matt: All right. That is a dexterity 21 save, so I'm pretty sure it's halved.
Sam: Yeah, that saves.
Matt: Go ahead and roll 8d6, half damage.
Liam: Shot through the heart!
Sam: I don't know that song, I don't know what that is. I don't know that song. 24, so just 12.
Matt: 12 points of lightning damage. All right. The bolt of lightning bursts through the body. All righty. That comes to the top of the round. At the end of Scanlan's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to strike down, with the tail, onto Vax behind, as you are already in that vicinity.
Liam: Dex save?
Matt: No, this is instead going to be a 26 to hit.
Liam: Yeah, that-- oh, displacer cloak. Did you do that at disadvantage?
Matt: That is instead a 24 to hit.
Liam: That does hit. I'll use Uncanny Dodge, though.
Matt: All right. So what would be 18 damage, you take nine instead from the tail. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to take three shots from where I'm at. First, I'm going to use my bonus action to chug down that potion I just got. What's the superior worth?
Sam: Greater.
Matt: It's a greater, yes. 4d4 plus four.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four. Where are my d4s at? I'll just do this four times. 13 points up, so that's a little bit better. All right, I'm going to take shot number one. I'm going to do a called shot to the face. I'm going to hit his other eye. Come on. Natural 20.
Sam: I feel like we need to retire the dice.
Taliesin: Fuck no! No, I love this die.
Marisha: You witnessed it!
Chris perkins: Yeah!
Marisha: You're a third party, it's good.
Travis: Have you and Wheaton ever touched?
Taliesin: Yeah, and I had a really bad day afterward. Let me tell you. That didn't turn out too well. That's just 16 points of damage, and I don't think I get anything bonus for this, he has to make a constitution saving throw.
Chris perkins: Eyeball saving throw.
Taliesin: Or he's going to have disadvantage on all of his attacks for the next turn.
Matt: Okay, that is nine plus 14, 23.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, he's fine.
Matt: Dragons.
Taliesin: I know. It was worth a shot. I'm going to take another shot. Fuck it, I'm just going to go for a sharpshooter, to try and do a little bit more damage to this, and I'm going to burn another grit and get advantage on it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So advantage sharpshooter. And that's a good thing, because that was terrible. And that was also terrible. So I miss.
Matt: All right, second shot. The first one (boom) slams and blasts near the ocular socket of Umbrasyl, shattering the bone, but not actually damaging the eye. The second shot manages to go through the wing, but unfortunately, the area was already damaged, and it's minimal in the effect on the dragon. Third strike?
Taliesin: Yeah, third strike. Here we go. Actually, you know what, I'm going to go for advantage. I'm going to go for sharpshooter advantage one more time, just for shits and giggles. Jesus. Do I call it?
Matt: It fell to the table.
Taliesin: So, yeah, I miss.
Matt: Two other shots, unfortunately, (bang).
Taliesin: I'm going to hide. I'm going to pull top right, and go up. I'm going up and I'm getting the fuck back there, as far back as I can get.
Matt: Okay. End of Percy's turn, going to use another legendary action to slam with the tail once again towards you, Vax. This is going to be--
Liam: This is in the same round, so there's no more disadvantage.
Matt: Correct. 25?
Liam: Sure. And do I blow Uncanny Dodge now?
Matt: You only get one reaction, so yeah. That's going to be 22 points of bludgeoning damage. Whack! The tail comes down and slams into you, putting you face-first into the stone. You can feel the blood run from your nose from the impact as the tail picks back up again. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to attack him a couple times. How about that? No advantage anymore, though, huh?
Marisha: No, it failed.
Laura: 18 on the first one doesn't hit.
Matt: Arrow just splinters across the dragon's hide.
Laura: That first one was way better, I should've kept it!
Matt: What was the second one?
Laura: The second one was 16.
Matt: 16, the second arrow strikes the side of Umbrasyl's face. Unfortunately, once again, the wood shaft streaks across, broken and destroyed by the impact. That ends your turn.
Laura: No, I still have a bonus action, so I'm going to hide with my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, you can do that, roll stealth. Did you add sneak attack? Oh, no, because nothing hit. Sorry.
Laura: Really?
Matt: Sorry, I was trying to be mindful.
Laura: Did you really just do that?
Matt: Trying to help. Failing miserably, but trying.
Laura: Do I still have Pass Without Trace?
Matt: No. Hunter's Mark got rid of that.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Top of the round. Magical darkness fills this entire sphere once more, encapsulating Grog, Vax, and everybody else in the area of the dragon. Vision is taken. You are all considered blind and have disadvantage on any attack rolls.
Laura: Who all?
Matt: Dragon does not seem to be--
Liam: And is it we're blinded, or we're blind where we are?
Matt: Blind where you are.
Travis: Dragon does not seem to be--?
Matt: Affected by it.
Laura: I'm not affected by that, though, because I'm outside of the bubble?
Matt: Correct, yes. Actually, let me see something.
Travis: That dumb grin.
Matt: With a five. Yep.
Marisha: Breath recharged.
Matt: Umbrasyl is going to turn up towards you, Grog. The head peeks out of the darkness for a second, right before it fills your space, and it just says, "I will finish this." You hear a familiar sound of gurgling, and then (liquid spray) out another time. This is going to go for everything in that vicinity. That's going to be Keyleth, Shale, Grog, Trinket, and Percy.
Taliesin: Did I not get cover?
Matt: You couldn't move that far, unfortunately. That's as far as you could go with your movement.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: So I need a dexterity saving throw from all of you guys.
Marisha: Fuck.
Taliesin: Blowing my last reroll. That's better.
Marisha: It's like a 23 save, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Fuck no. I mean, I rolled good, but--
Marisha: But it doesn't matter.
Travis: 18.
Chris perkins: Ten.
Marisha: Six.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: And Trinket? Oh.
Sam: I guess I should do a Cutting Words, just to help a little bit.
Matt: What's the range on Cutting Words, unfortunately?
Sam: Probably 60, 30? Is he further than that? Damn it.
Matt: Unfortunately. The distance of the bard. Just to make sure. 60 feet, yeah. So that's 66 points of acid damage to Grog, Shale, halved to you, and 66 to Percy.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious.
Matt: Trinket is unconscious and dissolving.
Taliesin: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Percy is unconscious and dissolving. Grog?
Travis: I'm good.
Matt: You're good. Hit points.
Travis: I have a question. Because he attacked me, do I get my retaliation attack on him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: Kill him, motherfucker! Kill him!
Matt: Shale, what are you at?
Chris perkins: This will depend on this roll. I've got Stone's Endurance, so I'm going to try to use my reaction to reduce the damage, and I reduce it by enough to keep me up.
Matt: Fantastic! She's got grit! She's got perseverance!
Sam: So sexy!
Chris perkins: I'm at two hit points.
Matt: All right, Grog, go for it. Not with advantage.
Travis: It's not reckless?
Matt: The reckless is for your actual attack round.
Travis: The first one was an 18.
Matt: I'm pretty sure it is. Let me double check. Just so the internet doesn't yell at me. It's going to yell at me anyway, it always yells at me.
Taliesin: I believe in you.
Travis: It's a 27, so.
Marisha: This fucker's got to be close to death, right?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: During this turn, not round, so yeah.
Travis: That was a 27 for the first one.
Matt: 27 was the hit? That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: 18.
Laura: Plus necrotic.
Travis: Thank you. 22.
Matt: 22. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Did the fucking necrotic do it? (screaming)
Sam: Oh, god.
Matt: So. Held aloft by Bigby's Hand, acid sprayed in your face, two of your friends on the ground, unconscious and dissolving, in the center of the dragon's lair, Grog Strongjaw, how do you want to do this?
Travis: I rear back with the bloodaxe and I swing for the hinge right where his upper and lower jaw meet, and I'd like to cleave up under his skull into his brain.
Matt: As you lunge forward, the darkness fills you, but the feral instinct that you've grown up with is enough to know the source of that pain, the source of that acid, is also the source of victory. And as you swing wide, the jaw, still extended from the blast of acid, you push through it, as it's spraying into you, and the sheer force of your blade hits the edge of the jaw, and you push, and you hear from the back of the throat, as the acid is projected, the gurgle of horrible, shrieking pain. (groan) The stream stops as the blade goes towards the base of the skull, pushing forward and upward. You divide the actual mouth of Umbrasyl like that. The darkness (whoosh) flicks out, as you guys watch Grog descending, putting your foot now onto the front of the dragon's neck, you stand up, getting hold onto where the wound is there, still living, the one working eye flitting about wildly, you reach up and grab the edge of the nose, bring the axe up with the other hand, and slam again, and again, and as you do, the eye rolls back. The whole body begins to fall limp as it crumples backward. Vax, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, I am very unconscious.
Ashley: You'll be okay. I've got you.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. Okay, you dodge out of the way as the dragon plummets to the ground. (heavy impact) What was Trinket's maximum hit points?
Laura: It was 60.
Matt: Let me check something here.
Laura: But he was at 53 when he got hit.
Matt: The remaining damage. Yeah, you're fine.
Travis: Night saved.
Matt: Umbrasyl's body hits the ground, the two arms reach up, and the body still continues to pull itself backwards. You pull out of the way. The head lolls around, the jaw now grossly, cartoonishly open, giving out these horrible choking sounds, as the blood and bile and acid all mingle. It tries to talk. The bubbles continue coming forward before it stumbles, the arms sprawled out, its head falls limp to the side as the eye twitches and then falls still.
Ashley: I run over to Percy.
Laura: I run over to Trinket.
Marisha: I drop my water elemental form.
Ashley: I touch Percy and I cast Heal on him.
Marisha: Nice.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket.
Matt: As you stand there, Shale, watching the dragon fall as Grog Strongjaw, the once runt of the Herd of Storms, slams the blade over and over again in the dragon's head, a little part of you is a little jealous, and another part proud, and a little sad that this was not the time for you to lose your life in battle against a mighty dragon.
Ashley: Oh, Shale.
Liam: Can you believe it?
Sam: Shale jumps into acid.
Liam: Just walks in.
Chris perkins: Dissolves.
Matt: (sizzle) I can make that joke in two weeks! As you go and bring Trinket around for a second, using the last bit of the magic that's been afforded to you as a ranger, Trinket comes to. (bear grunt) A lot of the fur has been singed off, and spotted flesh with acid burn, but is conscious and alive, and weak, Trinket leans forward as you're cradling his head and licks the side of your face and tucks his nose into the side of your shoulder.
Laura: You were so brave in here!
Matt: (bear grunt) You go ahead and help Percy get off the ground. You come to consciousness again and you see Pike's hand touching yours as she lifts you. Suddenly, a surge of invigoration hits your body, and you find yourself feeling a lot better than you did a few moments ago.
Taliesin: Yeah, what am I at?
Ashley: 70 hit points.
Laura: That's major.
Matt: Heal, man. Clerics don't fuck around.
Ashley: I saved it just in case.
Laura: Holy shit, Grog!
Marisha: Holy shit, Grog!
Ashley: Grog! I run over to Grog and I jump up on his leg, I'm going to sit on his foot.
Travis: Monstah!
Ashley: Yeah, monstah!
Chris perkins: I will remove my dragon tooth necklace and pass it off to Grog.
Travis: No, Shale.
Chris perkins: You must take this. You've got many more battles left in you. This is going to serve you better than it ever served me. And just so you know, I don't know what the Herd would do, but if you ever go into battle again against other dragons, you know who to call. I'll be ready.
Travis: Yeah. The wielder of the magic stick of nose-whappiness. I will wear this with honor.
Chris perkins: All right. So whenever you, by the way, whenever you spend hit dice to regain hit points, you double the number of hit points restored.
Travis: With the necklace?
Chris perkins: Yes.
Travis: Oh, snap!
Ashley: You what?
Chris perkins: Double your hit points you restore.
Travis: I thought it was bullshit, but it's not! Dope!
Liam: You finally have some hit points.
Laura: You know, if you seek another dragon to kill, you might meet us in Whitestone. We're forming an army there.
Chris perkins: I just might.
Marisha: Keyleth drops elemental form and goes over to Vax and grabs him by the face.
Liam: You'd have to lean over for that.
Sam: He's a little boy!
Laura: It's like kissing a child.
Chris perkins: He's like a little voodoo doll of Vax.
Liam: I'm not pygmied or anything, I'm like a doll.
Laura: Keep it going, Keyleth. Just mug down with him.
Liam: Maybe this should wait till later?
Marisha: I tap him on the face, and say  So glad you're not dead. And I walk away.
Liam: I'm going to shake that off, and then I'm going to do a once around the entire chamber and look around for any traps I can find, especially around that pile up top, but also, I don't know that they'll be here, but see if there's anything like what we saw in Krieg's cave with the crystals in the wall. Little peeky stones.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Can I look for those, too, since dragons?
Liam: 22.
Laura: Oh, he probably doesn't need my help. I get advantage on all dragon things.
Matt: You do.
Laura: It doesn't matter. I rolled shit, twice. 12.
Matt: 12, okay. You guys spend the better part of the next 15 or so minutes glancing around and trying to find any sign of these strange obsidian spheres that were previously in the lair of Krieg, or Brimscythe. After coasting through the crates and barrels, gold piles, the various artifacts and trinkets and things that are strewn about this back corner, no sign of anything like that.
Liam: What about weaponry in that pile of shit?
Laura: What about all the stuff in that pile of shit?
Travis: You want to rage loot?
Matt: There's a lot of things in there.
Liam: I was first on the pile. Are there any weapons in there?
Matt: There are weapons. There are two glaives, polearm glaives. There appear to be a number of pieces of ornamental armor, very beautiful, made of gold and platinum, that were either used for ceremonial reasons or just adorning some sort of popular hall.
Marisha: Keyleth walks over and pulls out her Hunk of Quall.
Sam: Yeah, Quall it up.
Marisha: I'm going to Quall it up all over top of the gold, see if anything lights up with my Wi-Fi detector. Since that's what I feel like it is.
Matt: Strangely enough, no. Nothing seems to glow in the vicinity of the Hunk of Quall.
Liam: And no other blades?
Matt: There are two glaives. Pulling the list up here. Going through the whole hoard, because it is 11:20, we may pick up the actual looting element at the beginning of next session. We'll be here for a while if you want to do that.
Laura: I like the sound of that.
Marisha: We have to go back and get Fassbender.
Laura: Yeah, we're totally going to go back. We're going to return a lot of this gold to Whiterun. Westruun. All the towns.
Sam: Well, all the gold that we can definitely prove came from Westruun, we'll bring back.
Laura: I agree.
Sam: With Westruun markings.
Laura: All the other gold that's just sitting around, I mean, we should probably just take to help the battles.
Travis: Plus it would be nice to give Shale some gold to take back to the Herd.
Sam: Who?
Travis: Shale.
Sam: The Herd? I thought the Herd's-- Okay.
Travis: There was a great remnant. The Herd will live again, and with Shale's wisdom.
Marisha: There were still a few members of the Herd still alive. A good half dozen.
Travis: Zanror's baby mama is still preggo.
Marisha: Yeah, exactly.
Liam: It's also very lean times in Westruun. Most of this gold should go back to Westruun.
Laura: Most of it.
Marisha: Did we contribute any of our own gold into this pile?
Liam: That's back in Westruun.
Chris perkins: I can return with the remnants of the Herd and gather up whatever you don't take.
Laura: And bring it back to Westruun.
Sam: We'll divvy it up later.
Marisha: Let's divvy it up.
Liam: If we take most of the gold that came from Westruun, we're a big pack of assholes.
Laura: I said we weren't going to! We're going to take it back to Westruun.
Sam: You're a tiny pack of assholes right now.
Marisha: Is he still tiny? He's still tiny.
Laura: Three hours.
Liam: Probably another two hours.
Laura: It's only been an hour? No.
Matt: You have, probably another 20, 30 minutes or so before it fades.
Marisha: We need Fassbender.
Travis: Keyleth, you're going to butcher this dragon, right?
Marisha: Yes. 100 percent. I start going to town on it.
Laura: Because this is going to be worth a lot of fucking money.
Marisha: Yeah. Percy, do you have any extra vials? Empty vials for blood?
Laura: We should get some of the blood and put it in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: Hey, Percy! So glad you're alive and not burning in acid. Do you have any extra vials?
Taliesin: Do I?
Matt: Checking in your various pieces of equipment you have on you, as opposed to what you have stored elsewhere, you had a few vials. They are a little jangly when you reach for them, and you realize they've been crushed.
Taliesin: We have some empty potion bottles.
Liam: I hand mine over from the one I gave Vex.
Taliesin: The one I used as well.
Matt: Go ahead and make a nature check.
Marisha: I'll take that 16 for a 27. Nature check, yeah? 27.
Matt: All right. So as you guys are gathering the elements of this dragon's hoard, gathering the equipment, the art pieces, the relics, all things that were part of this-- and it is, especially since you know, as far as dragon hoards go, especially for an ancient dragon, it isn't huge. And with the recent moving in, you get the idea that this dragon's true hoard probably exists elsewhere. This was either a temporary lair, or was intended to be the new lair, and the process of transitioning hadn't quite begun. Most of the gold here seems to have been what was given to Umbrasyl by the Herd once they had taken over Westruun.
Liam: Maybe he has to give it to Thordak in a dragon pyramid scheme.
Laura: We don't find any of those glyphs like there were in--
Taliesin: We already looked for those.
Laura: Not the circles, I meant the transportation glyph that we beamed into his--
Matt: That you saw in Krieg's lair? No. You do know, from having one made by Allura within your keep before, that they take quite some time to ingrain. Dragon's only really had over a week or so. So, gathering up the materials, the remnants of that hoard, you guys descend down the mountain if you wish, or is there anything else you wish to accomplish within the actual lair?
Marisha: I want to harvest some scales, some blood, and some teeth.
Matt: Right, based on the roll you made. So we have two empty vials that you managed to acquire.
Marisha: Plus he had three in his Bag of Holding.
Liam: Can I help her out?
Matt: Yeah. It's difficult because, with the nature of Umbrasyl's death, as well as being a creature that is naturally caustic and acidic in a large portion of its body, there was a mixing of a lot of the blood that has caused it to become impure while vialing it, so you get three vials of the blood that are still pure and viable. Everything else seems to dissolve through the glass upon contact.
Laura: I can put it in the Bag of Colding, and then it'll keep it.
Taliesin: I can assist with any of the cutting, because I've got the fuck-all sword.
Marisha: I hand the three vials of blood to Vex to put in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Many dragon's teeth were sundered in the ravaging of Umbrasyl at Grog's furious storm of axe blade strikes. However, you do manage to harvest from the body, unscathed, 14 ancient black dragon teeth.
Marisha: We should make some sweet necklaces. Any scales?
Matt: Quite a lot of scales here, yes. It's going to take you a long time to harvest what you can off this body. A lot of the areas have been damaged from the various wounds and such. How much time do you want to spend to harvest scales?
Liam: Do you think we should just camp here for the night?
Taliesin: We could just camp here for the night.
Laura: As long as the other dragons don't realize that we've just done this. Would I know if they would know?
Matt: You have no idea.
Laura: I don't know if it's actually safe to just hang out in this dragon's lair.
Taliesin: You know what we can do, is we can make the magic mansion in that cave off to the side, in the very back of it.
Laura: That's a wonderful idea.
Ashley: And that magic trap, we didn't set it off.
Taliesin: We haven't sprung the magic trap, either, so that's just none the wiser.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: All right. I'll spend as much time then, I'll stay up as long as I can throughout the night. If I hear any disturbances I'll come back to the mansion.
Taliesin: I'll help.
Chris perkins: Once we get to the mansion, Shale will bid the group farewell and head down to Westruun to let the rest of the Herd know what's happened, about the great triumph of the bearded king.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: As you come down and--
Chris perkins: I'm killed by an owlbear.
Matt: Ravaged and eaten horribly in the Bramblewood, never to be seen again!
Chris perkins: Nobody hears the tale of the bearded king!
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Taliesin: Forever, the Herd will just say, Grog, that asshole.
Marisha: Such a dick.
Matt: No, you come down and as you speak with the remnants of the Herd of Storms, many of which, a number of them did survive the battle, though scarred horribly, and many did lose their life in the battle with Umbrasyl. Zanror, Worra, recovering all right. However, the number's now thinned down to a simple 12 members of the Herd. As you speak with Zanror, he looks to you and says, "Shale. You live."
Chris perkins: Obviously.
Matt: "Have you word of the mountain? The dragon?"
Chris perkins: I toss one of its teeth at him. He will trouble us no more. He is a bygone.
Matt: "Good. Good." He takes the tooth and gives it to Worra. "Well."
Chris perkins: It's the work of those adventurers.
Matt: "Vox Machina, they call themselves."
Chris perkins: They are truly great.
Matt: "Good. We need greatness in this world. We--"
Chris perkins: Don't be so glum, you old fool.
Matt: He grins to himself.
Chris perkins: This is a day of glory. A great battle has been won.
Matt: "It is. But there's been a lot of cost in it, too."
Chris perkins: There's always cost. We will all die, it just depends on how. We died fighting a dragon, and we lived fighting a dragon. What more do you want? That's the smile I want to see.
Matt: "I'm glad you're back, Shale. Your wisdom stays strong."
Chris perkins: Well, now that Kevdak's out of the way, maybe people will listen to what I have to say for a change.
Matt: "We've been talking here. I think the Herd of Storms died in battle with the dragon. There's not many of us left."
Chris perkins: But there are other herds.
Matt: "There are. And while we lost the Rivermaw, I think maybe it's time we went and joined them."
Chris perkins: I like that idea.
Matt: "They're damper lands. Better for raising children. Take a break from all this warring and go back to a simple life. Will you come with us, Shale?"
Chris perkins: Of course.
Matt: "Good. We'll set out tomorrow. At dawn, we plan."
Sam: He's learned!
Matt: You guys set up for the evening, resting your sore, bruised bodies, smelling the ruin of the black dragon as you prepare for an evening's rest, well-earned. We will close this evening's session. Well fought, guys!
Travis: Holy shit.
Marisha: We didn't die!
Liam: Scanlan, is there a hot springs in this mansion?
Sam: There can be whatever you want.
Liam: We need to bathe, soak. We need a good soak to get the stink off.
Matt: It's amazing. You imagine why he didn't mention it before, but Scanlan does indeed have a hot spring in his magnificent mansion.
Travis: It's amazing!
Matt: No, it's magnificent. Guys, a big thank you and round of applause for Chris Perkins!
Chris perkins: Thanks for having me! It's a great honor to be here. Thank you.
Matt: All right, well. We'll pick this back up again next week on Thursday to see what the next adventure holds for Vox Machina now that one of the four Conclave remaining have fallen! I can tell you with the death of one dragon, I doubt the others, upon hearing of it, will be anywhere near as careless as Umbrasyl was. But there are more Vestiges to find, more allies to acquire. Who knows what other dangers lie in the realms of Tal'Dorei and beyond, outside of the Conclave's threat? We shall see in the weeks to come. Guys, thank you so much for staying up with us tonight. Rest well, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week. [end of captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. Yes, in my face. Thanks, Travis. So tonight we'll kick off here with some announcements. First and foremost, the first run with Loot Crate went very well; you guys rose up and showed your interest in that fantastic product and they've come back! (cheering)
Travis: Put the stank down! Loot Crate!
Matt: Once again--
Sam: (airhorn sounds) (laughter)
Matt: That's wonderful. So yeah, so those of you guys who are tuning into this wonderful offer for the first time, they are offering a $3 subscription-- the word escapes me for some reason.
Sam: Discount.
Matt: Discount, that's the word, because my brain is stuck in fantasy mode.
Marisha: Discount code. I love that you called it a modifier!
Matt: He said "modifier." That was Travis on that one.
Travis: Jock said modifier, y'all.
Matt: Minus $3 modifier to your Critical Role subscription for Loot Crate. But no, Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box. They make a really awesome, continuously new array of geek-centric and gamer gear, toys, T-shirts, wearable content, collectibles, it's badass. Me and Marisha have been members for years ourselves.
Marisha: And Taliesin. High-five. There we go.
Taliesin: High-five. That was so awkward.
Matt: That was delightfully awkward. That was great. So we announced at the end of the last run with Loot Crate that their new upcoming box is themed "dystopia." It's everything post-apocalyptic, they've had a lot of really awesome Robocop, Terminator 3, Matrix items and Bioshock items--
Laura: Fallout 4!
Matt: --a bunch of really cool things in this next Crate. Plus, on top of the previous stuff we've offered, they also put out what's called a DX Box, this Dystopia DX. Which is a special, premium box which contains over $100 in items into it, it's for the really hardcore awesome collectors out there. And the box itself is a lot bigger--
Travis: Yeah! Look at that thing!
Sam: It stands for "Damn! Extreme!" (laughing)
Sam: Are we unboxing? Are we doing this?
Travis: Don't let him get ahead of us! Open that thing!
Sam: Are we just doing the DX?
Laura: Shut up! I gotta savor this.
Liam: Skeletor! Mine!
Laura: No. no, It said small, it said small, Liam!
Liam: Skeletor. Mine!
Marisha: Oh! Is it Skeletor?! Oh, this one's a small too, on this side.
Laura: Oh man. I guess the girls get to take advantage of the Skeletor shirts.
Matt: (Skeletor voice) I'll get you He-Man! (cackles)
Ashley: Whoa! That's a rad shirt!
Marisha: This is a rad shirt.
Taliesin: There's Street Fighter, Street Fighter gym bag.
Laura: Do you want to roshambo to see who keeps the shirt?
Matt: Having had the pleasure of actually playing Captain America once, this is really awesome, and having voiced Iron Man once, this box is made for me. Now I need to voice Skeletor and I'll be good.
Travis: There you go.
Matt: That's fantastic.
Sam: Oh, I'm wearing a Loot Crate shirt right now. No, from this month's Loot Crate--
Taliesin: I got my Street Fighter gym bag.
Laura: That's so cool!
Sam: Are we allowed to open the small one, too?
Matt: Heck yeah! Do it!
Sam: I mean, it's not small. It's more exclusive.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Did anybody-- who all did voices for Street Fighter? Taliesin did-- You do Street Fighter, don't you?
Taliesin: I do, I got my Street Fighter bag.
Laura: So me and Travis will share this one?
Matt: There you go.
Sam: Here, Marish. What do we got?
Marisha: This is Dragonball, right?
Matt: Yeah, that's Dragonball too.
Marisha: Dragonball!
Sam: I mean, it's too much good stuff.
Matt: That you are re-rolling a new character, Grog suffered a stroke.
Travis: Man, you're good.
Matt: I'm pretty fast on that draw. Pretty quick! Watch out for the microphone. I found in here hidden amongst the rest of the big things a really awesome Stan Lee pin, which is badass because years ago, at an Avengers-themed birthday party, we all dressed up, I actually dressed up as Stan Lee, it was a lot of fun--
Marisha: You did.
Matt: Yeah. We got a whole Avengers Last Supper picture with Stan Lee in the middle just going like--
Laura: What?
Taliesin: It was also-- we had a friend who did Jack Kirby and we got a fight sequence going.
Matt: Yeah, me and him fought. You showed up as the Purple Man and you did karaoke to Start Wearing Purple. That was a good night.
Sam: Stan Lee licks every pin.
Matt: He does. Individually. True believers! (slurp noise)
Taliesin: Excelsior!
Matt: So yeah, for those who aren't subscribers, it's awesome.
Travis: That's a gift, man, that is a great gift.
Sam: And with a $3 discount, if you multiply that by 12, that's like getting a free Crate every year. I'm just making that up.
Travis: I'm not good at math so I believe you.
Marisha: Yeah, I know, I was like, sounds legit. Sure. I'd believe that!
Matt: So, if you want to sign up to get the discount, you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole. if you want to sign up for the DX box, for the real collectors out there, that is www.lootcrate.com/criticalroledx.
Laura: Is there a link in the chat or something, so that--
Matt: There is a link in the chat.
Sam: We'll also tweet one out or something.
Laura: Yeah, we'll tweet at the break.
Matt: Okay, so I'm going to keep this. And you're not going to tell anyone.
Laura: (laughs) Are we supposed to give it back? 'Cause that's not happening.
Marisha: Well, they might belong to Geek and Sundry, but.
Matt: You guys won't tell anyone, right? Anyway, on to the rest of the announcements! Next up, at E3, which is next week, we're going to be showing up on Thursday as part of GameSpot's E3 coverage. We're going to be doing cycling interviews with them starting at noon on Thursday, I believe, next week. So check in with GameSpot Thursday next week to have us sit in front of a camera and make complete and utter fools of ourselves, unlike we do here every Thursday. So that'll be a lot of fun. A reminder, me and Marisha are going to be at the Haven Expo convention in Australia beginning of July, so all you Australian folks in the Southern Hemisphere want to come and say hi, we'd love to see you. Comic Con, San Diego Comic Con is coming up.
Liam: I've heard of that.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. We're going to be there. Looks like we may have a couple panels throughout the week, as well as the main Geek and Sundry panel, so if you guys are planning on coming to that area, keep an eye on the @CriticalRole Twitter, we're going to be announcing those times and rooms when they become available to us, so you can plan to come see us because we'd love to see you out there.
Marisha: It's going to be all of us?
Laura: Come say hi! As Travis says, "Come give us a squeeze."
Travis: Come give us a squeeze. We'll be at the convention hall and we'll be over at Petco in both places at different times.
Ashley: Don't give me a squeeze, it makes me uncomfortable.
Travis: It makes me toot.
Ashley: I don't like being touched.
Travis: (fart sound) That'd be great every time. (fart sound) Oh no.
Ashley: Oh no. I just fart every time.
Matt: That's impressive, how does that keep happening? All right, Taliesin, your next episode of Signal Boost, I believe your last episode of Signal Boost--
Taliesin: It's my last episode of Signal Boost?
Travis: But you're the most interesting man in the world!
Laura: You really are, Taliesin.
Marisha: No one wants you to leave, but you're leaving.
Taliesin: It's really hard to make those episodes and I have to get on with my life.
Liam: Here's a cardboard box, please put all your things in it.
Marisha: And I have to get on with my life, is that what you just said? It's hard to think about 12 things that you legitimately feel passionately about.
Taliesin: Especially when you took four of them on your run. I was really angry about that.
Marisha: Oh, dibsies.
Matt: And we have the "Dear Abby" Vox Machina articles still coming up-- we have a new one tomorrow, I believe? Who's up on that one? Do we know?
Sam: It's Trinket and it's all salmon-based advice. (laughter)
Matt: If only that was the case.
Taliesin: It might be me?
Matt: It might be Percy, we'll find out! Tomorrow it'll be a surprise! Go to geekandsundry.com tomorrow to find out whose article it is. Because we don't know! And I think that's it, that's all, unless anyone has anything else they want to announce, or shall we dive into the game for the evening?
Travis: I would like to announce that I have an egg on my pizza.
Matt: Was that intentional? Or did it just happen?
Laura: It's breakfast pizza, man!
Travis: It's just a mythical thing, you don't question it.
Matt: I love me some breakfast pizza! I didn't know if it was actually breakfast pizza, or he got regular pizza and somehow it got an egg on it.
Marisha: It's like slapstick pizza.
Taliesin: It's very embarrassed pizza.
Matt: Hmm, that's weird. Anyway, let's go ahead and bring it down here, as we return to the realm of Exandria for tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Sam: Is something happening now?
Matt: I hope so, I hope we're at the intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So, to bring us into tonight's game, let's do a little recap of recent events. This group of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, found their way towards the city of Westruun, which had been partially destroyed by the attacks of the Chroma Conclave, a dangerous group of chromatic dragons, very powerful entities that tore through the countryside. In the wake of this destruction, the Herd of Storms, a roving barbaric tribe that Grog once belonged to, swept in and conquered the city of Westruun. They made an accord with the returning black dragon, Umbrasyl, that they would alleviate most of the spoils of their findings toward it and, as such, would not be in conflict with such a powerful and dangerous entity. Vox Machina swung into the town, cut down the rather brutal and ruthless leader, Kevdak, and aided his son, who seemed to be of more honorable mind, Zanror, and Grog himself, to temporarily take the herd in its current state and use this moment to surprise and hopefully take down this ancient black dragon known as Umbrasyl, the Hope Devourer. They set a trap. They sprung it, and kept the dragon close to the ground as long as they could, dealing vast amounts of damage but not enough to stop it as it began to tear through the herd, as well as Vox Machina itself. Vax and Scanlan had, through the use of magic and ingenuity, teleported themselves inside of the dragon. Didn't seem to go as well as they intended, as the dragon took off, leaving a dangling Grog with his axe and chain stuck in its side, flying off towards the high, darkened mountain of Gatshadow. The midair battle ensued as they tried to find ways to carve their way out of the beast. Vax, utilising the embedded arrow hole and loosening the tension of the muscles with the dragon blade at his disposal, Scanlan's technique a little more sensual.
Sam: I fisted it.
Matt: You fisted the dragon and, as such, found your way out. During this period of time, Vax embraced the blessing of the Raven Queen, taking a level of paladin, Grog got more intelligent, briefly, as a giant eagle, and you managed to reconvene with your party members as the dragon went to recover within its lair at the top of Gatshadow. You then encountered a very elderly goliath who you hadn't seen in quite some time, named Shale, who spoke of the scouting crew that had been obliterated by the dragon. You followed Shale as she led you up the mountain to where the dragon's current lair resides. You did battle with Umbrasyl, a very hard-fought battle, many of you taking a bunch of damage. But you prevailed and Grog dealt the death blow, killing the dragon. You all began to sift through its hoard, the bulk of which we will be doing as you rest into the evening here, Shale shambling down the mountain on her own to see the rest of her greater destiny. So, as we come back, you've all decided to take an evening's rest to recover from this heinous battle that you just suffered. You carved out some elements of Umbrasyl's corpse that were not destroyed by the anger and might of Grog. I believe I told you a tooth count, a blood vial count, what did I not give you from the remains of the black dragon?
Sam: We don't know what we don't know, Matt.
Travis: Scales and claws.
Marisha: I don't know if I got a tooth count, either.
Laura: Oh, you got three vials of Umbrasyl blood, is all we have.
Taliesin: It was a lot of teeth.
Matt: Yeah, it was 15 or so, I believe, because a lot of them were destroyed from the perpetual axe smashing in the mouth--
Laura: Do you want me to write them in the bag?
Travis: Make sure it was dead!
Matt: Yeah, exactly, it was the more important part, really.
Laura: I'm writing the body parts in the Bag of Colding.
Taliesin: What's a dragon kidney stone worth?
Laura: 15 teeth--
Marisha: Does it turn into a pearl?
Taliesin: It might do, you know, a diamond?
Laura: What about scales?
Matt: Well, ten dragon claws were harvested from this entity, and about-- and it's going to take you quite a while, you're probably not going to be able to rest if you continue to harvest from the corpse to get scales off of it, at this point, because it's more dragonhide than just scales, you're taking the hide off of it and you're going to need a team of people and an extended period of time to do that well.
Taliesin: I said I was going to help with the sword, with that process, since I've got it--
Matt: Okay, that does help, it's still going to be-- there's a lot of hide--
Travis: We only have like 60 pounds of scales from previously, left over. (thumps)
Laura: What is happening?
Travis: Umbrasyl's ghost.
Matt: Yeah, ravaging the countryside from the east.
Sam: We're still in the lair?
Matt: You are still in the lair, yes.
Marisha: We have 60 pounds of scales left?
Laura: Yeah, but these would be Umbrasyl scales. This way we can make Umbrasyl black dragon armor!
Travis: Then we can have, yeah, black and white scales.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but we could make dragonhide-- with dragonhide you could make badass armor, right?
Liam: Yeah, we could have done that ages ago.
Marisha: (laughs) I want some black and white armor. How--
Matt: Do keep in mind, the Bag of Holding can hold upwards 500 pounds, to the max.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Just be aware.
Sam: It's not infinite?
Matt: No.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was infinite.
Liam: Also, many of the shops that can do that kind of thing are destroyed, so--
Travis: Oh, we're okay, there's not a bunch of big stuff in here.
Taliesin: We'll get some, we should get some.
Sam: What about the gold? Did we find out how much gold?
Matt: We're about to find out.
Laura: Well, okay, I'm definitely doing that while they're working on the dragon.
Taliesin: We'll work on the scales.
Matt: As you guys are working on the scales--
Marisha: I want to work most of-- I want to take as much as I can--
Matt: Of the scales? Okay, that's fine. Hide, dragonhide, we'll say. Scales themselves are just little pieces, used more for alchemical elements, can be removed from hide later, so we'll call it hide. So I want you to go ahead and make an investigation check, Laura.
Laura: Oh man! Come on 20!
Liam: Also, I believe I was first to the pile. I was looking for what weapons there are and I also want to watch her, very closely, with everything she does.
Laura: Does this have to do with dragons? Is it an investigation about dragons?
Matt: Uh, no, this is more to do with the gold--
Laura: What about because I'm in a mountain and it's my favored terrain?
Matt: Your favored terrain, ironically, is not gold, it is mountains. However, when you level up as a ranger, if you choose to, your next favored terrain should be gold. Just as a character choice--
Laura: I'm just checking for-- I wanna be sure I'm rolling what I'm supposed to--
Liam: (singing) Ducktales! Woo-ooo!
Laura: 13 is all that I rolled, though.
Liam: With a swimming speed of 40 in gold.
Matt: It is quite a lot of gold. As you start counting up a section of it, and you being a very, very discerning eye, you're looking upwards of around 78,000 gold pieces.
Laura: Oh, but some of this is Westruun's.
Matt: A lot of this is Westruun's.
Ashley: Is it, though?
Laura: It is, it is, it is. You know what, I'm going to keep it-- I'm keeping it in a separate stock, because I don't want to take money away from Westruun--
Matt: Just so you're aware, that's 1,570 pounds of gold. You can't carry all that.
Ashley: If we separated it?
Laura: Well, we're going to put a marker in it and let Westruun know that this is their gold and then we'll send them up--
Travis: Oh that's fair! Then they can come back up and get it.
Laura: Yeah, they can, 'cause how else are we going to get it to them? I'm just going to take a little bit of it.
Matt: How much you taking?
Sam: 20%.
Travis: 15,000.
Laura: What we put in is still down on the ground.
Marisha: How much did we put in?
Liam: Ten.
Laura: I think we should take 10,000.
Travis: Higher! Higher!
Laura: But it's Westruun's money!
Ashley: We can let the people decide?
Sam: And we have spent a lot of our hard-earned cash saving this for them.
Taliesin: I'm going to need a little bit of that money to fix my gun, too, which is very broken.
Laura: How much do you need, Percy?
Taliesin: I don't know how broken it is.
Sam: Our Heroes' Feasts are 1,000 bucks each--
Marisha: About how much is 500 pounds worth of gold? Maybe that's a better question?
Matt: Well 50 gold pieces is one pound, so that's about 100 pounds. 5,000 you said? 500? 500 would be, you know, ten pounds.
Taliesin: We need some platinum.
Laura: Oh, is there platinum in there? We're so greedy!
Matt: It's mostly gold. Platinum is not too heavily traded, it's usually more-- there aren't a lot of people in the general town and cityscapes of Westruun, these areas of the country, that carry large volumes of platinum. They're more like inter-country large purchases that are made. Most of this has just been gathered from people's homes, from personal stashes and mercantile store houses, so most of it here is gold.
Marisha: How much did you say was the total again?
Matt: About 78,000.
Sam: I feel like we should take 15 to 20.
Marisha: So 20% would be 15,000.
Liam: 15's fair.
Laura: Is it?
Liam: We put in a lot of work. If you wanna do more, you can tell the children of Westruun, personally--
Laura: No, I don't want to put-- I don't want to put more, I want to take less, honestly.
Sam: Why do you hate children, Vex?
Taliesin: They're very dirty, they smell terrible and--
Ashley: Is it a terrible idea to let the people decide? 'Cause maybe they would give us more?
Sam: The people, how? Hold a vote? Do you want this money or do you want us to have it?
Ashley: (sighs) I don't know, because maybe some of it may not all be theirs.
Sam: Could you pray on it and ask what Sarenrae would do?
Ashley: I'm not going to pray over this money!
Taliesin: I think if we ask them, they're just going to argue amongst themselves.
Sam: Like us?
Marisha: Yeah, I agree. We would ask an entire town to come to a decision.
Matt: That's 300 pounds worth of gold. If you were to put that within the Bag of Holding, that's the most you could carry.
Travis: That's all right.
Matt: Your Bag of Holding, I'll say at this point, would be full.
Travis: Maxed out? I could do that, plus I could make myself really big for a little bit, too.
Laura: All right, but that's all we're taking.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: These people are in need. It's very hard to say, but I don't want people being homeless and we're walking around with a bunch of gold that's--
Taliesin: Beyond homeless, they're going to probably have to run, so any money we give them will be money they will use to get out of town. To go somewhere else.
Marisha: Are we sure there's people capable in town to bring back all this money? That we trust?
Sam: Sure, if they had enough people and enough wagons. But, however, if we leave all this gold just sitting here, won't brigands come and rob it and pilfer it?
Laura: Probably. But what are we going to do?
Sam: We can hide it in some stone shit. Can't you make some stone shit, to hide it? Some sort of--
Laura: Oh, yeah, like a wall or something?
Sam: I don't know, like a fake stone wall that they could walk through? I don't know!
Laura: That only lasts for a while.
Marisha: I can Stone Shape like a little. No, Stone Shape's permanent?
Matt: Yeah, it's instant. You just (impact).
Marisha: Okay, Okay. Stone Shape's permanent, so I could Stone Shape a little cubby and put a little symbol over it so we know--
Laura: Okay. But hide it well. I'll hide the hole so that we tell them where it is.
Matt: Okay, so as you begin moving and trudging through the gold, as you start moving it into that pile, you also discover 25 pounds' worth of precious gems, most of them cut, some of which are also rough.
Sam: Do any of them have identifying marks, like wedding rings, or--?
Matt: I mean, there are a number of gems that look like they're part of necklaces or rings, yes.
Laura: I wonder why he's asking.
Matt: There are a number of gem-encrusted rings that would be very, very beautiful wedding rings if they were utilized, yes.
Sam: Any particularly small ones? (laughter)
Matt: There are a number that could fit smaller folked fingers
Sam: I'll take a sapphire.
Matt: Okay, that's about a 400 gold worth sapphire ring.
Liam: "Oh! This one's nice!"
Matt: So note the 25 pounds' worth of gems. You could attempt to ascertain their worth later. You don't have the materials, nor the actual personal knowledge to figure out exactly how much those gems are worth at the moment. You do also find a bunch of art and fine decor, brass and gold statues that were pulled out of homes, some art pieces, silverware--
Sam: Can I do some sort of arcana check on some of the stuff? Have we done that already?
Marisha: We have the Hunk of Quall. I'll go ahead and, here, I hand Scanlan the Hunk of Quall
Liam: Isn't Quall's Hunk just for Quall's stuff? Or is it for everything?
Sam: It just finds magical things, right?
Liam: I thought it was just for his special stuff.
Marisha: It finds things with magical essences.
Travis: Scanlan, she's metaphorically handing you the Quall.
Marisha: Here, do you want the Hunk of Quall? Do you want to hang onto it?
Sam: Sure, I'll Quall it.
Matt: Okay, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh! 20.
Matt: It sparks for a second, then goes dark again. Looking at it, it seems like whatever it was designed to find, it has found and expended most of its temporary enchantment.
Laura: Lame.
Marisha: Boo.
Sam: So it doesn't do anything. So then I'll scan through the stuff, looking for magical dope items--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Are there any pretty paintings that grab our attention?
Matt: There are some very pretty paintings.
Travis: We're not taking any paintings.
Laura: I could roll it up, Grog, it's not your call!
Travis: They're very heavy.
Sam: I got a 14, anyone want to help me look for magical scheisse?
Ashley: I'll help, I'll help you look!
Matt: So the armored gnome, Pike, leaps onto the pile of gold coins and eagerly sifts through with her giant ogre-ish hands. (laughter)
Ashley: I just rolled a one. (laughter)
Ashley: There's nothing magical here, at all!
Sam: Keyleth, you wanna help?
Marisha: Huh?
Sam: Just look for magical shit.
Marisha: I'm covered in-- I mean, I can--
Sam: Grog? Grog, look for magic.
Travis: Uh, I rolled a 16.
Sam: (laughs) That's better than us! (laughter)
Travis: Hold on!
Matt: His large size allows him to push through large swaths of the pile of coins. You do pull through what appears to be a very, very fine ceramic jug that has runes carved along the sides, and it rightfully should have broken under the weight of most of the metal that had been placed upon it or shifted around.
Travis: It's almost all broken anyway.
All: No!
Sam: Do any of us recognise the type of runes--
Liam: That really seems right up your alley, buddy, but I think--
Ashley: Can I try reading the runes?
Matt: You may. Go ahead and make an arcana check. Actually, yeah, this would be arcana.
Ashley: Just, arcana check?
Laura: Come on!
Ashley: 16?
Matt: 16? It's not a specific language, they're all basic magical runes that are used in transmutation magic. You're not too familiar with anything in this realm, but transmutation is the most you can get out of it.
Marisha: Hang on, wait, Grog! Grog, come here.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: I cast Create Water and I fill the jug with water.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It explodes.
Travis: If I die because of this... (laughter)
Travis: (explosion)
Matt: What's interesting is, as you take the jug from him, it's empty but you still hear sloshing, even though it's empty as you hold it before you. You put water into it. It swishes around.
Travis: Can I tip it upside down?
Matt: Yep, you tip it upside down, and the water spills out.
Travis: Anything else?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Can I shake it? Any more swishing?
Matt: You shake it, you still hear the swishing, yeah.
Travis: Can I put my head in the jug?
Matt: You do. (muffled) It blocks it, quite a bit. Your voice is ringing in your ears.
Travis: Can I shake the jug?
Matt: You still hear, around you (sloshing).
Travis: What is this witchcraft? (laughter)
Marisha: Do you hear the ocean, Grog? Do you hear the ocean?
Travis: (echoes) No, no, no, no.
Liam: Bored, Vax starts tossing gold coins off of Grog's junk while it's on there.
Travis: What! What the hell?
Liam: They're very small.
Travis: Oh. Come on, let me break it! It's obviously broken.
All: No!
Ashley: Can I try taking a sip?
Matt: Sure, what are you-- You just take it?
Ashley: Just seeing if I can just drink anything in there.
Matt: You tip it, nothing comes out of it.
Ashley: Aww. I thought something cool was going to happen.
Laura: If you reach your hand in it, can you touch the bottom of it?
Matt: Yeah, you feel the bottom. It's all dry ceramic.
Taliesin: I'm going to take the jug. I'm going to put some of the dragon blood that's drying out in the jug and swirl it around a little bit.
Matt: It swishes around.
Taliesin: And pour it out.
Matt: It pours onto the ground.
Taliesin: It's just blood?
Matt: It's just blood.
Marisha: I scoop up a little bit of dirt and I put the dirt in the jug.
Matt: You have dirt in the jug
Marisha: Dump it out.
Sam: This is a filthy jug.
Matt: You turn it over and dirt falls across the ground before you. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, what the fuck?
Sam: Oh, I put some semen in it.
Laura: Gross!
Taliesin: No!
Sam: I think that's the magic!
Travis: Literally some sailors that are at sea? Yeah.
Taliesin: A baby comes out. Now this is your responsibility.
Matt: You go to the docks of Emon. No. You'll have to take some time with this to discern what it actually does.
Sam: All right, we'll just hang onto it.
Ashley: What if it's just like a Jug of Holding? Like you could just keep putting stuff in it?
Laura: Yeah, but everything's been pouring out but there's still something in the bottom of it.
Taliesin: Let's take it to an expert, we'll find out later.
Liam: There are smarter people than us.
Matt: You also find amongst this chaos a number of glass shards, and you start discerning that there are a number of empty vials that were shattered and broken across the floor in this area and across the coins. A bunch of empty vials.
Laura: Potions all mixing together?
Matt: A lot of things that were seemingly recently used in the recovery of the large entity. However, there is one unbroken vial that you see that contains a cloudy grey oil that swishes around on the inside; some of it tends to seep through the glass, almost, and then evaporate instantaneously on touching the air.
Laura: Ooh! Who wants this creepy looking shit?
Sam: I'll take it! Can I? Have I seen anything like this before?
Matt: You haven't, actually.
Sam: Dammit. Can I sniff it to get any clues?
Matt: You sniff it and it smells metallic, strangely, as you pull the stopper off. It's not liquid, it's more like a thick oil. It's very viscous and slowly swishes in place as you rotate the glass.
Laura: I bet Gilmore would know what that was.
Sam: I'll hang onto this for now. It might be massage oil.
Laura: What?
Sam: You never know.
Matt: You never know. You do also rummage through. You find another unbroken-- the glass itself is cracked a little bit, but it's still intact-- what appears to be a small brown, silver and gray layered liquid. It's like three different layers that are all sediment and separate from each other, based on how it's been laying there.
Laura: Ahh! Should we put this inside another glass container so if it breaks, it's okay?
Taliesin: Honestly, I think just putting it in the biological--
Laura: The Bag of Colding?
Taliesin: --the Bag of Colding. Might be wise.
Laura: All right. Layered gray-brown potion is what I'm writing.
Matt: It's got layers of brown, silver and grey.
Travis: So mostly grey.
Marisha: It's like a birthday cake shot?
Matt: Kind of. And then as you push the last of the coins in this hole that you've made in the side of the wall to hide it out of the way, you do also find at the very bottom of this what looks like an old book of some kind, like a tome, it's about this big with a heavy thick leather binding around it.
Laura: Can we read it?
Sam: No, this could be the spellbook.
Travis: Oh, yeah! Dres Vina's--
Marisha: Dres Vina's spellbook?
Travis: Abjurist Noja's.
Marisha: Abjurist Noja, that's right.
Sam: Abjurist Noja's. Does it look like a spellbook? Have we seen a spellbook before?
Matt: You look through and as you open it up, the words are scrambled and, as you focus for a second, they seem to reassemble them in Common. And as you read through, the first page has a large title across the top that says: "Tome of Leadership and Influence."
Liam: This is special.
Laura: It is! Who should read it? I want to read it right now!
Sam: Well, only some of us can read, no offense.
Travis: Fuck off. Are there any pictures in the book?
Matt: There are no pictures, it is pure text. Your favorite.
Travis: Completely worthless. It's awful cold--
Laura: If Grog looks at it, does it reassemble itself in stick figures?
Matt: It's interesting. You look at the pages, and the lines don't make sense to you but for some reason you understand the gist of what the content is. It goes beyond the barrier of language and, for a second, it's almost like there are pictures, but the pictures are assembled by a bunch of tiny lines in a row and different shapes that show you what it means!
Travis: See, it's a book about leadership, clearly it wants to communicate something to me--
Ashley: Intelligence--
Travis: Intelligence, right, thank you.
Liam: This is like the Grognak comic book in Fallout, is what this is.
Marisha: See, I was going to say How to Win Friends and Influence People.
Sam: As the unofficial leader of the group--
Laura: Yeah? Really Scanlan?
Sam: --I don't really need the book. So perhaps Percy should look at it.
Taliesin: I was thinking perhaps Keyleth might actually--
Laura: That's true! You do have a people to rule. Both of you do.
Taliesin: Yeah, Keyleth, perhaps, might want to take this book. I am not leading anyone.
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. Thank you.
Travis: Keyleth, you wanna trade the book for this stupid vase?
Sam: It's not Secret Santa, we're not trading things. (laughter)
Travis: Fine.
Marisha: I mean, I guess because I happen to be holding the vase at the time, sure. No you can-- you can have it
Travis: I can have the book?!
Marisha: No, you can have the vase.
Ashley: Wait, what's the book? The book is Leadership and what?
Matt: Leadership and Influence. If you guys want to take the evening to kind of look over these items, you could probably discern most of the nature of them.
Sam: Okay, well, let's do that. Let's take a look at them overnight.
Marisha: I'm going to continue eviscerating a dragon.
Matt: You get to the point where you guys, late into the night, have carved away roughly 40 functional pounds of hide before you're exhausted. You're exhausted and there's still plenty of hide to pull off of, but it would take you a week and you can notice the more you go, the scent is changing. It's almost like the acidic contents of the body are beginning to accelerate decomposition. It is actually, essentially, now that the body is no longer living, the acidic bile that it usually utilizes as a weapon is slowly consuming its remains.
Taliesin: I'm perfectly content with 40.
Marisha: Yeah, we can make a decent amount of armor with 40 pounds--
Matt: So whoever wants to carry that, because it's got to be carried, because the Bag of Holding is full.
Travis: I'll take it.
Ashley: I can carry some. I'm strong.
Laura: How much does the biological bag hold?
Matt: The biological bag holds 100 pounds.
Laura: I could put some in there. I don't have very much in here. It's all light.
Matt: Okay, so there you go.
Marisha: Yeah. Cool, cool, cool.
Laura: So 40 pounds? I'll mark that down.
Matt: So 40 pounds of black dragon hide.
Travis: You're carrying around 100 pounds of shit?
Laura: It's magic, it's weightless.
Matt: The Bag of Colding. The bag itself weighs five pounds to her, but can contain 100 pounds. So, as you guys work through the evening, who's looking over which items? Who's looking over the book?
Sam: I'm looking over the book.
Travis: Will you stand up there and get me the vase?
Matt: There is the vase for Grog--
Laura: Was there other things to look at? I'll look at the vial that I have, the layered one.
Travis: Gimme. Gimme!
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and try and get my gun working again--
Liam: They're no good for me, but I think last week you said something about spears or javelins or something?
Matt: There are various basic weapons in there, but nothing that comes across as anything beyond well-crafted weaponry that was gathered.
Liam: There any shortswords in the pile?
Matt: There are a couple. A lot of them have been dinged up and wrecked but there are two regular shortswords that seem to be functional and not damaged too heavily.
Liam: I'm going to scoop them up
Matt: Okay. So two shortswords.
Taliesin: I don't know how I even feel about that.
Matt: So, Percy? The level of broken that Bad News is would require a workshop of some kind. Even just basic blacksmithing tools--
Taliesin: I was going to use the workshop that's in the house.
Matt: Okay, if you guys want to go and rest in the house, then that's doable.
Sam: Yes, I'm doing the house.
Matt: Okay, all of you hop into Scanlan's Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion.
Liam: Yeah! Chicken!
Matt: Get yourself a delightful chicken dinner.
Sam: I know what that spell is, you just pass through walls like a ghost.
Marisha: Through walls and stuff, yeah. So what's that deal?
Sam: This is +2 to charisma, permanently.
Travis: This is fucking brilliant.
Laura: Does anybody need-- Who's shit at climbing?
Sam: Pike?
Ashley: Hey! (laughter)
Ashley: Wait a minute! Am I shit at climbing?
Matt: No, your strength's pretty high. You can rock climb.
Ashley: I'm strong!
Laura: Oh, it's based on strength?
Matt: Climbing is, yeah.
Laura: Oh, we're shit at climbing!
Liam: I'm okay.
Laura: I'm shit.
Liam: Oh, hey, by the way. Take your fucking shoes off and give them back to me.
Laura: Oh what, these fabulous shoes that fit me perfectly?
Liam: Yeah, give them to me or I'll just take them while you're sleeping, easily.
Laura: You think you could do that, like I wouldn't notice you sneaking up?
Liam: So fucking easily.
Laura: I don't believe it!
Liam: Keep your boots, then. See if they're there in the morning.
Laura: All right.
Matt: (laughs) As you all find yourselves to rest within the confines, the comfortable confines, of Scanlan's mansion, Percy, I want you to go ahead and make a tinkering check.
Taliesin: That's tinkering is plus four, plus proficiency bonus, plus a d20, if I recall?
Matt: It's proficiency bonus, plus your dex for the purposes of fixing this.
Taliesin: Okay, that's even better. That'll do. 20.
Matt: 20, okay. It takes you most of the evening. You'll rest up but we'll say for the purposes of this you've only regained two hit dice for the evening's rest, of your spent hit dice.
Taliesin: Okay. So I'm just down two hit dice?
Matt: Yeah. Any that you've used, if you used any, you don't recover any but two. Normally you'd recover half of your unused hit dice right now. The gun is fixed, the materials that you were required to use will cost you half as much as the actual weapon is worth.
Taliesin: Lord almighty.
Matt: Which, let me look at my list here for that-- It's going to come to roughly 400 gold in materials to repair.
Taliesin: I thought it was a more expensive gun than that, I feel a little better. Oh, that's right, it's the cheap gun of the two.
Laura: What about the Bad News? You broke that one too, didn't you?
Taliesin: That was Bad News. The other gun was working. I broke it but it was just jammed. Bad News was like (creaking).
Matt: All right, so the evening's rest goes relatively uneventful.
Sam: I've commanded ten of my invisible guards to protect Vex's feet. (laughter)
Matt: Okay! Vax?
Liam: So in the middle of the night, I'd like to swing by the kitchen--
Laura: I'm sleeping with them tucked up under me. I'm going to sleep like, you know how little kids sleep with their butts in the air and their feet are tucked under them? That's how I'm-- yeah.
Matt: (laughs) Okay!
Liam: Okay. I go by the kitchen and I get a mug of water and some spices. Just some various, simple stuff-- I'd like to sneak into my sister's room. I'd like to check the door for traps.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check!
Liam: It's not very high. Oh, no, yes it is. It's a 20.
Matt: All right, it does not appear to be trapped, however it is locked.
Liam: Okay, I'd like to pick that lock.
Laura: Do I notice this happening?
Liam: 30. You're sleeping.
Laura: Yeah, but I have a really good passive perception, bitch!
Liam: All right, 30 on the trap.
Matt: Right, on the lock you mean--
Liam: On the lock, yeah-- I'd like to sneak in.
Matt: Ever so quiet, you make it into the room. Pull the door close to closed, but not entirely. You look up in what little bit of low firelight is coming from a distant fireplace in the far corner that's down to very, very simple embers, you see drifting in a semi-circle around the bed, ten spiritual servants, all arms crossed, just staring right at you--
Liam: Protecting her feet, right? That was the command.
Sam: Protect her feet. That was the command.
Liam: I walk in. They're not on her feet. I want nothing to do with her feet, guys, I just want those shoes that she's hugging.
Laura: No, I have the shoes on my feet--
Liam: You said you were hugging them up here like this.
Laura: No, no, no. I said I'm sleeping with my feet tucked up under me.
Liam: Like how? Like Cirque du Soleil?
Laura: Like child's pose, Like child's pose! Yoga, bitch! You know what I'm talking about--
Liam: With your feet here?
Laura: No! Like this.
Liam: That's what you said!
Laura: Here I'll show you. Sorry, guys, you don't get to see-- But it's like this, Liam--
Sam: Oh, that's so vulgar!
Laura: No, it's not! (laughter)
Liam: Okay, guys, this is a little bit of family trouble, just give me a minute. And I leap on top of her, I take the cup of water and I splash it in her face and I throw flour on her face like that!
Laura: What?! What the fuck?!
Liam: Give me my boots! Give me my boots! You give me my damn boots! (laughter)
Matt: You are immediately pulled off of the bed, slammed onto the ground on the floor--
Liam: I don't get to roll?!
Matt: --as all the spirits hold you down. No.
Liam: No dexterity, no nothing?!
Matt: No, because the moment that you go ahead and splash the water and go towards her, they're on top of you, this isn't about dodging--
Liam: I left her feet alone!
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. What's happening? Don't attack him! Don't attack him!
Matt: Right. It was less of you trying to avoid and more to see if they could grab you.
Liam: Yeah, okay. (laughter)
Matt: So you're vaulted off and slammed onto the ground and they're just holding you there. Not attacking you, they're just holding you--
Liam: Give me my boots, you greedy shitbird.
Laura: What? You think I was really going to keep them?
Liam: I want them now. I don't trust you as far as I can throw you. I want you to-- just keep holding me up, guys. I want you to put them on my feet now.
Laura: But they look so good on me. And your feet are so smelly! Are you-- are you mad?
Liam: I gave up my life for you. I will have my shoes. Please.
Laura: All right.
Matt: One of the servants begins slowly going towards your foot and (sniffs). (laughter)
Laura: They're smelly, they're really smelly. See?
Liam: We should cap 'em, right boys?
Laura: What if--?
Sam: You think any of my servants are boys? (laughter)
Liam: I assume they have both sets of parts, actually--
Sam: That's true, that's true. (laughter)
Laura: I suppose I could part with them.
Liam: Waiting.
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. Ahh! I'm not putting them on your feet.
Liam: Sure you are.
Laura: No, I am not! But before I do, I want payment, for these boots. What's going on with you and Keyleth? (laughter)
Laura: Right here. I'll give you these boots if you tell me.
Liam: I could rescind my deal with an all-powerful deity and let you fall to the ground or you could hear about my personals. What's your choice?
Laura: What?
Liam: Give me my fucking boots!
Laura: You love her? You love her so much. Take one, right here. You could put it on, cover up at least one foul stench in the room.
Liam: No, I can't because they're holding me around the arms--
Matt: Two of the servants take the boot from her and start putting it on your feet. Kind of polish it a little bit.
Laura: Does she feel the same way about you?
Liam: Ask her.
Laura: (gasps) Maybe I will. Fine. Here's your other boot. Servants--
Matt: They take it and they hold you down even still forcefully, grab your other leg and gingerly put the other boot on. Polish it--
Laura: Now go to sleep, we fought a dragon yesterday.
Liam: (laughs) I love you, but you are a terrible person. And I walk out the door.
Matt: (laughs) And you walk away.
Laura: (coughs) I spend 15 minutes getting all the flour off of my bed.
Marisha: I go to Scanlan. Scanlan?
Sam: Oi?
Marisha: Did I hear you had a hot spring, or something like that? Or like a spa here? I feel like you'd have a spa-- Because I am covered in dragon bile.
Sam: Ooh, yes. Well--
Marisha: Not. no, no.
Sam: No?
Marisha: Just, can you point me in the direction of the spa?
Sam: Oh, I'm not coming with you. Don't worry, darling. Yes, it's downstairs in the third basement-- I don't know! (laughter)
Marisha: Thank you!
Matt: You hear a (stone shifting) shift as a third basement is created in the bottom of the mansion--
Sam: Right next to the boiler room!
Matt: Another shake as a boiler room has now apparated right next--
Marisha: Is it a very fantastic bathhouse?
Matt: It's not bad, actually. It's a fine natural hot spring, a comfortable hot tub temperature.
Sam: It's got Russian temperature, Swedish temperature, Finnish temperature--
Marisha: I go over the comms and I say  hey, Vex, Pike, I think I just found the new hangout spot for the ladies--
Ashley: Where are you?
Marisha: I'm in the third basement, come down!
Taliesin: There's a third basement?
Travis: What's in the third basement?
Sam: Yeah, we can all hear you--
Taliesin: Yeah we can all hear you. You can't just pick people, you are aware of that?
Marisha: Oh, I mean. Shit! Uh. This is not Keyleth, this is another transmission you're picking up, it's-- I'll change the channel
Travis: (shouting) Party down in the third basement!
Laura: All right, let's go down.
Travis: We're all going down.
Matt: So, ladies, you all convene in this beautiful hot, air filled with steam. There's a fountain in the corner with some rocks and some nice plants around the area. There's a beautiful giant portrait of Scanlan, nude, sprawled over a rock-- (laughter)
Matt: With a towel just gently placed on his knee. (laughter)
Sam: Not covering anything.
Matt: No, no. It's decorative. As soon as you all sink in this moment, the door opens behind you as Percy and Grog come storming in.
Travis: Shit yeah! CANNONBALL!
Laura: Well, this was peaceful--
Travis: Heh! Look at Scanlan's wiener in that picture. (laughs)
Ashley: I'm going to cannonball in too.
Matt: Pike jumps in--
Taliesin: I'm taking off my glasses and going to go soak in a corner quietly.
Laura: I go find Keyleth.
Matt: All right, so you guys have made your way comfortable into the hot spring. Vex saunters over to you with a look of intention on her face.
Marisha: You look so intent.
Laura: Yes. Do you like the hot springs?
Marisha: I love the hot springs, aren't they fantastic?
Laura: I do too. I sit down next to her. So my brother.
Marisha: (coughs)
Laura: What's going on with you guys? Because I just asked him and he got really awkward. I mean, is it for real? Is it definitely happening? Are you guys "in love?" Getting married? Having babies? Little druid babies?
Marisha: Oh wow, you just said a lot of things in a very short space of time. You know, we just killed a dragon.
Laura: We did.
Marisha: We just killed a dragon.
Laura: I know, I feel so alive!
Marisha: Okay. So that's about as far as I got. I wasn't sure if I was going to, you know, live past that. I wasn't sure if he was going to live past that. I wasn't sure if you were going to live past that. Really, any of us--
Laura: But we did.
Marisha: Yeah we did, we did. Now there's three more. And I have a lot that I still have to do and still have to figure out about myself.
Laura: So do you like him? Do you love him? That's an answer, you can just answer it, it's not a big deal, you just say yes or no--
Marisha: (sighs) I'm afraid what will happen if I say yes.
Laura: Okay, that's not what I asked, though. Don't think about the fear. Think about what you're feeling.
Marisha: Maybe.
Laura: (whispering) I think that's a yes.
Marisha: Will you hate me if I do?
Laura: No.
Marisha: You sure? Because I kind of thought you might for a very long time.
Laura: You know. I thought I might as well, but here's the thing. We've been through a lot. We face death on a very regular basis. (sighs) And I see the way he looks at you, and I see the way you look at him. And happiness is fleeting in this world; we don't know when it will end. Take advantage of it while you can. And stop living in fear.
Marisha: Maybe we're not people who are allowed happiness.
Laura: That's bullshit, Keyleth.
Marisha: And what happens if I lose either of you?
Laura: Well, you go on. You can't think about that!
Marisha: You've been to the other side. What did you see? Anything? Is there an afterlife?
Laura: Well, I wasn't there for very long, but I think there can be. My brother serves Death, Keyleth!
Marisha: And death is a natural thing that happens with or without him.
Laura: This is true!
Marisha: Do you believe in the gods? Do you believe that Vax actually serves Death?
Laura: Yes. Yes I do.
Marisha: What do you think that means for the rest of us?
Laura: I think it means that-- I think it means that what we do has a purpose. Regardless of the outcome, there is a purpose.
Marisha: You don't think we're just destroying everything, everywhere we go?
Laura: No! Are you kidding? We saved an entire town today! More dragons may come, but for the time being, people are safe, and we are safe. If we are successful, we could save this entire fucking world.
Marisha: (laughs) I don't know if I'm cut out to be a hero.
Laura: You already are.
Marisha: (groans) I don't know about that.
Laura: Anyway. Be happy. Go to him. Just live in the moment, don't worry about it right now.
Marisha: Maybe there's another time and another place where we don't have to. But now I feel like we do.
Laura: We're in a mansion right now. Fucking cannonball! And I get up and I cannonball.
Matt: Big splash. Hot water across your face--
Travis: Four and a half!
Laura: All right. I need a higher-- I need a broom!
Matt: Servants come by and fill your goblets that they brought you, with wine, because, drinking in hot tubs, what could possibly go wrong?
Liam: Did you just cannonball away?
Laura: I did.
Liam: We all do it, we all do it.
Ashley: Should we have a cannonball contest?
Marisha: I cast Breathing Underwater on myself and I just sink to the bottom of the pool and I just stay there for a really long time at the bottom of the pool.
Matt: Do you have Water Breathing prepared? Or was this your Alter Self gills?
Marisha: Alter Self! Yeah, totally! Gills. I can do that.
Matt: So the sides of Keyleth's throat just sprout gills suddenly and naturally and she sinks underneath
Travis: (shouting) Keyleth! No! No! And I run over and pick her up off the bottom, which is essentially suffocating her, right?
Matt: Grog pulls you out of the water and shakes you abruptly
Marisha: Wha--! Ow!
Travis: Gills, sorry. And I shove her back in the water. (laughter)
Matt: Back under.
Marisha: And I just let myself sink again (laughter)
Liam: On a side note, I have an earring as well and I heard everyone go down into the hot springs so I went back to the kitchen and got some of that chicken sorbet that they make here.
Matt: It's delicious.
Liam: And I went back to my sister's room and I pulled the blanket down and I just smeared it all along the inside of the bed. And then I bring up the blanket and tuck it in nice. It looks perfect.
Matt: The ten servants watch the whole thing and just nod, well done.
Laura: That's disgusting!
Sam: They had their orders.
Taliesin: You are the worst of us.
Liam: Goodnight boy-girls.
Sam: (husky voice) Goodnight.
Travis: Wait, is Percy in the water?
Matt: Yeah, Percy's in the water with you guys.
Ashley: You got in? No, he went into the corner?
Travis: Did you do a cannonball?
Taliesin: No, I do not cannonball.
Laura: Cannonball, Percy!
Taliesin: I do not cannonball!
Travis: Percy!
Taliesin: I can't wear my glasses, I'm going to hit something and I'm just going to bleed everywhere
Ashley: A cannonball contest?
Sam: You want to do a cannonball contest?
Ashley: Let's do a cannonball contest.
Taliesin: Fine. If there's a dare involved, that's completely different.
Ashley: How much money should we put on it?
Sam: 15,000 gold. (laughter)
Laura: How about five pounds of gems?
Sam: Sure. Do we all have that?
Laura: No, but I have it and I'll put it in the middle.
Sam: All right. Five pounds of gems.
Matt: Five pounds of gems.
Sam: I haven't been here, but I wander in eating some chicken with no pants. (laughter)
Matt: You just got Donald Ducked, guys!
Laura: Scanlan! Oh Scanlan! Your painting! Your painting is not accurate, Scanlan!
Sam: Oh. No, of course not. It's artistic licence. Come on. (laughter)
Taliesin: Did they run out of paint, is that what happened?
Sam: All right, the rules  Everyone gets one jump to be officiated by--? Who? Sarenrae?
Laura: Somebody has to-- by your servants.
Sam: They'll vote for me. (laughter)
Marisha: Wait! What are we doing? We're doing a cannonball contest?
Marisha: Oh, I'll join this. I swim back up to the top to join.
Sam: Can you officiate? Are you going to join or are you in too much of a funk to?
Ashley: Grog can officiate. Be fair.
Travis: I will!
Ashley: But vote for me.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Who's up first?
Matt: Who's going first?
Sam: Alphabetical order.
Ashley: Keyleth!
Marisha: Oh sure.
Matt: So, Keyleth. You go ahead and swim up, take some time back, rush forward, leap. Make an--
Marisha: We've had a short rest, right?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay. Acrobatics check?
Matt: No, this is an athletics check. This is a jump, leap and--
Marisha: Not bad. 19.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Matt: She jumps into the air, seemingly weightless--
Marisha: And in midair, I use my bonus action to turn into an earth elemental!
Matt: Turns into an almost literal cannonball, displaces enough water to the point where the actual water level in the hot spring, now, is about two inches lower than it was before--
Taliesin: I'm going upstairs to get a bottle of raw sodium. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's on, motherfucker!
Marisha: I come out. Yeah!
Ashley: That was good, that was good, that was good!
Taliesin: Actually, I send a servant. I tell them what it is.
Marisha: Can we refill the pool after each use? Is it magical enough to where we can refill the pool?
Sam: Sure, there's a trickle--
Ashley: Hey, it's my turn! Do a little stretching.
Matt: Do you have your gauntlets on or not?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So you're just like--
Ashley: Naked with gauntlets.
Matt: You're not wearing anything?
Ashley: Nope!
Sam: But you can't see her naughty bits because they glow with heavenly light.
Liam: Here come the artists!
Travis: The sound of 10,000 pens hitting paper.
Matt: So this strong, stout, powerful gnomish female form steps out of the water with these large gauntlets with an ogre face across the back. Looms up, gets a good distance, turns around, focuses, leaps. Make an athletics check.
Travis: Squash that! Ooh, snip diggity!
Laura: Oh shit!
Ashley: 23?
Matt: Amazing as your earth elemental form was, it displaced about the size an earth elemental would. Pike's much smaller form managed to displace about as much as an earth elemental would. Water goes flying out, spraying you guys. The water itself takes a while to actually calm down again--
Travis: I actually slip and fall backwards like-- (laughter)
Travis: Whoa!
Ashley: Whoa, that was a big one! (laughter)
Matt: Who's up next?
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not done, I'm still working on something.
Ashley: Oh, wait, you should have gone before me. I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I'm working on something, you go next. I've got a pot and some cloth, and a whole thing--
Laura: Oh, I'm the only one that's left?
Sam: No, I'm here too! L, M, N, P, Q, R, S. That's me! Oh boy.
Ashley: Sorry I jumped you, Percy-- He was gone, that's why.
Sam: I'm going to take a flying leap and jump in while cannonballing.
Matt: All right, athletics check.
Sam: Sploosh. That's an 11. (laughter)
Sam: And when I hit the water I set off a level two Thunderwave. (laughter)
Matt: So Scanlan doesn't sprint but gingerly jogs up to the side of the pool, leaps in the air. It sends waves out from each side and drenches all of you waiting on the side again-- (laughter)
Matt: As the water comes rushing back, slapping into you, Scanlan, after the fact but, nevertheless, a very impressive display.
Sam: Why, thank you. Take a bow, take a bow.
Ashley: Good job, good job.
Sam: Thank you, thank you. Percy, are you back yet?
Taliesin: I'm ready.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I've got a kettle-- (laughter)
Taliesin: And what is essentially a giant cheesecloth teabag of raw sodium in an oil holding base. You are aware of what will happen when I hit the water?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Okay, cool. I grab the kettle. I put it to my chest. I take a run, and I leap into--
Marisha: Isn't this is detrimental to your health?!
Taliesin: Yes, this is a terrible idea. Do not do this. Do not do this. You will die. And I take a run and jump head into the--
Marisha: (shouting) Percy, no!
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Taliesin: Not acrobatics? Athletics. 23
Matt: 23, okay. So, as you land and hit the water, there's a momentary pause, a little (sploosh, explosion sound). A secondary explosion that sounds dulled and covered until it hits the air in a loud cacophonous (explosion sound). Water and smoke and pieces of metal go flying as the kettle is destroyed. You, Percy, suffer--
Taliesin: Should have mostly directed down but I'm aware that some--
Matt: Yeah. 23 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage from shrapnel and pieces of metal that have just scattered across your chest but nevertheless, a very impressive display.
Liam: For science!
Ashley: Total Party Kill cannonball!
Travis: I look down and pull out a small piece of the kettle out of my pectoral and toss it away. That was very impressive, all of you. I'm very impressed. It seems that--
Sam: The twins!
Matt: The twins haven't gone.
Travis: Oh, oh! I'm so sorry.
Laura: It's all right, Grog.
Travis: No, no. Get it. Go do it.
Laura: All right. I take my broom.
Liam: Here comes the bellyflop--
Laura: I know, right? I fly 20 feet up. As high as the ceiling. How high is the ceiling?
Sam: Not that high.
Laura: I get to the top of the ceiling.
Matt: Okay, it's about 15, 20 feet up from the water's surface.
Laura: All right. I stand up on the broom.
Matt: Ceiling's right above you. You're having to hunch forward a little bit.
Laura: And right as I cannonball off of the broom, I release Trinket out of the necklace too so (shouting) double cannonball!
Matt: As you leap off, make an athletics check.
Laura: 13!
Matt: Make an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Oh, man. I thought that was going to be good. Me and Trinket kind of suck. What is that, strength?
Matt: Strength, yes.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16. As you hit the water, there's a (double splooshing sound) as a bear is suddenly placed magically into the water beneath you at the same velocity, causing the water itself to splash outward, in a large column, a spray that gently comes down around the sides of the initial splash. Impressive, a very impressive display.
Sam: Impressive. And she didn't really use magic, so that's good. Bonus points there.
Matt: Trinket eventually comes out of the water. (growl, shaking coat sound) Shakes off.
Liam: Is the judging of this up to artistic interpretation, like ice skating?
Sam: That's up to Grog!
Travis: Well done, all around. Really, I'm really quite impressed. However, there was only one--
Ashley: Hang on. He still has to go.
Laura: No, he's not in the room.
Ashley: He's not in the room.
Travis: Yeah, wait. Is Vax going to do it? Is he coming down?
Laura: Is he stealthing right now and he's actually in the room?
Sam: I don't think so.
Liam: (snoring)
Travis: No, there was only one that managed to draw blood with their display. Therefore, Percy is the winner. (applause)
Sam: Well met, well met. Five pounds of gems?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: He needs it!
Matt: He takes it and smiles as the blood slowly runs from one nostril-- (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man!
Taliesin: Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to sleep off this spa. (laughter)
Liam: Those gems are going to turn into lead, aren't they?
Taliesin: Got plans for one of them--
Matt: He takes the gems in one hand, takes the towel, wraps it around as he steps out of the water with the other and makes his way outside of the spa.
Taliesin: Leaving a little trail of blood all the way down the corridor. (laughter)
Sam: Good game, good game.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Well, I'm going to bed.
Laura: All right, all right.
Matt: All right. You guys go, find your way to your respective rooms, rest for the remainder of the evening. Wake up to the smell of wonderfully cooked chicken wafting through the hallways of the mansion. The only person that has a unique evening's sleeping is Vex, who slides into her comfortable, silk sheet bed to a (sucking sound) to find some sort of now chilled but loosely room-temperature chicken paste--
Laura: That is just disgusting.
Taliesin: Don't you mean, that's fowl? (groaning)
Travis: Oh! Fowl!
Laura: I don't even care. Trinket loves it.
Matt: And Trinket is all over that. Trinket is now just lapping it up from the inside of the bed--
Laura: Yeah. I just go to sleep and I'll take a shower in the morning.
Matt: Okay. All right. You all wake up. Breakfast is at your disposal. You begin to eat comfortably, you wash up, Vex--
Laura: A lot.
Matt: Is there anything else you wish to achieve here or shall we continue with the rest of your journey?
Sam: Well, we just have a few things to divvy up. I've learned about the book that we found from the dragon. It is filled with knowledge that can increase someone's abilities.
Laura: What abilities?
Sam: The abilities that I happen to be very good at would be even better.
Laura: Hmm.
Marisha: I don't want any part of that.
Sam: It's not my sex abilities.
Marisha: Oh, oh. Okay.
Sam: Actually, technically yes. Technically, yes. My sex ability--
Laura: What abilities? (laughs)
Sam: Charismatic abilities.
Laura: Oh?
Ashley: Oh, it just gives you, you have all the charisma?
Sam: Permanently better charisma.
Laura: Well, Keyleth, as you make that awkward-ass face, maybe you should improve your charisma.
Liam: You smell like chicken.
Laura: Yeah, somebody put chicken paste in my bed. I don't know who it could be.
Liam: Yeah, we've got to get out of this mansion.
Laura: Yeah. Weird.
Travis: Well, I also went to my room and I was like "Man, what I could really--" and I was holding the jug, at the time, and I was like, "I'm just going to break it, nobody'll know--"
Sam: Oh shit!
Travis: It'll be great. And I was like, "I could really go for some beer right now," and all of a sudden, the jug was full of shitloads of beer.
Laura: What?!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Is it a never-ending beer jug?
Travis: Oh no, it's not never-ending. It stopped after a bit. But I got plenty fucking wasted.
Laura: Is it just beer?
Sam: Is it just beer? Or is it any spirit? Or what?
Travis: No, I said "mayonnaise" and it started to make mayonnaise and then it stopped so I think there's a finite amount of stuff it can make in a day. (disconcerted oohs)
Laura: Do you have a jug of mayonnaise now?
Travis: No, I ate that too. (laughter)
Matt: In the wee hours of the morning--
Taliesin: There's chicken!
Liam: That was one of the best exchanges of our entire run!
Ashley: Oh my God.
Taliesin: Wow!
Matt: So--
Laura: Gross!
Ashley: I can't stop laughing.
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Matt: So, what else? (laughter)
Sam: Okay, now you're going to get a bunch of mayonnaise shipped to our PO box. (laughter)
Laura: No mayonnaise!
Liam: Beer. Send beer, is fine.
Marisha: Oh, that one brought tears.
Ashley: Please somebody draw him just sad in his room eating mayonnaise--
Matt: Scooping mayonnaise out of a jar.
Taliesin: A Grecian urn of mayonnaise.
Ashley: Oh, my tears.
Matt: Saddest Winnie the Pooh ever--
Sam: I also found out that that one of the vials is a potion vial. It can temporarily give the drinker a spell of Etherealness. Which is like you temporarily turn into Casper the Friendly Ghost. You can pass through walls.
Laura: Oh cool!
Sam: Anyone who drinks it.
Marisha: Vax?
Laura: Oh, that would be good for you.
Matt: Well, less drinking. More like applying.
Sam: Oh, it's rubbing?
Matt: Yeah, it's an oil.
Laura: Oh, don't drink it.
Matt: I would not recommend drinking it.
Sam: I can rub it on your back for you.
Marisha: Yeah, you have to rub it on you.
Liam: I'm all right with that. (laughter)
Taliesin: You'd need to use a stepping stool to do it, but you could.
Laura: The other one was a Potion of Climbing, which we decided--
Marisha: Does Pike want it? Oh, you?
Sam: No, it's Vex.
Laura: I suck at it, but anybody else can have it.
Travis: Don't you have a broom? You ain't going to be climbing much.
Laura: That's true! I don't need it. I have a broom!
Taliesin: Actually, I might take it. High ground is occasionally very useful for me.
Laura: I've got a broom that flies.
Taliesin: And I'm not that strong.
Marisha: What was the name of that tome again, Scanlan?
Sam: Tome of Leadership and Influence. I'm torn, Keyleth. You have some charisma issues, shall we say?
Marisha: Uh-huh. No, keep telling me about myself, Scanlan, today.
Sam: Well, I'm just saying that I am quite self-confident, sure of myself. Some would say charming.
Laura: Some. Not most.
Sam: And this book would make me unstoppably so--
Marisha: Sure.
Sam: So, I don't know, we could roshambo for it? What does the group think?
Liam: I think Keyleth should read it. She's trying to lead her people.
Travis: Yeah. Roshambo for it.
Marisha: I don't want to-- what? I don't like wanting things. I don't care, you--
Laura: Who has-- This is-- who has charisma-based spells?
Sam: Me?
Matt: You.
Liam: That's a big fat pause, is what that is.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Why don't we think on it?
Marisha: All right, we'll think on it.
Taliesin: To be fair, it takes days.
Sam: It takes six days of reading to take effect.
Laura: Oh shit. So if you read for two days and then pass it off to someone else, does it just restart?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: It's once a century it works.
Travis: Oh shit! Once a century?
Taliesin: I have a similar book, that I used--
Laura: What did you use it on?
Sam: Yeah, you live for many centuries, Keyleth. You can have it nexties! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's actually a very fair point.
Travis: That's kind of perfect.
Taliesin: I was about to say, would you like a Manual of Quickness? Here, for you-- (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, for the next century?
Taliesin: So 99 years from now--
Marisha: Sure, I'll hold onto it for that long.
Travis: When we're all cold and dead!
Taliesin: I was holding onto it in the hopes of finding somebody long-lived to sell it to.
Sam: Speaking of old, are some of us older than we used to be?
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Are we still old? It would have worn off, right?
Matt: I would say, for the purposes of the travel, because you guys had a few days' travel from the actual Sphinx's lair, towards Westruun when you were travellng back, you had the opportunity to use Greater Restoration to get rid of it.
Marisha: Between Pike and I--
Matt: Yeah, in that time.
Sam: What if we don't want to be any younger?
Matt: Then you could have said no and kept it as you go. If you wanted to take in your nice salt and pepper--
Laura: How old are you now, Scanlan, if you keep it?
Sam: I don't know.
Ashley: That salt and pepper hair?
Sam: A girl never tells her age.
Matt: Would you want to maintain your little creeping Reed Richards going on at the sides there?
Sam: No, I'll get young again.
Matt: Slightly.
Sam: Slightly.
Marisha: He said, begrudgingly.
Matt: I know.
Liam: Set that dial back to 39.
Matt: All right then. Anything else?
Marisha: What were you going to say, Percy?
Taliesin: I was thinking, perhaps, you're not necessarily the person to magically augment your path.
Marisha: That's kind of my hesitance about it, I guess.
Taliesin: I had meditated upon the idea for a minute.
Marisha: I'm honestly kind of afraid of what kind of leadership things and influence it could possibly tell me. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Sam: I do!
Marisha: You can read it, Scanlan.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Taliesin: At the very least, it'll keep him busy for four or five days.
Marisha: That's true.
Ashley: That's true. That's true.
Taliesin: Because you have to read for 48 hours--
Laura: What if he gets even more charismatic and then he proposes again? And he charms you more?
Ashley: Well, if he's so charming, I just wouldn't be able to help it.
Laura: It's possible.
Marisha: I know, that's my-- actually, my only other regret is do we want to turn Scanlan into a charm nuclear weapon? Because that's what we'll be doing.
Laura: I kind of do want to do that. He is super good at talking to people.
Marisha: He is.
Taliesin: And I think there's enough of us that we could all keep each other in check, from--
Liam: Between Grog and Scanlan, we can solve any problem, I think, so beef him up, so to speak.
Marisha: Tell me what kind of leadership things-- who wrote that, Scanlan?
Sam: Lao Tsu.
Marisha: Tell me what kind of leadership skills Lao Tsu wants to bestow upon you. If there's any good ones, pass them along.
Sam: All right, I'll give you some tips.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: (laughs) All right. You guys finish your breakfast, make your way outside of the mansion, back into the dragon's den. Is there anything else you wish to do before you leave? As you can only take the amount of gold that you retrieved, and the items you could farm, the rest will have to be left behind, hopefully to be retrieved at some point down the line by either the remnants of Westruun or yourselves.
Liam: I'll just say that I've attuned to all my old shit while everyone was swimming.
Matt: Okay. Cool.
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I carved a pretty little heart on the side of one of the boots just to make it extra girly.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I would just think that meant you love me.
Laura: Maybe I do.
Liam: Uh, that is a 39.
Laura: (laughs) What?!
Liam: 17 plus perception is-- did I get it wrong? Am I too tired? I've had a long day, people. Let's say 29.
Matt: Did you take perception as one of your--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, then yeah. Okay. You take the boots and you put them on and immediately, there's a heart there. And you're like (pained) hmm. That probably means she loves me.
Liam: No, I like it. It's fine!
Matt: Yeah. At first you're like, sh-- oh no, it's cool.
Liam: I don't know what you're thinking. It's beautiful.
Matt: All right, you guys are back in the dragon's lair. Is there anything else you wish to do?
Taliesin: We're going to make sure we walk around the trap that is still active in the front--
Travis: Right.
Matt: Make your way back through the tunnel that you had carved before--
Liam: Have to avoid that old magic.
Travis: Is there any lasting damage from the acid burns?
Matt: Thankfully, through magic healing and other means there was no scarring. The tattoos and beard that were partially destroyed--
Travis: I was going to ask  beard?
Matt: Yeah, the beard's a little bit reduced from the sheer volume of acid that was thrown at your face but since healing magic was applied shortly thereafter, the little bit of the beard that began to singe, it stopped that process. So you still have some facial hair, just may have to grow back to its full majesty--
Travis: I may need a haircut in a day or two.
Taliesin: Ooh. Can you Stone Shape something for me? I would like to have Keyleth Stone Shape and use one dragon scale, if you would be so kind. Or, actually, one tooth if that would be all right.
Marisha: Sure. Tooth me.
Taliesin: I would like to leave the "VM" seal on the side of the cavern.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: And just written in-- what would a dragon understand?
Matt: Draconic.
Taliesin: Draconic?
Liam: We have somebody who can do that--
Taliesin: "One down" and let's embed the tooth into the rock.
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: Yes! I like it.
Taliesin: We might as well.
Laura: I like it. I like it.
Marisha: So I do the Vox Machina crest.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And then "one down." Who speaks Draconic?
Matt: All right, so you get with her. You scribble onto the ground what that phrase would look like. You go ahead and copy that and you embed it permanently and immediately into the side of the stone.
Liam: And I said, bitch!
Matt: All righty. You guys make your way down Gatshadow, through the Bramblewood Forest to Westruun itself. As you hit the base of the mountain, start getting towards the edge of the forest, you see a pillar of smoke rising up from that direction--
Marisha: From Westruun?
Matt: A relatively thick pillar of smoke, a few actually.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: Wait. What?
Sam: Uh-oh. They've already attacked.
Travis: No, we go fast. We go.
Matt: All right. You guys rush through the remainder of the Bramblewood, come out into the field and are met by what looks like a series of fires that are out in the open field, north of Westruun, not within the actual city. You see these are pyres. The dead of the Umbrasyl battle have been set aflame, being given off the proper heroes' sending. It is a standard after-battle remembrance of those who fell for the herd. You see standing amongst them the twelve surviving members of the battle, many of them pretty badly scarred from the encounter but alive, nonetheless. Bandaged and kind of taking a moment of silence. You do see of that group, as well, Zanror and Worra are there. They haven't noticed you yet. And standing behind them all, one large aimless stone golem with a big chain hanging out of its chest, just standing there.
Marisha: Fassbender!
Sam: Who controls him?
Liam: No one at the moment.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh, you took it off?
Liam: I took it off.
Marisha: But you have the circlet still.
Liam: Of course I have the circlet, yeah, but--
Taliesin: I'll take it if no one else does.
Liam: Sure.
Travis: Can I find my way to Zanror? Is his-- is she his wife? His woman--
Matt: His mate, Worra. Yeah, they're both next to each other and as you get closer you notice most of them have gathered their belongings. They have travel packs. They have taken sacks and whatever they could to bring whatever belonged to them and it looks like they are getting ready to move. You see Shale a bit behind them, as well, who has also taken some small supplies with her one good arm and putting it over her shoulder and tying it to her armor before she grabs her staff again. So you walk over to Zanror and Worra. Zanror looks over to you as you approach, his arm still around Worra's shoulder. "It's good to see you survived, Grog."
Travis: Yeah. Did more than that, actually. Found our way up to the cave where Umbrasyl was. Left him in pieces.
Matt: "As Shale told us. 'The Bearded King,' she said."
Travis: (laughs) A word of advice. If, as you're finding your way out of town, you were to stop by a certain cave, there might be some things for you to pick up.
Laura: Gro--
Liam: I take my sister, put my hand over her mouth, and I drag her back about 30 feet.
Matt: He gives you a look, and looks to Worra, looks to her belly--
Laura: (whispers) That's for the people of Westruun!
Matt: --and goes, "Appreciate that. We'll take what we can."
Travis: Your little one. You take care of him. Her. It.
Matt: "I will."
Travis: All right.
Matt: "Do you want to come with us? We know we cast you out once, but we're not like that anymore. The herd's dead. We go to find prosperity with the Rivermaw. A people we wronged and we're probably going to spend some time making it up to them, for my father's infractions. You're one of us now, and we'd be honored to have you."
Travis: I'm honored. Truly I am. But I lost a family, all those years ago. And while I will always think fondly of you, I have a new family now, and I must stay and guard them with my life.
Matt: "I understand. Well. I'm not very good at these parting pleasantries." He puts his arm out.
Matt: (crashing sound)
Travis: (crashing sound)
Sam: Stereo.
Travis: Come on, it blew your hair back when it happened.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit, little bit.
Travis: Magnavox, like (squeal sound)!
Matt: "You be safe. You find your way, head north of the Silvercut. You're always welcome in our tents."
Travis: I'll keep that in mind. Travel safely.
Matt: He goes ahead and takes up his bags. Shale takes up her staff, comes up to you, and: "We'll see each other again, Grog. Of this I'm sure."
Travis: Yeah. Hm, totally sure, heh. You look out for that other eye now. Don't lose the other, because then you'll just be like (scared noise) in the dark.
Matt: As you're doing that she smacks you on the nose with the staff. "I'll be fine." And she walks away with a smile on her weathered, crooked face. Zanror yells out, "Come! We move west." Everyone turns their heads and gather their things and they walk by. As all the soldiers walk by, those wounded and not, to each of you they bow their heads in respect. And you swear you hear a couple of murmured "thank you" as they all solemnly make their way out west, away from Westruun.
Liam: Is it just the remainder of the herd?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Herd leader! We trust you will leave something in that cave for the people of this town. Something to help them recover.
Matt: Zanror turns to you, and says, "There's very little in our lifestyle that really has use of this coin, just enough to make it from place to place if need be. Besides, occasionally we need supplies, something to trade with. I'm not like my father. This I've learned in recent months."
Liam: Prosperity on your family.
Matt: "Hm." Looks to Grog. "Your family as well." Turns around and continues to walk.
Laura: You're lucky he's nice, Grog.
Travis: What, what?
Laura: Offering all the gold to the herd instead of the people of Westruun.
Travis: I didn't offer all of it. I said there was something to pick up. He might have grabbed a bunch of mud, what are you so upset about?
Liam: He meant well.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way-- uh, where are you heading?
Sam: Into Westruun?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: Is the gold pile trap still there?
Matt: It is, yes.
Taliesin: It's sprung. We have to pick it up.
Laura: Is our gold still there?
Matt: Your gold is not there. (groaning)
Laura: It's a good thing I only put a little bit in.
Liam: I'm going to go take like five minutes. I'm going to kneel down and sort of meditate in front of one of the pyres.
Matt: Okay. (laughing) But what you do notice, ironically, while the gold is still there, it's scattered about. Because there's been an explosion where the gold was left behind.
Laura: (gasps) Oh shit.
Ashley: Oops. (laughter)
Ashley: My bad. I made a bomb!
Matt: Nearby, there is a groove in the dirt that is dragged on for about four, five hundred feet, before there appears to be a body at the edge.
Liam: Dead dwarf?
Marisha: It's a dwarf?
Matt: No, it's not. It's the gentleman who disappeared as you let him out of prison. (shouting)
Travis: That son of a bitch! That thieving bastard?
Laura: He deserves it!
Marisha: The fucking asshole that peaced out!
Travis: Blackfoot-- what was his name?
Matt: Oran Blackfoot.
Laura: I knew he was going to go for the gold. That's what he thought he was going to do.
Matt: As soon as you guys left, he seized the opportunity. (laughter)
Travis: Good kill. Good kill.
Ashley: All right, all right, all right.
Liam: I'm taking a moment to pay my respects to the dead.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I do the same.
Taliesin: I'm attuning Fassbender. And working on getting the chain removed from him.
Marisha: Keyleth takes a minute to Druidcraft some wildflowers around the pyre.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are taking this break, Vex, you notice a small group of individuals walking from the town in your direction. Make a perception check.
Laura: I bent my paper. (high voice) 17!
Matt: Okay. You glance over and, best you can make out, some appear to be armored, some appear to be just carrying sacks and goods. There's a cart being dragged behind with two beasts of burden affixed to the front, a set of horses, and at the front of them you see a human male wearing chain mail with a heavy shield to one side, walking up and approaching. He's mid to late 40s, big black- and gray-streaked beard pulled into two points, wild crazy-looking dark hair, also gray streaked. Sun-dappled nose. He walks up with his hand in the air.
Laura: Oi, friend.
Matt: Can we go ahead and have our guest enter?
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: I know that guy! (cheers)
Sam: Sorry for the wait.
Matt: We had to have a hot spring episode.
Marisha: Very important cannonball competition we had to get to.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm sorry that I was laughing loud enough for the mics to pick it up. Some people on Twitter were saying that they heard me laugh.
Matt: That's fine. Patrick Rothfuss, joining us today!
Sam: Fabulous writer. Good person.
Patrick rothfuss: That's not me.
Matt: So, as you're walking up from the city of Westruun, carrying behind you the group of eager-to-leave refugees that have gathered around you, you notice the burning spires, and you see the remnants of the horde leaving westward behind the group of heroes that you all had feared had gone to the top of the mountain to meet their doom. They stand before you alive and resting, and as you approach to hail them, one of them, the half-elf female, hails you.
Laura: Sir, how fares-- (stuttering) How are you doing?
Sam: Charisma!
Laura: Give me the book. Give me the book!
Travis: Amazing. Couldn't have done any better.
Laura: What's happening in the town? Are you leaving?
Patrick rothfuss: How many people are left in town and how many have come with me?
Matt: In town, there's probably a couple hundred that are scattered throughout. Most of them have left, the party has sent them out, but many individuals that they didn't get to have still been holed up in their homes. You have with you right now 20 people, and these are the folks that have congregated around you to figure out a plan of what to do.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Sam: What's with all the questions, narc? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I will admit I did not expect to see you folk again.
Laura: Well, we're here.
Patrick rothfuss: What's happened?
Laura: You know that dragon?
Patrick rothfuss: I noticed the dragon.
Laura: Gone. Killed. Destroyed. Vox Machina! (laughter)
Laura: Give me the book.
Sam: Nope.
Patrick rothfuss: I don't know what to say. I was expecting to have to bury some more bodies.
Laura: Thankfully, that is not the case. And you are smart, with leaving town.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, the town itself hasn't decided exactly what to do, how much to rebuild, or whether or not it's even worth it. But now, at least we can make some plans.
Laura: Definitely.
Sam: Oi, what's your name?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh. My name is Kerr.
Sam: Kerr?
Laura: Like Care Bear?
Marisha: Is that with a C or a K?
Patrick rothfuss: (laughs) With a K.
Marisha: Okay. Kerr. I like it.
Sam: And tell us about yourself, if you don't mind.
Patrick rothfuss: I have been here in this town for a while. I settled down after-- I had a bit of an adventurous youth.
Sam: Ooh! I like!
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Patrick rothfuss: How old do these guys look?
Matt: They look younger than you. They look like a bunch of young upstarts, for the most part.
Patrick rothfuss: They're puppies, right?
Matt: They're puppies, but looking close up, you can see weathered experiences in their eyes.
Patrick rothfuss: They came back from the dragon. But still, these are like kids, right?
Matt: From your perspective? Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Sam: I'm an adult man!
Matt: Who's just roughly past your knee.
Patrick rothfuss: I welcome you back to what is left of the town, and I offer my thanks, and thanks on behalf of those of us that are left.
Laura: Are you responsible for these pyres?
Patrick rothfuss: The town has been pulling together, and we have been doing what we can with what we have.
Marisha: And what's your position been in Westruun?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, I don't have a position in the city. I'm just the smith.
Laura: You're a blacksmith?
Travis: You make weapons?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Laura: Armor?
Patrick rothfuss: Armor.
Sam: Percy?
Taliesin: Well, I make things. They're not--
Sam: Maybe you guys could collab on a joint project.
Taliesin: Smithing and gadgetry, while I can see how, to the layman, they look very similar, are in fact quite different.
Sam: I actually might have a project for you, if we have a moment.
Marisha: Okay, before we start hitting him up for work.
Taliesin: Is this everybody you could round up to get out of the city?
Patrick rothfuss: Well, this is everyone who was interested in coming out on this particular expedition.
Travis: Oh, yeah! What is your expedition?
Patrick rothfuss: Mostly exploratory. Like I said, we just didn't have any information at all. I didn't know if we were going to be burying more bodies, or dealing with an increasingly angry dragon.
Laura: Well, the dragon in the mountain is dead, but there are increasingly angered dragons in other cities that will probably be coming here to retaliate.
Patrick rothfuss: That will be coming here?
Sam: Possibly.
Laura: More than likely.
Marisha: Probably.
Taliesin: Maybe.
Marisha: We don't know.
Travis: No. No chance. (laughter)
Sam: Actually, this raises an important question. What do the people of Westruun do at this point? Do they rebuild? Do they go underground? Do they leave and abandon the city?
Liam: It's a huge question, yes. What do you think, personally? What is this small group that you're leading? What's your plan?
Patrick rothfuss: I offered to come along with them in case they needed a strong arm. I don't speak for the town. I just know most of the people involved, and I wanted to make sure they stayed safe. But the truth is, there's a lot of people who have nothing to rebuild, and nothing to rebuild it with. And if there might be dragons coming back, I don't know.
Travis: Well, Kerr, Pike and I are both from Westruun. Yeah. Yep.
Ashley: I've seen you before. Do you know Wilhand? My great-great-grandfather?
Laura: Great great?
Ashley: Great-great. Yeah. Two greats, not just one.
Matt: A tiny, hunched over gnomish gentleman, a little absent-minded but friendly enough, keeps to himself.
Laura: Likes to drink.
Patrick rothfuss: Ah!
Ashley: Yes. You probably have had some drinks with him before.
Patrick rothfuss: A little bit. And I haven't met you, but I've heard of you.
Travis: Oh, yeah?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah!
Travis: What have you heard?
Patrick rothfuss: I heard that you were a good member of the community.
Travis: Yep, that's me.
Sam: Nope. You are incorrect.
Travis: Totally.
Ashley: He was, and is, but we're just never home.
Travis: Grog. Grog is my name.
Liam: Kerr, do you have a sense of how many people are left in the city, roughly?
Patrick rothfuss: Maybe as many as a couple hundred.
Laura: Oh, that's it?
Marisha: That's not a lot.
Patrick rothfuss: A lot of people have been leaving, but some people can't.
Travis: Well, look, I would just like to put this forward. Westruun is their home. It's Pike's home, it's my home. And if you start running, you never really stop.
Sam: But where are they going to stay? I've been down to the sewers, and there's crazy giant creatures down there.
Travis: Well, you can treat it like a weather shelter. If the dragons come, we set up an early warning system. They go underground. But this is their home.
Taliesin: Here's an interesting thing to contemplate about this whole problem, is that we have three dragons still at large. Three dragons who have probably found cities of their own, so the chances that they're going to come back and take time away from their own city to go look at one that's, in theory, already taken over is very thin. And if they are traveling, then they're going to travel to cities that haven't been plundered yet.
Laura: That's true, this one has been plundered.
Taliesin: This is no less or more. There's a risk either way. It's just the risk of running or the risk of staying.
Sam: Also the dragons know that the last dragon who came here died.
Marisha: I think the dragons' motives have probably shifted by now, and where the dragons might not be interested in plundering anymore, instead might be interested in any city that we are in.
Taliesin: Which, I imagine we're leaving soon, anyway.
Liam: Yeah, they might not believe we'd be here, but they also might try to--
Travis: Kerr, are you an honest man?
Patrick rothfuss: I've been called an honest man.
Sam: I insight check him!
Travis: Can I insight check-- Oh yeah, you do that. (laughter)
Matt: You may both make insight checks.
Sam: 19.
Travis: (high voice) Four.
Taliesin: If you whisper to Grog, it's going to make me really happy. Yes!
Sam: He just said, you fart.
Taliesin: Mightily.
Matt: Excuse me for just a minute.
Sam: What was this about Loot Crate?
Travis: Three dollars off if you use lootcrate.com/criticalrole next week!
Marisha: But that's no secret!
Sam: I trust him with my life. I pledge my allegiance to you, sir.
Travis: You just dabbed to him.
Marisha: Scanlan literally hasn't said that to me in the entire three years I've known him.
Sam: What was your name again?
Taliesin: Scanlan just found out that Kerr has a daughter, is what he found out.
Travis: Wow, you pledge your life to him? Jeez.
Marisha: Kerr. You said you were an adventurer several years ago.
Patrick rothfuss: Many years ago. Many years ago. I've lived here-- I've lived here a lifetime at this point.
Marisha: Did you have a party that you traveled with as well?
Patrick rothfuss: I did.
Marisha: Would we happen to know any of them? Allura? Asum?
Patrick rothfuss: No, that was a long time ago, and I'd be very surprised if you'd heard any of the stories from back then. I will say, though, from what I know about dragons, that perhaps vengeance might not be outside a reasonable expectation. There might not be anything here for them to plunder, but--
Marisha: But no one likes having their ass handed to them.
Patrick rothfuss: And these creatures are old and intelligent and powerful, and they stay that way by striking fear into people. And (sighs) as much as I hate to leave my own home, I don't know who will be able to help my people if any other things like this happen.
Marisha: We can't be everywhere at once.
Liam: What about the sewers?
Sam: Well, we were down there, and there was horrible, creepy things.
Liam: We could help with that.
Sam: We could clear out the sewers.
Marisha: But that's not indefinite.
Travis: No, it's not.
Marisha: They'll be back.
Laura: The only other option is--
Taliesin: There's the traveling band, by the river.
Laura: Split the city up? Set them on different paths?
Liam: There's Whitestone.
Taliesin: Whitestone is rapidly becoming a very large target.
Laura: Very quickly becoming noticeable, I think.
Liam: Ever been to Vasselheim?
Patrick rothfuss: Refugees are often very unwelcome, too, and most of the people here did not have much left to lose before they lost it.
Laura: We have claim to the gold that was stolen. It's up in the mountain. It's just hard to get down.
Taliesin: Someone honest is going to have to come and help divvy it up amongst the survivors.
Patrick rothfuss: We can look for an honest person.
Marisha: But if all of the survivors are evacuating the city--
Patrick rothfuss: We could probably-- I know enough people to put together a group of carters to go up there and start fetching stuff down?
Matt: Yeah. And the people that have gathered around you are people that have been around you most of the time you've been in the city, or at least have known you long enough to the point where they themselves are also like-minded, so you can trust most of the folks that have walked with you out towards the pyres.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll say, excuse me for just a minute, and I'll walk off and I'll chat with them a little bit, so you can see that I'm pointing up. I'll do a little talk off with them, so you can talk about me behind my-- Without me.
Sam: I like this guy.
Travis: You do?
Laura: Why do you pledge yourself to him?
Sam: I just feel like he's an honest man. He's a good guy. He's got a nice twinkle in his eye and I recognize that as a sign of honesty, because I have a similar feature.
Laura: You do? I've never noticed a twinkle in your eye.
Sam: Yeah, the light has to hit it just--
Laura: No, it's a crusty from the morning. You might just-- yeah.
Taliesin: How do you get glitter in there?
Travis: That seems like such a shame. I mean, shouldn't we ask the people of Westruun if they want to stay or go?
Sam: Well, there's only 200. We could have a huge meeting and put it to a vote.
Travis: A town hall thing?
Laura: Why not?
Marisha: But he said some people were incapable of leaving. There might be elderly and sick here that can't travel.
Sam: Is there a way to hide the city with magic? We've seen that done before.
Laura: Can we make it look like it's already been burned down?
Taliesin: It has already been burned down.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: That won't be hard at all.
Laura: Can we hide?
Liam: Can't they have sentries and a shelter in the sewers? They could clear out part of it and have sentries every night, and any time a dragon comes, they just go underground and wait. Wait it out.
Taliesin: I don't think this is a terrible-- I think this is a pretty reasonable idea.
Laura: What do you think, Grog, Pike?
Travis: That's what I said.
Ashley: I feel like it's a good idea.
Travis: Yeah. I don't--
Marisha: Hang on, hold the phone. Hold the phone.
Sam: We could spend a few days here and get them started before we go on to our next thing.
Travis: It's so hard to find shelter and protection that's not a city where you're unwelcome in the first place.
Taliesin: Well, this is an unwelcome world at the moment.
Laura: We could leave Fassbender here to help protect everyone.
Sam: Yes, I guess if we gave him away. But we need him.
Taliesin: Do we need him?
Liam: He's going to slow us down.
Laura: How are we going to get Fassbender anywhere with us?
Sam: Tell him to walk.
Travis: Are we returning the band?
Marisha: Yeah, Quall did want the circlet at some point. It's not necessarily ours to give away.
Laura: Quall's evil.
Taliesin: Is he?
Marisha: Selfish, maybe.
Taliesin: We are under contract, technically.
Laura: This is true.
Marisha: What were you going to say, Pike?
Ashley: We could just leave it with Wilhand.
Marisha: We could leave it with Wilhand, actually.
Ashley: And then we could tell Quall--
Liam: Oh, Quall, we didn't know where you were, we couldn't find you, we left it with Wilhand.
Ashley: We wanted to leave it in one place, just in case we see you again.
Sam: Is that your lying voice?
Liam: Sorry, buddy.
Patrick rothfuss: What is the general atmosphere in town? Are people just done?
Travis: Yeah, right? I'm fucking over this shit!
Matt: Best that you can ascertain, a lot of people are scared because they were separated from their families. A large bulk of people left south to Kymal, which is the nearest township to Westruun that feasibly could take in refugees. They left directly after the dragon attack, even before the herd was there. When the herd came in, the maybe ten percent, 15 percent of people that stayed behind were then captured, some of them were killed as they fought back, many were enslaved and brutalized, and a number of them did escape thanks to this group's efforts. So I'd say those that are left behind, they're eager to see their families. They're probably eager to leave for the time being. Some of them do want to stay just because they're stubborn, but the majority seems interested in not being in a place that could be a target for more dragon attacks, as rumors have come back that there is more than just the black dragon, and many of them recall the red, the green, and the white that came with the initial onslaught that tore through the city. Or it would've been the green and the white.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay, yeah. So I'll wander back, and I say, my friends here are willing to go on a retrieval mission. I'm assuming you folks could use some rest, and the hospitality of the town isn't what it used to be, but I'm sure a lot of people would be very glad to see you. Have you set up protections? Did you hide the treasure?
Laura: We did. We did. It's hidden in a cubby with a little mark on it.
Sam: We'll give you instructions.
Patrick rothfuss: Sketch out something.
Taliesin: Including a little walk around.
Laura: Oh, yeah, the walk around is important.
Travis: But there are stuff out there in the woods. There are things.
Sam: He's a strong man.
Patrick rothfuss: And I've got, these are the more capable, these folks can go out on their own?
Matt: A number of them can, yeah. Some of them were there for general visual support, carrying things forth and stewards that have taken up arms because they have to, but you're essentially the strongest of a group of relatively capable individuals.
Travis: I'd hate to send you into anything that all of a sudden got a bit too nasty. I see you wearing chain mail. If I may, what is your weapon of choice?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm partial-- I was partial to the warhammer.
Travis: Ooh. I reach out to shake his hand. I like your choice.
Ashley: Kerr, do you know how to make armor be quiet? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: That's probably the first laugh you get. I've been there. I lived there a long time. We could talk shop about that.
Ashley: I love talking shop. Let's do it.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll set up a little expedition and I'll send people out, knowing that a lot of these folks that are here are going to head out. They're going to need resources, and based on what they've said, my team can go out and get some of this treasure?
Matt: Yeah, based on the description they've said and the sheer volume that's there, they end up taking four carts that are capable of doing a somewhat treacherous mountain journey with the strong individuals you send up as well. I don't know if you wanted to go up with them or stay behind.
Patrick rothfuss: It sounds reasonably clear. We'll send up a good group with spare parts, and they're all craftsmen here, they're all farmers, they can fix a cart if it breaks.
Travis: Is there any way for them to contact you if shit goes down while they're up there? If we need to go in as the cavalry to the rescue?
Patrick rothfuss: Are there any--?
Sam: We can send one of the stones with them.
Laura: (groans)
Patrick rothfuss: Anybody with cantrippy message sending--?
Matt: Unfortunately, anybody with any modicum of arcane practitioning capability left.
Patrick rothfuss: They beat feet long ago. Yeah.
Matt: As soon as shit hit the fan, they were like, nope!
Patrick rothfuss: I think at this point, it's people that are stubborn and with really low intelligence scores are the only folks left, so the wizards went right away.
Taliesin: It's appropriate on occasion to leave people to a modicum of risk. Life is risky. It's perfectly reasonable to send people on themselves.
Liam: Can we steer them away from the area where we ran into those basilisks?
Laura: Yes, we will tell you about the basilisks.
Taliesin: They're locals. They should know.
Matt: Well, the basilisks were far south. That was in the Frostweald.
Laura: Oh, never mind.
Matt: As far as you know, they were nowhere near the Bramblewood, thankfully.
Laura: So what should we do here, clear out the sewers? Because that's what was said.
Sam: Wait, there's three options for these people, and they have to decide for us. They can stay here and live in the sewers. They can go to, what's it called?
Matt: Kymal.
Sam: Kymal, where they're still accepting refugees, or they can wander off into the desert.
Taliesin: Well, there's also that group of people wandering around. There's that group.
Sam: That's what I'm saying.
Travis: Hey, guys, so remember the farmer? Outside, and then he turned into a scarecrow?
Marisha: Yes, we remember.
Travis: I found his daughter.
Sam: Oh, where is she?
Laura: Did you tell her?
Travis: No, no, I didn't know what to do. She looked like a deer in the headlights.
Laura: Where is she?
Travis: She was in the prison with Abjurist Noja and Blackfoot, who's now dead. What's her name again?
Matt: Amelia.
Travis: Amelia, really sweet.
Marisha: Did you send her towards refugees?
Sam: Is she around?
Travis: I brought her out before we took the fight to the dragon, so I think she's still in the town, but I don't want to tell her.
Laura: We should tell her, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, I know, and maybe give her a little coin, but, Pike, do you think maybe you could--
Ashley: Tell her?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Do I remember where he is?
Matt: Where Reginald is? Yeah.
Liam: I head off that way.
Matt: Okay. It's directly west of the town, so it's pretty much south of where you guys are currently standing, because the drop point was northwest of the city. He is still affixed.
Liam: I bring him back here.
Travis: Make him sound real brave, you know. Paint a good picture when you talk to her.
Taliesin: He was real brave.
Laura: There's only about 200 people left. Do you know someone named Amelia?
Matt: You know of Amelia, though you-- No, you did see her last night. You hadn't seen her in a while. She was one of the people that was still in the town. She was peripheral to the battle with the dragon, but fled as soon as she saw it. Unfortunately, dragons have that effect on people. She was a little shamed by it, but you calmed her down. But you do know that she's safe and reachable.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, she's around.
Laura: Where is everyone staying within the town? Are they scattered about or are they staying in a central location?
Patrick rothfuss: We've organized places for people to sleep if they don't have places for themselves. It's makeshift, but-- because it's been a couple of days, at this point?
Matt: Yeah, it's been almost two days since the initial encounter.
Patrick rothfuss: Right, so we've got triage camps set up. I will say, some people are going to stay no matter what, and they have the right to stay, and that's their choice. I imagine some people will come back and rebuild here, but most people, they are ready to go. They miss their families.
Laura: An entire city.
Taliesin: We can build a dragon shelter. At the very least, that is something we can do.
Marisha: But these people are prisoners here. They feel like they're prisoners in their own home, and that's not a home.
Travis: Then we let them make their choice.
Taliesin: They'll do what they're going to do, but we can give them an option if things get hairy.
Laura: Let's make our way toward them, then.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way towards town. The largest concentration of survivors that you've been keeping tabs on actually aren't that far from Wilhand's home, in the area where most of the temples are constructed, which is generally considered one of the oldest and most protected areas of Westruun. There are two inns that are basically now ramshackle homes for sleep. There's bedspreads across the entire floor, all the tables and chairs have been moved out, and it's now just a giant room where people who had their homes destroyed come and sleep, not because it's comfortable, but because there's comfort and safety in numbers. People have gathered what belongings they still had that are worth anything or they might need for a journey. Many of them are still gathering bits of dried food and fruit and whatever, preparing for whatever the next step of their travels may be. But you probably have the bulk of the people in the town, other than a few older, very stubborn folks that are like, "I'm going to stay in my home!" The folks that stayed at Mt. St. Helens, where you're like, come on, guys, seriously? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: There's always some.
Matt: There's always some. But yeah, so as you approach and the door swings open to the first tavern, as you introduce them too, a few of the folks perk up. A few children who couldn't sleep look over. Two of the kids that recognize you run up, "Uncle Kerrek!" They run up and grab the side of your legs. Your chain mail clanks and you pick them up.
Ashley: I look around for Wilhand.
Matt: Wilhand is not amongst this group. Wilhand probably stayed safe within his home, which kept him safe up to this point, so far.
Travis: Do we see Amelia?
Matt: Looking about, yes, you do see Amelia. She is asleep right now, though.
Sam: Wake her up! Tell her her dad's dead!
Marisha: Hey, hey. It's really important. I need to tell you right now.
Ashley: We see her?
Matt: You see her. She's asleep. It's later in the day from the travel, you guys went down the mountain to even get here after you woke up in the morning. You spent most of the day getting back to Westruun, so you're getting pretty close to sunset. The group has been set off for the evening's travel toward the top of Gatshadow. She appears to have fallen asleep early.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll start a few things, and I'll spread the word. Everybody could really use a bit of a party here. We don't have many resources, but I'm betting there's enough liquor for everybody to get good and drunk tonight.
Matt: Oh yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: That's the resource there's always an abundance of at this point. We'll kind of put the word out, and honestly, I don't need to organize it. I can just say, "Dragon's dead, and they did it. We're going to throw them a party tonight." And I'm just going to let that happen.
Matt: And with each chain of that word spreading, the energy immediately lifts up within the room, and the building adjacent, and folks that were either resting or in a state of perpetual anxiousness suddenly brighten up, even with the dirt-smeared faces, you can see smiles poking out as people begin coming into the room to see those who slew the dragon that threatened them. People start coming up and shaking your hands, individuals who haven't seen you guys for years, people that lived down the street and gave you a passing hello in the younger days of your youth, are now coming up to you with a look of absolute appreciation and thanks. Just as that energy picks up, the wine and the ale begin to go throughout the area as stores of them beneath the taverns that were not found by the herd, as there were only so many members of the herd and a larger number of actual inns and taverns throughout the town, people start grabbing cups. Even some of the kids start coming up with cups, and the parents are like, "Hmm, a little." It's New Year's, you can have a sip.
Taliesin: It's medieval times, everybody drinks.
Matt: Without much worry at that point, everyone's getting nice and liquored up, and happiness has ensued. Some folks pull out some meager instruments. There aren't a lot of extremely practiced bards, so your ears tweak a little at the sound of imperfect music, but there is honesty and joy coming from it, so you choose not to lend any sort of constructive criticism to the performers. (laughter)
Taliesin: You sent the last of the decent bards out of town. It's all on you.
Laura: Can I hang out outside? I want to keep my eye on the skies.
Matt: Yeah, not a worry. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: I was about to say I was going to join you. I've had my fill of party.
Liam: Yes, I'm sure you were.
Laura: Wait, what is that? 32.
Liam: That's okay.
Matt: 32? All right. You look about the sky. It is clear. The dark clouds that had loomed towards the top of Gatshadow have since blown away. The starry night sky now spreads infinitely above you, and for the first time in a long time, knowing that the immediate danger is no longer chasing you, you take a minute to appreciate the sheer beauty of the view that Westruun always had. This brief moment to allow yourself to exhale helps remind you what all this is worth, and the importance of moments like this. You can hear the laughter behind you within the inn. You can hear the music. You can hear the kids chuckling and telling jokes. People clinking glasses together. And in this tiny little microcosm of a moment here, you let yourself silently smile, and really know what all of this is worth.
Taliesin: I'm going to join--
Marisha: About that time I reach and grab Percy's hand before he leaves the door. Percy. Percy!
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: This is giving me a lot of anxiety. There's a lot of people here.
Taliesin: Is it about your feelings about Vax? Is that the whole problem right now?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I really don't--
Marisha: There's so many people calling us heroes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're not heroes.
Taliesin: We pretty much are, actually. I hate to tell you this.
Marisha: No. We're not, we're terrible people. We're terrible people. Why are they telling us this? Oh, god. Oh, god, if I have to shake one more townsperson's hand. Oh, god. I feel like I was cursed. I was cursed. I don't want any of this. I don't want any of this!
Patrick rothfuss: Do I spot that?
Matt: You do. As you guys are having this conversation, Kerr walks over with a rosy grin on his face.
Patrick rothfuss: Is this your first time?
Marisha: (hyperventilating) Hi. I'm Keyleth. Do you want to step outside?
Laura: I come back inside.
Patrick rothfuss: Let's step outside.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: You guys pass Vex as she steps back into the tavern, passing you guys.
Laura: Pat her on the back. Drunk? Already?
Marisha: No, not enough.
Taliesin: Panic attack.
Matt: As you step outside with Kerr, the cold night air comforting to you, hitting your face, hitting your lungs. It helps the breathing slow, and you have a moment of control over your emotions.
Marisha: (groan) Does the nausea always happen? Is that always a thing?
Patrick rothfuss: Is it the people, or is it the fact that you have finally realized how pointless it all is? (surprised laughter)
Marisha: Maybe it's the fact that I feel like I've been lied to my entire god damn life, and it's all crashing down upon me right now.
Sam: She's druish.
Marisha: So druish. So yeah, you could say-- how about a little bit of column A and a little bit of column B?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. How did you deal with it?
Patrick rothfuss: I found other places where I could do good things.
Marisha: Really?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Like what?
Patrick rothfuss: Like, I make wagon couples. The thing that hooks--
Marisha: Oh. I don't know exactly what you said.
Patrick rothfuss: You have a wagon.
Marisha: Sure.
Patrick rothfuss: And then you have a horse.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: And then something needs to hook the horse to the wagon.
Marisha: Got you.
Patrick rothfuss: And if you have a bad one of those, it breaks, and so people need good ones of those.
Marisha: I don't know at all what you just told me. I'm not going to lie. But I think I get the message.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm guessing that you are bothered by the fact that no matter what you do, you seem to end up destroying more things than you fix.
Marisha: Yes! Jeez, you're like the first person-- no one else gets it.
Patrick rothfuss: They don't get it, do they?
Marisha: No, they don't.
Patrick rothfuss: No.
Marisha: Is that it? That's it? We will destroy everything we touch? We will cause more harm than good? We will carve a path of destruction and make it seem like we're doing good, and then people will worship us because they think we're heroes, when in the back of my head I'm thinking about all the death that has come by our hands?
Patrick rothfuss: That can be a lot of it. I'm not going to lie to you about that.
Marisha: Yeah, you know, Kerr, you're not really helping make me feel better about this. I'm not going to lie.
Patrick rothfuss: Well I imagine that your friends will tell you a lot of things that would make you feel real good. But I'm not one for short term solutions. I think that you're right. I think that you've obviously put a lot of thought into this.
Marisha: So much thought. I swear I've gotten nosebleeds. Keep going. That's beside the point.
Patrick rothfuss: And I've known people like you before. People who are very sensitive to this sort of thing. I have been the sort of person you are. And it's not simple. Your friend who lived here for a while, the big one, what's his name?
Marisha: Grog. Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Right. He doesn't have this. He has the opposite of this. It's all good for him, right? And you're kind of jealous, aren't you?
Marisha: I so badly wish I could have what he has.
Patrick rothfuss: But somebody has to look at the big picture. And sometimes that's us, and usually it's unpleasant. But somebody needs to do it.
Marisha: So you're saying this is my curse? This is my duty?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm saying that-- (long pause). I'm saying that if you aren't careful, it will rip you apart from the inside, but that's not a long-term solution. That's just another piece of destruction. You need to find a way to live with the fact that you do what you can, because that's what you can control. And sometimes bad things happen anyway, and so you just have to decide where you're going to pick your hill. You find your hill. Everybody gets one hill, and you plant your flag and you can die on that one. But you have to be careful, because you only get one. If you're really unlucky, you get more than one.
Marisha: And what if the ultimate problem is that I feel like I've had zero control from the start, since birth? I didn't want any of this. I didn't want my abilities. I didn't know I was special until now. And I so desperately just want to be normal. I want to go back to being ignorance and bliss.
Patrick rothfuss: Then I do have a momentary, short-term solution for you.
Marisha: Shoot.
Patrick rothfuss: It's actually there, and I will get you another one. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: It will help a little bit for now. It will smooth out some of the rough edges long enough for us to talk for a while. Because I've been down this road. Okay? The thing is, you're not wrong, and you're not crazy, but it's not hopeless, either.
Marisha: Okay. Thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll do maybe one of these. It feels like she wants one of these.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: I can read that.
Marisha: I give in. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Kerr.
Patrick rothfuss: Yes?
Marisha: Even surrounded--
Sam: He stabbed you in the back. (laughter)
Liam: The Chroma Conclave sends its regards! (laughter)
Marisha: So Game of Thrones.
Matt: As he brings you into a warm hug, and at first, there is the resistance because this is a person you don't know.
Marisha: Yeah, and my headdress is a little wonky.
Matt: A little wonky due to the drink, due to not concentrating. However, as much as you travel with your friends, this stranger has seemingly come to you with more wisdom and understanding of your continuous predicaments than anybody has in a long time, if at all, and you give into the hug and realize just how nice it is to have somebody understand.
Marisha: I was pretty much going to say that in character, but yeah, that's pretty much what I feel.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: No, no, that's-- I wasn't-- Yeah. Yeah. I tell Kern--
Sam: Kern?
Marisha: Car. Kerr.
Matt: Somewhere in that neighborhood.
Marisha: Care Bear. I tell Kerr, even surrounded by friends, I often feel so alone. Thank you for being a friend, even though we just met.
Patrick rothfuss: I get that.
Matt: He brings you in. Gets you another drink.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I'll bring another drink out to her.
Matt: Oh, perfect. All right.
Marisha: It's crowded inside.
Taliesin: I stumble outside for a bit as well at this point.
Sam: Meanwhile, I'm telling my table a story about how I won a cannonball contest last night.
Matt: They are enraptured.
Sam: It was in a dragon's lair! I was amazing. (laughter)
Laura: Is Amelia awake at this point?
Matt: Amelia has woken up due to the sound and noise, and she's wandering about with a drink in her hand now.
Ashley: All right. We'll walk over to her.
Travis: I'll stay with you, but just behind you.
Laura: Amelia?
Matt: "Hi, yes! Thank you again for releasing me from the terrible stocks. I really appreciate that. Thank you for everything you've done for Westruun."
Laura: Well, thank you for everything you've done. I've heard amazing things about you and your family.
Matt: "We're meager folk. We come from very simple roots. I--" And she takes a big, long sip of her flagon, sets it down on the table and wipes her mouth. "Truth be told, I-- as soon as I saw that dragon, I ran straight away. I didn't-- You guys are the heroes. I didn't do anything."
Laura: I sit down next to her.
Ashley: I sit down next to her, too. (whispers) Should we just wait till the morning?
Laura: We have to do it right now. So. We knew-- your father is Reginald.
Matt: "Yes. Have you seen him?"
Laura: Yes. He-- I take her hands. One of the bravest men I've ever had the honor of meeting.
Matt: There's recognition in her eyes. Her head pulls back a bit. Her expression goes stoic as she sinks in the wordless reality that you've just bestowed upon her.
Laura: I know this can be-- I know how hard this is to hear. But none of this would have happened, none of this celebration would be possible without him. He sacrificed himself, so that all of us could live, and he spoke your name in the end. He wanted nothing more than for you to be taken care of.
Matt: (long pause) "That sounds like Dad." Wipes her eyes.
Laura: Would you like to pray, Pike?
Ashley: I don't know if you're a woman of faith, but--
Matt: "What faith do you belong to?"
Ashley: I follow Sarenrae.
Matt: "Then, for the night, as do I." She reaches over and takes her flagon, and the tears are streaming down her face in spite of her smile, and she looks to you both, and looks to you. "To Reginald. To Dad."
Travis: To Reggie.
Ashley: To Reggie.
Matt: And she starts weeping into her hands.
Travis: Amelia. You should also know, your father was a man of a few tricks. He told us that he had been saving this up for whenever you were old enough, but I think you should have it now. I hand her 400 gold pieces.
Matt: She looks up for a moment. "How? How did-- they took everything."
Laura: He hid it.
Matt: "This could help a lot of us. Okay."
Travis: I think he knew you would do well with it.
Laura: Dear, there's more coming to the town. You take care of yourself.
Matt: (deep breath) "We'll take care of each other. I think that's what he'd want."
Travis: Aye.
Matt: She grabs her flagon again and takes a big old sip, sets it down. Her eyes are dried a little bit. She wipes the last away.
Travis: I pour my flagon into hers.
Matt: She laughs and drinks of it again. Definitely embraced the idea that she's going to get really drunk tonight. She begins joining in, singing with the music. And the rest of the party picks up as the celebration once again fills the air. The rest of the folks gathering around. (birds tweeting) Don't know why there were birds in that track. (laughter)
Ashley: Is it morning?
Matt: There will be a lot of partying through the night, so probably it's an eventuality. However, we will take this moment to take a quick break to the restroom. We will return here for the next bit of this adventure, so we'll be right back here in a few minutes, guys. Stick around. (cheering) [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So as you return here, bellies full, the evening of drinks, rabble-rousing, and stress release through conversation and laughter carries through until the morning light comes. Everyone wakes up extremely hungover, but in a way that is well-earned and still worthy of the evening that transpired before it. You all come to consciousness, about midday at this time now.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: You all slept in after what happened.
Liam: I actually spent the night in a field with Reginald.
Sam: Ew.
Matt: You did.
Liam: That's your brain, man. I sat next to his body, waiting for people to come back, they never did. I piled some of Keyleth's flowers on his chest, and then I fell asleep, in the field, six feet away from him. Party!
Marisha: Did you think we were going to--
Liam: Yeah, well.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I don't know.
Laura: Oh. Shit.
Liam: I don't know what I thought, but that's what I did.
Laura: Why didn't you check up on the earring, dude?
Liam: I wanted some space.
Matt: So as you all come around to the breakfast morning, food is being cooked up within the kitchen by some of the various villagers that have taken up to help out with what they can in the area. You start realizing that Vax is nowhere to be found and as this conversation begins to progress, he eventually finds you guys and waltzes into the groaning room of semi-conscious Westruun denizens.
Laura: (yawns) Where were you?
Liam: Getting a good night's sleep on a field of grass. How are you doing?
Marisha: We had a bender.
Liam: You need some water?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Can you make some?
Laura: In that endless jug? Or does it only make beer and mayonnaise?
Marisha: Say water to the endless jug.
Travis: Yeah, it makes water.
Sam: It seems like a waste.
Travis: Give me water like the ocean!
Sam: Oh, no, no, no!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: The jug is now filled with water to the top.
Travis: Yeah, look! Water.
Laura: Is it saltwater?
Marisha: I dip my finger in and take a taste.
Matt: It is saltwater.
Laura: (groans) Damn it, Grog.
Travis: Did I do it wrong?
Sam: You did it wrong.
Taliesin: You should try that, though. See if you like it.
Travis: Is there anybody else sleeping in the room?
Matt: There are a few folks that are probably still sleeping off the drinking, but I'd say the majority of the folks have woken up in various states of grogginess.
Travis: (whispers) Hey, should we wake up the rest of the people with this?
Sam: The people who've lost their city? You're going to prank them?
Travis: Well, I'm feeling a bit salty this morning. (laughter)
Travis: I go outside and I dump it.
Marisha: I cast a Create Water spell so we can all have some water.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We should probably call everyone in the town to talk.
Marisha: Yeah, we should have a big meeting, let them decide what they want to do with the rest of their fucking lives.
Taliesin: What did you have to drink last night?
Laura: Is there a bartender or somebody that's running the inn that everyone's staying at? Or is it kind of makeshift--
Matt: It's just kind of makeshift. However, whoever who once ran this place is no longer here, probably left with the first or second wave of evacuees. Everyone here is just kind of doing their part to keep it going.
Laura: Can I grab someone nearby that looks like they're up and about and actually accomplishing things?
Matt: Yeah. There's an older woman who did not drink but just was around last evening who's done most of the cleaning-- and even though there's no reason to clean, she's still just kind of going through the motions of wiping down the counters and putting things away properly.
Laura: Dear heart, um--
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Could you spread the word that there's going to be a town meeting?
Matt: "A town meeting? What for?"
Laura: So we can talk about how to keep everyone safe, dear.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: Yes. As soon as possible, can everyone meet here?
Sam: No, the central--
Laura: In the center of town.
Sam: Where we killed Kevdak.
Laura: Where the goliaths, where the barbarians-- sorry, Grog-- where all the mean people were.
Matt: "All right, I'll get the word out." And she puts away a couple of towels and grabs a couple of people near her, and the three of them saunter out into the main walkway.
Sam: Also, I don't know if he remembers, but sometime in our revelry last night, I asked Kerr if he could-- I gave him a sheath, just a sheath of a sword-- and I asked him if he could make just a little-- there's some metal components to it-- I was asking him if he could just make a little secret compartment on it. Like a place that you could hide a little vial or a little powder or a little note or something, just in the side of the sheath.
Patrick rothfuss: What are the odds that I would make a total hash of that? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I'm imagining I don't do that much delicate work.
Matt: No. But also, how much did you drink last night?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, right! Yeah, I can totally do that.
Matt: So, how much-- how drunk were you?
Patrick rothfuss: You know, I probably was pretty modest. I probably drank with her, to be social. And then I probably just kind of prowled and made sure nothing got out of hand and everyone was okay. Yeah, I probably-- I'll take a shot at it. How attached to this sheath are you?
Taliesin: (snickers)
Sam: Yes. Extremely.
Patrick rothfuss: Extremely. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I'll see what I can do.
Liam: Just nail a sock on the side of it, it'll be great. (laughter)
Sam: I don't make the best decisions.
Matt: Especially while drinking. You find your way back to your forge, which is still functional. It was not one of the buildings that fell on the initial attack. You heat it up late into the evening. It doesn't require a lot because it's smaller work. Go ahead and make a blacksmithing check with your proficiency bonus. Plus, with this, it would be dexterity. Because it's very, very minute work.
Sam: Could I have inspired him?
Matt: You could. Yes! You can very much do that.
Sam: I will give him a limerick to inspire him with.
Matt: Drunken Scanlan limerick, here we go!
Sam: Have you heard the legend of Shale? One eye, elderly, frail? To a black dragon, she told, "You may be ancient, but I'm old!" And somehow lived to tell the tale. (cheering)
Matt: Go and take your d10 inspiration dice, if you want to add that to the roll.
Patrick rothfuss: All right. So, just proficiency bonus--
Matt: Plus your dex bonus.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, my vast dex bonus. 16.
Matt: 16. That's not bad. It's not the finest craftsmanship in the world, and what once was a very, very beautifully detailed sheath to a weapon now has a somewhat hammered, dented element to it that you probably want to hide with a silk or something. It's an imperfection in what was a previously a perfect element, but it is functional. It is a small compartment that actually has a tiny metal slot that can be moved closed or open with your thumb.
Sam: Great!
Matt: It's functional. It's not pretty, but it is functional.
Patrick rothfuss: We focus on function here.
Sam: I understand. Thank you for your nimble fingers. Next time, I'll ask Percy to do it. (laughter)
Taliesin: And it will explode.
Marisha: I make a tonic out of the glissfoil that I had in my pouch from the garden back in Emon. Pass it out, a little hangover tonic.
Matt: It does help, actually.
Laura: All of us?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Sweet!
Marisha: Just a little crushed herbs and water, like a tea.
Travis: A little hair of the dog, huh?
Laura: Thanks, Kiki!
Travis: Are we day drinking?
Sam: Also, before we go to the meeting, I haven't used it in a while but I would like to use my Scrying Potion to-- not potion! The scry that I left at our Greyskull Keep so long ago, to kind of see what's going on at Greyskull.
Taliesin: Your scry pie?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Glancing at it this moment now, and it's about midday, you concentrate on what you left behind.
Sam: Yep. We all know what it was.
Matt: You have a brief view, a small windowed view of the kitchen before you. It seems to be currently empty.
Sam: But still standing?
Matt: But still standing. You do notice, in the sink there are some fresh dishes.
Sam: Oh! Okay.
Taliesin: Squatters.
Marisha: It's fucking squatters.
Sam: Or maybe our staff.
Taliesin: Unpaid now, so now they're squatters.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) It's an important distinction.
Travis: Can you talk through your poop?
Sam: No, no. Poo doesn't work that way, Travis. It's a one-way street.
Travis: The finer points are lost on me.
Ashley: You left it in the kitchen?
Sam: I left it in a jar in the kitchen and I told the people not to open it.
Marisha: We only got a C on our general inspection rating. (laughter)
Matt: There's a parchment that's just nailed to the outside of the keep. At least it's good calligraphy. All right, so unless you have anything else to prepare in this time, most of the townsfolk are beginning to converge towards the square in the central-southern region of Westruun where you had the showdown battle with Kevdak outside of the Margrave's home. The now deceased Margrave. Everyone seems to have gathered together and there is an air of tension. As you approach, as folks are muttering to themselves, then it gets quiet as you all step into the central area. There is still-- it's been pulled over, it was partially damaged before, but there is a large elevated platform that was used for speeches or celebration elements that has been, for the time being, fixed to allow you guys to stand up if you wish to address the rest of the folks.
Laura: Who wants to talk? Scanlan? You're so charismatic.
Taliesin: What are we going to say?
Sam: I'm still reading my book. But, yes, we're just going to ask them a question.
Laura: I think we need to ask them where they want to go.
Taliesin: And if they ask what we think?
Sam: We don't think anything. We'll support their decision, right?
Taliesin: I think something.
Sam: What do you think?
Marisha: I guess I could talk to them?
Taliesin: I would like to build-- The death of a city is such a blasphemy. It is the murder of the dead. And I'm horrified.
Marisha: Percy, a city is nothing without living people in it. A city is made up of the people that live inside of it.
Taliesin: It is.
Marisha: We have to protect them first.
Liam: Percival's suggesting letting them live here, building something for them underground--
Marisha: Which we can facilitate?
Liam: Rather than running.
Sam: We have a lot of other things to do-- let's talk to them.
Travis: How about Pike talks to them?
Ashley: Me?!
Travis: Yeah! You were born here.
Laura: This is true! Pike? They know you.
Ashley: (sighs) Well, I'm not very charismatic.
Sam: I'll be with you.
Travis: But you're genuine.
Ashley: Do you want to help me?
Liam: Exactly. You are genuine.
Ashley: So we're telling them-- asking them if they want to stay. And if they do stay, that we could built them shelter.
Laura: Help them take shelter in the sewers. If there's danger.
Travis: The dragon's dead. We don't know if another one will come.
Laura: Can we ask before we go up on the stage if Kerr, if you're willing to help, should they want that? Is that something you could help us with?
Patrick rothfuss: I would be delighted to help facilitate things between you and the community. I know a lot of people that have left will return. I don't doubt that for a second. But right now, everyone is scattered and scared. And a lot of families have been separated. A lot of people who would love to return here and rebuild the city, they don't know where their loved ones are. And I know that is preying on their minds more than their own safety, in some cases. I know most people are looking to leave and come back eventually. And depending on the resources, like what you've generously offered from the caves-- that will keep them from being refugees. They can continue to be a community in this other town, and then return, well-organized and with resources to build it. (sighs) I don't feel they're ready to do it here and now, though. I don't feel they're excited about that. I know that so many of them have people from their lives they're just missing.
Travis: And by the way, it's going to be a hot second before the carts come back from the cave, right?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah. Probably--
Matt: Another day or two before they arrive, yeah.
Marisha: Can we even say that these people are in--
Ashley: So are you thinking they won't want to stay, then?
Patrick rothfuss: I know from speaking to a lot of people over the last couple of days, and even speaking to them last night, they're relieved that the dragon is gone. But they're worried about more in the future. But primarily, they're looking to be safe now, and reunite with their friends and family, and most of those people are in--?
Matt: Kymal.
Patrick rothfuss: Kymal.
Liam: I think we give them a choice. But I think, Pike, I think it's a good idea. I think you present the idea of staying and getting word to the people in Kymal that some of their loved ones are still here, still living. The dragon is dead. Summon them back to rebuild.
Laura: How far away is Kymal?
Sam: Two days' travel.
Travis: Wow. Fucking Shorthalt!
Ashley: How do you know?
Laura: Was that in your book?
Sam: My girl is there.
Laura: Your daughter's in Kymal?
Sam: Yes. I'll be going there anyway.
Travis: Haylie? Maylie?
Sam: Kaylie.
Marisha: And Kymal hasn't been hit yet?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Liam: Is Kymal bigger or smaller than Westruun?
Matt: It's smaller than Westruun.
Laura: Well--
Liam: They're better off in Westruun.
Marisha: I'm afraid with each refugee we add to another city, we're only making it a larger target.
Taliesin: Which is why-- (sighs) There is no safe harbor right now.
Marisha: And there's no point in rebuilding--
Taliesin: There is.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Because this is civilization. This is--
Marisha: There's no point in rebuilding right now when there's still three other dragons who will only come and go, 'Stomp, stomp, stomp! Dead!'
Travis: They might.
Taliesin: They might.
Marisha: They. Will.
Taliesin: No, they might. We don't know they will.
Patrick rothfuss: If you were a dragon, what would you do?
Taliesin: I would hit the city where all the refugees are going. Because it would hurt more. I would not hit the city that's going to take 200 years to be a shadow of its former self.
Marisha: Yes, but you're also not a vain dragon who just had one of its allies taken out in this very city. These dragons are going to have a huge vendetta against Westruun now.
Taliesin: I may not have lost an ally, but I am a vain dragon.
Travis: Maybe they will, maybe they won't. How about for those who want to stay, we help build some fortifications. For those who want to leave, we'll protect them on their way there.
Liam: We're at wartime. The people can live underground. For now.
Taliesin: Building will give them something to do. And if the dragon comes back, they will be safe underground. And if the dragon doesn't, we have saved thousands of years of inspiration and life. It's-- you can't just abandon something like this! There's too much here.
Liam: Otherwise, what else are we fighting for?
Taliesin: Otherwise, it becomes our friend Pike from Nowhere.
Travis: That would be bad.
Ashley: That would be bad.
Laura: That would be terrible.
Travis: Scanlan, get their attention.
Sam: Get their attention? All right.
Laura: And Pike, do you want to step up there?
Ashley: Okay. I'll go, I'll go.
Sam: I blow my horn to call the meeting to attention.
Matt: (horn noise) Everyone gets really quiet. The two of you step up onto the platform--
Ashley: (airhorn noises)
Matt: (laughs) It gets quiet. Everyone gets quiet. You hear one voice in the back go, "That's my Pike!" As you immediately look over, you see at the far end is Wilhand, leaping up, trying to get a view between the crowd. Everyone's quiet, looking at the two of you, now on top of this platform. Which puts you just over head height from the rest of the folks, by the way.
Ashley: (stuttering) Hello, everybody from the town.
Sam: I'm doing sign-language interpretation. (laughter)
Ashley: I know I'm not one usually to speak up, but because I know so many of you and some of you are family-- (blows kiss) Um, we-- I'm sure you guys have heard because of the party and festivities from last night, the dragon has been killed.
Matt: There's a cheer (crowd cheers), clapping--
Ashley: And we know that some of you have stayed because if anything else, this is your home.
Matt: Some murmuring.
Ashley: And some of your family has left for Kymal?
Sam: Kymal.
Ashley: Kymal. But we wanted to give you all an option. And for those of you that do want to stay, we would like to provide you with an underground protection of sorts.
Matt: (whispering and murmuring) Whispers through the crowds.
Sam: As we speak, upwards of 40,000 gold are being delivered by your finest men. This, with our help, can help construct a sturdy underground layer that will shelter you if the dragon were to come back. It will take days, possibly weeks to construct this. But if you wanted to stay, this would be your best bet. However, we are not forcing you to do anything. If you would like to go with the fellow refugees to Kymal, or find your fellow citizens scattered about, roving in the lowlands, that would be fine too. We need to come to an agreement today, so that we can help you do what you want.
Matt: One gentleman takes the stage next to you guys, man in his younger 20s, kind of soot smeared on his cheeks. Looks like he's a little weathered by the experience. Even though he looks young and thin, there is a general hardness to his face from recent experiences. He kind of raises up, looking at the both of you, below him: "I, for one, miss my family and have no home to go back to. And the the homes that are empty in this town right now are empty because those who lived there are now dead. There are ghosts here I wish not to see every morning when I wake up. If I'm going to live here, I want to return with those that are important to me and build a new home, over the old. Now is not my time to stay. Especially if more of those things are coming back. If anyone wishes to come with me to Kymal, please, stand with me." And he steps off the stage and make his way to the right side of the stage. Everyone in the crowd looks to each other, and few folks begin filtering off and gathering around him. I'd say about a third to half of the crowd begins to shift over as another person steps up right next to you guys, actually. This is a woman in her late 40s or so. She's wearing relatively nice clothing that's been kind of torn apart through constant use and not really having an option to change into. She looks like she came from money, but has definitely been pulled down to the same level as the rest of the folks here; they're living in destitution out of necessity. Her hair's trying to be pulled up into a bun, but a lot of it is kind of falling around her face, and she's keeping this kind of poor facade of her previous life. And she stands up: "I myself, my family's history is here in this town and I would be remiss if I didn't express my hesitation in leaving that behind, for the next roving horde of barbarians to rush in and take from us while we're away. Especially if this gold is to be retrieved, how do we know how much of that is to be distributed? How much was my family's versus yours? If we're to divide ourselves at this point, we're leaving ourselves open to inner conflict, lest we have a very clear idea where these funds are going. And I, for one, want to make sure I have a home when my family returns. So I'm not leaving. I'm not going to come back here months down the line and find four layabouts living in that home, made a complete mess of our things, and telling us it's now theirs. Those who wish to stay, stand with me." (harrumphs) And she walks offstage, to the side--
Taliesin: I'm going to get up on stage.
Sam: (whispers) You don't live here.
Taliesin: The terrible woman may have a point. (laughter)
Matt: "Thank you. What?"
Taliesin: (sighs) Many of you are going to leave, and that's fair. And that's right, you're free to do so. I wish any of us could promise you safety once you leave this city. But there is no safety anywhere. The dragons fly freely. They may come back and wreak their vengeance upon the rest of Westruun once again. They may not. They may find new, fresh targets. We don't know. (long sigh) We will build an underground haven in case of attack, free of charge. We will make a place that is open to all. Since there seems to be some dispute about the finances, we will create a trust that will be used to help those who stay and help rebuild. It will be managed and it will be fair. And it will not go to titles. If you're properly titled, you'll have money elsewhere, and you'll figure it out. (laughter)
Matt: You hear, "Hmph!"
Taliesin: New money. (laughter)
Sam: Old magic!
Taliesin: Old magic, new money from ivory towers. I would urge you to stay. I would urge you to leave, collect your people and return. I would urge for one city not to be wiped from the map. And anything we can do to make this at least livable while it is rebuilt, we will do our best to help. (sighs) It is such a victory for them if Westruun falls. And I sit back down.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with advantage.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: There is a silence in the crowd and people have stopped shuffling from side to side. Some of the folks on the side of the gentleman began to shift back and people tend to stand up. And even the gentleman who was standing at the opposite side kind of ponders for a moment: "Well, regardless of what happens, we have to get word out. We have to let our loved ones know what has happened, and that it's safe to come back. If you indeed can help us set this about, I'm confident we can keep out of sight. At least, hopefully."
Marisha: I stand up on the podium. Um, sorry. While the terrible man and the terrible woman both absolutely have a point--
Sam: (whispers) He's not that bad.
Taliesin: (whispers) I'm that bad.
Marisha: I look at the man who's off to side. I agree with you that finding your loved ones is most important. I believe we can actually maybe do a little bit of both here and solve both problems. Me, alongside with the help of other magic users, can help quickly build an underground bunker. And I would be willing to help escort any party to Kymal in order to help find your people. Whereas I do agree, to an extent, with Percy that we should not let Westruun fall to this, this city is only as great as its people.
Laura: Woo! Good leadership! (laughter)
Sam: That's definitely Vex.
Matt: Some claps and a few folks kind of agree and nod their heads. The gentleman that you've been talking to kind of looks at you and he's very intently engaged and nodding in agreement.
Marisha: Uh. To Westrunn! Huzzah!?
Laura: Huzzah!
Taliesin: The awkward woman makes a fine point!
Matt: And the people eventually raise their arms, "To Westruun!" "To Westruun!" (laughter)
Matt: The clapping comes together.
Travis: Yeah, football rules!
Taliesin: Pike, do you remember that spell you cast on Greyskull Keep when it got hit by the dragon? The thing you did--
Laura: That was Divine Intervention, I thought.
Taliesin: Was that Divine--?
Matt: No, she summoned a Planar Ally. That one was--
Ashley: To help rebuild?
Taliesin: That was expensive, wasn't it?
Ashley: No.
Matt: That spell was expensive.
Ashley: Yes!
Laura: It was, like, a thousand gold?
Matt: That was Planar Ally--
Ashley: What do you want to rebuild? I mean, underground--
Matt: Depends on how long you want it to stay. So a task measured in hours requires a thousand gold per hour.
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Matt: A task measured in days requires 10,000 gold per day--
Laura: (in alarm) No, no, no!
Matt: Mind you, these entities can do some crazy stuff.
Sam: Yeah. And we have 40,000 more gold coming. That's four days of entities--
Laura: But I don't want to use up all the-- we can do that after things are--
Sam: What else are we going to spend the money on?
Ashley: I can try Divine Intervention again so--
Marisha: We don't want to rebuild a city that's going to be stomped by dragons in another three months!
Ashley: No, just the bunker, right?
Laura: Just the bunker--
Ashley: Not the city.
Laura: No.
Ashley: Keyleth can make the bunker.
Laura: It's fine.
Sam: For hundreds and hundreds of people?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Honestly, if we take a couple days, I can make a pretty extensive--
Taliesin: We're going to use a previously existing sewer system, and we're just going to reinforce it with pillars and then block off any of the sewage and re-route it, since it doesn't have to handle the load that it used to.
Ashley: We're going to build a vault?
Taliesin: We're going to build a vault.
Patrick rothfuss: While they're chatting, I'll step forward and I'll say: we all have a lot to think about. Talk with your friends and neighbors and come to know your own minds. This is a decision that has to be made soon, but not on the spur of the moment. Thank you for coming.
Matt: One man in the front, an old friend of yours, his name is Joseph, puts his hand up, "Kerrek! Of which mind are you? Are you staying or are you going? Are you going to escort, go along as an escort with this woman, or are you staying to protect us? Where you walk, I walk."
Patrick rothfuss: I am going to do what would be best for the town as a whole. I am not sure-- to a certain extent, I'll be led what is needed by the town. If--
Matt: "What we need is a decision."
Sam: If I may, If I may, I'm so sorry, I know everyone's talking here. A city is not just a collection of houses and streets. It is a person of itself. And we can't go dividing it right now. Everyone should stay here. Everyone should be a unit, a cohesive unit. And we: me, Keyleth, and one of your own, Pike, will definitely travel to Kymal to spread the word, if you give us a list of your ancestors, family members, friends, we can get word to all of them very quickly.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: 28.
Matt: Everyone in the crowd seems to nod, and the gentleman kind of nods his head to you, "All right." (laughter)
Taliesin: You're a monster.
Patrick rothfuss: Since you haven't been as present in the community for a while, if I am sure that things are adequately defended here, I might go myself to ensure the proper apportionment of funds and to talk to those of our townsfolk who have already left, and perhaps organize them a little more effectively so that they can return.
Matt: There's a few nods of agreement that spread through the crowd, and actually, the folks on the left side, with the woman that seemed to building tension and arguing amongst themselves over the ideas of that, seem to quiet a bit at you taking up that position. You guys notice this, too; there's a general respect for Kerrek that other folks don't seem to carry in this community. Everyone nods in agreement. "Well, I have no objections!" "Neither do I." The woman on the other side. (huffs) "Well, have no other choice, do we?" Everyone nods, and they look up to the rest of you. Look to you. "Then let's begin building."
Laura: Bunker it is.
Liam: As all that starts to wind down, I ask my sister to point me towards Reginald's daughter.
Laura: Do you see her?
Liam: The one with the nice hair?
Laura: Yeah, that one. And the giant bag of gold.
Liam: I seek her out in the crowd.
Matt: She's still looking up, kind of by herself in the crowd, clapping off to the side as you approach.
Sam: I'm going to hang near him.
Liam: Excuse me, young miss.
Matt: "Yes? Hi."
Liam: I'm sorry. We haven't spoken, but you spoke to my friends. You spoke to my sister. My sister looks very much--
Matt: "I can see the similarity, yes."
Liam: I know the news they delivered to you. I am so sorry for your loss. Your father was very brave at the end. Impressively so, and I want you to know that. I've also recovered his body, and I thought to add him to the pyres that this city did outside the city, but I thought maybe you had a family plot or somewhere you'd prefer him to be laid to rest. I'll gladly take him there for you, or take him with you. Whatever you prefer.
Matt: "I'll come with you. I'd like to see him one last time. We have no family plot. We were meager folk. But he spent most of his life working in that field. I think it's only fitting that's where he spends the rest of his days. Show me." And as you guys begin the building process, she follows you out to the field where she is shown the body of Reginald, and she takes a moment of quiet with him, and cradles his body. But there's a smile on her face, and she says thank you for letting her say goodbye face to face. With your help, you both bring the body back to the farmhouse where you had first met, and you spend the rest of the day interring his body within the hillside that is buttressed against the actual farmland that he tilled.
Liam: To lose a parent before their time is no easy thing. I'm very sorry for you.
Matt: "It's all right. He did good."
Liam: That he did.
Matt: "Let's go ahead and make sure the rest of these folk have more to look forward to, shall we?" She looks at you for a second, and you can see she takes a general scope of your expression and your emotional state, and even for a young girl, she has a stronger insight than you expected, and she puts her arm out and touches your shoulder and says, "You carry too much sadness with you. You've done a lot of good. Let yourself-- Let yourself understand and accept the fact that you've done a lot of good." And she starts walking back towards the town.
Liam: I linger for a bit.
Matt: All right. Now. You guys begin the process of building this subterranean bunker. You take the first day, scanning through as a group, clearing out whatever creatures lurk beneath the city. Nothing of severe threat lies down there to your power level, and you know, what once was a threat to you guys long ago, within the period of a day, you've cleared out a very, very sizable portion of the sewer system. And because it's been empty for quite a while, it's also not in a very terrible state either. I mean, it still needs to be cleaned, but that's also the specialty of those who can control water and air, let alone reinforcing the stonework that keeps the walls themselves sturdy, strong, able to support any heavy weight on the surface. Within the next couple days, you guys continue the reinforcing process. People begin actually moving their supplies down underground and begin taking bits of furniture and elements that would at least make life down there more comfortable, or at least, a ghost image of some of the life they lived above. Because when you're down there, the comforts are what keep you going. But the people seem, as more and more of it comes together, folks genuinely begin to get a little excited at the idea of having a safe place to live for a while. And you feel like this is doing some good for these folks at the very least. Whenever you guys would like to take your journey--
Taliesin: I would like to do a couple things just to the room before we do anything other than this to our houses.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: I would like on one wall to carve the names of every survivor who stayed in the city. And on the other wall start--
Sam: In Draconian.
Taliesin: In Draconian. (laughter)
Taliesin: Terrible person. And on the other wall, start carving in the story of--
Marisha: Those we've lost? That's not what you were going to say.
Taliesin: What we've done to save the city, and where the story, and where the city came from, and what has happened, and make a place where other people, they can start carving in also the history and everything they need to say about the city, just one of the giant walls, I just want to start filling in with stories of the city.
Matt: Okay, and this catches your attention too, because as pragmatic an individual as Percy is, this is a strangely artistic endeavor of his point, at least the intent behind it.
Taliesin: You disagree with my opinions.
Marisha: I don't really agree with immortalizing ourselves in stone--
Taliesin: It's not about us.
Marisha: --way before we're even dead--
Laura: It's not us, Keyleth. It's the history of the town. Perk up, you're driving me crazy. (laughter)
Taliesin: How long do you live?
Marisha: If I complete my journey, it could be upward of a thousand years or more.
Taliesin: How long do you think I live?
Marisha: Less than a hundred? If you're lucky.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: How long?
Taliesin: (sighs) I am Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.
Marisha: No kidding.
Taliesin: My ancestry dates back thousands of years and will continue for thousands more, unless Whitestone falls. I live as long as Whitestone lives. This place is the human soul. This is what we have built with our tiny moments. To lose a place like this, we don't feel it immediately, but it would ruin everyone in small ways.
Marisha: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a name.
Taliesin: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a lifespan.
Marisha: Not many of us are lucky enough to have a lineage at all.
Taliesin: Which is why we save everyone we can.
Marisha: I guess that is one thing we can both agree on.
Taliesin: This is good we're doing here. This is great good. And it's not about idolizing ourselves; it's about a very long story, which we are, even you, a tiny part of.
Matt: At this moment, you look down and notice that, while you guys were having this talk, a small child has walked up to the wall and where Percy has stopped the carving, the child has picked up a piece of wayward chalk that was on the ground and has begun to draw little stick figures on the wall where you stopped. And in a little bit of the quiet, he stops and looks up over his shoulder at the two of you and smiles, and then just goes back to writing on the wall.
Taliesin: He'll outlive you, right there.
Marisha: Yeah, no, you're probably right. Look at him. I guess this little guy is like the moment encapsulated. Hey, bud.
Liam: (kid voice) That's a octopus!
Laura: (kid voice) That's a shark. This is a flower.
Ashley: (kid voice) This a bear!
Taliesin: I give Keyleth a little hug.
Sam: Pikey-pants. Do you want to have gone to Kymal? Or do you want to have stayed and helped?
Ashley: Didn't you volunteer me to help?
Sam: I volunteered you to come with me to Kymal.
Ashley: I'll go with you to Kymal.
Travis: I'll come along to chaperone. No, I'm kidding.
Sam: You can.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, so these two things are happening simultaneously?
Marisha: Are these two things happening simultaneously?
Matt: This is up to you guys. The Kymal journey--
Laura: It's a couple days.
Sam: A couple days and back.
Matt: Well, not according to druidic spells.
Sam: Oh yeah. You could bamf us there.
Matt: Which is what I assumed you were referring to about instantaneous travel.
Taliesin: At some point we should put a teleport circle in this, down here.
Laura: That would probably be smart.
Matt: Well, you would have to contact an arcane practitioner.
Taliesin: Somebody else is going to do this. We've got shit to do.
Ashley: Let's bamf in.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Marisha: So we're all going to go?
Matt: If you would like to.
Laura: I'm going to stay and help build.
Matt: Okay. So, Scanlan, Pike, and Keyleth, you're going with them?
Marisha: I guess so. You guys are going to need me to get back.
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: Unless I can get you there, and then you can walk back. Fly there, walk back. Or you can--
Taliesin: Teleport.
Ashley: Can you fly?
Sam: I can fly.
Marisha: I can mist form us, and then we can get there in how many hours?
Matt: Mist form, you'd get there in under a day.
Marisha: Teleporting is more fun.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Taliesin: Teleport them there, and then they can get back on their own.
Sam: Yeah, we can get back on our own. It's two days.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: They just killed a dragon, they'll be fine. What's a bandit going to do?
Marisha: Have fun, you gnomes! (magic crackle)
Matt: All right. She finds one of the surface trees just outside of the sewage system. As she touches her hands to its bark, the bark cracks and splits open, revealing the doorway behind it, about five foot of internal wood tunnel leads to an opposing side that opens into what immediately is a tent city on the outside walls of Kymal. You guys quickly step through with the moments you have before the portal slams shut.
Marisha: High five! High five!
Sam: Nope.
Marisha: Asshole.
Matt: You do get a little tag from Pike right before it shuts.
Marisha: Yeah! Scanlan, you suck! (laughter)
Matt: You guys are now standing on the outside of a small cluster of trees outside of Kymal. The mountain range behind it, you can see, there are hundreds and hundreds of people that are displaced in the outside of the city in tents.
Patrick rothfuss: Before-- because assuming it's been, it sounds like a couple of days, if there's walls and artistry happening, have the wagons gotten back?
Matt: They have, actually, yes.
Patrick rothfuss: And if there are those resources, and I know that this trip is happening, I've got to go across and make sure that my people aren't dying of dysentery.
Sam: You're coming?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Sam: Great. (coughing) Third wheel. Trying to get some action here. (laughter)
Matt: There's a high five tag to Keyleth as Pike jumps through, and before it slams shut, Kerr goes, "Wait!" and jumps through after.
Sam: No, this is great. It's great to have an old dude with us also.
Ashley: I do think it's great!
Liam: Two old dudes.
Ashley: There's so much that I wanted to talk to you about, Kerr! I'm so glad that you came along!
Sam: (grumbles) (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: There's important work to be done here.
Ashley: There is very important work to be done, and I feel like we all need to focus on that, and get down to the nitty-gritty of it, you know?
Liam: I think your nitty-gritty might be different from somebody else's nitty-gritty. (laughter)
Ashley: Let's go, let's walk!
Sam: Let's go spread the good word about Westruun, and the great things happening in sewers there.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to make your way from tent to tent, finding individuals, many of which you recognize. Some have recognition of you, and there's a brief little discussion of what's happened, what's transpired, and you tell them of the fall of Umbrasyl, of the herd being sundered and sent westward, and making sure, as Scanlan would, that Vox Machina is responsible.
Sam: Yes. And that it rhymes.
Matt: Indeed. There is no central guidance here. The Margrave Tumner Wann, who runs Kymal, does occasionally come out to check up on people. It's not like they're being kept out of the city forcefully. There's just no room for them. They've taken in as many refugees as they can, and then everyone else on the outside is being helped to the best of their ability, but they're very thin on resources. They've sent trade wagons out to Stillben, even southward, they sent some over into the Verdant Expanse to hopefully trade with Syngorn. There have been people that have been trying to help where they can. However, most of the people outside are still beginning to starve a little bit. A lot of the beasts of burden have been converted into food out of necessity, so there's a lot of empty carts and wagons around. People are in this holding pattern, waiting to hear any news. And the news that you bring does bring hope to the eyes of those that do speak with you.
Sam: At some point in our journey I excuse myself for ten minutes, drink my last shit-scrying potion. Poop out a little loaf. (laughter)
Sam: Take a tiny bit in it, wrap it in a little bit of parchment, stick it in the secret compartment of the hilt of the sword.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The scabbard, yeah.
Taliesin: You should name the sword Number Two. (laughter)
Sam: I like it.
Matt: The classiest of magic practitioners, Scanlan Shorthalt. You do so. Like spackling a wall, you fill the compartment affixed within the scabbard without issue.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Shove that dingleberry in there.
Taliesin: Fresh blueberry sherbet.
Matt: Anyway.
Sam: All right, so we've spread the good word. Are people going to travel back, do you think?
Matt: Many folks are now considering returning. Some folks speak of another group of people that are over by the Foramere Basin. They're going to go ahead and send people over there to give word. Some people are asking to see if their family members are okay, and you don't know everyone's name there, but you tell them there are survivors. Most of the people you talk to are intent on returning, because this living situation is only going to be so good for so long.
Sam: I hope we're not sentencing them to death.
Taliesin: To be fair, the town you're currently in could be gone next week.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: Either way.
Patrick rothfuss: I know what's needed back there. I've got access to money. They have wagons and labor. I know most of the people in town, so I'm not going to do it myself, but I know who-- honestly, anyone who runs a farm is a better organizer than any modern small business owner.
Matt: This is very true.
Patrick rothfuss: So I will talk to a few of these old, capable farmer types and say, okay, here's the money. You know how to bargain. Do your business, and we can get together and we'll head back all together. As soon as you can get everyone together and all that. Also, I'll put somebody in charge of making sure that we're bringing in food, and I'll do a scan around and make sure that people literally aren't dying of dysentery. That they have a clean well and all of that stuff.
Matt: Yeah. I mean, there is disease, as tends to happen when you have people who are displaced and clustered like that in sub-par living conditions, but no major pandemics that are kicking through the people there. The people who are sick are being tended to, and there are people who are medically practiced, or at least herbalists and such, that can help with that. You find a slight group of trustworthy individuals that you know would do well and understand the process, and with the mere inclusion of a few thousand gold, would be more than enough to be able to purchase from the interior of Kymal enough oxen, horses, and other beasts to bring most of the current carts back with you. That was the only real barrier, because Kymal was like, "We can't help you guys for free." Now there's gold, people are like, "Oh! Well, let's talk." Charity only goes so far. But you do feel through this trip that you've definitely made an impact, and most of the people, at least over the next week or so, will be outfitted with the proper materials, food for the journey, and be able to make their way back towards Westruun.
Sam: And I will also go to look for Dr. Dra and Kaylie at some point.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Ashley: I'll go with him.
Sam: 27.
Matt: Okay. As you walk with him, within mere hours, almost like you picked up the scent on a hunt, you see a glimmer of short, dark hair, and you glance over, and sure enough, there is Kaylie, who is currently holding over her shoulder Dr. Dranzel, who is limping alongside her.
Sam: Oh God! Is he okay?
Matt: You can go and ask.
Sam: I'll go and ask!
Matt: They're walking across the street. They haven't noticed you yet.
Sam: Oi! Shorthalt!
Matt: There's a stop, and Kaylie turns her head.
Sam: Hi.
Matt: She drops Dranzel's arm and rushes forward and gives you a hug. And then lets go after a second and pushes away. "Glad to see you survived. That's good."
Sam: You, too. How's he?
Matt: "He's got a foot infection, nothing too great to look about." You look down and his left foot is all swollen. He's like, "I've had worse!"
Sam: Pike has healed feet before.
Ashley: May I?
Matt: "Please. Be my guest." As the half-orc grins with his hat still floppy on his head, he presents his horrible foot that gives off a delightful smell of putrescence.
Sam: While she works on him, I'm going to take Kaylie off to the side.
Matt: It's easy enough for you to cleanse elements of disease with minor healing. We'll say for the purposes of this, through a couple of low-level spells you're able to pretty much take care of his foot entirely. He's like, "That's incredible! I mean, if you ever need a traveling troupe, we're always looking for someone to keep us on the up and up! Can you cure hangovers?"
Ashley: I can.
Matt: "Well, hang with me, young Pike!" While this is happening, you turn to Kaylie.
Sam: I'm so happy that you are alive and safe, and I came a great distance to do other things, but mainly to see you, and I just wanted to say a few things before I go off to complete my mission. You know, I know I'm not the father that you wanted, but I'm the father that you have, and I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell you that I've been doing a lot of thinking about you, and me, and where I fit in to the life of a family man. Most of my adult life, I've been longing for a gnome to care for, and I met a really good one, and she's here and her name is Pike. And she's beautiful and wonderful, and possibly my soulmate, but I've learned that she's not my family and never will be. You're the gnome that I'm to care for forever, and I'm doing something very stupid now with my friends. We're going to try to save the world. And I didn't know why, but now I know, and if we die doing it, it will be for a good thing, and if we don't, then, well, I'll find you, and I'll be whatever kind of father you need me to be. One who's close and helpful.
Matt: She shushes you. Puts her finger up and shushes you, then steps up and looks at you. The hardness in her face softens, and there is a little bit of tears gathering at the edge of her eyes when she says, "Don't you die. You stay alive."
Sam: I don't intend to. But you know, I was just inside a--
Matt: "You're. Not. Going. To die. You're going to go do your stupid world-saving mission like you told me, and you're going to come back, and we're going to have a lot to talk about."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "All right. Can you do that for me?"
Sam: I promise you. I promise you.
Matt: "I'll hold you to that."
Sam: Well, you do the same, all right? Stay safe. I got you a present. It's a ring. It's a beautiful ring because you're a beautiful girl, and I'd like you to keep it.
Matt: She takes it and looks at it and goes, "Are you sure this wasn't for someone else?"
Sam: No. Never.
Matt: She puts it on.
Sam: And you're also strong, and you'll need this sword. And I give her my Singing Dawn Blade, which has a unique little imperfection at the bottom of it, and I say, this sword has killed a king, which makes it almost worthy enough for you. I hope that it keeps you safe until I can see you again.
Matt: "I don't know what to say. I'll start with thank you. Well, I feel pretty well protected."
Sam: Okay. Get out of here. If you can, try to make your way to Vasselheim. There's three more dragons, and it'll be a while before I kill them all.
Matt: "I don't know, you've done quite a bit of work in even these past few weeks. Vasselheim. I'll talk it over with the doctor. See what he's interested in. You promised."
Sam: Gnome's honor.
Matt: She reaches up and grabs your shirt and gives you a kiss on the forehead. And then pushes you away and says, "Get out of my fucking face." Turns around and walks back towards Dr. Dranzel.
Sam: All right, Pike, I'm done.
Ashley: Okay!
Matt: "But she's not done! You're sticking with us, right?"
Ashley: I don't think I can.
Matt: "Oh, I know. I'm just-- I try."
Ashley: But you guys are headed to-- Where are you headed to? Where are you going to go?
Matt: "I don't know! I figure we can-- based on what we're hearing around here, folks are heading back to Westruun. They probably need some cheering up on the road. From there, who knows? Actually, I've never been to Marquet before, but I'm thinking--" At this point, Kaylie comes up and goes, "Let's have a talk. I'm feeling a bit of religion coming on. Perhaps we should look further west. Northwest. Vasselheim. Not a lot of music in those parts. They'll be willing to pay for that, I assume." He's like, "Vasselheim? It's cold there, isn't it? Let's get some furs." They both start walking away from you guys.
Ashley: Before they go, I just reach out my hand and introduce myself to Kaylie. I've heard many lovely things about you.
Matt: She looks at you guardedly and takes your hand. "As I've heard of you. He made a promise."
Ashley: I'll make sure that he keeps it.
Matt: "Thank you." They keep walking. So, with the money dispersed, the group having a returning sense of hope, with materials, goods, food being redistributed amongst the refugees, it appears there is a direction for the future of Westruun that you've set into place. As you guys gather the rest of your things, Keyleth, you take an evening's rest with the troupe, and the next morning return back to Westruun.
Liam: Something I wanted to do last night. In all the hubbub that's going on in Westruun, I spend some time to find my sister, and I wanted to stealth up on her.
Matt: Easy enough to do while they're out and about taking their rest with the group in Kymal, while you guys are still helping rebuilding. So yes, go ahead and make a stealth check.
Laura: I'm just reading these names on this wall!
Liam: 20.
Matt: What's your passive perception?
Laura: 21.
Sam: Oh, shit!
Matt: You hear a few very, very faint, very familiar steps come across the stones behind you.
Laura: I pretend like I don't hear them.
Liam: Stubby! And I pull her into a big fat hug. Your hair looks like shit, sit down. I start braiding it.
Laura: I love you too.
Liam: Elaina would be proud of you. I'm proud of you.
Laura: That's worth more.
Liam: Saved my life again.
Laura: Did I?
Liam: I crawled out through an arrow hole.
Laura: (laughs) I saw this little lump squirming. I thought it was probably you. Tiny little you.
Liam: There's a bit of chicken here.
Laura: Oh, ow!
Liam: One day at a time, right?
Laura: One day at a time. Ow!
Liam: There.
Matt: All right. As you guys spend the next few days together, forming what is a fairly functional stronghold, for at least the necessary needs of protecting a fair amount of refugees beneath the northern area of Westruun, you feel confident that with the folks that are here and the folks that are coming, there's enough of a community building now where it may not be absolutely necessary for your perpetual oversight and presence, should you have business elsewhere. Anything else you wish to take care of before you continue your journey?
Taliesin: I have a small package and letter that I want to deliver to Kerr before we leave, but other than that.
Sam: A Kerr package?
Taliesin: Yes. I was hoping, I was really hoping, someone would say that.
Laura: I would like to pull Kerr aside and say, you know these people here, they're a bit lost, and they need a leader.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, they absolutely do. We'll see if we can find them one.
Laura: I'm looking at one that would be wonderful. Just something to think about.
Patrick rothfuss: I've thought about it. But no. But you're very kind. You know, over-- How long has this been going on?
Matt: You're going on the better part of two weeks since the initial dragon attack. A little over two weeks, maybe, by now.
Patrick rothfuss: One thing that I'll make a point of doing is, while a lot of this is going on and I'm seeing what they're really capable of, in terms of reshaping everything, I'll spend a little bit of time at her shoulder. We'll talk, maybe a little bit, or not. Depending on what she's in the mood for. And the general gist of it is, you know, that it takes a long time, doing the stuff like this. You're making something. And sometimes it doesn't seem to balance out that scale very well, but that's all you can do. And sometimes all you can do is be around for people while they make things, because you can't do everything.
Marisha: Well, Kerr, I'm certainly glad that you showed up in my life, in this time, when I am building this-- whatever the hell this is. Thank you.
Taliesin: We've made you something, if you will accept it. We pull out a small wooden box that we put together.
Marisha: I put some Ashari decorative stuff around it.
Matt: So the box itself is wooden, but there is fresh, living ivy curled across it with a few bursts of beautiful red flowers on each side.
Marisha: Totally. What's the flower of Westruun?
Matt: The flower of Westruun would actually be the white iris, which grows around the western side of it.
Marisha: Beautiful. It's covered in white irises.
Taliesin: You sick fuck. You're amazing.
Laura: Oh, the white iris. No big deal. It's the white iris.
Taliesin: Talk Westruun to me.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll--
Sam: Spring snakes!
Taliesin: Too soon! Inside is a scrolled parchment, a wooden bracelet, and a metal circlet. (water bottle falls off the table loudly)
Sam: Spring snakes!
Taliesin: Trying to have a moment, thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: Have I got the first clue?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: The parchment will explain everything and how to use them, but this circlet and this bracelet will help make you a champion that can help protect this city now. And should the need arise, this circlet will give you control of the body of a creature that will help.
Marisha: His name's Fassbender. And he's got an awesome mustache. And the bracelet's kind of just a bracelet, but I made it. It might be a friendship bracelet.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll put that on.
Marisha: It might say "friendship" in Ashari.
Taliesin: The circlet will, if anything, if the need ever arises, it will be something that will help protect the city. The scroll will explain the particulars.
Marisha: If you go up by the funeral pyres, where we set the trap, you'll find him.
Taliesin: I've already moved him.
Marisha: Percy will tell you where he is.
Taliesin: It's in the scroll.
Marisha: Just read the directions.
Matt: As you read the scroll, glance over it, and you may have seen this entity walking in their vicinity once or twice during the time you met them. It is a 12 foot tall stone golem. It is explained in this that with the use of this circlet, you have control over this creature.
Patrick rothfuss: The people of this town are-- you know that they're grateful. The problem is, for some of you, they may not be able to say that in a way that you can hear right now. But know that they are, and know that they will be for a long time. And if I have anything to say about it, it will be a very, very long time. So thank you. Thank you for them, and thank you for me.
Marisha: I give Kerr a big hug.
Patrick rothfuss: Free hug!
Taliesin: I watch awkwardly.
Matt: You do. As you guys break your hug, you look down.
Marisha: I'm going to miss you, Kerr.
Patrick rothfuss: Well.
Marisha: No, it's okay, you don't have to say it back.
Patrick rothfuss: You know where I am. It could be that I will see you before too long. Some of us have more time than others, of course.
Marisha: I'm sure I will see you at some point later.
Matt: As you step away and turn back to the wall, which is mostly done carving with the names and the story bits you and Percy have been working on during this time, that child has returned, and is still drawing with the chalk, and as you look down at the stick figures, you can see one with antlers, two that are smaller than the others, one that is larger than the rest, burlier, thicker around the chest, one that you can barely see, and one that flies across them all on a broom. And then, at the very end, just finishing, one with funny glasses. The kid stands up and looks at it once and goes, "It's done!" And then runs off.
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: I just take a little piece of chalk and I add Trinket right on the other side.
Matt: Much better drawn than the rest of them.
Laura: Almost perfect. Almost perfect.
Taliesin: I can be right every now and then.
Marisha: I hate you.
Matt: (laughs) So what's your next step?
Sam: We have more Vestiges to get. An airship to steal.
Taliesin: Yes!
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Please?
Ashley: Vasselheim?
Liam: I have to go to Vasselheim.
Laura: Vasselheim is so far away, and the Feywild is so very close.
Marisha: I have to go to the water tribe of the Ashari.
Travis: The Feywild is close.
Liam: I have to go to Vasselheim now, and I will go on my own if I have to.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: Oh, that's why.
Matt: You have many avenues at your disposal. You have to come up with some central choice here. There's also Whitestone, which you guys haven't been to in a while yet to check in with anybody. There's definitely where all the Vestiges are currently held. There is all those locations. So what is your next step in the journey?
Marisha: Why do you need to go back to Vasselheim? Right now?
Liam: I'm not done with her.
Ashley: I think I know why he needs to go back to Vasselheim.
Travis: Why?
Ashley: It's not my place to say.
Liam: I have to go now. Whether it's just me-- Pike, I would be grateful if you would go with me.
Laura: Well, I'm going with you, too.
Liam: I don't think that this is somewhere that you can go with me.
Laura: Vasselheim? I've been there.
Liam: Yes, you can go to Vasselheim, but what I have to do there, I don't want you to have any part of it. Just this. Just this one thing.
Laura: Well, then I'll go to Vasselheim and I'll wait outside.
Liam: I need you.
Ashley: I take him and I pull him aside. I know that you've been avoiding me. And I just have to say, I don't know who this-- I don't know who or what this Raven Queen is, and I think that's what scares me the most. But I know if you're choosing a life of faith or whatever you want this to be, I'm happy for you.
Liam: I take her by the hand and I pull her further away. Much further away. Did the others tell you what happened in the tomb? In the sunken tomb?
Ashley: I'm getting bits and pieces.
Liam: I have been avoiding you. Percival-- There was a trap, and Vex'ahlia-- I almost lost Vex'ahlia, and a woman appeared. Not a woman. A god appeared. She appeared, and I did something. I tried to save my sister. I did something stupid. I tried to bargain. I didn't even fucking want the armor that I'm wearing right now! I didn't want it. I don't think I've ever told you how much I admire you.
Ashley: Vax.
Liam: I always have. You have a kindness about you that comes with such ease and honesty. You have always carried a light. Her light. I think, you know, I admire everyone in our band of misfit toys, but you most of all, and when you left, we all noticed its absence. All of us. I think I wanted to find it again for myself. Hers. Your benefactor. I felt Her, and I told myself that when you came back, I was going to come to you and I was going to learn from you, and follow you and follow Her. As soon as you came back. And like so many things that I reach for in this life, it slipped through my fingers, and I've gone and painted myself into a corner. I can't anymore. And I think when I saw you, it was just a reminder of what I lost. I'm sorry for avoiding you.
Ashley: Don't be sorry. I understand now. And I don't think that you're lost in any way. I think if you felt in some way that this is who you've needed to follow, then follow her.
Liam: Well, the bottom line is I couldn't walk away if I wanted to, because I know that I would lose my sister. But I don't want to anymore. We've all been close to death, all of us, and now I'm just a little bit closer. It took me a bit, but maybe we're not meant to be happy. I don't know.
Ashley: I don't think that's true.
Liam: Well, I don't know. But I know that I can be of use.
Ashley: You can be, and you are of use. I'm not the type of person who would ever say that you have to choose and follow who I follow, but I will tell you now that if the Raven Queen fucks with you, or hurts you, or doesn't change you for the better, then she's going to have to deal with me, and we're going to have a problem. But as of right now, I love you, Vax. It is going to be fine, and I am here for you, no matter what, and you can talk to me any time. Don't be ashamed or embarrassed.
Liam: I was. I'm doing better.
Ashley: Okay. Don't be ashamed. And turn that frown upside down.
Liam: It would help if you stayed around.
Ashley: I will do my best. Sometimes people call, and sometimes I just have to go to do work. (laughter)
Ashley: But maybe you'll discover that with the Raven Queen. Maybe she'll take you to jobs and you just have to go.
Sam: Prime Time.
Ashley: But I adore you. Okay?
Liam: I was all kinds of fucked up a couple of weeks ago.
Ashley: Well, you are all kinds of fucked up all the time, and that's why we love you. We're all all kinds of fucked up, and that's why we all are together.
Sam: I walk by, eating chicken and wearing no pants.
Ashley: See? And I give him a slap on his bare ass as he walks by. You okay? You will be.
Liam: Ish.
Ashley: Ish. That's all we can be, is ish. Okay?
Liam: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: To the Feywild!
Matt: To where?
Sam: He needs a destination.
Matt: What is your next plan of action?
Liam: I'm going to Vasselheim.
Sam: God damn it. To Vasselheim!
Laura: To Vasselheim, then.
Taliesin: If emo elf is going to Vasselheim, we're going to Vasselheim.
Liam: You can go. I can catch up.
Travis: You can't go by yourself.
Sam: Well, we have the rocks. We could send a rock with him.
Laura: That's fucking stupid. I'm going. I wouldn't let him go to Vasselheim.
Travis: We're all going to Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I have things I can do in Vasselheim.
Liam: It's the only bastion of standing civilization left.
Sam: Is Feywild on the way?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No, it's in the opposite direction. It's south of here.
Matt: The Feywild is ever-present, technically. It's another plane.
Sam: Oh, let's go on the way. It's like on the way, practically.
Laura: No, we know an entrance to the Feywild in the Frostweald.
Matt: There are many doors to the Feywild throughout the world. You just only know one.
Sam: Let's just let Vax go by himself.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No, there's actually things that can be done in Vasselheim.
Marisha: I pull Vax aside.
Travis: Christ.
Liam: Hey, you had two hours to beat the shit out of a goliath! Sit tight, buddy.
Sam: I pull Kerr aside.
Laura: I pull Grog aside.
Taliesin: I walk away.
Liam: Catch phrase! Catch phrase! Meme! Tweet tweet tweet!
Matt: All right, so. As Keyleth pulls you aside.
Marisha: Do you want to go alone? Do you want to go by yourself? Because if you want to go by yourself, say something, and we'll let you go. If you think this is something you need to do by yourself.
Liam: I'm actually scared shitless, and I would like Pike and you to go with me. I would like my sister not to go anywhere near her. That's what I would like, and that's it. You and Pike.
Marisha: Then say something.
Liam: I did.
Marisha: No, you didn't.
Liam: Hey, I'd like to go to Vasselheim, Pike. Keyleth, can you open up a hole in a tree? We can go quick. Everyone can go to Vasselheim. There's just a specific place in Vasselheim that I need to go. And I love you, but I just don't want you to be a part of it. You either hang out with Grog, or stay outside, okay?
Laura: Fine.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: To Vasselheim!
Marisha: To Vasselheim.
Taliesin: To outside a building in Vasselheim.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: To a far wooded area where magic is permissible, outside of Vasselheim.
Matt: Divine magic is permissible. The essence of pulling magic beyond the powers. It's the arcane practitioning that is frowned upon. It's not illegal. It's just generally frowned upon.
Taliesin: It's rude.
Matt: But yes, as you step back to the surface beyond the subterranean personnel bunker that is now the sewage system of Westruun, you find yourself at a nearby tree. The doorway opens, and you all dart through into the cold, snow-dappled, cobbled streets of Vasselheim. And that's where we'll end tonight's game. Picking up next week, at that moment. Thank you guys so much, that was a great session! Dude, Patrick, thank you so much for joining us!
Marisha: Patrick, my new best friend!
Laura: Thanks, Kerr Bear!
Patrick rothfuss: Thanks so much for having me. I've been a fan for a long time. It was a real treat.
Matt: Dude, our pleasure, man. Thanks for coming.
Ashley: As we have been of you.
Marisha: Kerr Bear Share!
Laura: And thanks, Loot Crate!
Matt: And thanks Loot Crate, for deciding to sponsor us again! And thank you guys for being so supportive of us having sponsors now! It's really, really helpful.
Travis: Use the link! Show your Critter power!
Marisha: It makes us feel like we're a grown up show now.
Taliesin: We're a real Twitch stream!
Marisha: We're a real Twitch stream with sponsors!
Patrick rothfuss: Is it gauche if I mention a thing that's going on?
Matt: Yes, please, go for it!
Sam: What are you, a sellout? Come on, man.
Patrick rothfuss: There's a subtle difference between selling and selling out.
Matt: Exactly. You're fine.
Patrick rothfuss: And I'm constantly pushing that border. I run a charity called World Builders, and we raise money to support various charities. We rally the geek community, and right now we're running our midseason fundraiser. It's an Indiegogo with a bunch of cool things that geeks might like. We teamed up with Rat Queens. We're doing a T-shirt for them. If you're a fan of the Dresden Files, we've got a T-shirt based on Harry Dresden and those books. We've got a T-shirt based on my books. We've got, literally, there's 40 items there, a bunch of different cool geekery of various sorts. For those of you that have read The Slow Regard of Silent Things, they pulled off a foxen night light. It looks beautiful. I should've brought the prototype so I could show it to you. I should've brought the prototype, but it turned out so good.
Laura: I'm going to look it up.
Patrick rothfuss: The thing is, it only lasts for four more days. This is just a weeklong fundraiser. You can get coffee, you can get hoodies, you can get a bunch of these things, and all the money goes to charity. If you're interested, swing on by and take a peek at what we've got. If there's any of my people in the Twitch stream, which I'm guessing there are, you can throw a link up there so other people can see it.
Taliesin: What's that web address again?
Patrick rothfuss: If you search on worldbuilders.org, that's our main web page. This fundraiser in particular is happening on Indiegogo.
Laura: Plus there's a link in your Twitter account, right?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, I've been talking about it in my Twitter account, and I do occasionally Twitch stream, too, and I throw up the link there as well.
Matt: And what is your Twitter account, just so folks know?
Patrick rothfuss: @patrickrothfuss, just all together.
Matt: Perfect. Fantastic. Thank you guys again, a great session tonight, and yeah. I guess we'll see you guys in a week. Until then, we ask ourselves: Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. We are back after a week hiatus in which we were at San Diego Comic-Con! (cheering)
Matt: We are recovering, some more than others, from Comic-Con. But we had a great time. Fantastic turnout. It was great to meet all those wonderful Critters that got out there, you guys were awesome. The panels were sufficiently ridiculous. And yeah, it was a good time had by all. If you weren't there, I know Geek and Sundry put up the panels, the videos from the panels up on the website, geekandsundry.com, so you can check them out there. Speaking of cool events, we're actually going to be at GenCon next week.
Sam: What?
Matt: I know, it's crazy! I am at a series of panels all throughout the weekend, many of them voiceover-related.
Laura: Because you're special.
Matt: Because my manager got to them first. (laughter)
Matt: We're going to have signings I believe on Friday, or is it Friday or Saturday?
Laura: Saturday.
Matt: Saturday, we'll have signings--
Marisha: In which we have a new poster.
Laura: It is exclusive to GenCon, the same way we did our exclusive for New York Comic-Con poster last year.
Marisha: Also designed by Joma, aka @ForgingMeanings on Twitter. So yeah, it's our next iteration of our box art poster.
Travis: Whoa! It is sexy!
Marisha: The advanced edition, y'all.
Matt: Yeah. I will say that the last poster was based heavily on the Underdark arc and the coming battle with K'Varn. This one has to do with a later arc in the story. So there's that coming up, we're excited about that, and then we have our Critical Role live show that Saturday at 8pm Eastern Time.
Sam: Tickets are still available online, post the link right now in the chat, someone, please. (laughter)
Travis: That's going to be some insane audience.
Matt: We'd love to see you guys. Partially because we don't get out to the middle eastern side of the US as often as we'd like, and this is our first time at GenCon, which has been my gaming mecca for so long. Should be a fun way to roll it in. So come check in the next chapter that'll continue after tonight's episode, at GenCon, and hope to see you there. We have our sponsor tonight for this episode of Critical Role, returning favorite in Backblaze, who previously popped in to say hello. Sam, if you want to say a few words.
Sam: Backblaze is back, everybody. I've already composed a song about it. It goes like this: (singing) Everybody, yeah. Backup your data, yeah. Upload your local files to an encrypted cloud-based backup storage system, yeah. Backblaze back, all right! (speaking) That was good!
Matt: That was a thing that happened.
Sam: Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs, PCs, for just $5 a month. You can back up your fanart there, your fanfiction, the dirty stuff, photos, videos, drawings, documents, it's everything. I actually use this service. My stuff is continually uploading to the cloud and I always know it's there for when my hard drive crashes, they'll send you a new one in the mail--
Travis: They'll mail you one?
Sam: They can mail you one. It's all kinds of crazy options.
Liam: Think of the gigs of erotica that could just exist out there.
Sam: And Critters get a fully-featured 15-day free trial at backblaze.com/criticalrole. So go check it out, keep that song in the back of your mind when you do. (laughter)
Sam: And they also made a little commercial for us.
Laura: Oh yeah, I just love them so much.
Marisha: I know, it's so great.
Matt: Well cool, thank you very much, Sam.
Sam: Do you want to hear the song again? (groaning)
Travis: Can we please? I'll give you some of my beef and broccoli.
Laura: It smells really good.
Matt: Next item  for anyone who wants any of the information about our GenCon panels events and signings and such, you can go to geekandsundry.com/CRLiveGenCon16.
Laura: That's long. It should be in the chat room.
Matt: Should be in the chat room, check it out, definitely go there. And tonight is the last night for you guys to pre-order the Critter-designed T-shirt, the Chroma Conclave shirt that you guys voted for that won our design contest.
Sam: Twice. It won it twice.
Laura: It's beautiful.
Matt: So if you're interested in grabbing that, tonight's your last night, and you should just do it now. Soon. Do we have anything else we wish to announce, anything else creeping up?
Laura: Travis and I are seeing Hamilton this weekend. What?
Travis: It is an announcement. We're seeing Hamilton on Saturday.
Liam: Is there any other shitty bragging anyone else would like to do?
Travis: Javier Muoz and I are going to be best friends, and then I'm going to go to dinner with George Washington. I'm going to shave his head. It's going to be awesome.
Matt: You have this all planned out.
Laura: Yeah, we really do. He's written some fanfiction about it. You just wait.
Matt: Which you can save on your Backblaze account. (laughter)
Travis: It's there!
Matt: Indeed. All right then, that being the case, let us dive into the insanity of the Feywild in tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody. So. Getting us into the story for this evening, the backstory of the current episode. Vox Machina, in attempting to find ways to topple and destroy the Chroma Conclave, have found their way around the world seeking items called the Vestiges of Divergence, artifacts of great power that should aid them in their attempt to take down Thordak the Cinder King, the red dragon who now sits lording over the central town of Emon at the center of Tal'Dorei. Their recent journey has brought them into the Feywild, a pseudo-parallel plane of fey magic, chaos, and all sorts of goodness in between. They've wandered through, met an old friend in Nala, the nymph of the lake. Discovered a fantastically artistically talented satyr by the name of Garmelie, and had a trip to the city of Syngorn, the elven city from Tal'Dorei which had phased into this realm for safety when the dragons of the Conclave attacked. After a fateful re-meeting with the parents of Vex and Vax, discussions were had, hats were attempted to be stolen by the leader of the city and successfully done so. The other half of agreements were pseudo-achieved.
Taliesin: Read your contract.
Matt: And they made their way northward through the ever-shifting grasses to the outskirts of the Moonbrush, a heavy, heavy, forested wood that will lead them to their destination after that, which is the Gilded Run, a series of rivers that wrap around their final destination, the Shademirk Bog, where apparently this Vestige exists. So. Diving in where we were. The last time, you guys had managed to wander a few hours into the southern portion of the forest of the Moonbrush. Coming through, you realize that, as opposed to the rest of the Feywild you've encountered so far, which exists in a perpetual dusk, there is an actual starry sky and moonlight poking through of a full moon at portions of the canopy of this forest. Cruising ever forward, you stumbled upon what looked like some sort of a cave or cavern with a series of small stone and wooden trinkets and gifts that were left outside, as well as carved bones and rotting fruits, and you came to realize that these were probably left for the spiritual entity that lived and existed within this cavern. Upon some of these gifts being disturbed, the bear attacked, and Vex'ahlia summoned forth Trinket, her faithful companion bear. A battle took place, putting Trinket in a difficult position, but upon a brief discussion with this spirit bear, had proven himself a worthy entity, and was bestowed a boon, further solidifying the bond between Vex'ahlia and her faithful companion, Trinket. And that was where we left off.
Sam: Didn't you just get some card or something right at the end of--
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Sam: Did we know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Taliesin: It was a free $50 coupon for Lyft.
Laura: What I'm really excited about is that card was at the live show, and it is not in my stuff right now, but I did.
Matt: She reaches for the necklace around her neck, which is suddenly not there.
Laura: No! I do, however, still have my title.
Travis: You guys are still by yourselves, right? You two?
Marisha: Are Vex and I still separated?
Matt: No, the trees have relaxed, the canopy has reopened above the small clearing, and the rest of the party, you can now see Vex on her back on the ground, Trinket standing over her towards the cavern, and Keyleth pulled back, looking a bit shocked and confused.
Marisha: And is Oralan still there? Is that his name?
Matt: The bear spirit? The bear spirit, upon passing through Vex and Trinket, then dissipated into a spark of naturalized druidic magic and vanished.
Marisha: So we're alone?
Matt: You are now alone in the center of that clearing.
Sam: Oh my gods, what just happened? (laughter)
Laura: Everything's under control. We're alive.
Sam: I heard growling. Did the bear try to kill you? I mean Trinket.
Laura: No, yeah, Trinket tried to kill me, but don't worry, everything's fine.
Marisha: Really glad you learned how to speak with animals.
Laura: Me too! Keyleth, can you open up the trees so our friends can get in?
Marisha: Who? Our what? Who?
Laura: Aren't we blocked off?
Matt: The trees have laxed and reopened.
Laura: I was busy looking for my card. And I found it. Hi guys, my name is Vex'ahlia. Cool, yes, we're good. Can I search for that tea set that I tried to give him?
Sam: Tea set? What just happened?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Cool. Balls. Off to a good start.
Taliesin: I'd like to take a look in the cave as well a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Okay, yeah, it takes you a little bit, about ten minutes or so. Parts of it got scattered and lost amongst the rest of the objects left around, but you manage to reassemble your collection of tea accessories.
Laura: Yeah, cool, it was a golden cursed tea set.
Travis: Nobody else is concerned about the commotion that happened behind the trees, and we're all just like "Hi." What happened?
Laura: There was a big fucking bear. You might actually not want to look in that cave, because it came out of there and it was rather angry when it did.
Liam: What it? What came out?
Laura: A guardian spirit of the forest.
Taliesin: Just observing the entrance to see if there's anything written, any type of language on any of the entrances or otherwise.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: As a druid would I know about guardian animal spirits?
Laura: Yeah, would we have heard anything about this in our studies?
Matt: In your studies? No. You, make a history check.
Marisha: That's not my strong suit, man.
Matt: We'll go with nature.
Marisha: Oh that's better, okay. 23.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: There are no markings that currently are visible around the entrance or exit of the cavern itself. It is carved, however, meaning that this cavern, whether it be natural or not, this entrance has been touched by humanoid hands and has been refined. You, Keyleth, do know that occasionally on the Material Plane there are entities, spiritual energies, that gather based on worshipping specific fey spirits and these creatures over time, these spiritual energies, begin to take the form that their worshipers give them. It takes a long time for this transition to happen, and essentially these guardian spirits, usually guarding some sort of a powerful fane, or a magical core or center, they become protector spirits of that region.
Marisha: So because people just manifested the god as a bear, it slowly turned into a bear?
Matt: It turned into a bear. And they're not gods per se, but they're powerful entities that guard that element.
Marisha: Spirit guardians. Okay.
Travis: What's in the cave?
Laura: What's in the cave, Keyleth?
Marisha: Nothing now, I don't think.
Laura: There was a spirit bear in there.
Liam: It was a bear?
Laura: It was a big fucking bear, yeah.
Marisha: It was made out of stars and space stuff.
Travis: Are you sure you haven't been eating mushrooms or something?
Laura: Trinket popped out and he saved us. Trinket fucking saved us, Scanlan!
Sam: Pics or it didn't happen. (laughter)
Travis: That's exactly what I was thinking.
Liam: I go over to Trinket and I surreptitiously start feeding him biscuits-- you don't know-- biscuits that I took from my father's house. Good boy, that's a good boy. Good job.
Matt: They're gone in a matter of moments. Licks the side of your face, leaving some saliva and crumbs.
Liam: I will always give you that shit. Don't forget.
Marisha: Percy, did you find anything in the cave?
Taliesin: Nothing of consequence.
Travis: How far in did you go?
Taliesin: No, that looks dark and there was a giant cosmic bear in there.
Marisha: Would I know if after the spirit guardian has passed, would he just go back in his cave?
Matt: You don't know that much about the entity. You've never really encountered one before, you've only heard about them.
Laura: What about Garmelie. Would he know?
Matt: You're welcome to ask him if you want to.
Laura: Hey, Garmelie. What do you know about this fucking bear?
Matt: He's in the very back, just watching you guys. "I know what you know. It's apparently here and people leave him little presents, and seemed pretty scary from the way you describe him, so--"
Travis: Did you know he was going to be here at this cave?
Matt: "No, I would have avoided this!"
Travis: Somebody insight check that little bastard.
Laura: Yeah, I'll insight check that little bastard.
Matt: Roll insight.
Travis: I would do it, but eh.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18? He seems like he's telling the truth. He's hard to read in general because he's such a strange individual, but yeah.
Laura: I feel like he would've told us to avoid it.
Marisha: And bears are fairly territorial. I don't know, it might be wise to stay out of the cave.
Taliesin: I think in general it's probably best to respect anything's home on this plane of existence.
Travis: Boring. Scanlan, you want to go in?
Sam: If you do.
Liam: We're not here to go spelunking. Why are we going to go in this cave?
Travis: Oh my god, we're in the Feywild, we're about to pull a bow out of a tree, and you don't want to see what's in the creepy cave.
Laura: Maybe we should save our strength for the fucking bow in the tree.
Liam: Plus, do you know there's a theater here?
Matt: "We're not going to the theater."
Liam: I understand, but just so we don't accidentally go there, where is it in relation to this tree? Is it on the way?
Matt: "I couldn't tell you. Certain things move. Shift. Change location."
Sam: It's a touring production.
Liam: I don't trust anyone who doesn't like the theater. What exactly is your issue with it?
Matt: "Don't worry about it. Anyway. Shall we?" And he begins marching back.
Laura: I really don't think we should mess with this thing.
Marisha: Look, Grog, I touched a flower and the whole realm almost collapsed, okay? I don't know.
Travis: I know, I'm looking at the scandalous one over there that's always trying to get little goodies for himself.
Taliesin: I'm not feeling this one. I don't know. What can I tell you? I normally like to gamble and I'm not feeling a gamble on this one.
Travis: All right, you went (boop). I'm just saying.
Taliesin: It's just not pretty enough. It's really not pretty enough. We've already won something here.
Travis: All right, fine. I'm happy.
Sam: I'm one hundred percent behind any decision you made or make, by the way. You say "go," we go. You say "stay," we stay.
Travis: What if we run, touch the back of the cave, run back. We don't even have to pick up anything. Just to say we did it.
Marisha: Last time I touched something, I didn't hear the end of it. And now we're just going to let this happen?
Taliesin: Well, yes, because we don't care if they die.
Travis: What, all the bad shit already came out of it, what do you say?
Sam: By that logic, mathematically there's no more bad shit in there.
Taliesin: Is there anybody here of reasonable intelligence who wants to stop this from happening? Just checking.
Liam: I don't think that we should do anything. It does seem like a bit of a double standard that everybody threw poo at Keyleth for picking a flower.
Taliesin: (deadpan) Please, whatever you do, don't do it, my god please.
Travis: I know, he's got the raised eyebrows. I'm not sure if we should do it or not.
Matt: I'm just enjoying the conversation. Make your choices.
Marisha: You do you, man. You do you, guys.
Taliesin: If you're going to do it, have a light source.
Travis: What, ten or higher we go?
Sam: Ten or higher we go.
Travis: Natural 20.
Sam: (laughing) We're so going.
Travis: I put Scanlan on my back, and we run straight into the cave.
Taliesin: I hand a torch.
Travis: I don't want any torch. I've got darkvision!
Matt: They go darting into the cave, vanishing into the shadows and out of sight. The two of you continue for about 30, 40, 50, 60 feet. Thankfully, both of you have darkvision, so you can see pretty well in this area. You can see what are a number of alcoves that are carved into the sides of the rock here that contain extinguished candles, sometimes clusters of them, that are left in here in some sort of ceremonial way, but have just burned out or not been lit in a long time. It goes straight back; there's no curvature or natural change in the path of this cavern. You get about 100 feet into the foot of this spire-like mountain, one of many that protrude from the center of the Moonbrush, and the chamber widens and comes to an end, a circular pocket at the end, about maybe 40 feet across on each side. The floor of this room is entirely covered in unlit candles, except for in the center there is a raised stone platform that contains a singular skull made of some sort of a bluish or aquamarine crystal.
Sam: That's not what I was expecting.
Travis: Jackpot.
Sam: Jackpot?
Travis: We are the greatest ones in the group. Are the candles standing up or are they laying over?
Matt: They're standing up.
Sam: We can't take the skull.
Matt: It's a large skull, it's like this big, and its elongated snout--
Sam: Oh, it's an animal skull.
Matt: It's a beast-like skull.
Taliesin: Is it a bear skull?
Travis: We have not said anything to the rest of the group.
Taliesin: Oh, I thought they were saying this out loud.
Sam: Can I discern what kind of animal skull it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Travis: Can I do one, as well?
Matt: Sure. Yeah, you would. Yeah, as a traveling herd member, you would know cleaning creatures and stuff.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: You have no idea what creature this is. It does look bestial in nature.
Liam: Are you dead yet?
Sam: Still alive. Everything's okay. It's all gold and silver.
Travis: Yeah, there's nothing that moves in here.
Marisha: Keyleth talks to the rest who stayed out. Okay, Percy, do you have an hourglass thing?
Taliesin: No, but I can keep very good count, though.
Marisha: We should play that gambling game.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Okay. I bet-- how much gold do I have?
Laura: How much gold do you have?
Marisha: Three gold.
Laura: That's it?
Taliesin: We keep taking it from her.
Marisha: That's true. That we have to run in after and save them.
Liam: I don't want to take that bet.
Marisha: You're going to take that bet?
Liam: No, I don't want to take that bet because I agree with you.
Taliesin: I'll take that bet. I'll take a three-gold bet.
Marisha: Okay. That they come out safe and sound?
Taliesin: 200 seconds.
Marisha: 200 seconds. All right.
Matt: Meanwhile, inside the cave, the two of you now stand at the edge of this room filled with small, wax structures and wicks that are currently cold in the darkness, and the central platform holding the crystalline skull in the center.
Travis: In that circular area, is there anything on the back wall? More candle sconces?
Matt: You can't make out any details. It looks like somewhat rough cavern walls, but not very smoothly carved or anything.
Travis: And the skull is big, like the size of my chest?
Matt: It's probably a little bit smaller than that.
Sam: Made of gems or stone or bone?
Matt: It looks almost like it was carved and hollowed from a singular giant solid piece of opal or aquamarine. Like it's a gemmed skull in the sense that it's made from gem material.
Travis: Does it look like it could have been a bear skull?
Matt: You don't know, mister nature-roll-of-12.
Sam: Oh god.
Travis: Well.
Sam: Listen, Grog. I don't think it's very valuable.
Travis: No, but look at it!
Sam: It's pretty amazing.
Travis: We're in a secret chamber.
Sam: This is cool. But what would we do with it? We can't trade it.
Travis: I bet they worshiped it.
Sam: I bet something still worships it. And that thing could come back and be mad if we take it.
Travis: Are there a crapload of footprints on the ground around us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: 13.
Matt: It's hard to tell. You've arrived, both paced in your space there, so there are plenty of footprints that you guys have left. It's hard to see if there are any more recent ones are from other creatures.
Travis: Want to take a candle as a souvenir?
Sam: I wouldn't mind getting a closer look at that skull.
Travis: Yeah. Well, let's do that, then.
Liam: 100 seconds have gone by.
Sam: We can't walk over there without disturbing candles, right?
Matt: Probably not, unless you're ballet-style en pointe.
Travis: I can throw you. Taking it back to the old school. That's a little careless.
Sam: I can grab it. I do have a big hand.
Travis: That's like getting your hand on it right away. It's pushing the button.
Sam: What do we do? Do we just leave and come up with a good story?
Travis: Ooh. Yeah.
Sam: Okay. Here, how about this  let me cut your face.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: When we run out, you'll be bleeding and crying, and it'll be horrible. And we'll just make something up.
Travis: Okay. (laughing) Perfect. Are you ready to go?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah, sure.
Travis: We take off-- wait, you've got to cut me. Wait, where are you going to cut me?
Sam: Right above the eyebrow so there's lots of blood, yeah.
Travis: Yeah, right in the middle, like the Bruce Willis cut. Okay.
Matt: Ah, Sir Bruce Willis of Emon. Dangerous life he led in history.
Travis: But not too deep, right? I want to be able to still make the ladies swoon.
Sam: Okay, cool. I'll take out my-- not Mythcarver.
Travis: Why not? You were going to cut me with a Vestige?
Liam: You're going to roll a 20 and decapitate him.
Sam: I take out my other longsword. My Aberration Bane longsword.
Matt: (laughing) Are you an aberration?
Sam: I'll slice him right over one of the eyebrows.
Matt: Okay. You take one point of damage, and the goliath blood doth flow aplenty.
Travis: (grunting) Are you ready? Let's sell this shit. And I put him on my back and we take off running! (yelling) Oh, it's horrible!
Sam: (yelling) There are bears everywhere! Bears! Little bears, big bears!
Travis: We burst out into the sunlight, and I intentionally trip and eat shit. Scanlan goes flying, boom!
Sam: There was a bear right on Grog!
Travis: Oh my god! It was so vicious.
Sam: It was horrible.
Laura: You didn't fight them at all?
Travis: No, there were bodies everywhere! Children! Women! They were stapled to the ceiling! And then there were just horrible--
Marisha: So did the bear only have one claw?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: This guy wants to go to the theater.
Travis: 15.
Matt: I'll have the rest of you roll an insight check.
Marisha: This is the lucky one.
Liam: Oh man, that sounds scary.
Laura: 23.
Marisha: 27.
Taliesin: Nine.
Sam: I was in the mouth of a bear, and Grog cut the thing from asshole to lips to get me out of there. It was crazy!
Laura: That's disgusting. So there was really nothing there?
Marisha: I think that means you owe me three gold, Percy.
Taliesin: (sighing) Oh, bloody hell.
Sam: Did you bet to see whether we would live or die?
Taliesin: No, not at all.
Laura: What did you really find in there?
Sam: Some candles.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: And a big skull.
Sam: Big skull. A gemmed skull. Not gemmed. A gem-like skull. Not diamonds, not rubies. Opal. Something.
Travis: We reached out to touch it and it cut my face.
Laura: That sounds terrible. I wish Pike was here; she would really enjoy this story.
Sam: It was a worthless endeavor. We're sorry we went.
Liam: Hey, how about that Chroma Conclave, eh?
Taliesin: Wait, so the candles and skulls were there, or they weren't there?
Travis: Yeah, there were a ton of candles and a skull.
Sam: Seems like a place of worship or devotion, and we didn't want to mess with it.
Marisha: Well a lot of these spirit guardians tend to have worshipers, and a lot of times they'll bring them gifts, so that makes sense. Yeah, I probably should have told you guys that before you went in, sorry.
Travis: There's only one show in a day; we don't want to miss it.
Laura: I like how all of us sound like we've lost our voice.
Marisha: Yeah, it sounds like we've all been through hell. Okay.
Travis: Well, since I touched the skull and I cut myself, could you do me a little. (clicks tongue)
Laura: You want me to lick it?
Travis: No, don't you have a thing?
Laura: Like healing? Like you want me to use a whole spell on this teensy-ass wuss cut?
Travis: If you care about me.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on his little teeny-weeny cut.
Travis: Oh, that feels so much better.
Sam: Vex, what do you think, is a semi-precious gemstone skull worth going in and getting?
Laura: I think we should remember this place is-- well, it's probably going to disappear after we walk away. These things tend to move, don't they?
Liam: We should move toward our destination.
Laura: We need to focus on the bow. And it's really hard to say that, but I really--
Taliesin: The whole theory of a path is you're supposed to somewhat stay on it, I imagine.
Laura: So stay on it.
Liam: No more stops. Unless it's for the theater, we're not stopping again.
Sam: What time is it?
Matt: From what you can tell, it looks like it's in the evening, with the moon up.
Sam: And we've been awake for a while?
Matt: Full journey here since you rested... make an intelligence check.
Sam: Natural 20, except disadvantage because I'm exhausted. 16 plus two.
Matt: Okay. After resting just outside of the Moonbrush, it's probably been three hours since you woke.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: We're good.
Laura: Oh, we rested?
Matt: Did you guys push on when you got there?
Liam: I was wondering the same thing.
Marisha: I thought we camped on the outskirts.
Taliesin: Whatever we decide right now is exactly what happened.
Marisha: Right, so we camped and we got up, right?
Taliesin: Yes. What? Yes, of course.
Travis: I agree.
Matt: I feel like there would have camping before going straight into the Moonbrush, and I think you may have been pressed for time at the event last time to try and do that.
Sam: All I know is my mansion spell has been ticked off. So I used it at least once in the last 47 hours.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel like we camped out right before we went into the Moonbrush.
Taliesin: We camped out right before that.
Matt: Right, so it's been a few hours since you regained consciousness. It wouldn't have made a huge difference, per se, but you were still reading the book. You're close now, at this point.
Sam: Yeah, I'm close.
Matt: A handful of hours away from completing it.
Laura: So I can take off this negative seven hit points that I don't even remember how I got, probably.
Matt: Actually, that you would have gotten from the large bear, so no.
Laura: You're right.
Matt: Nice try. All right, so as you guys gather here, Garmelie goes, "All right, so duskward is-- that way. Who's leading?"
Taliesin: You are.
Matt: "Oh, I'm not leading. I'm guiding you."
Laura: You guide. In the front.
Matt: "I'm guiding you duskward. I've never been inside the Moonbrush! I know of things around it."
Laura: How were you planning to guide us through it if you don't even know how to do it?
Sam: He was just going to get us to the outskirts. That was always the plan.
Matt: "I'm getting you to your destination by helping guide you there."
Marisha: But if you can't guide us through the Moonbrush--
Matt: "I am guiding you through the Moonbrush, I just think somebody should take the lead."
Marisha: But you said you've never been here.
Taliesin: He wants something big in the front.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just wondering what his use will be from here on out.
Laura: How about you and I, we can be in the front.
Liam: She's Duchess of the Grape Hunt so she's very good to lead.
Matt: "Great, wondrous. That'll work fine."
Laura: Duchess of the Grape Hunt, what a wonderful title.
Marisha: Hang on a second, Garmelie. Huddle real quick. Why don't we send him home? He could die.
Taliesin: I'm all right with that.
Marisha: He's not going to be any use from here on out. He's never been here.
Sam: He knows things about the Feywild that we don't know.
Laura: The only thing I worry about is we made a deal with him.
Taliesin: He's under contract, which means that there are places and things he might be able to help us with.
Laura: He shook our hand.
Travis: Yeah, it couldn't hurt.
Taliesin: It's worth having him.
Sam: Also, if it turns out he's not who he says he is--
Marisha: Which I'm starting to get a very strong feeling of.
Sam: We'll find out who he really is later.
Liam: He's a bit of a sneak, too. The only reason we have him is because you spotted him because you're awesome.
Travis: And he wanted a hat, how bad could he honestly be?
Laura: Right? It looks very good on him.
Taliesin: I feel like hats are almost a traditional sign of something a little iffy. Present company included, of course.
Marisha: We got betrayed by Clarota at the 11th hour, so--
Liam: We're so much cooler now.
Sam: All right, let's just put Vex and Vax.
Laura: Hold my hand, dear?
Matt: "All right." He takes your hand. Roll a survival check.
Liam: He eats her hand.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Holding your hand, you guys quietly begin to make your way through the Moonbrush.
Laura: Eyes out for any things.
Matt: You're in your natural element, also. It's a forest.
Sam: Grog, can I ride on you?
Travis: Girl, you can always ride.
Sam: Yeah, I just need to be reading.
Matt: Much like a kid in the backseat of a car on a cell phone, Scanlan is just reading through the book on the back of Grog.
Marisha: Station wagon. Facing backwards.
Laura: You can always ride on Trinket, too, Scanlan.
Sam: No. Grog weirdly smells better than Trinket today.
Matt: About another two hours of travel duskward, and he's keeping a finger pointed in the direction, which is difficult for you because the moon placement in the sky has not changed. The correlation as to what you normally use in the Prime Material Plane to gauge direction has no use here whatsoever. So the best that you can do is try to keep yourself facing forward and using his occasional guidance to steer back on track.
Laura: I'm going to try to learn from him how he's gauging his surroundings and stuff.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21. He seems to, every single time he checks for the direction, lick his finger and then point. There's nothing more to it than that. He'll take a moment to think and look around, lick his finger, point in a direction.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I feel a breeze at all, or is he bullshitting?
Liam: Are they way ahead of us or are they just up ahead?
Marisha: 16.
Matt: There is no breeze. There is no sound in the forest here. There is no sound of leaves clattering. He's just doing that.
Marisha: Because it makes him seem smart.
Laura: What does the licking do?
Matt: "Licking is how I initiate the specialization of my arcane understanding of the flow and ebb of the fey--"
Laura: You're bullshitting.
Matt: "No! This is a technique. And it's leading us to your destination. Have a little faith. You hired me for a reason."
Laura: So much faith in you.
Liam: Is he taking us to the theater right now?
Laura: Definitely the theater.
Matt: "Not the theater!" Pressing on, I want you to make another survival check.
Laura: Natural 20. And I don't even need to roll again.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: As we go, I just want to Druidcraft little green pebbles. No, let's do brighter-- red pebbles to start leaving behind Hansel and Gretel style.
Travis: Lead something right to us.
Marisha: Little pebbles. Tiny pebbles that I can recognize.
Matt: Okay, so you're creating small stones that trail behind you as you go.
Marisha: Every hundred feet or so.
Matt: As you guys progress forward, you start finding patches where the ground itself gets a little mushier, like either there's a nearby river or the ground itself has retained liquid more than other areas of the forest. You begin to see the faint appearance of familiar green sprouts that come through. These are mandrakes, and you manage to catch them before the rest of the party gets there, you and Garmelie, especially with your sight and knowledge of this area, you manage to guide the party around that whole field of waiting mandrake.
Laura: What do they do? Do they just scream a lot?
Matt: You don't know. You may find out yet. Progressing forward into the next section, I need you to make another survival check.
Laura: Oh no. 12. Oh, double-double! That's better! 25.
Matt: 25! Shit, girl. Eventually, you come to what appears to be a river that's cutting through this portion of the Moonbrush. Just on the other side of that river, you hear a faint sound of music.
Marisha: The theater!
Laura: (whispering) What is that?
Matt: "What is what? I don't--"
Laura: The music, do you hear it?
Matt: "No?"
Travis: Hold on, are you saying you don't hear anything right now?
Matt: Actually, right now nobody hears it except for you.
Laura: What does it sound like?
Matt: It sounds like a soft violin, with a hint of flute, and a drum beat. It's very simple. It's very basic.
Laura: Does it sound pleasant?
Matt: It does sound pleasant. It sounds folksy and whimsical. It's very, very faint.
Laura: There must be people further in.
Sam: You hear music?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Could be dangerous.
Sam: Can I listen?
Matt: The rest of you guys, as you gather up, you begin to hear the sound and so does Garmelie. Garmelie's like, "We really don't need to go in that direction."
Laura: Do you know anything about music playing randomly in the woods?
Matt: "Music can be good, it can be bad. Who knows? Dangerous music is very often a thing in places you don't understand. I would not recommend wandering into places of phantom music."
Travis: We should check it out.
Sam: I want to hear some music.
Laura: What direction is it coming from?
Matt: You take a few steps. There is still a river, which is about 15 feet across. It's a soggy bank that leads into a lazily running river. So you have to cross that first. It looks to be a little ways duskward and to your right.
Travis: Have to cross the river.
Liam: We don't need to stick a stick into every beehive we come across.
Sam: But this is the theater.
Liam: Is it the theater?
Taliesin: We don't know actually know. It could be anything.
Laura: It could also be a camp.
Taliesin: It could be many things.
Sam: Do I recognize the music?
Matt: You don't, actually. It's not a classic ditty. The structures are familiar. You can see where the basis of a lot of bar shanties come from; a similar bouncing beat to it, but nothing that catches you as really familiar.
Laura: (whispered) Ugh. I want to see what it is that's doing it, though.
Travis: Right, but we got to cross this river to get to it.
Laura: We have to do it regardless, yes.
Marisha: How big is the river?
Matt: 15 feet across.
Sam: It's a stream. It's nothing.
Travis: He said it's lazy, right? It's just going along, but I call bullshit 'cause we're in the Feywild.
Taliesin: You're very clever about that.
Liam: You said we have to get across, regardless, Garmelie?
Matt: "Well, yes, if we're heading toward your destination, we have to cross."
Marisha: We have to get across the river, regardless?
Sam: Can you make us a bridge, Keyleth?
Marisha: I can control water and part the river for a second.
Sam: Well, that's even better.
Laura: For a hot second?
Marisha: For a hot second, yeah, I was trying to stop myself. I cast Control Water and make us a little bubble as we walk.
Matt: Okay. So you watch as the stream begins to separate--
Marisha: I don't want to Moses this, I want to give us a little bubble that we stealthily walk under the river with the little bubble.
Matt: You guys find your way, walking down onto the bank of the river, your boots sinking into the very soft, soggy bottom of the river. You walk across, make your way to the other side. The river splashes as the bubble is no longer required. You traverse it; no issue. It's a river. The music is a little louder on this side of the bank and is off to the right side.
Sam: Should we send Vax ahead?
Liam: I don't think it's a good idea but if we're going to check it out you and I should go ahead. Yeah, let's go.
Laura: Garmelie? Do you want to come with us? Go invisible?
Matt: "Um. Okay?"
Laura: I will hold your hand, don't worry dear.
Matt: "All right." So he vanishes from sight. The two of you guys make your stealth checks.
Laura: Oh, can I cast Pass Without a Trace on us?
Matt: If you want to.
Laura: I'm going to do that.
Liam: All right.
Matt: All right, so adding plus ten to your stealth rolls.
Liam: 39.
Laura: Whoa. 28.
Matt: All right. The rest of you are staying behind.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you two and Garmelie make your way upwards, pushing past bushes, and the trees here in the Moonbrush, which are getting thicker and thicker the further north you go. You hear the music getting louder and louder, and it's funny. You find yourself tapping the side of your leg to it. It's a nice beat. You begin to hear laughter. Sounds like jovial laughter, like people having a good time. Just a few voices. You hear two different voices going back and forth, laughing.
Liam: Our mother read us stories about shit like this.
Laura: Did she?
Liam: Yes, she did.
Laura: I don't remember.
Liam: Fairies. Grumpkins. I don't know. It's probably going to end badly. Do you want to go have a look?
Laura: I just wanted to see, but if you're worried about it, we don't have to.
Sam: Oi! You lot! I just had a thought.
Liam: Why start now?
Sam: If there's music, there could be some sort of charm effect.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Would you like me to come with and maybe counter that charm effect?
Marisha: The bard is just now figuring this out?
Laura: Get on up here, you stealthy fuck.
Sam: All right, I put down my book and hop off of Grog and go up there.
Marisha: I sit down with Percy.
Laura: Add ten to it because of Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: I don't think you cast it on me, did you?
Laura: I cast it on everybody that's within 30 feet of me.
Sam: Am I there yet? I'm exhausted.
Matt: Yeah, it's at disadvantage.
Sam: Same. What is it?
Taliesin: Stealth. Plus ten.
Sam: Oh! Hey, that's 18! That's not bad.
Laura: Would have been eight?! Jesus.
Marisha: I sit down with Percy and I say  six gold that after 200 seconds, they run out screaming again.
Sam: Can I be doing Countercharm? Can I hum a little tune? Is that how it works? I don't know how it works!
Matt: Well, it's time for you to learn how one of your abilities works here, Sam. For countercharm: as an action, you set up a performance that lasts until the end of your next turn. During that time, you and any friendly creature--
Sam: It lasts six seconds?!
Matt: Hold on. You can keep doing it every round if you want to. It doesn't say there's a limit to it.
Sam: All right. I'll keep humming.
Matt: They have to hear you to be affected by it. It has to be loud enough for them to hear you.
Sam: Sure. I'll hum loudly.
Liam: You want to break our stealth?
Matt: It's going to happen.
Sam: Shit.
Matt: Yeah, one way or the other. You've got countercharm or keeping stealthed.
Laura: Aw, fuck.
Sam: We'll stealth, and if it starts to feel icky, then I'll do it.
Laura: Okay. All right. I basically just want to see what the fuck is laughing. I want to see what it is.
Liam: If I do not see a mummer's show from this, there will be hell to pay. Now let's go.
Matt: So the three of you and Garmelie, who's invisible at this point in time, you approach what looks to be a clearing ahead of you now. The trees actually disperse a bit. You can see what appears to be a small campfire that's crackling in the center of this clearing. And the music is actually quite loud now. You see figures jaunting around this fire and holding hands and swirling for a second and then separating. Then dancing a little ways around it again.
Laura: What kind of figures?
Matt: You have to get closer.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck this. Fuck it. I'm not doing it.
Liam: I will go closer.
Laura: No. Don't fucking go closer. I get a really bad feeling. All of a sudden, I get a really bad feeling about this.
Liam: 39 stealth.
Laura: I'm behind a tree.
Matt: You're behind a tree. Garmelie is staying with you. What are you doing?
Sam: Can I sing to him through the earring? No, we talked about that before.
Matt: No, the effect has to be within hearing, so either you go up with him or you stay behind.
Sam: I'm going to stay behind.
Matt: Okay. So Vax, you come up to the very edge of the clearing. You vanish. You come to the very edge of the clearing. You see before you where the laughter's coming from. There is an elf, in full Verdant Guard armor of Syngorn, who is skipping and laughing around the fire, dancing alongside what appears to be a bipedal humanoid creature covered in fur with claws, a longer snout. And they are both smiling and holding each other's hands and spinning and twirling each other. And dancing around.
Laura: They're totally charmed.
Matt: You see the music is actually coming from a floating spectral violin, flute and drum, unmanned by any creature; just slowly drifting around the clearing, around the entities that are dancing. I also need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Ah, there it is!
Laura: Oh, jeez! Is it a charm effect?
Liam: Yeah, is it? Because I have advantage if it's a charm effect.
Matt: You do.
Liam: And I'll use one Luck for the day. First Luck. All right. 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Looking forward, you find a tapping on the side of your hip as the beat finds you. And you begin to drift out of the shadows into the center of this clearing. You look over and see as the guard extends his hand and takes yours. The beat kicks into you, a smile creeps across your face--
Laura: I take my broom out and I start flying up and I grab Scanlan's hand and take him on the broom with me.
Sam: Where we going?
Laura: We're going to fucking get Vax out of there.
Sam: I start singing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Countercharm. (jazzy saxophone riff)
Matt: The gentle sounds of Careless Whisper keeping any possible invasion of your mind at bay, hopefully. You just hear Garmelie behind you going "No! What are you doing?!" echoing through the trees as you guys dart in towards the center of this camp. You--
Liam: I'm on, man. I'm lit.
Matt: You are totally on. This is an amazing experience. You feel the color and the music surging through you, and all through this endless surge of energy inside as you begin to now join into this other dancing trio.
Liam: Fucking werewolf guy look good.
Matt: Yeah. You guys dart into the center of this, hearing the music, hearing the laughter, watching your brother with a Joker-like smile on his face, the sheer joy pulling his expression into one of a very disturbing joy. I need both of you guys to make wisdom saving throws with advantage.
Liam: Oh dear.
Taliesin: Advantage versus magic.
Sam: Yeah, I already had advantage.
Taliesin: Well, there you go.
Sam: 13.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. You sweep in at this point, and find that Scanlan jumps off the broom.
Laura: No! Don't jump off the broom!
Matt: You tumble down. Make an athletics check. Acrobatics.
Sam: Save? Check? Ten. Check or save?
Matt: Check.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: Okay. You catch yourself. It wasn't a large fall. You land on your feet down on the ground with a crunch. A number of things crunch and break beneath your feet as you stand up and you look up and see as Vax, this elvish warrior knight, and a straight-up wolfman all lead you into the dance, and the four of you now begin to take each other's hands and laugh and skip around in a circle.
Laura: I'm going to try to Pokball Vax into my necklace.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try to do that.
Taliesin: I'm hearing this cacophony, and I'm slowly getting up with a sigh and moving in the direction of the campsite.
Marisha: You might have won this bet this time, Percy.
Laura: Not yet!
Taliesin: Slow walk. You've got time.
Marisha: I'm holding onto my six gold.
Laura: You have to make a wisdom saving throw against me.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Why'd you roll twice?
Liam: Because I have advantage against charm.
Laura: It's not charm! It was just wisdom.
Liam: Oh, then I rolled shit. It's just a five.
Laura: Then he goes in the Pokball!
Matt: You are pulled into the necklace. I'm really going to push to refer to it as a necklace.
Laura: Sorry, necklace. The Raven's Slumber necklace.
Matt: I'm going to really push to have it be called a necklace. Vax, all of a sudden you're pulled out of this dance, and your head is clouded for a second as you find yourself in a singular darkened stone room. Four walls, a single stone throne in the center of it facing out towards a glass window the size of the other walls. It shows an image of the perspective of the necklace.
Liam: First conscious person to go in here.
Matt: Second, technically.
Marisha: Second to Grog.
Liam: Grog was unconscious.
Travis: No, I wasn't.
Sam: He was very close to death.
Laura: Can I grab Scanlan?
Matt: You can.
Sam: I'm doing the Russian Bottle Dance from Fiddler on the Roof right now.
Matt: It's fantastic.
Laura: I want to fly down and get him around the waist and pull him out.
Matt: Make an athletics check. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Check?
Matt: Yes, so roll and add your acrobatics with disadvantage.
Sam: 11.
Laura: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, that's strength, isn't it? Oh, sorry. 17.
Matt: 17. You manage to grab Scanlan, pull him onto the broom with you. The two other dancers immediately reach up and grab him and try to pull him back down into it. At this point, you look into their faces and you can see, while they have smiles on them, their eyes are fearful and desperate, their bodies are emaciated and exhausted. They both look like their physical bodies are on the edge of collapse from nonstop dancing for god knows how long. You glance down at the ground around you, and you can see numerous piles of broken bones and discarded armor. All order of other creatures that have befallen this spot amongst the forest and never left. They're pulling against you. We're making opposed strength checks. Go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Come on, Vex.
Laura: Fuck. I'm so weak, you guys.
Matt: So are they right now, though. They're heavily emaciated.
Laura: Just a regular strength check? It's not a saving throw?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11. You feel as Scanlan, who was shoving off of you instinctually and both of these bodies grabbing his legs and pulling him down off the broom, he is pulled from your grasp, hits the ground, and the three of them continue their dance, completely nonchalant. Not even paying attention to your presence at this point.
Laura: I fly away. Minor problem. It was really a very bad idea to go towards the music. However, Scanlan's enchanted, and we should probably save him because it looks like a lot of people have also been enchanted and are stuck there forever. If you're going to come and try to save him, plug your fucking ears, because I have a feeling this music is cursed. And I start shoving shit in my ears.
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you Druidcraft some cotton?
Marisha: Sure. You owe me six gold.
Taliesin: No, we're going to save them. You owe me six gold.
Marisha: But she's running back out screaming! Three and three, we split the gold three-three. It was a draw.
Taliesin: Vex, could you go fetch a pail of water?
Marisha: Wait, hang on. How about this, you guys... I believe, as an elemental, I'm immune to charm effects.
Laura: Well, then fucking get in there and help him.
Sam: You should do more than believe that. You should probably know that.
Laura: Maybe be an elemental and shove some shit in your ears.
Travis: If I got into a rage, I can't be charmed.
Marisha: That's true!
Taliesin: There's nothing to be done about that. It's a campsite, correct? I'm going to start wandering until at least I have a sense of the size of it.
Marisha: You're right. I Druidcraft the cotton.
Matt: All right, cool. You guys all make your way back towards the direction of this little opening, this gap in this grove.
Laura: I'm going to let him out of the Pokball before we get him out!
Sam: There seems to be some distortion going on. I'm doing that thing with the wolfman where I'm miming a lasso and pulling him closer to me to dance closer.
Matt: Sure, and they're into it. It is unlike a song you've ever heard, and everything else fades away: memory of your friends all drift out of your mind. All that matters is this moment, this dance, these people and the music. Any semblance of the personality of Scanlan that existed before is not there. All you feel is the muscles tensing and relaxing from the ever-present dance. The rest of you slowly begin to approach the outside of this opening.
Liam: She just dumped me out. It's not my call.
Matt: Are you dumping him out or not?
Laura: I'm afraid because of the music's still playing. What if you're still charmed? I'm not going to dump him out.
Matt: She keeps him in the necklace.
Taliesin: Just the basic features of the area.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: Come on.
Liam: I'm in the necklace krumping right now.
Taliesin: That would be ten.
Matt: It's hard to tell at this distance. There's a lot of the tree line at the edge of it that are blocking the shape.
Taliesin: Vex, what did it look like?
Laura: What did what look like?
Taliesin: The area where they are.
Laura: It was a camp with bones all over the ground and floating music things. Dancing.
Taliesin: Were there tents?
Laura: There weren't tents?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Just dirt?
Laura: Just bones.
Taliesin: Was there a fire pit?
Laura: Yes? Was there a fire pit? There was a single fire pit. There was a floating violin and a floating set of drums.
Taliesin: Single fire pit, lit. Set of drums. Violin.
Travis: Hey, I've got an idea. How about you race in, grab Scanlan, I'll kill the other two--
Laura: No! Don't! They actually looked really distraught. I think they were under a spell, as well.
Travis: Have you no mercy?
Taliesin: If we can save one, we can everybody, possibly. I haven't seen it yet. I'm going to try and get a little closer to it, gently.
Laura: I'm going to nock an arrow. And point it towards the violin and hold it there.
Matt: Okay. Percy, you creep closer. As you get closer, the music gets louder.
Laura: But you have stuff in your ears.
Taliesin: I have packed my ears.
Matt: You have, and as you approach, it doesn't seem to have an effect on the volume of the music.
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Matt: All right. Make an intelligence check. Add your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Please roll good.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: You begin to notice the increasing volume despite the blockage in the ear pretty early on and stop your advancement before you get too close.
Taliesin: I sit. I pull out Bad News and I start to get a good look.
Sam: Oh god, you're going to kill me?!
Taliesin: No, I'm just going to cripple you. Calm down.
Laura: I feel like we should aim for the instruments.
Taliesin: The instruments are noncorporeal, I believe.
Laura: Are they?
Matt: They're just elevated. You didn't get a good look at them.
Taliesin: One way to find out. I'm going to take a shot at the violin.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Taliesin: I haven't done this in so long. 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 to hit. That hits. Roll damage.
Laura: What did you aim at?
Taliesin: The violin.
Laura: Can I aim at one of the other ones?
Matt: Yeah, you want to fire at the same time?
Laura: Yeah, since he shot, I want to shoot.
Matt: Which one are you shooting at, the drums?
Laura: What else was there?
Matt: There was the drums, the flute, and the violin.
Laura: Drums.
Matt: Roll an attack for the drums.
Liam: The woods are full of Irishmen.
Taliesin: 12 points of damage.
Marisha: Oh shit, Flogging Molly's playing the Feywild, yo!
Laura: I rolled 16.
Matt: 16 hits, so damage?
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12. And roll damage.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15, okay. Scanlan, I need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Saving throw? Not at disadvantage? Natural 20.
Matt: You guys with your natural 20s! Okay. Roll it again.
Sam: Natural 20.
Travis: Back-to-back?!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: That's absurd. You've been storing this shit after a week we've been gone.
Marisha: I don't think that's happened since we played at home.
Laura: No, it happened when I was saving him against the Briarwoods. Two natural 20s.
Marisha: That's right!
Liam: That was 35 episodes ago.
Sam: Wow!
Matt: All right. You take 24 points of psychic damage, Scanlan. As both of you guys fire, both of the instruments scatter for a second, and there is an echo of psychic energy that resonates throughout the entirety of that grove. The fire shakes and dissipates, almost going out. Scanlan, you can see reach up and grab the sides of his head in pain. The guard and the wolf that were dancing do the same, except they both collapse immediately on the ground. A moment passes, the instruments reform, the music continues, and Scanlan goes right back into the dance.
Sam: I throw my white man's overbite back on.
Laura: Maybe it's time for Grog to go in.
Taliesin: No. Round two.
Laura: Round two, Grog runs in and grabs Scanlan, and we run out. He can't be charmed!
Travis: Before you let me off the chain. There are trees, right? Who's benefitting from this charm?
Taliesin: The instruments and the campsite.
Travis: There's not somebody in a tree, hiding out?
Taliesin: I think the campsite just might be a campsite. I want to try and douse the fire.
Marisha: If you want to rage and go in, I can be there on standby.
Travis: You're going to let me go?
Laura: I feel like we should let Grog go.
Marisha: I use Alter Self to shape my fist into a giant rock fist and I deck Grog to throw him into a rage.
Matt: The jaw is momentarily displaced as you pop it back into place.
Marisha: Grog, go get our bard!
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: You take one damage from the punch impact, and you go into a rage. Running forward at your 50 feet, you make it into the center of the camp. Currently, the music is all around you, but you don't hear it because all you see is red and Scanlan's fucking horrible white man's overbite dancing by himself at the campsite with no allies.
Travis: I don't know if I've killed an elf in quite a while, so I'm going to aim my axe at the throat of the elf that's dancing.
Matt: The elf isn't dancing; both he and the werewolf are on the ground, unmoving.
Travis: They didn't get back up?
Matt: No, they're fucking down.
Sam: It's just me and some instruments now. You have to come get me.
Travis: Sweet, I'm just grabbing Scanlan and running straight through.
Matt: I need you guys to make opposed athletics checks. No, this would be strength.
Sam: Strength or athletics?
Matt: For this one, I initially said athletics; that's fine. They're almost equatable.
Sam: Saving or check?
Matt: Check.
Sam: Ten.
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25. You grab Scanlan. You begin to make your way out of the camp. It was 40 or 50 feet to get in and grab him.
Taliesin: Is he starting to make his way out of the camp?
Matt: He's grabbed Scanlan and pulled Scanlan off his feet.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot him in the shoulder with my Retort gun.
Matt: Okay. Roll an attack.
Marisha: Keep the rage going? Nice.
Taliesin: Ooh, just barely. 16.
Matt: Total of 16? What's your armor class, Grog?
Travis: 20.
Taliesin: Taking another shot. Rolling like shit. That's better. 20.
Matt: What's your armor class?
Travis: 20.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: Thank god. It's been so long! Where are all my dice? Just a nick. 16 points of damage.
Matt: You take 16 points of piercing damage, halved, so you take eight. You feel the music begin to creep into your ears as the blood pumping in your skull begins to subside, and then (gunshot) your shoulder gets blown back. You look over and you can see the bullet wound and the blood beginning to pour out of the small piercing wound you've suffered in your shoulder. The red takes over once again.
Travis: Vax! (laughter)
Matt: Clutching Scanlan at your side, you go running out of the field. Because this is the secondary round now, make one more athletics check versus his athletics check.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah. Scanlan's pushing away as hard as he can against your body, but you have him footballed under your arm and go charging out of the center there. As you pull out of the center of the camp, the flame's reclaimed its general spiraling height. The music keeps playing, and then as you guys rejoin the rest of the party, the music begins to fade as the instruments slowly drift down and lay still.
Laura: Good, it stopped. We can go back out.
Taliesin: (cackles) Really?
Sam: Am I okay?
Matt: You're all right now. Your brain comes to you. Your legs are a little sore, and you were already exhausted to begin with.
Sam: I instinctually start freaking Grog. Dry hump dancing.
Travis: Like a little dog on my calf?
Laura: Okay, so you're all right, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, what? I was dancing. It was amazing. There were lights.
Laura: I release my brother. He's out of Raven's Slumber.
Liam: Did we see a play yet?
Laura: It was the worst play I've ever seen.
Taliesin: It's more of an intermission.
Laura: Garmelie! Why didn't you warn us that could happen?
Matt: Garmelie, who's there by the side, comes out of his invisibility, and says, "I tried! I really tried! But you guys continually insist to go face-first in whatever I warn you about, because you don't trust me, apparently, when you hired me to be your guide!"
Laura: We trust you, dear.
Matt: "Hopefully you've learned a lesson! God." (sighs)
Sam: Wow. That was amazing.
Travis: So the fire's out; instruments are gone. Should we loot the campfire?
Laura: We should not go back out there.
Sam: Can we get those weapons, somehow?
Marisha: Which weapons?
Sam: The musical weapons.
Marisha: You want the magical enchanted instruments?
Sam: I guess we can't get them, can we?
Laura: Best to avoid them.
Taliesin: It's a trap. It's not actually musical instruments.
Sam: We'll flip a coin, right, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that's it. Roll a d20.
Sam: Disadvantage. One.
Laura: Let's avoid it.
Marisha: We're good.
Matt: So what are you guys doing?
Laura: We move towards the dusk.
Travis: We're moving towards the Gilded Run.
Matt: All right. As you guys begin moving away, Garmelie scoots up a little bit and gets a look in the edge, and goes, "Well, you certainly found the happy campsite, so good job."
Travis: Oh, you told us about that earlier.
Matt: "Yes! Yes, I did."
Marisha: Oh, that's the happy campsite.
Taliesin: Have you not figured that out yet?
Marisha: I thought he was being metaphorical. I didn't know it was literal.
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: This is quite literally the land of literalism at this point.
Travis: We make people sigh a lot.
Matt: All right. I need you to roll a survival check with advantage, leading the group forward.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. All right. You guys continue pushing duskward. Between you and Garmelie leading the way, the forest gets ever thicker. The trees get even closer together, and you feel that some areas have no more than maybe three or four feet between the tree trunks themselves. The rest is really angry, tangled roots, as well as the high-growing underbrush of the entire forest. Moon still unmoving in the sky.
Travis: Are we trampling anything as we're walking?
Marisha: Yeah, we're not stepping on mandrakes, right?
Matt: No. In fact, it's her high rolls that are keeping you guys from stepping into any of the local dangerous possibly screaming fauna.
Sam: Matt, did my Countercharm help at all?
Matt: It did.
Laura: It gave us advantage--
Sam: But did you need it?
Laura: No, I did, yeah.
Sam: Hey, I did it right!
Liam: Half-elves have advantage on charm.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: It didn't help?
Laura: It didn't help.
Matt: With anybody else, though, it would've helped. It actually helped you.
Sam: I still was charmed.
Matt: You still were charmed.
Liam: Is the footing here precarious? I know she's leading us through, but is it all viney and shitty?
Matt: It's not great. It would slow your pace if you didn't have her leading you through. It's still not the fastest pace in the world, but you're able to keep going at a decent rate.
Travis: Can I jog up to Garmelie and Vex real fast? You said that there were lycans at some point, and you said they move through the trees, right?
Matt: "Yes, from what I've heard."
Travis: Would that be these trees?
Matt: "Possibly."
Travis: Right. Have you seen a lycan?
Matt: "I haven't."
Travis: Great. We should be keeping an eye on the trees.
Laura: I was trying to.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Laura: 36.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, you glance up, right into two yellowish eyes that are piercing from just past the leaf line of the canopy above you. As soon as you look up and see them, they immediately disappear in the darkness, and you hear a low growl and some shifting in the leaves above you.
Laura: I think they're here.
Matt: At this point, you guys begin to hear, surrounding you in the distance, growling, sounds of shifting and movement in the trees just beyond. You hear in the distance one singular (howl) and barks echoing around you in the center of the forest. Shadows begin to dart between the trees, and a quiet moan of wind begins to break what was once silence in this forest. As you guys glance around you in the darkness, many of you having darkvision; even this low moonlight, Percy, you can still make out the shapes that are shifting. You look in your vicinity at what appear to be about six different medium to larger sized man-like humanoid creatures that step out of the trees, revealing themselves, most of which contain a wolf-like appearance, elongated snout, darker gray and brown furs, large pointy ears and gleaming angry eyes, the lips curled back revealing white teeth. You see one large tiger-like man, which sends you immediately into a recoiling moment, though larger than the rakshasa that you've experienced, and not with the signature back hands. They are unclothed, and you see barreling behind you guys, heavy footfalls as you see what looks to be a giant, bipedal bear clutching a greataxe comes (smash) through one of the tree clearings and (roars). They're not attacking. They're not advancing. They've just surrounded you.
Sam: That's not good.
Travis: Well, they're here.
Liam: I give Scanlan a little boot in the butt forward a couple of steps.
Sam: Hello. We come in peace. We mean you no harm. If we've tread into your territory, we will exit immediately, and we apologize for offending you or your gods.
Matt: Some of the wolf-men creatures look at each other. The tiger individual steps further out of the shadows and appears to have two iron-like bracers on, a longbow strapped across his back, and steps forward to meet you from beyond the tree that he was partially obscured from. "Intruders. Your terrible fate brings you within our domain. For what purpose?"
Sam: We seek passage through this marshland to what lies beyond it. We are searching for--
Marisha: The Shademirk bog.
Sam: The Shademirk bog.
Laura: We hope to rid the land of a cancerous tree that has been a blight for a very long time.
Matt: "I know not of this tree."
Sam: It's a source of great evil that's been corrupting this plane and ours.
Matt: "There are many evils that corrupt this plane, small tasty thing."
Sam: I'm not tasty.
Laura: He's not. Many diseases.
Taliesin: Dozens.
Matt: The tiger looks about at the other werewolves who are now stepping in, and the bear, who's put the greataxe over its back now at this point, begins to step closer in. The tiger, whose eyes are now bent on you, takes another step forward, "So." (buzzing)
Matt: The audio on my iPad needs some help, apparently. Time to get new music. Oh, that's an expenditure I don't need.
Sam: A new iPad for no reason?
Laura: Something else? It's our computer?
Crew: We're going to switch out the one that we usually use.
Sam: This is so exciting.
Matt: Isn't it, though? Especially at that climactic moment, my audio goes down.
Crew: Sorry!
Matt: It's all good.
Laura: We should probably kill it. I feel bad for everybody listening.
Matt: I'm going to kill the music, then. Okay. Bringing us back in now. Sorry about that.
Laura: Maybe just make it come out of your iPad.
Matt: It's something. Sure, we'll go with that.
Liam: Works for us.
Laura: That's how we did it at home, man!
Taliesin: This is the best simulation of our old home game that I've had.
Matt: That's enough to give you the feel. The tiger takes that step forward, leans in to you, and goes, "To parley or continue our hunt?" Looks at the other wolves. "Call Ukurat." And roars out to the air. The other wolves all together begin to howl in unison. (howls) Loudly into the sky. (howls)
Laura: What's Trinket doing?
Matt: Trinket's backed up with you guys, growling and facing off with the bear-like entity that's keeping eyes on Trinket but is still (growling) up into the air of the forest.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Oh. Ukurat. Isn't that the big ghost bear?
Marisha: No, that was Oralan. Ukurat's the lycan leader.
Matt: A few moments pass as the howling subsides and they all stare intently, keeping a bestial cage around you in the center of this forest. It's at that point you begin to hear (footfalls) what sounds like a series of heavy footfalls at a speed, and the sound of trees thrashed as various hanging vines and branches are snapped or passed at such a speed. There is a mass of black shadow that comes emerging from the brush, slamming into the side of one of the trees near you with a clattering (crash). You see it pressed up against the side before leaping off, rebounding, landing right beside you guys, separating your group, giving Scanlan, Vex, Trinket, and Garmelie pushed to one side and the rest of you to the other. You now see this giant, feral beast, humanoid in shape once it begins to stand, but larger than anything you've seen before, as the large wolf-man creature stands at full height, about 12, 13 feet tall, its shoulders wider than yours, Grog. A series of various jeweled necklaces adorn its throat, and you can see what appears to be a makeshift leather belt and armored leg piece that sit upon it. Rings glimmer around its fingers, and you can see a series of scars drawn across one side of its cheek that go down to its throat. It looks about at the rest of you, separated, glancing at each side. "So. You seek passage, yes?"
Sam: Yes, that's right.
Matt: "There is a toll to pay. A favor to the Fendir is granted. A favor in kind."
Sam: A favor to you?
Marisha: The Fendir, is that what you said?
Matt: "We are the Fendir."
Sam: Well, we would be happy to help if we can. We are here to do good, anyway. We've already done some. We conquered the devastating campsite of Soradun the Happy, and we're up to doing more tasks like that, if it would help.
Matt: The wolf creature that you expect, at this point, is the Lord Ukurat that you heard mentioned before by both Garmelie and the wolf and beast kin, leans down towards you, making you uncomfortable, as his head is larger than your entire body, Scanlan. The lips curl back, and you can see the glistening white teeth, and drool slowly dripping off the edge of its curled purple-black lips. (sniffs) "We will not eat this day if you agree to do us this favor."
Laura: Name it.
Matt: "The pixie Wishers carry a madness, one that pits them against all who wander these woods. They prey upon us Fendir, take our forms to desecrate their twisted garden and decorate their lives. We lose family. We, the Fendir, and I, lord of this brood, ask you to take into this home, find these Wishers, destroy a relic of their people. In particular, a circle of crystal stones they keep. It sits among their homes, tended by their mystic, Iotha. She wields the power to subjugate us all. Do you agree to these terms, or does our hunt continue?"
Laura: They sound really powerful, these pixies.
Sam: If you are not powerful enough to conquer them, how would we have a chance?
Matt: "If you do not think you have a chance, perhaps you're best suited as our meal for the night."
Laura: No, we have a very good chance of defeating them. We are quite powerful. Just wondering why you haven't done it before.
Matt: "We have fallen to their magic. We are not tested and tempered against such trickster cunning creatures. But if you speak like you've passed the campsite unscathed, perhaps you have skills we lack."
Sam: That is true. We probably do. We made quick work of the camp. It was a proud moment for us, one that will be storied for generations.
Marisha: This mystic-- Iotha, you said-- she has the power to subjugate your kind?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Does she have the power to create more lycans?
Matt: "She sees our kind to be exterminated."
Sam: Where can we find this site?
Matt: "Follow the lights."
Sam: The lights?
Matt: The small, glittering fey lights that you've seen throughout many of the darker forested areas of the Feywild since you arrived, now taking a look, they all slowly, gently drift in a singular direction before touching the ground and dissipating. Even though the wind that blew through with their arrival has faded, they all still drift in a direction as if they're being called a specific way.
Laura: Cool. Hey, question. Should we help you with this terrible problem you've been facing, do you think there's any way you would want to help us when we try to take out this cancerous tree? It needs to be taken care of. Teamwork?
Matt: "Cancerous tree?"
Laura: It's really bad. Whole other area for you to dominate. It's quite wonderful.
Marisha: The Shademirk bog.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Goddamn it! Wait, it's my favored terrain.
Matt: Doesn't work for every single thing you do. The forest isn't going to help you with your persuasion check, sorry.
Laura: Natural one.
Matt: The wolf leans forward, and the mouth comes right up to you for a second. The nose almost nudges you, and you instinctually stand back as it (snorts). "This is not part of our parley. We grant you passage and to take what you wish off their pixie corpses. That is the deal. Take it, or we hunt."
Sam: I think we'll take the deal. Happy to enter into this contract with you. No problem.
Marisha: We're just stacking contracts.
Sam: Is there a timetable to this? Do we have to do this now? Can we do this on the way out of the Feywild?
Matt: "There is no out until this agreement is completed."
Sam: Do we have your word that we have completely safe passage? We don't have to worry about any other sort of monsters getting us in our sleep on the way there?
Matt: "They and us rule this brush. Against each other, nothing will take your path away. We can guide you if need be."
Marisha: If we take out the pixies, what is the future of your tribe?
Matt: "The brush will be ours. We will no longer be taken, our people left there to wither and waste away to the elements."
Marisha: Just a question. Do you guys hunt the pixies? Because I'm getting the sense that this is a weird turf war, and I just want to know the full story before we enter into this contract.
Matt: The bear, who's closer to you, takes a step forward, and you feel the ground shake behind you.
Travis: I match his step.
Matt: Match his step, okay. Grog steps forward. The other of the wolves nearby see you, and they all (snarl) crouch down, snarling in your direction. Lord Ukurat puts his hands out. "Calm, my brethren. We wish to live in peace amongst the woods, away from those who would hunt us, outside and in."
Marisha: Why don't you guys just agree? You guys take this half of the forest, and they'll take the other? I can even help you guys build a big wall, if you want, not to get oddly political. Maybe death is not the answer here?
Matt: One of the wolves nearby speaks up, "She speaks like she knows this place." And you hear some laughter. The wolf's head, which is turned to you, Lord Ukurat turns to you.
Marisha: They think I'm funny.
Sam: How many total are there?
Matt: There were seven, including the 12-foot-tall one.
Sam: We can probably take them.
Marisha: I'm not trying to take sides here. Just from a third party looking in. Trying to understand both perspectives, maybe.
Matt: "You have only heard one perspective."
Marisha: Exactly!
Matt: "Then go speak with them, if you'd like. Learn what we have learned. Perhaps that will help guide your choice."
Marisha: Not a bad idea.
Taliesin: I find that very reasonable.
Laura: That is very agreeable.
Matt: "We will be watching." At this point, Lord Ukurat crouches down, leaps up into the canopy of the forest, and you hear (impacts) as he leaps off in the distance. The other wolves (howl) follow suit and dart off in separate directions, and you hear as the bear backs away, Trinket growls back at him.
Laura: Be nice to him, Trinket!
Matt: (bear growl) The bear goes, (grunt). Trinket goes (grunt). Broseph bear snarls. You guys are left to the quiet of the forest now.
Sam: We could probably kill them all. I'm just throwing that out there.
Travis: I'm super restless.
Liam: I don't really want to fight a group of werebeasts, but we have much better chances, if we're going to pick a side, against them with their brute strength, than against fucking pixies. I am charmed at the drop of a hat!
Travis: Have you fought a werewolf before? Have you fought a lycan? Is it just brute strength?
Liam: Well, they are cursed. They seem very unhappy. They have to sit in rolling chairs at all times.
Taliesin: We literally have no idea what we're up against in any direction.
Liam: There are scary fairy stories, though, growing up?
Matt: You've heard about people that transform, but any specifics about their capabilities--
Marisha: I have a few spells that are good against people who can transform, but we're also in the Feywild, so I don't know.
Taliesin: Cute and dainty also means scary and dangerous.
Liam: We really bollocksed up the musical instruments scenario, and I don't feel like the pixies are going to be much better than that.
Taliesin: I feel like that went rather well.
Laura: All things considered.
Taliesin: Took less than three tries to figure that out.
Liam: Yeah, we ran in for 30 seconds, shit the bed, and then got the hell out. We didn't try to end them. We didn't finish anything.
Travis: It also bears remarking that Garmelie said we're not supposed to side with either, right?
Laura: Right, Garmelie?
Matt: "It's really up to you guys. I don't know if you have much of a choice right now."
Liam: Can't we just thread the needle and play them both?
Marisha: Until we get out of here. We're talking about exterminating the group of fairies--
Travis: No, we're destroying one of their relics.
Taliesin: Just have to desecrate a relic.
Marisha: You don't think they're going to put up a massive fight if we go in and start kicking their relics?
Taliesin: I feel like we've desecrated relics before.
Laura: Scanlan is really charming.
Sam: I could probably convince them to destroy it themselves.
Taliesin: How's that book going?
Marisha: You genuinely think we can destroy the relics without harming anyone?
Laura: No, but I'd like to try.
Taliesin: But I also will admit, I kind of want to see the pixies.
Marisha: I want to see the pixies, too.
Liam: You also wanted to hear the music. That didn't go well. We've got a bow to get you.
Travis: Let's just go over there, do a little recon, and then we'll make up our minds.
Liam: We are idiots.
Taliesin: Yes, we are.
Sam: I'm more inclined to turn around and fight these lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Because pixies, who knows?
Laura: Honestly, they didn't seem that bad. I feel terrible killing them for no reason.
Marisha: Maybe we can talk to the pixies about--
Taliesin: I think you would look fetching in a new lined winter jacket.
Marisha: Maybe they can work with us.
Sam: I'm okay with at least going to do some recon.
Travis: Go see the pixies. We send in Garmelie. If he dies, then we make a choice. Do you have a revision to that plan?
Matt: "I would think that would be the last portion of the plan. Everything else goes forward, and then, all else fails, perhaps Garmelie would have a hard time."
Marisha: Garmelie. Go, Percy.
Taliesin: You're our guide. Guide us. We're supposed to go where we're going, so you're supposed to get us there. How do we get there?
Laura: Follow the lights.
Matt: "You know exactly how to go there. Follow the lights."
Travis: Wow, you're so brave.
Marisha: We brought you here.
Taliesin: Garmelie, I'm so curious as to what happens if you're going to renege on our contract.
Laura: Would you want to draw some of the pixies if we see them?
Matt: "If they let me."
Laura: You can hide behind Grog, and you draw the pixies.
Matt: "I can maybe do that."
Travis: They're going to be pixies with giant dickbutts everywhere.
Marisha: Garmelie, is there anything in particular about pixies we desperately need to be aware of?
Matt: "They're tiny. They're frail, mostly mischievous."
Travis: How tiny?
Matt: He makes a motion with his hands about like that.
Laura: They're really that small? Are they super strong?
Matt: "No, they're quite the opposite, actually."
Sam: But there are lots of them, and they're fast and invisible.
Matt: "They are fairly magical entities. Depending on which type of pixie they are, their dispositions can shift dramatically. The Feywild entities that live and exist in certain areas tend to adapt to those areas. There are creatures of all emotional and moral backgrounds and interests. It's hard to say."
Taliesin: I'll also say, if we are going to attack the were-creatures, it would be nice to have a little help, maybe.
Sam: Help? From whom?
Taliesin: From the pixies. If we explain our situation, we can make a decision and either help the were-creatures or--
Laura: Maybe the pixies can help us take out the cancerous tree and all the things around it.
Travis: Well, let's go get eyes on them, shall we?
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: All right, make a survival check. With advantage because you're in a forest.
Laura: I'm in a forest.
Sam: Oh, just her?
Matt: Just her, yeah.
Laura: That's better. 22.
Matt: 22. You guys begin to move slowly forward as you ascertain a direction from the occasional small flutter of fey light that drifts at a slight curvature in its descent, making your way in the direction where, supposedly, the nexus of this pixie tribe should exist. We're going to go ahead and take a break. We will see you guys back here in a few minutes to pick up where we left off, wandering towards the pixie home. We'll see you guys in a minute. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. As we come into the event, Vox Machina is slowly crawling through the Moonbrush towards wherever these gentle fey lights drift, leading them, hopefully, to some sort of home space or residence of the local Wishers pixie population. You guys, pushing on for about another two and half, three hours, following the lights.
Sam: Reading.
Laura: How many hours do you have left of reading?
Sam: After two and half more, I have about four and a half.
Matt: So close. You're on the cusp of your week end, too. You guys make your way-- hoping that the music now is fixed. We shall see. It's a cable issue, not an iPad issue, it looks like. As you guys push on, you eventually see a cluster of small glowing lights in the distance, Vex. Garmelie immediately goes, "I'm going to hide now," and he goes invisible.
Laura: Garmelie, won't they see you?
Matt: "That's possible. Should I just stay back?"
Laura: You should probably just hold onto Grog. If he runs in, just trail behind him.
Matt: "Okay," and you feel the little hand grab the back of your belt again, a similar situation. You hear (groans). You guys now see what appears to be a thicket in the center of this portion of the forest. Maybe 20 or so natural-looking homes forming a small glowing community, almost like they were grown out of the ground of the local trees. The bark itself protrudes from the side of a tree and creates a dome-like abode that has carved little windows in it and a glowing interior. It's a very pretty fairy community out there, right in there in the center. All of the fey lights in the forest are slowly drifting in towards the center of this community. At a hundred-foot distance, you can just make out the faintest details.
Laura: They're teeny, though? It's teeny little houses?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Like doghouse size?
Matt: Each home or abode is about the size of a basketball.
Sam: Are they made out of toadstools?
Matt: It's hard to see from this distance. You can just see the general size of the homes.
Marisha: This is so cute.
Liam: And Vex is the only one that can see it.
Matt: She's the furthest ahead, yes.
Travis: I feel like "cute" is the last word we should use for this.
Taliesin: It will be the last word you ever say.
Laura: Definitely pixie city is up ahead.
Travis: Should we look for perimeter alarms or traps?
Laura: Yes, I look for that. Good idea, Grog! Good thinking.
Liam: I'm going to go stealth, just because.
Laura: Me, too.
Matt: All right. Make a stealth check, guys.
Travis: All right, Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: That's not still active anymore?
Travis: That was awful.
Sam: We're doing stealth checks?
Matt: Of those who wish to move forward towards the village.
Marisha: Oh, all of us? Sure.
Travis: 15.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What!
Liam: 25.
Sam: Are we adding plus ten?
Laura: 27.
Sam: Five.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: And as you guys creep forward, still humming the essence of the tune you guys managed to escape earlier, Scanlan's enjoying the echoes of his countercharm that he so well presented earlier, you shush him as you slowly creep closer to the outskirts of this pixie community. As you get closer-- when you envision a city, or a cluster of abodes like this, it's a large section, but for the scale of this it's no more than maybe 25 feet across and there are maybe two dozen homes throughout the entirety of this space. You can see just on the edge, looking inside, what appears to be a circle of about ten slightly glowing quartz-like stones, arranged in a perfect circle in the center of the community, and most of the fey lights are drawn towards it and cluster and rest at the base of the stones before fading away. You can also see, throughout this community, arranged like decorative statues, three stone, human-sized wolf-men type creatures that are locked in place, their claws up like this. Some look like they're fleeing, over a shoulder. They're all locked in a stone position and currently now have draped over them small vines and flowers, and they now rest amongst the community as some sort of a landmark.
Liam: All right, that is kind of fucked up.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You can see at this distance now a few moving, slightly brighter points of glowing light fluttering by and going from one little home to another. One over and into the circle flutters back. You guys are still at a good 40, 50 feet from the outside of this clearing.
Laura: And we can't spot any pixies near us at all?
Matt: Not directly near you, no.
Travis: I hate spiders.
Sam: I don't want to go near this place. We should either talk to them, or run away right now.
Travis: I like the latter of those two.
Liam: What was the goal here? To grab part of the circle?
Sam: To break a piece of the circle.
Marisha: To kick over their rocks.
Travis: Did they say to bring one back? Or to break it? The relic.
Matt: They said desecrate.
Marisha: They said it was the source of their power, right?
Liam: Desecrate it?
Travis: You ever stepped on an anthill, right? It gets real nasty, real fast.
Liam: Is it an open area over the village?
Matt: It is a clearing of trees about 25, 30 feet across, and along the interior of the trees are where a lot of the homes are grown out of, or out of the ground almost like strange tree trunk roots up into a dome-like natural home, and even they're arranged in a smaller circle around the central stone circle that is the middle.
Travis: Like forest wasps.
Liam: It all depends on the definition of desecrate. I could fly you 500 feet in the air, and you could shit upon that circle. It just depends if that is desecration in the eyes of the fey.
Taliesin: I will say that from what I gather of this realm, it probably isn't enough.
Travis: What if we asteroid-dropped Keyleth from 500 feet?
Marisha: That was very fun.
Laura: That would take out the lot of them?
Marisha: But it would take out the lot of them, right?
Laura: It seems so drastic.
Liam: The fairies or the fairy circle? Wouldn't it just destroy the circle?
Marisha: How wide is the entire--
Matt: About 25, 30 feet for the entirety of the community. The circle itself is five to ten feet wide. It's not a very large circle at all.
Travis: You'd be in your stone elemental form, it'd be no problem for you.
Marisha: It'd be no problem for me.
Sam: I don't think she would ever get close to it. They have some sort of shield up.
Taliesin: It'd be kicking the hornet's nest, certainly.
Sam: Tell me this, Vex, Vax. People with high perception.
Laura: He's Vex, I'm Vax.
Sam: Where are the animal men? Are they watching us right now?
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: That's double because of favored terrain. What is that, 20? No, 33.
Matt: 33. Doing a pretty intense scan of the vicinity of the forest around you, you see no sign of any of the previous pack that you encountered.
Sam: I think they're out there somewhere.
Taliesin: I think they're probably hanging back a bit. I don't know if they'd want to get this close.
Marisha: I'm sure they have other means of spying on us.
Travis: I vote we don't fuck with the pixies. Never thought I'd say that.
Marisha: Here's what I have at my disposal. A, I can shapeshift into a little tiny spider and go in there--
Laura: Can you shapeshift into a pixie?
Marisha: No, unfortunately. Beasts. Particular.
Sam: Can't you go underground and pop up?
Marisha: Yeah. Once again, probably destroying their entire village, but yeah.
Taliesin: The two of us could snipe something out.
Marisha: But I could go in like a spider and be a spider. I also happened to bring Hallucinatory Terrain today, so depending on how smart we think the lycans are, maybe I can make it look like we destroyed it.
Liam: How long does that last?
Marisha: 24 hours. Let me double check before I make promises.
Laura: I like this.
Liam: Just to give us a day's head start.
Sam: What we could do, Grog and I could run back, I could cut him over the eye, and say: It was horrible. It was quite a fight, but we won.
Laura: Do we need to let the pixies know that we're going to do this?
Marisha: Maybe Scanlan, do you have something that could-- I don't want to waste a spell and then find out that they have some sort of magical barrier enchantment that it can't stay up there.
Travis: What, you'd waste Hallucinatory Terrain?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: When else are you going to use that?
Marisha: Well, I'm burning a spell slot.
Sam: If they block it with their magical little crystals all over the place, then they'll also know we're here and they will attack us.
Marisha: Yes, 24 hours for a 150-foot cube, I make a terrain look, sound, and smell like some sort of other terrain.
Laura: I'm just worried that if you do it then the lycans are going to bust it, and then they just go to battle amongst themselves.
Taliesin: Isn't that brilliant?
Laura: This is actually really smart.
Sam: Wait, can you still tree-bamf us out of harm's way if we needed to?
Laura: You've got the mansion.
Sam: I don't have the mansion.
Taliesin: He's already burned the mansion.
Sam: I haven't slept in days.
Marisha: The only thing I have that can get us out fast is Plane Shift, which will get us out of the Feywild, but I brought that just in case.
Travis: Third option, we say fuck the lycans, fuck the pixies, and we just keep going.
Laura: What if you do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and we just leave?
Marisha: Yeah, we could do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and if it fails, then I guess we won't be in any worse situation.
Taliesin: I'm a big fan of Hallucinatory Terrain.
Sam: If we do Hallucinatory Terrain and it fails, the pixies will straight-up attack us.
Laura: How do you know?
Marisha: Well, it won't hurt them. It just makes it look different.
Sam: Everything here has attacked us.
Travis: All in favor of Hallucinatory Terrain, raise your hand.
Sam: We have to get the animal men here to see it, or else it isn't worth it.
Laura: We cast it and we create a ruckus--
Sam: I will buy into this idea if we have a plan for when the pixies are about to literally attack us five minutes from now.
Marisha: Well, we can do Hallucinatory Terrain, and if we run into the lycans, all we have to do is say we did it.
Laura: Do Hallucinatory Terrain. Garmelie, which direction should we run if we're running towards where we're supposed to be going?
Matt: Garmelie has watched this thing with eyes wide, and he's like, "That way."
Laura: All right.
Travis: Weren't you dropping little green rocks?
Marisha: I was dropping little green rocks.
Travis: So we can find our way back to the lycans, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's of course assuming that the little green rocks work here.
Marisha: They were red. They were red rocks.
Taliesin: There's an awful lot of reasons why the little red rocks wouldn't work.
Travis: Okay. Let's do it.
Laura: We take off running--
Sam: Wait, where are we running?
Laura: Towards the bog.
Sam: Towards the what?
Liam: We think towards the bog.
Sam: We're leaving Kiki and just running?
Marisha: No, I can do this at a range of 300 feet, so let's back up 300 feet.
Laura: You do it, we act like we did something, we start running.
Marisha: Hallucinatory Terrain, are we doing this? Are we ready? Are we doing this? I did it, bamf.
Matt: So you stand back a bit at the outskirts. What kind of hallucinatory terrain are you creating?
Marisha: I want it to look like the fairy terrain, but their little huts are on fire like they've been raided, and I want the circle of rocks to be obliterated, and all their statues to be knocked over and it smells like fire and shit and pixie blood. Like Grog said.
Matt: Grasping at what you imagine pixie blood would smell like.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm sure it smells delightful. Herbal.
Matt: So as Keyleth, you finish concentrating, you guys watch as there's a shimmer of magical energy, and now you see where once the beautiful glowing fairy light of the pixie abodes now look burnt to a cinder. You can see embers slowly rising off of them as the stone structures are now broken across the ground.
Liam: The horror, the horror.
Sam: The pixies see it too, though.
Marisha: They can see it, but they can also be like: oh, this isn't real.
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the wrist and start running away from the village.
Travis: Are we running back to the lycans or to the Shademirk?
Laura: Towards the Shademirk.
Travis: I've got Garmelie.
Liam: Go, run faun, run.
Laura: But keep on the lookout for mandrakes.
Marisha: And werewolves.
Matt: Okay, so I want everyone to make a perception check.
Sam: Strong eight.
Taliesin: Natural one.
Liam: Natural one.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: 22.
Laura: No! 31.
Travis: Natural 19.
Matt: What are you looking out for? Which direction are you looking?
Laura: I'm looking towards where we're going.
Matt: Okay, so you're going with Garmelie, heading in the direction duskward. Where are you looking, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm looking out for werewolves, for lycans.
Matt: Okay. Where are you looking?
Travis: I'm looking for lycans, too. I'm just being honest!
Matt: All right, so you guys continue pushing forward--
Liam: I'm shouting  The way is clear!
Matt: All right, you guys run, and run, and run, and you're pushing through brush and pushing over elements and heavy hard portions of the floor. I need everyone to roll-- this is going to be an athletics check for the keeping up the endurance and the speed. This is not easy terrain you continue to push through.
Marisha: Athletics?
Laura: I've got land stride, so I don't get slowed by any hard terrain.
Matt: You're fine. You don't need to roll.
Travis: 24.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 11.
Sam: I rolled twice, because of disadvantage. Both were ones.
Matt: You've hit the spectrum today.
Liam: Well, I rolled a one, but then I used Luck and I rolled a 20.
Matt: You guys, calm down on the extremes! There are other numbers between those two, you realize, on the dice.
Sam: I'm tired from reading.
Matt: You're not reading during this run. But as you guys are charging forward, Scanlan goes face-first over a heavy root into the ground. You guys have to double back, grab him, keep going. You push on, and you push on, and you push on for what seems like another 30 minutes to an hour. Your pace starts to slow due to general exhaustion and you're unable to keep that speed and that level of physical exertion for that long. Most of you can't. Grog is happy to go forever. Constitution of 20; he's good to go.
Liam: He's basically good against anything except one of the ancient dragons.
Matt: There's a few things he's not good against. Tiny brain with arms and legs, not so good.
Travis: Fuck that little bastard.
Matt: That was fun. Eventually, you begin to see a thinning of the trees, like the forest is coming to an end. You're beginning to hit the edge of the duskward side of the Moonbrush.
Laura: Are we going the right direction, Garmelie?
Matt: "As far as I know! Yes, we're going the right way!"
Marisha: You're taking us through the bog?
Matt: "Through the Moonbrush. That's what we're going through."
Marisha: Still to the bog.
Matt: "Of course! Where else would I want to go?!" He's holding his hat and rushing along.
Liam: You want to go to the theater.
Matt: "No theater!"
Liam: What's your problem with the arts, man?
Matt: You guys, at this point in time, come to the final tree line, Vex and Vax and Garmelie helming at the front of the pace before all three of you slam into something extremely hard.
Marisha: Oh fuck.
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Did it feel like a theater?
Matt: No, it felt like a wall.
Liam: The wall of a theater?
Laura: Seriously. A wall?
Matt: You stand back up and you guys catch up, and same thing: you come up to the edge between where the trees that hit the perimeter of the forest are, and there's a barrier, an invisible barrier right there that's preventing you from crossing.
Liam: What is this thing, Garmelie?
Matt: "I don't know! I haven't encountered this."
Liam: Never ever?
Matt: "I don't walk into the middle of dangerous forests for fun!"
Taliesin: I don't think we can leave until we take care of this.
Travis: Wait. You can go invisible. Is it magic? Can you tell?
Matt: "I can have a look at it."
Travis: Yeah, have a look.
Matt: He comes up and looks over it for a bit. "To be honest, this is a large-scale enchantment. This is some sort of-- this is very powerful, very old magic."
Marisha: Fucking old magic.
Matt: He turns around, looking at you guys. "Hi."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: Looking past you.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: As you guys turn around and see behind you what looks to be, shoulder to shoulder, a mass of furred, standing, snarling, beast-like humanoids. Behind them, landing and standing up to his full height, his snout having to dip beneath the brush under the nearest trees.
Liam: See what we did to those pixies? Wrecked.
Laura: Fucking destroyed.
Travis: Cut me real quick.
Matt: At this point, you now see as Lord Ukurat steps from them, and they all begin to form a semicircle around you. He goes, "Were you trying to flee?"
Taliesin: We were running from the pixies.
Laura: We destroyed their home, and then we took off running. That's what you wanted, right?
Marisha: They're so scary.
Matt: "If you had done what we asked, you would have been able to leave this forest."
Taliesin: So we have to try harder. It didn't work.
Laura: Apparently, our methods were not complete. We will go back and we will do it better this next time.
Marisha: To be fair, I don't remember entering a formal contract.
Liam: You took off before we shook hands or anything.
Marisha: You told us to go take a look at the pixies first. And to get a second opinion. And we have made it to the edge of the bog safely, without your need of safe passage.
Matt: He's already turned around and walking away. He says, "Do what you will. I have no interest in you. Liars, deceivers! You talk too much. Your meat would taste like ash in my mouth. Well, good luck. Enjoy your time locked in this prison like the rest of us!" The wolves turn around and walk away.
Laura: Wait, you're locked in here because of the pixies?
Taliesin: I feel like they're terrible communicators.
Marisha: Yeah, they should've told us that. I don't think they wanted to tell us that.
Liam: Would've been a good incentive for us to destroy the pixies. We can't proceed without destroying the pixies.
Laura: A little communication is all we need!
Travis: Can I take out my bloodaxe and go up to the magic barrier and hit it as hard as I can?
Matt: Go for it. Roll an attack.
Taliesin: This is going to be appalling. Don't.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Okay, roll damage.
Travis: How do I do that? I forget. I'm kidding.
Matt: It's been a few episodes.
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay. I need you to also make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Sweet. Natural one.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: Got to love it when the crew laughs at your final death crack.
Matt: As you pull back with the bloodaxe, you slam with all your might into the barrier. As it hits, there's a streak, a flash of vibrant, bluish-white light and what sounds like the highest shriek you've ever heard in the entirety of your time on Exandria, at which point you watch Grog get flung backwards at incredible speed through the air, the actual blast sending you almost into your allies and party, slamming into one of the nearby tree trunks. The bloodaxe goes plopping to the ground as you feel a number of bones in your back crack from the impact. You suffer 28 points of psychic damage and 14 points of bludgeoning damage from hitting the tree.
Taliesin: I feel like we all learned a very valuable lesson right now.
Marisha: What's a good burrowing creature? A badger?
Travis: Ow.
Laura: I feel like we need to rest, you guys. We really need to rest.
Taliesin: Let's sit down and camp, and in the morning, we'll go and kill some pixies.
Sam: Wait. Are we trapped in here because we were deceitful to these wolf-men, or because the pixies are trapping everybody?
Liam: The pixies are bitter little assholes.
Matt: Garmelie goes, "That doesn't make sense. People enter and exit the forest without an issue."
Sam: We entered.
Marisha: Yeah, we entered.
Sam: So why are we trapped here? Because we lied?
Matt: "I don't know."
Travis: I just don't think we can go this way. (belches)
Taliesin: I'm going to attempt to cast Minor Illusion on the other side of the wall. Just an image of myself.
Matt: Okay. As you attempt to cast the spell, the arcane energy dissipates upon impact with the barrier.
Laura: Garmelie, who do you know that's left these woods?
Matt: "That would be my uncle Jameson, who's the person I learned most of this information about the Moonbrush from."
Laura: Your uncle Jameson, and he was definitely telling the truth that he went in the woods?
Matt: "He was probably a little intoxicated when he was spinning these tales, but--"
Taliesin: Is Jameson his real name or a nickname?
Matt: "As far as I know, it's his real name."
Laura: So he knew about the happy camp.
Matt: "These were the things I was warned of, yes."
Liam: Do we want to waste any time trying to take your broom up and see how high this barrier goes?
Marisha: I can dig and see if we can go under, just in case.
Taliesin: That doesn't jive.
Travis: Oh, that's true. It didn't hurt us when we just ran into it.
Liam: No, when we ran into it, it felt like a brick wall.
Laura: I guess I fly up. Can I fly up and see how high up it goes?
Matt: Sure. You get on the broom, you go past the canopy and eventually, the front of the broom clips and scrapes against, and you can see a little bit of a shimmer of the barrier that domes up.
Laura: It's a bubble. We're in a bubble. I go back down.
Travis: I have a proposal.
Laura: Yes, Grog?
Travis: Why don't we make our way back to the pixie dome and say: oh, we were chased by these horrible lycans! We wanted to kill them, but we got stuck when we hit this invisible wall. Could you do anything to help us get rid of the lycans? And then we play both sides of the coin.
Sam: That is way better than our first idea, and yet still terrible.
Taliesin: I think we have to pick a terrible idea and stick with it until it becomes far too much for us to deal with.
Marisha: Can I take a look around and do a perception check to see if anyone else might be watching us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's not bad. 25.
Matt: 25. You take a moment and glance about the tree line, the floor.
Marisha: Are there rustles in the bushes from someone who might be invisible?
Matt: No movement any further. Once the rest of Lord Ukurat and his crew had vanished into the nightward direction, you've seen no movement since.
Laura: I feel like they weren't that bad of guys. They could've attacked us, and they didn't. They just want out.
Liam: They're certainly no meaner than Grog is. They're just scarier.
Taliesin: I propose we take a nap. Go back and deal with the pixies one way or another.
Liam: I agree with Percival. I think all our options are shit. We pick the least shitty and see what happens.
Laura: Scanlan, can you sleep?
Sam: If I read for a few more hours first, sure.
Taliesin: You'll take first watch.
Marisha: How long have we been up?
Matt: At this point in time, I'd say close to eight, nine hours.
Marisha: So it hasn't been a full day. Let's call it an early night.
Laura: Read your book. We'll sleep.
Travis: All right. You take first watch. We're going to zonk out.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'll stay up, as well.
Matt: So you're taking a short rest or a long rest?
Laura: We'll take a short rest into a long rest. So he can finish reading and then we can sleep.
Matt: All right, sure. So you're taking first watch.
Laura: And I'm up with him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Can I...
Matt: Can you...?
Marisha: I want to go Minxie and do a little perimeter walk in the forest a little bit.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys are resting and finding camp here in a small section of the trees. You're on that weird cusp where, looking out towards the barrier, you can see the dusk light, the usual sky of the Feywild, and as you guys back up to find your camp, a little deeper in the forest where it feels safer and less exposed, looking up, you can still see the dark, starry sky and the moon, both visible from your position past the trees above and past the barrier in front. As the rest of you are resting, you're finishing up your reading. You go Minxie form, and you go wandering the perimeter. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Natural one.
Sam: Looks like a seven. Nope, that's a one.
Matt: As you're stalking through, looking about, you catch a scent, a new scent. One you're unfamiliar with. It smells sweet, like a freshly fallen and opened fruit. You immediately instinctively look down and sniff across the ground. Out of the corner of your eye, you see a glow as you see two small, humanoid entities with pairs of wings flutter in in front of you and stop. What languages do you know?
Marisha: Elven, Sylvan, Primordial.
Matt: Okay. You do understand what they're saying, as they are both talking to each other in Sylvan. One says, "I'm not familiar with this one! I don't think I've seen this creature in here before." The other one glances over and goes, "You don't think she could've done it?"
Marisha: What was that last bit? Sorry.
Matt: "You don't think that she could've done it? It's just a cat." "Is it, though?" They both get closer and inspect you. They're both rotating around your face and fluttering. One starts pulling on your ear a little bit, tugging on it.
Marisha: I start purring.
Matt: "It's okay." They move underneath, under your neck, and scratch just a little bit. The other one backs up and goes, "We have to keep looking. Something did this."
Marisha: I wait for a second, and then start stalking them.
Matt: You follow them?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys are taking a rest. You continue reading.
Laura: I'm awake. I'm keeping guard.
Matt: They stop and move, stop and move. They're doing a full perimeter. Apparently, they are some sort of a search party. Occasionally, you can hear bits and pieces of conversation at a distance, thanks to your better hearing as Minxie, but not incredible bits. They're discussing a scare. They're discussing the enchantment that was placed. They're discussing new intrusion. That's about the most you can make out of the conversation. You continue to follow them. You're going into the second or third hour of following them, and they're still doing a wide perimeter in the forest. They meet up with a third one, and they have a quick little discussion and then branch off.
Marisha: Can I hear the little discussion, anything?
Matt: If you want to get closer.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check.
Marisha: I have stealth as Minxie. I get benefits, right, as a tiger? Oh, yeah, I do. Oh, not good. Ten.
Matt: All right. As you creep forward in the middle of their discussion, the three of them all whip around at you. One of them pulls a wand out and puts it out in front, and the other two back up.
Marisha: I just start eating grass.
Laura: That's totally tiger-like.
Matt: The two that saw you before are like, "She's been following us." "Why?"
Marisha: I roll over and show my belly.
Matt: The one that has the wand out goes, "I don't want to take chances." Puts the wand out. How many hit points do you have? In Minxie form?
Liam: Shuffle shuffle, flip page, flip page, flip page.
Marisha: Sorry. 52. They're going to Finger of Death me, aren't they? They're going to do something bad.
Matt: Okay. Raises the wand. There's a slight tingling sensation, and then nothing happens, and looks at the wand. "Strange." They all convene and start whispering to each other very close.
Marisha: I look distracted with other stuff. I sniff and wander off.
Matt: They separate a bit.
Marisha: Just doing cat-like things.
Liam: Just start pissing.
Marisha: I mark my territory. I spray a little bit.
Laura: Gross. That's foul, Keyleth.
Matt: You hear one of them say, "We can always correct it later, but best to be safe than sorry." As you're peeing, I need you to make a--
Laura: If she gets petrified while she's pissing, it's going to be--
Matt: I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: It's either a one or a 20.
Marisha: I'll just start a new one. Don't worry about it. Fuck, why?
Travis: Is this shit on camera? We're recording, right?
Marisha: That one's a 19, can I go with the 19?
Matt: You can't take it off the table before it's real.
Travis: Twice in a fucking row? What are the chances? Do it again.
Marisha: Oh, that's a 16, that's good. Saving throw, so 21.
Matt: Constitution saving throw is 21 total?
Marisha: I've got my ring of protection, which gives me a plus two.
Matt: Oh, right. So as you're peeing, you feel another warm tingle over one shoulder, and you feel your muscles tense a little bit, and then relax as the effect passes over you to no effect. The three pixies go, "We have to tell her. I don't trust it." And they all flutter off.
Marisha: Okay. I head back to camp.
Matt: A few hours pass. Keyleth hasn't returned. You're still reading.
Laura: Keyleth? Keyleth, dear? Shit.
Marisha: Whenever I'm back.
Laura: Shit. I go and I kick Vax awake.
Liam: Ow. Why did you do that?
Laura: Oi. Your girlfriend's not back yet.
Liam: What do you mean?
Laura: She went off prowling as Minxie and she's not home.
Liam: I take off flying.
Laura: Fucking A.
Marisha: Oh jesus. Oh man. I'm a big girl, come on.
Laura: That is not what I meant for you to do.
Matt: This is your first time really trying out your wings. You're also in a very dense forest, so there's no space. As you heroically take off, you impact. Your wing hits a branch, and you go spinning out of the way.
Liam: Can I Spider-Man from tree to tree like the werewolves did using the wings a little bit?
Matt: You're trying to. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage.
Travis: It's like a Plinko machine.
Liam: 28.
Matt: With disadvantage? You manage to not fall on your face, but it is a very clumsy-looking ascent. You make it, but a wingspan of that size, amongst tree-tops, is going to do very little other than what your general leaping would do. You get a little bit of gliding space from point to point.
Liam: I'm still fucking asleep is the problem.
Matt: Yeah. But you don't fall. All right, so we'll say for the next couple hours you guys do-si-do in the forest until eventually you do convene. Your wings wear off, and you find yourself back at the camp, Minxie safely arriving just as you finish your final page of your book.
Sam: And it was all a dream. What a shitty ending. Who knew? It was terribly hacky and derivative, and it read like Fifty Shades of Grey.
Laura: Scanlan, you--
Sam: What? Something different about me?
Laura: I don't know. Did you do your hair differently today?
Liam: Are you shorter?
Sam: I feel so interesting.
Liam: That's impossible.
Sam: It could be.
Matt: And Scanlan goes right into the deepest slumber he's ever experienced.
Laura: Good. You guys are back, everybody's safe, everything's good?
Marisha: So I stalked a couple of fairies for several hours.
Liam: I know all this. She told me two hours ago.
Marisha: Yes, I caught him up a little bit as we were walking back. Pretty sure it is the fairies who are creating the magical barrier, and I'm pretty sure it's because we might've scared the living shit out of them, so it might've all been still our fault all along, like most things are, so we'll talk to the fairies tomorrow.
Laura: If they don't find us.
Marisha: They are actively looking for us.
Travis: They saw you.
Marisha: They saw me as a cat.
Travis: What did they do to you?
Marisha: I think they tried to cast several spells on me, and by some luck of the draw, I managed to feline my way out of them. I think they are looking for me and us, and I won't be a tiger anymore.
Laura: Can I use my ranger abilities and try to disguise where we're camping?
Marisha: Can I help hide? I'll help her a little bit.
Matt: You guys find a little alcove by one of the bigger trees nearby that has some of the roots recess inward, and you build a small camp there that's covered with thatch and branches.
Liam: Do we have any concept of what time it is in this perpetual night?
Matt: You really have none.
Laura: I'm going to get a little sleep, though, so I can get my spells back. Anybody else taking watch?
Liam: Yeah, stay up with me.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: She needs to rest.
Travis: I'll stay up.
Matt: She's already been up for four hours.
Liam: Stay up with me.
Travis: You can cuddle with me.
Liam: Don't offer that.
Travis: I know.
Marisha: Okay. I will sleep, then, I guess.
Matt: Go ahead and nap. You guys are staying up.
Marisha: I pick a space near Vax.
Matt: You guys make perception checks, both of you.
Travis: Ten.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay. Partway into your watch, you do see, whereas there was the very faint, ever-present falling of the fey lights, you do see what looks to be two brighter lights that are traveling together, shifting about a little ways past your sight.
Liam: Do you see that?
Travis: Yeah, fireflies.
Liam: No. Well, sort of. Let's watch them. I don't think we should go out. I think we should let the group rest.
Travis: What, the little lights?
Liam: No, your friends. We'll let them sleep unless those things come closer.
Travis: Oh.
Liam: Are they coming closer, or are they keeping their distance?
Matt: They're keeping a distance. They don't seem to notice you.
Laura: They might've heard you.
Matt: All right, they come pretty close, actually. They start heading in your direction. Do you guys do anything? Are you going to stay quiet? What do you do?
Liam: Don't move. I go stealth.
Travis: I freeze in an exotic pose.
Matt: Make a stealth check with advantage because of the camouflage that she put.
Liam: Do I have that camouflage?
Matt: You already have your crazy bonuses, but yeah, take advantage on that.
Liam: 25.
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Total of eight? With advantage?
Travis: A six and a two.
Liam: Come on, Grog! Come on.
Matt: All right. As they drift past, you hear a fart, which isn't what catches their attention. It's the pause after, and Grog uncontrollably laughing at it, partially because the intent of Keyleth staying close to Vax while you guys were resting, and it went in her direction.
Marisha: I shuffle uncomfortably in my sleep. I don't know why I just had a nightmare.
Matt: You watch as two of these fluttering points of light about ten feet out.
Liam: I'm staying still.
Matt: Stay there for a second, and then go darting off into the distance.
Travis: One look and they ran.
Liam: We have to talk about your diet.
Travis: What?
Liam: Your diet! Do you eat any greens at all?
Travis: Yeah, pickled herring, and I've been grabbing stuff as we walk through.
Marisha: That just happened. He wants to talk about your IBS, and there are lycans.
Liam: I crawl over to my sister and shake her and say: wake up!
Laura: What?
Liam: Don't fly away like I did. Oh, wait, your broom's over there, all right. They are watching us. They came in close, and then they left, so I don't think we're safe anymore.
Laura: So we fucking should get out of here?
Liam: Maybe, yeah.
Laura: Wake everybody up!
Travis: No, look. We've got to talk to them anyway, right? We're not going to run.
Laura: At least we can prepare ourselves.
Travis: How?
Taliesin: Sleeping.
Travis: Yeah, just keep sleeping.
Laura: I wake Percival up.
Travis: No!
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: What? Yes?
Laura: Hi, grumpy.
Taliesin: What?
Laura: We've been discovered by fairies.
Taliesin: That's nice.
Laura: Get ready to use your charming wiles.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: I'm going to let Scanlan sleep a little bit more, because he looks fucking exhausted.
Liam: That's it, you put him back to sleep? You go back to bed, then.
Laura: All right, fine. Can we make things look fancy around here so when they all come back, we look like we're ready to talk to them?
Taliesin: I slowly crawl out. I pull out a piece of parchment, and I write: Hello, fairies. We're napping. And I put it on the tree above us and go back to sleep.
Liam: You're letting Whitey go back to sleep, then?
Laura: Whitey? Are you calling him Whitey as a nickname?
Liam: Yeah. I think it's apt. Fuck it. I go back to bed. I spoon Keyleth and fall asleep.
Marisha: I'll allow it.
Travis: I actually go back to sleep, too.
Laura: What in the fuck is going on here? How is this happening?
Matt: Vex, you're the only one awake.
Taliesin: All right, fine, my watch. I'll get up.
Laura: I'm going to sit up.
Taliesin: I sit up and take the watch.
Laura: Oh, you know what, I'm going to put out the little gold tea set, and I'm going to act like we're welcoming them to tea whenever they show up.
Taliesin: I will take the watch, and I will make some tea with the tea set.
Travis: The cups are bigger than they are. Oh, you made drowning pots for us all. How lovely. It's going to be a threat.
Laura: I never did actually find out what this tea set does.
Taliesin: We're about to find out, then, aren't we?
Laura: Oh, you know what, and I take out my old wooden music box that I discovered.
Liam: Yes, pull out all of your cursed items.
Laura: And I wind it up and make some pretty music.
Sam: Like a crazy grandma in the woods.
Taliesin: I am joining you for this ridiculous tea party.
Laura: I like it, thank you. Don't drink out of the teacups, because I really think they might be cursed. Seriously, Percy, I know it's appealing to you, but don't get cursed again, all right?
Matt: All right, so. You guys prepare your tea. You set up your music box. A couple more hours pass, the rest of you coming to a semblance of a restful sleep. The only ones who didn't get a restful sleep on this would be Vex and... Percy?
Taliesin: I specifically did not join those conversations.
Matt: You barely got in there. You do not get your spells back, unfortunately. Scanlan, you reduce your exhaustion by one point.
Sam: Oh, I got sleep?
Matt: You did, yes, so you're down to only one point, which means your speed is no longer halved.
Sam: Oh, I had two points of exhaustion? I thought it was just one.
Matt: You wanted to keep reading.
Liam: Hair is shiny, eyes are bright.
Taliesin: Your charisma's up by two, which means--
Sam: No, I already did it.
Matt: At this point, towards the end of this watch here, you see as a cluster of seven lights now start swarming in your direction.
Laura: Oh, good.
Marisha: Are we awake?
Matt: You're starting to come to as Vex begins to nudge you guys to consciousness.
Sam: Do I get spells back?
Matt: You do.
Laura: Oi, Scanlan. Sing a happy tune about how much we love fairies.
Sam: Oh, sure. I love singing happy tunes. About fairies?
Laura: Yeah, like how pretty they are.
Sam: How about I just sing a happy tune?
Laura: Sounds good, too.
Sam: I'll sing a song about myself. The best kind of songs. (singing) Cube, glorious cube! You really should try it. If you're in the mood, I won't even hide it. I'll pull down my trousers for any gal or dude, O cube, glorious cube, wonderful cube, magical cube!
Matt: The sounds of your voice, accompanied by the music box playing through the air as the Wisher pixies arrive, at least this troupe of them come rushing up. You see they are all behind one that appears to have-- while all of them have a slight white with a hint of pinkish glow, there is one that has a deeper purple halo around it. As they all approach, they stop, and the purple one goes up to the paper that was left on the tree. "So! Enjoy your nap?"
Laura: I wasn't quite rested, but it was lovely here.
Taliesin: There is tea. Would you like some tea?
Sam: We might have straws.
Taliesin: I am tempted to fashion the thing that I use to pour my molds into little sippy cups that can be shared.
Laura: We've been trying to prepare for your coming. Unfortunately, we don't have very much to make it appropriate.
Taliesin: We are aware we need to have a conversation. Good morning.
Matt: "Yes, we do." And the other pixies flutter down to the ground. She flutters down, as well, and they approach the tea set.
Marisha: I say good morning to them in Sylvan.
Matt: They all look over, and they give a slight curtsey bow. You now have a closer look at them. They're all various lithe young men and women with little leaf-based or vine-based bits of attire. The one that has the purplish halo is an older one with whiter hair that's a little wild around the face. You can see the wings themselves look a little more tattered and worn. She's probably the respected elder of the troupe that's there. As they all step forward, she inspects the tea set and looks up. "So."
Laura: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. You see, we were trying to pass through these woods, and we ran into a band of very big, very mean-looking wolves.
Matt: All the pixies at once go (gasps) and they pull back. The purple one says, "You ran into them?"
Sam: Not only did we run into them, but they forced us against our will to attempt to do you harm.
Laura: Which, of course, we didn't want to do.
Taliesin: So we thought we would just trick them.
Matt: The pixies at this point are darting around to each of you. You each have a pixie hovering right in front of you, quickly inspecting your bodies. You can see now the central one, the glowing purple, is in the air, backing up.
Marisha: They didn't bite any of us or get any of us. We're not infected.
Matt: They all look around. You see the pixies all turn back, looking, okay. One of them by Grog turns and goes, "He's been wounded!" Pointing at his head.
Laura: His cut?
Taliesin: Oh, that was him.
Sam: I cut his eyebrow, and then he fucked himself by trying to smash through the barrier that I assume you created.
Travis: Yeah, don't go through that wall. But bidet.
Taliesin: We're on a mission, though.
Laura: A great mission.
Matt: "If we are to continue this conversation, we need comfort. He is disquieting. Allow us."
Laura: What are you going to--
Travis: No, it's cool. Please, do as you will.
Liam: What are we talking about?
Travis: Let them feel at ease. Go ahead.
Matt: The older one glances over at you. Make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Natural one. (laughs)
Matt: As you grin, you watch as his flesh goes an even duller gray color as his entire body turns to solid stone.
Liam: Is that temporary? Is that going to last?
Matt: "Now. Let us have a conversation."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "So. You've encountered these beasts."
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: And they instructed us to kill you.
Taliesin: No, not to kill.
Laura: They wanted us to hurt you. To destroy your circle of stones.
Matt: "They sent you to come and kill us and destroy our home?"
Liam: We misspoke. To destroy this circle.
Matt: "You speak in many words that do not meet as one thought or theory."
Taliesin: Well, you're a bit intimidating.
Matt: As the very tiny pixies all look at each other and look at you large folk, there's a little chuckle under their breath.
Taliesin: We are wise enough to not judge a man or woman by their size, good sir.
Marisha: We didn't want to harm you, so we thought if we just made it look to those silly, dumb lycans like we hurt you. By throwing paper balls, if you will.
Taliesin: Stop antagonizing the Grog statue.
Marisha: I did just a simple visual spell, and we tried to move on, as to not get involved.
Sam: We did everything in our power to protect you, and to not harm you. If our druid's spellcasting frightened you, we apologize, but we didn't know what else to do.
Taliesin: And we have a bog to destroy.
Laura: Yes, we're on a very important mission, and we thought it might be the quickest way to complete.
Taliesin: There's a cancerous tree that we have been sent to destroy.
Liam: Honestly, we're scared of both you and the lycan, and we just want to pass through. We want no harm for you, and unfortunately, them, either. We just want to walk on out of here.
Marisha: This is not our fight, you see.
Matt: The older one is glancing about, and a couple of the pixies drop next to her and whisper into her ear, and her eyes are still darting amongst you.
Marisha: Can I understand what they're saying?
Matt: No, they're very small, and they're very distant.
Laura: That's really, really off-putting.
Matt: It's impressive. The two pixies separate. The elder one crosses her fingers. "Few are those who would deal with such miscreants and foul entities as those wolf kin, so much as to give our little hearts a possible scare of death to our homes in an attempt to escape without but a conversation. This puts us at unease. We do not like being at unease."
Laura: Understandable. But we weren't trying to deal with them. In fact, we made no deal with them. We told them we wouldn't make a deal until we spoke with you. But we were scared. We were too scared.
Marisha: They were trying to exploit our abilities. We were being held against our will. We were threatened with life or death. There was nothing personal.
Liam: Their leader is massive. We were scared. This one wet his leg, and he's gigantic. We just didn't know what to do.
Matt: She puts her hands up. "Very well. Mistakes are made, and punishments are doled out. So. We shall return to our village. We shall lower the barrier to you, and all shall be fine."
Sam: And our gray stone friend?
Matt: "He is your punishment for your infraction. But we've learned our lessons, and you may go about your way."
Sam: How can we buy his freedom?
Liam: We've got a tea set.
Laura: How can we buy his freedom?
Matt: "There is no freedom to be bought. In these worlds, words and actions speak volumes, and you've crossed our people. Right now, we could take you all as new entries to our garden. We took but one. Be thankful you got off quite as easy. The Wishers set you free."
Laura: Thanks, Wisher.
Marisha: It's okay. I can fix it.
Sam: What? What do you mean?
Marisha: I have Greater Restoration. She left, right? That wasn't in front of her. I didn't say that to her.
Matt: Okay. She says, "Very well. Good luck on your endeavor." The rest of the pixies gather up around Grog's body, and you watch as they all glow and his stone form, as heavy as it should be, suddenly becomes weightless.
Sam: Wait.
Taliesin: Wait, no, we need that.
Marisha: Oh, they're taking him. Oh! I cast Earthbind on Grog.
Sam: Earthbind?
Marisha: Yeah. It should ground him.
Matt: It does. He slams into the ground with all the weight of a falling stone goliath into the dirt. At which point the pixies immediately go off and turn around. "You would cast incantations towards us?"
Marisha: No, I cast it to my friend, who is about 12 foot tall and a giant target. Come on, don't make stories up where there aren't any.
Matt: "Stories, nothing."
Marisha: What? You fairies are manifesting these ideas, okay? You are creating a dichotomy that does not exist.
Matt: They all gather and begin to whisper to each other, their heads darting around.
Marisha: Oh, see, look. They're doing it right now.
Matt: At this point  "This display is enough. Your words and your actions speak in difference, in entirely opposing directions. If you are to continue to throw these words, these deceptions, these lies in our direction, then perhaps we'll take you all for our garden."
Taliesin: I wouldn't advise that.
Matt: "Then let us take him, and you move on with your lesson." And they go and pick him up once more.
Laura: Wouldn't you rather have a song? Wouldn't you rather have-- how often do you get a performance?
Taliesin: I cast Hex on the main pixie.
Matt: You do?
Taliesin: I do.
Sam: That's it, it's on. I call out to the main pixie: Wait. What's your name?
Matt: At this point, you guys watch as a shadow all of a sudden darts up from the ground and clings around the pixie. She whips around, at which point you now hear another (impact) as the stone Grog slams into the ground, all the pixies scattering around.
Marisha: See, that is what it looks like when an incantation is targeted at you.
Taliesin: It's not very nice, is it?
Matt: You now watch as all of the various very gently falling fairy lights begin to (flitting) and be absorbed by the pixies of the forest. As their glows intensify, the purple halo growing, you see the central elder figure of the Wisher pixies say, "At least our allegiances now lie bare." I need you all to roll initiative.
Laura: Can you quickly--
Marisha: It's one action. It's one fucking action. I just looked it up for that reason. That's not good. That's not a good initiative at all.
Laura: Natural 20 on an initiative. I don't know what I can do to them.
Taliesin: 27.
Marisha: I notoriously roll terrible on my initiative.
Sam: How many are there?
Taliesin: A lot, but they die quick.
Marisha: Are they going to form a--
Laura: A Voltron?
Marisha: That's exactly what I was thinking, yeah.
Laura: I feel like it would be easier to hit if it was a giant Voltron.
Liam: Oh, that angle is not going to be kind to those trees.
Taliesin: What's the best check to give him? I can give him disadvantage on an ability check. So wisdom or intelligence?
Liam: The werewolves were honorable. These guys are assholes.
Laura: Yeah, I know.
Taliesin: I feel better about killing them.
Laura: Me, too. They're dicks. They were going to take Grog.
Marisha: They were trying to take Grog. Fucking assholes. I feel like we were very reasonable, considering how unreasonable we normally are.
Sam: We were put between a rock and hard place.
Marisha: And a hard Grog.
Sam: And we had no choice. Really. It was a bad situation.
Laura: Grog is on the ground? Oh, he is on the ground.
Matt: Yes, he is.
Travis: I'm stoned.
Sam: If Grog is permanently corrupted, we know that we can download a fresh one from Backblaze.com. (laughter)
Travis: Beautiful. That was too good.
Taliesin: Just couldn't let it go. I'm so sorry. I just couldn't let it go.
Marisha: Was that my fault this time? it was a mild combination. I might have contributed.
Sam: We should've fought the fucking werewolves.
Laura: Yeah, we should've, but we didn't, because we're idiots.
Matt: All right, initiative order. We have 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 27.
Laura: 27, as well, with a natural 20.
Sam: 21 for me.
Taliesin: We are some fast motherfuckers.
Sam: I got sleep.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: Those fairies are so spread out. I thought they would all be together.
Matt: As soon as they dropped, they fanned out.
Taliesin: We were trying really hard not to shoot first.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Liam: 13.
Matt: Ten to five? And Grog is stone. Sorry, buddy.
Marisha: You first, bud. Coming for you first.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round, Percy and Vex, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where's the one that I hexed?
Matt: The one that you hexed, which I will mark here, looking overhead you can see is the one with the brighter, vibrant glow right there. That is currently the one, so I'm marking that as the Hex right there. There you go.
Taliesin: Do you think they're really hard to hit because they're small?
Laura: Probably. I'm going to move over to my left.
Matt: Okay. Here?
Laura: Yeah. A little bit more. I want to line them up in a cone, so if I can get as many in a cone as I can.
Matt: Okay. Do we have the cone templates? Because they're not by me right now.
Laura: It's a 60-foot cone there that I have. It's a big cone.
Matt: It's a very big cone.
Liam: What about just a comb?
Laura: I want to cast Hunter's Mark on the shiny one that he hexed, as well.
Matt: Hunter's Mark on that one as well.
Laura: Double. They're weak, you guys! Milk jug rings, take them out.
Matt: Thank you, Zack. I appreciate that. So 60-foot cone. You can get four of them into it.
Laura: That gets the mamba jamba? Okay, good. That's what I want.
Marisha: What we don't want to do is spread out too much and get fucked.
Laura: Conjure Barrage.
Matt: Conjure Barrage. All right. Dexterity saving throw. All right.
Laura: It's a 15 for me.
Matt: That's a success. Success. Success. 18, 19, 19. And 16. All succeed.
Laura: So they take half. 3d8, halved.
Matt: So roll damage, halved. Grog's stone form takes full damage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry. 15, halved. Plus Hunter's Mark damage on the--
Matt: On the one, so roll for that one.
Laura: I got three on that.
Taliesin: Don't forget to Trinket.
Laura: That's one action, isn't it?
Taliesin: Is it an action?
Matt: It's an action to cast, yeah.
Laura: So I can't use Trinket yet, because I already did something.
Matt: All righty, so as everyone gathers up, immediately as the fight begins you can see as Vex puts a Hunter's Mark on the purple glowing pixie and then pulls out an arrow, releases it, and then it scatters into a blast of various shards of sharpened wood, metal, and stone that goes shooting into the nearby trees. You can see the bark of the nearby tree trunks being covered with various bits of ranger shrapnel as most of the pixies try and avoid, but most getting blasted with some semblance of impact. That's going to end your turn, unless you want to move some more.
Laura: I want to duck behind that tree, like it's going to do anything.
Travis: How many points of damage was that?
Matt: To you? To your stone form? That was 15.
Travis: 15.
Matt: From the blast of the impact you can see parts of the stone get rough a little bit at certain points.
Travis: I can break.
Laura: You can break.
Matt: Statues can break, and that's bad.
Laura: That's super bad.
Travis: Somebody lost an arm that way.
Matt: Do you want Trinket to move at all?
Laura: Trinket runs and stands next to Keyleth.
Matt: All right. Got it. That brings us to Percy, same turn.
Taliesin: Taking a shot with Retort, with the little pistol at the fucker I've marked. Dear god almighty. 16 to hit?
Matt: 16 does not hit. As you try to shoot, this tiny little glowing thing darts out of the way and the bullet goes wide.
Taliesin: Shoot again. That's better. 25.
Matt: That does hit.
Taliesin: Okay. It has been way too long since I've done this. It's making me a little nervous. There we are. That's 11 points of piercing damage. That's with three points of necro in there.
Matt: All right, so that's your second attack. This time you do see as it moves out of the way you compensate for it and fire, this time you see the purple glow flicker as it takes an impact and recaptures itself into its original position.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take one more shot at it with-- remind me if I can do this-- deadeye with sharpshooter?
Matt: Deadeye sharpshooter? You can do that.
Taliesin: All right, deadeye sharpshooter. Thank god. This is just sucking. Oh my fucking god. I miss.
Matt: Okay. You don't misfire. All right, so after the second shot hits, you fire, trying to compensate a third time, but the pixie actually stays in position and your fire goes wide once more.
Taliesin: All right. Now I'm diving behind that tree. Bottom right. Heading that way, yeah.
Matt: Cool, that ends your turn. The purple pixie leader, the mystic you mentioned before, now angrily comes fluttering forward, as you both have vanished. Seeing this little circumstance, is going to, from this position, look towards you at the very front, Vax.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: It begins reciting under its breath.
Sam: I'll do Counterspell at level six.
Marisha: Oh snapricot.
Taliesin: Did you just say "snapricot?"
Marisha: I'm a fucking hipster.
Taliesin: This is going so poorly.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty.
Matt: As you cast your Counterspell, mark off your 6th-level spell. It finishes the incantation, as it does, a bit of arcane energy sprays forth from its fingertips and dissipates around it.
Liam: Aw, that's sad.
Matt: Darts backwards.
Laura: Out of camera view.
Matt: All right, Scanlan you're up.
Sam: They're so far, and I don't know what they can do. Probably a lot. I'll step towards that tree in front of me, in front of the bear and the girl.
Matt: That's far as you can get.
Sam: That cluster of the pixies over there? I'll see if I can get three of them in a Fireball.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: If I can, the leader and the ones closest to the leader. But I don't know if I'm within range.
Matt: Okay, you just using a single charge for it?
Sam: Oh yeah, I have lots of charges, don't I?
Matt: How many came back? You have to roll for the last couple of times you've gotten a full rest.
Sam: I haven't used them in a long time.
Matt: Yeah that's true, actually.
Sam: I'll use two. A 4th-level spell, right?
Matt: 4th-level Fireball.
Sam: So it's 9d6.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Range is 150 feet. Radius is 20 feet.
Matt: All right. As you pull out the wand and release it, one of the nearby pixies-- It has no effect.
Taliesin: Assholes.
Sam: Wait, they can do that, too?
Matt: Oh my god, other people can counter.
Liam: Passive-aggressive dungeon master! Oh, that's so sad. Oh.
Matt: So the wand once again sputters out, as well.
Sam: It's dead? Or it still might work after that?
Matt: Well, it might still work after that.
Sam: That one use, okay. Can I move any more, or am I all moved out?
Matt: That's the end of your movement.
Sam: I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll turn to her and say: (singing) It's been a hard fey's night, and you've got to unfreeze Grog. It's been a hard fey's night, because we've been fighting like a dog.
Marisha: Okay, I can do that.
Matt: That the end of Scanlan's turn? All right. It's now the pixies' turn.
Liam: Damn it, Bobby.
Laura: They're all super magic, super-duper magic.
Matt: Actually, it's going to stay here, and before it moves... that will be in range. If I could have Keyleth make a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: This is my bailiwick, yo.
Taliesin: You also have an inspiration die.
Marisha: I have an inspiration die. Ooh, I don't think I'll need it, though. 28.
Matt: 28, yeah. No effect on you whatsoever.
Marisha: You even lift, bro? Come at me, bro. Got the John Cena going on.
Matt: This one over here, as it flutters by after seeing you attempt to cast the spell, Scanlan, I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh, boy. Advantage against magic.
Matt: That's magic in general?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm looking at it. Yeah, advantage versus magic on his saving throw.
Matt: From what, though?
Sam: I don't know, bard shit.
Marisha: Is it because War Caster?
Matt: No, War Caster is advantage on concentration checks to maintain.
Sam: No it's not War Caster. It's something else.
Taliesin: It's on his sheet, which means he found it somewhere.
Marisha: And it's typed. It's typed up; it's not written in.
Sam: I probably didn't get it anyway, actually. Both rolls were shitty, and I only rolled a total of five on the better one.
Matt: So as the pixie darts to the side, it mutters something underneath it and raises its hands up. Scanlan, all of a sudden your body shimmers for a second, and you guys watch as the already small gnome becomes even smaller.
Laura: We're going to die.
Matt: He is now a badger.
Sam: I'm a what? I'm a badger?!
Matt: It then continues its movement over here by the side of the tree.
Sam: Gnome Cunning, Matt.
Travis: I tried to be diplomatic.
Taliesin: A lot of good it did you.
Laura: Why'd you do that?
Liam: That's Scanlan's bag, man.
Travis: Yeah, but I thought we were all-- never mind.
Taliesin: We would be getting our asses kicked by a group of werewolves right now.
Travis: People were preparing tea, you were being cordial. I was trying to be disarming. Next time, everything dies.
Sam: This is our punishment for--
Taliesin: Trying to settle this amicably.
Matt: For intelligence, wisdom or charisma--
Sam: Yeah, that was a wisdom.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. Universal, so strength saves, it doesn't help for any of those.
Sam: It's just saves against magic for those three things.
Matt: This other one here, glancing over and seeing you there, is going to look towards you. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: I've got advantage. Good, I got a 19.
Matt: 19. You have advantage from?
Liam: Being a half-elf. Oh, it's not charm, is it? Then the first one was shitty. Ten or 11, somewhere around there.
Matt: You are a kitty cat.
Liam: Can I use luck to take my second roll? I have luck left?
Matt: You have one luck left?
Liam: I have two luck left, after sleeping.
Matt: Yeah, technically.
Liam: Okay, so the second was a 17. Plus two, would've been a 19.
Laura: So you're not a kitty cat?
Liam: No, I really would like to be a kitty cat.
Sam: What happened?
Liam: I asked if I could use one of my lucks instead.
Sam: So wait, he's not a kitty cat?
Liam: In my heart, I am a kitty cat.
Laura: Grog is stone.
Liam: There's worse things than being a kitten, right?
Matt: This one over here leans towards you, Keyleth. I need you to make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Already? Come on. Come at me, bro.
Liam: We should have all been pixies from the beginning.
Marisha: Okay, 27.
Matt: 27. You never roll low on those wisdom saving throws. It's really frustrating.
Marisha: Wise as fuck.
Matt: All righty, now comes to Vax.
Liam: Click go the boots. I'm going to run 12 squares and squat down just north of Grog. I'm not going to shit on you. I think I can make it all the way around to the other side of Grog, and I'm going to dagger, dagger, dagger at queen of the pixies there.
Matt: Right there? Okay, go for it.
Liam: Okay, first is shit, second is a natural 20. Third is an 18.
Matt: Okay, second two hit.
Liam: All right. Yeah, but it's not anything fancy. That's the weakness of the rogue. Where's my pyramid? There it is. So the first one which was the critical is big 11 for the first one on a critical. And the second one, I'll put poison on it, as well. Seven for the damage, and it's a DC of 15, for poison.
Matt: For poison, it does not succeed. It is poisoned.
Liam: That's 2d10. 14 with poison.
Matt: Nice. All right, so now the mystic, the central pixie is fluttering, but it's not looking amazing. All right, so that ends your turn? All righty. That brings us to Keyleth.
Sam: Shouldn't have gone in that cave, man.
Marisha: Can I dash and go a little bit further and still do an action and lose a bonus action? No, it's either like run or nothing?
Matt: A dash is an action, meaning you move and then your dash, to move more, is your action.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to try and start making my way towards Grog, I'm going to do the 30 feet towards him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Do I see the fairy leader?
Matt: You see her with a little bit of cover.
Marisha: I'm going to blow my 6th-level spell. I'm going to cast Sunbeam, and Sunbeam her in the face.
Taliesin: Does that go through her? There's one on the other side of her.
Marisha: Oh! Does it go through to the one on the other side behind her?
Matt: No, it would go in this direction. She's right here.
Marisha: I was looking at the red one, closer to me. I don't have the fucking pointer!
Sam: That's Grog, the red thing near you is Grog.
Marisha: No, not that fucking red-- this one. Yes, that one. Jesus. And the one behind it.
Matt: All right, so. As you muster your Sunbeam, the leader, who has not used her reaction yet, is going to attempt to counter that.
Marisha: No!
Matt: 6th-level, though, so it isn't an auto-counter. She has to roll for it.
Sam: It's a contested thing.
Marisha: Fucking bitch. I said bitch! I was trying to be nice to you fairies!
Matt: Counterspell, so that DC is 16. That is a 19.
Marisha: No, it's not!
Matt: It is 19, unfortunately.
Marisha: Goddamn it, that was a 6th-level spell!
Matt: I know.
Liam: The grace and poise of the Ashari.
Matt: As you muster your Sunbeam, the currently wounded, poisoned-- let me check one thing real fast. On attack rolls and ability checks, because she's poisoned, she has disadvantage and has to roll again.
Marisha: That's right, she does!
Matt: A natural 20.
Travis: No way.
Matt: Yeah. So it still counters it. So you go to put your Sunbeam, the light begins to build up into the middle of your grasp, as you're about to unleash it and she darts up from behind the side of the tree and unleashes a torrent of arcane energy that feels like a gust of warm wind hits and scatters the Sunbeam from your grasp, the spell lost.
Liam: Umbrasyl, in the can. Fairies, dead as shit.
Marisha: You guys are supposed to have good parades.
Matt: All right, that's the end of your turn Keyleth? All right. Garmelie turns invisible.
Laura: Of course he does.
Sam: Don't they want to Counterspell that?
Laura: Oh no, and he took out a tree while he was at it!
Matt: Got to find a way to fix the glare on the mat without the angle falling forward. All right, top of the round, Percy and Vex, you guys are up.
Laura: You go.
Taliesin: Okay. From my vantage point I'm going to sit down, take out Bad News, take another deadeye sharpshooter with Bad News at the big fat fucker by the tree.
Matt: As of right now, technically, you have no sight on her.
Taliesin: I don't?
Matt: You are way back there, and she is completely behind the tree.
Taliesin: Can I take a step out to the left? As long as she has less than three-quarters cover, I'm okay.
Matt: Right, so you would have to move-- she's very tiny, and the tree that's probably five foot or more thick. So based on her size, as part of her advantage in using these trees is you'd have to get over here before you can see her.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll move to my right a little bit, then, and I will shoot that fucker that's right in front of me.
Matt: All right. This one?
Taliesin: Yep. Sharpshooter and with deadeye.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20. That makes the grit go away, anyway, so nice.
Travis: Fucking golden snitch.
Taliesin: That actually wasn't the golden snitch. I was just feeling like they had something on me. Okay, so this is double the dice?
Matt: Yeah, you roll the dice and then double that.
Taliesin: Roll the dice, double it, and then I add everything. Lordy, this is going to be disintegration. Six, 12, 22, 28 points of damage.
Matt: 28 points of piercing damage?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: To that one, all righty. That's adding the sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Yeah, I rolled really low.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. Okay, so you take the shot, the blast echoing throughout the trees and the treeline. You watch as the pixie takes the slug and actually gets thrown to the ground and then flutters back up, barely.
Taliesin: Flutters back up, barely?
Matt: Yeah. It was undamaged before.
Taliesin: Nothing fancy, just hitting it again.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: That's a 23.
Matt: That'll hit. Roll damage.
Taliesin: That's better. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. You hear this horrible, high pitched (yelps) as the light is scattered by a burst of what looks like a tiny blood spray, and dust and smoke.
Taliesin: I call out  One! And back up behind the tree.
Marisha: Out of how many?
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Okay. If I step out from behind the tree, do I have a sight on the big one?
Matt: You do have a sight on the big one, yes. It'll get cover bonuses. You'd have to get over here to see it.
Laura: Can I walk over there, then? Okay. I walk to there. I want to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel and attack it.
Matt: You initiate the bow, pull back the arrow, and release as it splits into three different arrows.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: I'm looking at it.
Matt: Jesus Christ. Okay.
Sam: Defying statistics, one roll at a time.
Laura: 12 plus 12. 24.
Matt: Okay, 24. Wait, 12 plus 12, 24? All right, so the second one hits.
Laura: And then 22 on the third.
Matt: All three hit. Even with three-quarters cover, the last one just barely hits. Roll damage on all three.
Taliesin: Kill them all.
Laura: 20 on the first hit, no-- oh shit. You double the dice? Six, that's 12.
Liam: So add six to what you were saying, originally. You said 20, so it'd be 26 if you're doubling that die.
Laura: 26 plus another five, so 31 on the first hit.
Matt: 31 on the first hit, okay.
Laura: 17 on the second.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 17 plus five is 22 on the third.
Matt: You watch as the purple light gets stapled to a tree in the back. You watch as the arrow hits her and carries her and she tries to pull herself off of the arrow as it's holding her against the distant tree and then it goes limp against it and the light slowly fades.
Laura: Oh. So I shout out  Two! Your leader's dead! You want to still fight us?
Matt: You've got two more squares of movement if you want to use them.
Laura: I move towards the tree.
Matt: This way or this way?
Laura: That way.
Matt: This way. All righty, that ends your turn. It would be her turn, but she just got stapled to a tree. Scanlan, you're up.
Taliesin: Build a dam. Sorry.
Matt: No, she didn't turn you into that. One of the other ones did, I believe.
Taliesin: Actually, the one I killed turned him--
Matt: You're right. Thank you. Scanlan has dropped beaver form.
Sam: Oh my god, I was not expecting that, and therefore have no idea what I'll do. So there's pixies everywhere?
Matt: You can only really see one of them right now. Yeah, this one's supposed to be there.
Sam: Which one?
Matt: You can see that one over there.
Sam: Is there one behind me? You can't see one that I can see, actually. There's one around the tree.
Matt: Oh, sorry, two. You can see that one, yeah.
Marisha: I'll help him first, but yeah. I can do that.
Liam: They could possibly turn on us, though.
Matt: What're you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: I wasn't expecting to move! I can't see the leader, right?
Matt: No, you can see the leader. She's fucking dead, yo.
Taliesin: She's pixie dust.
Sam: Shit! Not ready for this!
Liam: Y'all ready for this?
Sam: Shit! Okay, I'll turn around, and let's just hope that it works this time.
Laura: Wow, this is the longest--
Sam: I don't know! I wasn't expecting to move! How close am I to that one near the tree? Can I move to her?
Matt: Here? This one or this one?
Sam: The closest one to me, and how close am I?
Matt: This one's closest to you, and it's 20 feet from you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to run to it, her, it, whatever, because I don't think they can-- well, maybe they can Counterspell this, but I'll do a Thunderwave.
Matt: You do a Thunderwave?
Sam: Yeah. At level two.
Matt: That one is going to attempt to Counterspell. Each one of them gets a Counterspell; that one's not done it yet.
Sam: I do have a sword, shit, I'm the worst at this!
Matt: So as you rush up and begin casting it sees you rushing up and its eyes go wide for a second as it instinctually puts its hands out and the Thunderwave falls flat before you.
Sam: Shit, I'm the worst at this!
Taliesin: Going to be a beaver again.
Sam: I am going to be a beaver again. That's it. That's all I can do.
Laura: I thought he was a honey badger.
Matt: Little angry badger.
Sam: Who's alive still? I'll inspire... shit, I'm failing.
Taliesin: I've never seen this before.
Laura: He's broken. It's stealing all of his energy!
Taliesin: Inspire Vax.
Sam: I'll inspire Vax.
Liam: Which one?
Sam: The girl!
Taliesin: The guy!
Sam: I don't want to inspire him. I want to inspire her.
Marisha: That's Vex.
Sam: Vex, the girl. I'll say  (singing) Vex is natural, Vex is fun! Vex is good when she's one-on-one.
Liam: I was next to go, but that's still good.
Sam: I don't know. I was a badger! I don't know what's been going on.
Matt: All right, that completes your turn. You take your inspiration dice. It is now the pixies' run. This one over here at this distance is glancing over and saw its leader get thrashed off to the side after having a series of daggers thrown into it. You attempted to cast a giant beam at that one in the distance as well, though, so I'm going to say it's going to go for you. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: What? Why that one? I do still have my inspiration.
Taliesin: This ain't going to be no thing. It's going to be great. It's going to be beautiful.
Marisha: Natural 20! My voice just cracked, but it's a natural 20.
Taliesin: Isn't it hilarious that we all have work tomorrow?
Marisha: It is. No, I have a recording and an audition tomorrow.
Liam: It actually rolled when you moved the paper.
Laura: When you moved the paper, you rolled it.
Marisha: No, I did, guys.
Matt: Roll it again.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Marisha: When I revealed it, it was a 20. That's okay. I'm going to do inspiration though, just for safe measure. That's good, so 20 total now.
Matt: 20 total, okay.
Marisha: That's still exciting.
Matt: As it reaches out towards you, you feel your physical body all of a sudden begins to tighten, and you flex, and it regains its composure. No effect.
Marisha: And I just give her a-- (grunts) from the corner.
Matt: This one here is going to dart past, and as it does, from tree to tree, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Straight up 15. Fuck it, I'll use luck. I've got one more. Another 15.
Matt: 15 total? All right, you are currently restrained as your body tightens up and you are unable to move, shift, take any actions.
Marisha: Did you go, too?
Liam: I was about to, but not anymore.
Marisha: Are you petrified, too?
Laura: No, he's restrained.
Marisha: Did he get turned to stone?
Matt: His body is beginning to turn to stone right now. His muscles are beginning to tense up. As this one darts past, it is going to attempt to-- I need you to make another constitution saving throw, Keyleth, as it watched it fade from the last one.
Marisha: I don't have any inspiration left. Natural 20! This is a real one, this time! A real one!
Travis: What is the deal?
Matt: We're gone for one week. You guys can save these for throughout the campaign. This is a pixie fight.
Laura: It's a really powerful pixie fight.
Matt: These are nasty in their strengths. They're not very strong in a lot of things, but the few things they have are pretty good.
Marisha: We know. We're still terrified.
Matt: Good. Well, you resist your second attempt at being petrified.
Liam: Am I restrained, or am I slowed?
Matt: You're restrained, which means you can't move. The actual definition: attacks against you have advantage. Your attacks have disadvantage.
Liam: So I can still do stuff?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: What do freezing up and haste do mixed together? Anything? Cancel out?
Matt: It doesn't cancel out, it just means that you have disadvantage on all of your attacks. Your speed is zero; you can't move.
Liam: Do I have a third attack?
Matt: You do have a third attack.
Liam: Very confusing. Feywild, man.
Sam: You're fast and slow.
Taliesin: Hot and cold.
Matt: This guy here-- I need you to make a constitution saving throw as it peeks around the tree from its current position.
Laura: You get one, and you get one! And I'm going to fail.
Sam: You've got some inspiration, lady.
Laura: I got inspiration! 21!
Matt: 21. You resist the effect.
Sam: I was right to inspire her after all. Someone's got to live!
Taliesin: To tell the tale of the death and end of Vox Machina to little people.
Laura: How many more pixies are there?
Matt: That was the last one going on its turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I am going to dagger, dagger, dagger the pixie in front of Scanlan, so I should get sneak attack? I don't have advantage, so I don't get sneak attack. That's three attacks. First one is shit. 19?
Matt: With disadvantage? Hits.
Liam: All right. Second one is 19.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: The last one is a 15.
Matt: Misses. So two hit.
Liam: Yeah, whatever. 11. And eight. 19 total.
Laura: Can you poison damage it?
Liam: No.
Matt: That one's looking pretty rough right now, actually.
Liam: And I say  (strained).
Matt: At the end of your turn, I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Laura: Come on! Do you have any more luck?
Liam: No, I used it all up. I didn't cross it off. Two.
Matt: Vax now turns to a solid stone statue, frozen in place. Two members of your party are now turned to stone. All right, that brings us to Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: I'm going to continue my two steps towards Grog, since he was my first destination, and do Greater Restoration and unpetrify him.
Matt: Okay, what level is that spell?
Marisha: Fucking 5th.
Matt: 5th-level? Only one of them has Counterspell left, and it's going to attempt it, but since it is at 5th-level, mark that off. It does still have to roll against it. DC is ten plus five, so DC 15.
Marisha: If they make this, it's bad news.
Travis: They made it, didn't they?
Matt: Yeah. It's a 15 plus three, sorry.
Marisha: They had to make 15? Not my spell save DC or anything?
Matt: That's not how it works for Counterspell. The good news is they're out of Counterspells.
Marisha: Fucking fantastic now that I've burnt through two of my top-level ones!
Matt: You reach forward and grab Grog. You see the pulse of energy, and it dissipates. You look over at the edge of the tree. You see one of the pixies darting behind and disappears behind the trunk. That ends your turn. Back to the top. Percy and Vex.
Taliesin: I'll go. Do you want to go first? I'll go first.
Marisha: Wait! I wanted to do a bonus action! I did want to do something on a bonus action.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Marisha: Can I Alter Self my throat and (howls) give a wolf howl?
Matt: Sure, make a performance check.
Sam: Are you calling for the fucking werewolves?
Marisha: Yes, I'm calling for the lycans. Ooh, that's good. 23.
Matt: Good to know. You howl out into the woods. Ends your turn. Percy, Vex.
Taliesin: I'm going to flip around and take a shot at that jerk right there with the Retort pistol, not the Bad News. Standard shot. That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And that's 14 points of damage.
Matt: That one is spattered by the impact. You see the chunks of it hit the tree behind, and you see a wing right in front of you, Scanlan.
Taliesin: I reload. I flip around the other side of the tree.
Matt: Over to this side here?
Taliesin: Over to this side so I can get a good vantage point on that one that thinks it's hiding right over there. I use my bonus action to cast Hex on him.
Matt: To carry it over?
Taliesin: Yep, to carry it over. And I take a shot at him. That's 22 to hit?
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: Ten points of damage. Three necrotic.
Matt: It gets shot. The impact hits the tree next to it, but it splinters and hits it, takes some damage but not a whole lot.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn an action surge and take three more shots at it.
Matt: You can do that. You're ignoring the cover because of your sharpshooter feat, so go for it.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll a sharpshooter for that one, as well, which is great because I rolled a two and a natural 20. That's natural 20 with sharpshooter. That also means that I lose that grit. This is going to be great. That's great. Ten, 20, 30, 36 points of damage.
Laura: How many fairies are left?
Matt: You have currently two fairies left.
Laura: I don't see them on the board from where I am.
Matt: No, you don't see them. They're hidden.
Taliesin: I'm taking two more steps, and I'm getting that next fairy that thinks he can fucking hide from me.
Matt: There are two behind this tree and one behind this tree.
Taliesin: I'm taking one more step out so I can see him. Actually, I have pretty good sight, don't I?
Matt: From there, you can still see him.
Taliesin: I've got two more shots. I'm going to do the same thing with the sharpshooter deadeye combo. That's right. I can't get Hex until next round, though. 27 to hit.
Matt: Hits. Damage on that one?
Taliesin: That's 16 points of damage.
Matt: The pixie gets hit and holds itself against the tree. Its wings stop fluttering. It looks over at where the impact came from and stares down at you.
Taliesin: Another shot at him. Same deal.
Laura: I can spot him now because I can see where Percy's shooting at, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: It gets another hit. This one impacts just near it and clips one of its wings. It's still holding in there.
Taliesin: I dive back around the tree, and that's the end of my turn.
Laura: Where was it that he was shooting at?
Matt: Over this way.
Laura: Can Trinket reach it?
Matt: Trinket can try. Trinket's not going to be able to get there, though.
Laura: Then I'm going to attack it. Can I attack it from where I am?
Matt: You currently have no way of seeing it right now unless you move far enough in that direction. You may.
Laura: I'm going to try to get into sight.
Matt: That's as far as you can get. I would say it has three-quarters cover, so you can attack it, but it gets plus five to its AC.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Then I'm going to attack it again with my blazing bowstring. 26.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Can I move my Hunter's Mark over?
Liam: Eye squint says no.
Matt: Sure. Because it's a bonus action, you would've done it.
Laura: Thanks, man! Okay, seven plus seven. 22 on the first hit. 24 on the second hit.
Matt: (arrows loosed) Off to the side. One arrow actually grabs it by the shoulder and hits it against the tree there, and as it tries to pull the arrow out, which is this giant shaft that's shattered its shoulder entirely, it looks back at you as you take its head off its shoulders.
Laura: Teeny tiny little piece of shit!
Travis: The cutest swear ever.
Laura: I can't move anymore?
Matt: No, that's as far as you can move. Does that end your turn? Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I see any of them?
Matt: You do not.
Sam: Shit. I'm going to run as far as I can into the open and see if I can see any of them, while I'm yelling: Where are they?
Matt: You can just barely see two of them behind that tree right there.
Sam: Behind that tree? You mean behind Grog and stuff?
Matt: Behind Grog, Vax, Keyleth, and that cluster.
Sam: Do I have a clear shot? Without killing my friends?
Matt: Depends what you're doing.
Sam: With a Lightning Bolt.
Matt: It's probably going to hit Vax, but who knows the effect lightning would have on stone?
Sam: Well, then I won't do that. I'll cast Bigby's Hand at level seven and punch into that.
Liam: Big swollen hand, fucking fat veins on the back of the hand.
Marisha: Have you been lifting, Bigby?
Laura: You're looking good, Bigby.
Marisha: You know those Hulk gloves?
Matt: At 7th-level. So it does an additional 4d-whatever it does. So which ability are you using Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Just a big old punch. Pummeling hand. Punching hand.
Matt: The clenched fist. Roll a melee spell attack against its armor class. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack bonus.
Sam: 25.
Matt: That hits. Roll 8d8 force damage.
Sam: 8d8? I don't even have any.
Taliesin: Here's two more d8.
Matt: It's 4d8, but because you did it two levels higher, it's 8d8.
Taliesin: Roll them twice. Whoa!
Marisha: Oh shit. You're a force to be reckoned with. They were all above seven.
Taliesin: You're going to leave an impression in the tree.
Sam: 45.
Matt: Where once there was a pixie, there is a brief spatter of reddish-pink mist, and nothing thereafter. Bigby's Hand has sent it so hard to its afterlife that there is a small black mark on the tree nearby where it once was, just an echo of its existence at one point.
Taliesin: You just clapped a fairy to death. That's actually literally the opposite.
Marisha: High five! Aw.
Sam: Is that all the pixies?
Taliesin: There's one left.
Laura: We shouldn't kill it! See if it can unfreeze our friends!
Sam: I got nothing left. That was my action and bonus.
Matt: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. The pixie then turns about and begins running. As it disappears past the trees a little bit, you watch as a large, dark form lands right in front of it. It stops for a second, and two giant claws reach down and grasp it in its hand, pick it up, and you can see before you, Lord Ukurat is now clutching this one pixie that was trying to escape. Looks inside for a second. (chuckles) "Vengeance is tasty." (chomps) "Not very filling." Stomps forward.
Laura: Be confident!
Matt: "So. You called."
Sam: We called because our plan worked perfectly, and we were able to fulfill your deal to the letter, as we had always intended.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan!
Sam: I think I'm still at disadvantage.
Matt: On ability checks, you are.
Sam: With disadvantage, it's a 30.
Matt: You can also add your own bardic inspiration to your ability checks now because you're level 14. But if you feel pretty confident with it--
Sam: I'm okay with 30.
Laura: Oh no! Should you add it? Add it!
Matt: It's too late.
Sam: We'll never know.
Matt: You're going to know pretty quick. As you say this, he comes forward and gets really low to the ground with his arms out at the sides, face right up to you. He could snatch you up in one bite. He goes, "Clever gnome." Stands back up. "So. One pixie, two pixie, three, four. Where is their leader?"
Taliesin: I walk over and scrape the tree.
Matt: Takes a look at it. (howls) All the rest of the various members of his clan of the Fendirs begin to arrive in the distance. "Yes, my lord?" "The mystic is dead. Wipe up the village. Come. You have the rest of your deal to attend to." Turns around and begins walking back toward the city of the pixies.
Laura: We have some friends that are stone right now.
Matt: "Then bring them along!"
Sam: Keyleth, do you need help?
Marisha: I take my last 5th-level spell to dump a Greater Restoration into Grog to bring him back from petrification.
Sam: You can't do it to two people at the same time?
Marisha: I can burn my 7th-level spell to bring back Vax.
Laura: Maybe you should do that.
Marisha: I will burn my 7th-level spell to Greater Restoration Vax and bring him back.
Matt: You come to consciousness, Grog, suddenly, in a different space than you recall, a little stiff in the joints, like you just had a really bad night's sleep across a whole pallet of broken rock.
Travis: Diplomacy really isn't that bad!
Laura: It's not so bad. Good job, Grog.
Travis: I'm going to throw my weapons in the river. Hold on, I'll be right back.
Marisha: You make a great parade balloon, by the way. You look great.
Travis: Why, thank you.
Matt: Vax, as you come to, the heat of the moment, you catch your breath again, and feel that achiness in your joints.
Liam: I do, I literally do.
Laura: Doesn't feel so good, does it? Hey, remember when I was made into stone? We're twinkies.
Liam: Twinkies? I don't think that's the term you're reaching for.
Travis: All the wolves are back. What happened?
Taliesin: We are going to finish off the fairies.
Travis: Oh, really?
Taliesin: Yes, really.
Travis: Oh, so something happened, didn't it?
Taliesin: It did.
Sam: Sorry, Grog.
Taliesin: It was all your fault, really. You were very helpful.
Marisha: To be fair, I tried. Those fairies are shifty little shits.
Travis: Really? They fought hard? We're going to kill more now?
Sam: Probably.
Travis: Any tips? Advice?
Taliesin: Hit hard, repeatedly.
Sam: Don't use any of your lower-level spells.
Travis: Don't think that's a problem.
Taliesin: No, you burned your lower-level spells.
Marisha: I am burnt out on all my higher-level spells.
Travis: Are we cool with the wolves now?
Taliesin: We're starting to be.
Laura: We have to go finish what we started, though. They want us to still desecrate the stones.
Liam: Scanlan?
Sam: I'm ready. I've eaten a lot of things today.
Matt: Garmelie appears behind one of the trees. "Is everything cool? Everything good?"
Marisha: Oh my god, you're still here!
Matt: "Okay. No, I was-- got you guys' back."
Laura: Did you draw a lot of the fight? I hope you did, because we kicked some ass there.
Matt: He opens his sketch pad, and you can see there's a bunch of hastily drawn sketches of Vax turned to stone with his finger up his nose, Grog in the ground with his stone thumb up his butt, smiling with his other thumb up in the air like he was. And the rest of you fumbling your attacks as the pixies are laughing.
Laura: Sweet. Nice. Very good. That tree just moved.
Taliesin: They do that here.
Matt: Welcome to the Feywild. So you guys make your way nightward? Following the Fendirs?
Taliesin: I guess it's the only way out of here.
Matt: You journey with them. They make a pretty quick pace. Even at your fastest, you resort to tracking them. They're moving with quite alacrity and they know this forest really well. As you guys begin to approach the outskirts of the little grove where the Wishers existed, you see a heavy battle has just begun to calm down. You see two additional wolf statues now stand amongst the area, but the abodes have been destroyed. You see that the tiger has grabbed a pixie and tears it in half. A couple others that have been darting off in the distance, trying to escape, three more of the wolves jump up into the trees, and you see them jumping from branch to branch before their lights--
Marisha: We tried. I didn't want this to happen.
Taliesin: It's a violent world.
Matt: At this point, they all begin to slowly gather again towards the center of the town, or what used to be the pixie town. From the treetop, (boom) Lord Ukurat lands next to the stone circle, looks out towards you guys, even beyond the tree line.
Sam: Grog, care to do the honors?
Travis: Absolutely. I walk up to Lord Pup.
Liam: I'm going to follow close behind Grog.
Matt: All the rest of the Fendirs, which are now a few more in number than you initially met before. We have two more that have turned to stone, so there's now five total that are stone in the center of this village, but looks to be about nine of them now gathered up centrally to this space, Lord Ukurat in the center. They're beginning to follow in around you guys, keeping a perimeter. Ukurat looks down at you as you approach. "So. Honor comes at the end of the journey. We made a pact, and you completed your end. We complete ours. You are free to pass through this forest." As Lord Ukurat reaches down and grabs two of the stones, you can see as his fingers grab them, they're burning his palms, singeing. There's a bunch of energy pushing back on him as his fur is blown and there's a bright light emanating from the center of the circle. Wrestles them forth from the ground. As he does, there's a crack of thunder that cascades throughout the center of the forest. All of you feel the impact. The stone circle, the glowing quartz now dims and goes cold. The center where it used to be vibrant grass slowly turns to a dull gray and withers between the stones. Throws them to the ground. "Now, we are all free. You say you travel duskward to the corrupted tree, yes?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "I will follow as my people find a new home for tonight. Should you need my help, just call, and I will be at your back."
Laura: You are a powerful ally.
Matt: "As are you. Brethren, go. Spread. Find a home again. I will return to you once this debt is paid. Now, I'll be watching." He leaps into the treetops as the rest of the wolves begin to back away from you and vanish into the shadows of the forest.
Laura: Is there anything around that looks good to take?
Sam: Should we loot the mini city?
Taliesin: I am abso-fucking-lutely looting this city. Are you mad?
Sam: They're tiny thimbles full of nothing!
Taliesin: I have a dollhouse at home! There are things that are necessary! Jesus.
Matt: You are welcome to make some investigation checks to scour through the remains of this pixie village.
Sam: 17 for me.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. What was it again, sorry?
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: The rest of you guys keeping back on this?
Taliesin: I'm taking the crystals, too. The dead crystals.
Matt: You take the dead crystals, and the rest of them lift up like any other crystals. They're lighter than you expected. They seem almost frail, like a volcanic rock in lightness and brittleness, but more dense. You take those, keep them to yourself. You guys look about, and most any pixie furniture has been destroyed. In searching through, you do find in some of the homes a number of well-polished gems. You find two sapphires that are worth, after looking over them for a bit, in your experience with gems, about 200 gold apiece. You find one cracked diamond. It was very well-cut at one time. As such, what would have been worth thousands of gold now is maybe close to a thousand gold at most. It can maybe be repaired or brought to somebody who can fix it up. It might be worth more. You also find what looks to be a really intricately carved onyx statue of a dog, about that big. It's really well-carved. Other than that, most everything else is just inconsequential decorations that wouldn't be much help to you, as they were smaller people.
Taliesin: I say we get to the edge, out of this forest, and then maybe call it a night.
Marisha: I'm a bit tapped on my higher-level energy, but can I maybe take a minute to ritual cast Greater Restoration on the two new statues of the lycanthropes?
Matt: Is that a ritual? I don't believe it can be cast as a ritual, can it?
Marisha: Greater Restoration? I can't take my time with it?
Matt: You would have to stay here the night and do it again.
Marisha: They'll figure it out.
Travis: The gray ground that's been burned, is it just...
Matt: Just where the circle was.
Travis: Not everything else?
Matt: No. Just the circle.
Travis: I feel like we just killed FernGully.
Laura: Yeah, I know. We did kill FernGully.
Liam: Yeah, but if they had any good in their heart, why would they be trapping travelers of any kind?
Laura: They weren't trapping travelers of any kind, they were trapping the lycans.
Taliesin: Then they trapped us!
Laura: Yeah, but then they let us out.
Taliesin: They didn't really let us out.
Sam: Everyone was bad, including us, and we lived. That's it.
Matt: You guys begin trekking duskward again, finally getting to the outskirts of the city. As you reach the outer perimeter of the forest, you reach up and you find no barrier there. It has been dispelled, and you guys step forth into the field, hearing now as you travel further northward, duskward, the gentle sounds of rushing water begin to approach. Garmelie glances past you and goes, "Well, good news. We've reached the Gilded Run."
Travis: Oh, we're here!
Matt: "Bad news, we've reached the Gilded Run."
Laura: Let's sleep in the mansion tonight.
Marisha: I'm pretty tapped out.
Sam: I would love to.
Laura: But you can't?
Sam: I used my 7th-level spell to kill a pixie.
Travis: Why is reaching the Gilded Run a bad thing?
Matt: "It's a difficult thing to pass. Those rivers are quite expedient."
Travis: Like rapids?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: If we sleep, I can come prepared with lots of Control Water spells.
Sam: Maybe we can sleep in the treetops, where Lord Ukurat sleeps.
Laura: Yeah, let's sleep up in the trees tonight, before we make our way into this area.
Matt: You guys head back into the Moonbrush. You ascend up into the canopy and prepare yourselves, finding an area of branches that can be cleared to give yourself a comfortable space to stay for the evening.
Laura: You realize it's only been an hour since we slept last, but it's all nighty.
Matt: Well, travel to and from the center of the forest has taken a few hours, so it's been a while.
Taliesin: We're tapped. We had a long day.
Marisha: It wouldn't be that bad if I didn't get Counterspelled twice. Fucking fairies.
Matt: Hey, man. It's what they do.
Travis: Must've been a cool fight.
Matt: As you guys make yourselves restful and set, you all begin to fall asleep to the distant sound of howling as it gets more and more faint. The sleep takes you to prepare for the next run of your journey, next week in Indianapolis! We'll see you guys at GenCon for the next episode as you guys approach the Gilded Run and the Shademirk itself, seemingly getting closer to the end of your journey in the Feywild. We'll see how this plays out.
Travis: With werewolves in tow.
Matt: A werewolf in tow, that you know of.
Travis: Not the rest of them?
Laura: No, but Lord Big Badass is going to help us.
Travis: He's going to steal our shit.
Laura: He might try to.
Sam: We'll give him Garmelie if we have to.
Marisha: Yeah, at the break you were talking about how badly you wanted to kill things.
Laura: And you didn't get to do any of it!
Travis: I was trying to be diplomatic, all right? I checked off the box!
Marisha: You did, you tried.
Travis: Next time, napalm.
Matt: It was an unfortunate circumstance. The wound above the eye, the lack of decent diplomacy, their fear of the spread of lycanthropy--
Travis: I even gave willingly.
Taliesin: You did. You've grown.
Marisha: It was a good moment for Grog.
Laura: Hey, we're going to have werewolves everywhere now, guys. We just let it out.
Marisha: Yeah, we let the disease spread?
Travis: Not yet we haven't.
Marisha: You want to be a werewolf so bad. You're just saying that because you want to be one so bad.
Matt: Thank you so much! We'll see you guys at GenCon next Saturday at 8pm Eastern, that would be 5pm Pacific time, streaming next Saturday.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze!
Sam: No show Thursday!
Matt: Just the Saturday show.
Marisha: Saturday.
Matt: So guys, have a good night, rest well, and we'll see you next week.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons! Tonight's going to be an interesting episode, but before we get to that, a couple of quick announcements and a couple of cool things we wanted to show you. One, our friend of the show, Kiki, who we saw previously made the awesome Fenthras bow replica for Laura over there recently decided to go ahead and also create Cabal's Ruin. Taliesin, do you want to come over here and try this on?
Taliesin: No, I'm getting into that.
Marisha: It is on your body.
Matt: Come attune to this shit, boy!
Marisha: Go sit in the corner with it for 30 minutes.
Liam: Put it on. Oh my god.
Travis: Stand in front of this table. Stand in front of this camera. No one can see you over there. Why are you getting totally naked?
Liam: It looks just like Tom Cruise's!
Travis: Stand over here!
Matt: Go over there.
Taliesin: Where?
Travis: In front of the table, you dicklord! Yes!
Sam: Someone get a camera on this guy.
Taliesin: I don't know which camera is--
Travis: Put your butt against this table! Kneel down, Taliesin!
Marisha: Taliesin, you work in film and TV. You know how this works! Get behind where we are.
Laura: No, he wants to be right there.
Taliesin: I know. (laughs)
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Taliesin: Our plan's going to go so well.
Matt: And she also made a fantastic replica of Whisper, the blade that was previously attuned by our dear rogue. Will you pass that over to Liam?
Travis: And will you hold up that mini?
Laura: You get to have that because you took two Vestiges.
Travis: This amazing mini was done by Eric Blumkiss-- I'm sure I'm messing up the name-- from Sweden. It's an incredible Grog mini that's so detailed and amazing, and I had to have it, so I promised our firstborn child to him.
Laura: Oh, good times.
Matt: That might make an appearance tonight as a proxy Grog for battle.
Taliesin: I would break everything on the way back here.
Matt: And also, since it was recently Sam's birthday.
Sam: What? A present for me? On stream?
Matt: It's from me and Marisha.
Taliesin: Happy pineapple day.
Sam: Oh, this is so exciting. What did I get? It's a great gift! Shirt-ception!
Marisha: Yay!
Sam: Part four!
Marisha: Must keep it going!
Sam: (yells) Oh man! This is the best gift! It's the gift that keeps giving.
Travis: The four of them stacked are pretty fucking incredible.
Marisha: I know, I think you've aged through the process.
Sam: Yeah. I'm going to take a picture of me. Someone can put that on a shirt. Oh man, this is amazing.
Matt: We are slowly folding into infinity. Sam's shirts will be the end of all existence.
Sam: That's so great. That's my favorite gift I've ever gotten.
Liam: That's what's inside the black spinning marble underneath Whitestone.
Sam: Oh man. Thank you, guys. That's so sweet.
Matt: Happy birthday, Sam.
Marisha: So sweet.
Matt: All right, announcements for the evening. First off, our fantastic sponsor Loot Crate is back. Sam, do you have anything?
Sam: I prepared a history lesson tonight. It's a history of crates. Ancient Greece: Zeus presents a lovely crate to the first woman on earth, a lovely gal named Pandora. It contained death and evil, corrupted the world forevermore. Egypt: 1957, the Ark of the Covenant-- sort of a crate; it carried the Ten Commandments-- is opened by Colonel Dietrich and Dr. Rene Belloq. Ghosts fly out, and it melts the faces of several Nazis, while Indiana Jones hides his face. Los Angeles, California, 1995: Rookie detective David Mills, played by Brad Pitt, receives a cardboard crate from murder suspect John Doe! It contains the head of his girlfriend, Gwyneth Paltrow. Your town, present day: you receive a small, expertly constructed crate that contains geek chic gear and apparel from The Walking Dead, Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Halloween! Now, which would you rather get? The Ark of the Covenant? Pandora's box? A box with Gwyneth Paltrow's head in it? Or a Loot Crate, which you can use code CriticalRole to get 10% off your monthly crate. Guys, I think there's only one choice.
Marisha: That might be my favorite one. That might be my favorite one you've done. That was good.
Liam: We've got to slow you down or Loot Crate is going to poach you for ads.
Sam: That would be fine! I would much rather do these! I would do these for money every day! (laughter)
Matt: Curses! Thank you, Sam. And thank you, Loot Crate. Head up: me and Taliesin will be flying out tomorrow to be attending a convention this weekend called Another Anime Convention. Another Anime Con is in New Hampshire--
Liam: Florida.
Marisha: Boston.
Matt: No! I looked it up.
Marisha: You're not sure.
Matt: (giggles) We'll be doing panels and signings and all kinds of other fun stuff this weekend, so please come and say hi, ask questions, bring things to get signed. Come meet us; we would love to see you. It'll be a lot of fun. Also, Marisha, you have a new Signal Boost run coming up you want to talk about?
Marisha: Oh yes! We're doing a Halloween special edition. Two runs, starting Tuesday, and we're bringing back all the hosts! Taliesin and I are the first episode, and I know you guys love us, so for everyone who's like, "I'm not watching anymore because Taliesin's not the host anymore!" Now you should watch again.
Taliesin: I'm back. What are you going to do?
Marisha: You're good at the spooky stuff. You basically built our list. It was amazing. It's all good stuff.
Matt: Liam, you had a new project you want to talk about, as well?
Liam: Yes. I am continuing to be Doctor Strange in various Marvel animated things, and on digital HD, they've got a new animated feature called Marvel's Hulk: Where Monsters Dwell, and I am still the sorcerer supreme, where I say things like "eye of Tamagotchi" and "sphere of Esperanto" and other such spells. Check it out.
Laura: I'm in that.
Liam: Are you?
Laura: I'm in that with you.
Liam: Can you say who you are? Who are you?
Travis: How about no. Probably not.
Matt: The glory hosts of Hogwarts.
Laura: You'll hear me.
Liam: My name was in a press release. Laura will play some confident kickass someone or other. Like you do.
Laura: Whoa, that was double ones!
Matt: Good, you got them out of the way! Stop rolling, Laura. Save it for the battle.
Sam: Battle? Wait, we're going to battle?
Travis: Yeah, rap-battle.
Matt: I guess it depends. All right, so! Now that our announcements are out of the way, tension builds--
Laura: No! Gears of War came out this week!
Matt: Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. So! Picking up where we left off, Vox Machina, in their journey to destroy the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of chromatic dragons that have torn through the Tal'Dorei countryside and taken up residence and calling it their domain, they've defeated Umbrasyl. They have their sights set on the next series of dragons. In the process of setting up a timeline in which they had to bait the white dragon Vorugal in the ravine outside of the ruins of Draconia, hopefully to jump on and destroy the dragon. They were approached in Whitestone by an individual that apparently was not Seeker Assum, an ally of theirs from long ago. Instead it was one of the dragons of the Conclave: Raishan, the green dragon, who had come to parley and actually offer an alliance, seemingly unhappy with the current set of rules and lack of interest from Thordak in making up his side of the bargain which was struck. Raishan has asked for your aid in destroying the swollen, dangerous red dragon. You guys asked, as a showing of faith, to have Raishan come with you to the ruins of Draconia, gather the Ravenites, and destroy Vorugal alongside you. As such, you gathered Lady Kima as an ally in this endeavor. You transported yourselves to the snow- and ice-covered ravine. Just now have taken up in Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion, and are laying down for an evening's rest. So. As you guys wake up the next morning, or before you do--
Laura: No.
Sam: We don't sleep?
Marisha: We don't sleep?
Laura: No.
Sam: Why're you waking me up?
Laura: Because I was thinking, maybe it's a bad idea to go jumping into this tomorrow. Don't you think maybe we should wait a day?
Sam: Sure?
Laura: I mean, we could watch Vorugal, see what's going on, see what his behavior is, and also prepare a little bit more with the Ravenites. But, that happening, you might have to inform them that he's not actually going to have a--
Sam: An attack?
Laura: Tomorrow.
Sam: But we literally just got back from telling them to be ready to move tomorrow morning.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Percy, how are you feeling? You know, he seems all right.
Laura: No, he would have extra day to recover! Percy's not himself yet.
Taliesin: I am sleeping in the corner, I would assume.
Travis: He does look a little weak, even for his standards.
Marisha: A little pale.
Laura: I just don't think it's the best idea to jump into this.
Travis: (burps loudly)
Sam: So we have to go back and tell them--
Liam: Literally just got back.
Sam: And they were pissed. They were super pissed that we were there. We could go back.
Laura: Do you go back in the morning or do you go back now?
Marisha: I feel like time is of the essence here. Probably not best to wait until morning.
Sam: Tooma is not going to be pleased.
Marisha: Look, she already hates us.
Sam: That's true.
Travis: Yeah. Can't get any worse.
Liam: It could.
Travis: What, we're freeing them from a dragon. We are bearers of good tidings.
Marisha: Are we?
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: (groans)
Travis: Now do we totally trust Tooma and the Ravenites? Do we want to give her all the details or just that we're going to be checking it out for one day more before we ring the dinner bell?
Sam: What are the details?
Travis: Well, if we have an extra day, what does that get us?
Marisha: We can maybe try and get Pike.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Gives us an extra day for Pike.
Travis: How do we do that?
Sam: I don't know.
Marisha: I can go get her, theoretically, if we have an extra day.
Travis: Which I think we do. But I think we need you here, right?
Marisha: She does have the stone, right? She does have the stone? I think she has the stone.
Laura: Yeah, she has the stone.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: We're going to be setting a trap, right?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: So maybe we make that trap more better?
Laura: What exactly did you tell Tooma was going to happen?
Sam: Be ready to attack tomorrow morning. We're going to deliver a giant beast for the dragon to hunt, and that her people should be ready to strike. That's it.
Laura: Did you tell her to tell Vorugal anything in particular?
Liam: No, but we don't know if she has or not. They've got their necks on the line. I know they're not to be trusted, but they're in a precarious position, as well.
Marisha: Well, we don't want to necessarily have them jump in right away. We want them to set Vorugal on Yenk, correct?
Laura: Yes. Shouldn't she inform Vorugal that the monster is coming?
Marisha: Glorified messengers at this point.
Travis: Who's Yenk?
Laura: The big monster that we're setting for him.
Marisha: The goristro.
Travis: What's that? He's like a ram?
Laura: Yeah, a giant ram. Haven't you seen the picture? Did you see the picture?
Travis: No. I'm the only one that really appreciates pictures, and I haven't seen it.
Marisha: Oh, that's unfortunate.
Laura: I'll go grab the book from Percy as he's sleeping.
Taliesin: Roll for it!
Sam: You don't get to say roll!
Laura: You don't get to say roll for it!
Liam: I've said that, and he's ignored me, so you don't get to say shit!
Taliesin: Matt! Dad, make her roll for it!
Matt: For?
Laura: I'm just trying the big book of beasts away from Percy as he's sleeping.
Sam: He's not sleeping on it, is he?
Taliesin: It's in my possession.
Matt: Make a perception check with disadvantage.
Taliesin: All right. That'll do.
Travis: Say it so confidently.
Laura: Subtract some, because you're still really tired from being dead!
Taliesin: That's disadvantage.
Matt: And minus two on both of these rolls.
Taliesin: Oh, and minus two. That's 14.
Matt: Yeah, she slips it off you.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: This is what you see.
Laura: That's what we see, Grog!
Travis: Wait. Is that like this, is it like me?
Sam: We don't know! We haven't seen this thing.
Matt: It's clustered around a bunch of other art pieces of other demonic-looking entities, and it is by and large about twice to four times the size of anything else on the page depicted.
Travis: That's really big.
Marisha: Two Grogs? Is it like two Grogs?
Matt: There's no picture of Grog in there. You have no sense of scale.
Sam: Quick! Draw a picture of Grog, and then we'll know.
Travis: I'll draw it full scale! I put my hand on the page.
Laura: Oh, he's tiny!
Travis: Yeah, I think he's hand-held. Maybe we need like a few Yenks. Everyone can do with a few Yenks. (laughter)
Liam: Jeez. We're all about to die tomorrow or the day after.
Travis: Wait! Vax and Scanlan, when you're within, did you see Vorugal in your travels?
Sam: No, we kept out of sight in the caverns and Vorugal we don't think saw us, but we also didn't see Vorugal, either.
Travis: Do you think you could replicate your path in the daylight?
Laura: I think he would see them. What if you became a fly or something and flew down? Would he notice you?
Sam: Wouldn't see me. I don't want to speak for Vax, but if we're going back tonight, you no longer have the ability to fly, is that true? But you do, Vexy?
Laura: I do. And I can speak Draconic.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Well, that would've been helpful last time, actually.
Laura: Sorry. I didn't think about that last time.
Sam: But yes, if I were a fly-- I assume any of us can avoid his detection if we stay low and invisible. Well, yes.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Right?
Laura: Can you make me invisible?
Marisha: I can't. He can.
Sam: I can make you invisible.
Travis: Are we going to go now, or are we going in the morning?
Laura: We'll pop down tonight to talk to her one more time.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: So you're telling them?
Laura: Hold off a day. She's going to be so pissed.
Marisha: Are we going to go back and see them again? Okay, we'll just say: next morning, then you go say, "hey, we got an awesome thing for you." Okay.
Travis: Yeah. If we're summoning a few good Yenks, do we have a spot that we want to say stay away from?
Marisha: Well, they gave us a location of the stones.
Sam: She told us to release Yenk--
Travis: Oh, on the summoning stones.
Sam: The summoning circle or something like that. All right?
Travis: I've got to go pee.
Liam: Also, when we were there, we weren't allowed to bring any weapons in, so you're going to have to dump--
Laura: Nothing?!
Sam: I'm leaving mine in the mansion.
Laura: (groans)
Sam: Bring something that you don't mind putting down.
Liam: Yeah, don't bring your best.
Laura: Fenthras.
Sam: No, leave that at home.
Liam: I'll take it. I'm not going to use it; I don't know how! Barely. Woo-hoo!
Laura: Now you've got three Vestiges! Should we go, then? Can you make me invisible and we go?
Sam: I can make you invisible. You can fly us down through the cavern, but you're going to have to be super stealthy.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Sam: Okay. Don't know how that'll work if we're flying, but okay. Doesn't that cover our tracks? Oh, that's the stealth rolls thing? Okay, good. Wait, Keyleth, will you hold onto my Mythcarver sword for me?
Marisha: Sure!
Sam: I can trust you.
Marisha: Of course! (giggles)
Sam: Oh boy. That's a big smile.
Marisha: You can trust me.
Sam: Okay. Don't kill anyone with it.
Matt: Keyleth finally has a Vestige.
Marisha: I do! I was the last one, you guys! It feels-- doesn't really feel like anything.
Laura: Once you attune it to yourself--
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Scanlan feels the same way, don't you Scanlan?
Sam: I feel nothing. Sometimes I have to hold it with my left hand so it feels different.
Marisha: I switch hands. (laughter)
Marisha: Still nothing.
Travis: When you call it the stranger--
Matt: So as you cast Pass Without a Trace on yourself and Scanlan, the shadows of the mansion cling to you a little darker, a little more crushed. You wish to cast Invisibility on Vex, you said?
Sam: Yes, I will use yet another 3rd-level Invisibility spell to make us both invisible.
Matt: All right. You both jump onto the back of her broom.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And just to double check here--
Travis: The way he said that--
Laura: No, he said it really terribly.
Matt: What do you mean? I didn't say anything!
Travis: You sure did.
Laura: Sure did!
Matt: I'll say technically you're carrying the broom, so the broom will also be invisible. Okay, so as you're holding the broom, you both leap onto it, the two of you and the broom vanish, and you guys are free to exit the mansion at your disposal.
Sam: Yeah, so we made a right here and left here and right at the big rock.
Laura: Is anybody going to keep track of us like you kept track of Vex-- Vax. I just called my brother me. I just did that.
Sam: Vex is the girl one. Vax is the boy.
Laura: Is somebody going to be around in case something goes horribly wrong?
Liam: I'll go with you if Kiki wants to turn me into a crow or a fly or something. I'll stay back and watch.
Laura: Stay up like Kiki did before.
Marisha: I mean I could do what I did before and follow you as Minxie. Worked last time. I still have my one last shape, as well.
Sam: Isn't Minxie big and spottable?
Marisha: It's a mountain-based tiger. I'm a white snow tiger.
Sam: That's so hot.
Marisha: It's actually very cold in the mountains. That's why they have thick coats.
Travis: You don't think Vorugal is going to think that's a midnight snack?
Marisha: Who, me?
Travis: Yeah, you. Big white tiger?
Marisha: He didn't see me before.
Travis: Oh okay.
Marisha: Let me see something. Hang on, because this'll tell me because Polymorph-- you might go out of my range. Is the only problem.
Sam: Polymorph just lasts. Wait, no.
Matt: Nope, concentration.
Sam: So he has to stay within range.
Marisha: Range is 60 feet.
Matt: No, that's just to cast it. I'm pretty sure he can go off on his own as long as you maintain concentration.
Marisha: Okay. Can I? He can go. Do you want to go? All right. What do you want to be?
Liam: Something white.
Laura: Something very small. Like a moth, a white moth.
Sam: It's got to be something that can go as fast as we're going.
Laura: He can sit on my shoulder. No?
Liam: Yeah, but then if you guys get fucked I'm dead, as well.
Laura: I'll just smack you and then you'll become you again.
Liam: So it'll just be like every day. All right, yeah.
Marisha: It's true.
Laura: Right? If I smack him, it's not going to kill him, he just turns back into--
Sam: If he were a black crow or something he could fly back on its own. A moth can't travel a mile.
Laura: Make him a white crow.
Liam: Yeah, can you make me an albino crow?
Marisha: Sure! I don't see why not.
Sam: With one yellow eye and one black eye.
Travis: Oh get on with it, fuckers! (laughter)
Marisha: I do that. With one yellow eye and one black eye.
Matt: All right. And as your form shifts to the first probably albino crow to wander the landscape here in Wildemount, you are able to follow them, should you so chose.
Marisha: To match Vex, I give him one little blue feather, just off the side. Little blue streak.
Liam: A little bit; this isn't Percy's, but (caws). (laughter)
Taliesin: (caws)
Laura: Come on, let's go. Come on.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: You guys make your way outside into the heavy snowfall, across the top of the ravine. You go ahead and make a survival check to try and follow the tracks of Minxie to the outskirts of where you guys were last time.
Sam: Do I also get to give her any assistance, like "we went this way, go that way?"
Matt: Yeah. You know what, giving you the assist, go ahead and roll with advantage on that.
Travis: Oh, that's lucky.
Sam: Dice jail already?
Laura: Yeah. Definitely already. 17.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little bit of time, but you manage to find your way back through the heavy snowfall. It's freezing cold and your teeth are starting to chatter a little bit, but you manage to make your way to the top of the ravine, dipping down where you find the cavern entrance at the bottom, leading into where Tooma and rest of the Ravenites at least seem to have the central portion of their society within the mountain itself. You guys come down. It's a little warmer the further into the rock you travel. The snow turns to slush, then to damp ground, to dry rock and stone.
Laura: I get off the broom and put it behind me.
Matt: Okay. Both still walking invisibly, with you now (whoosh) walking behind them, hopping as the white crow.
Sam: We should do the same thing we did last time. I know you weren't here. We turned visible, asked to guards to go-- It's going to be really shitty when we get in there, because she's going to hate us.
Laura: All right. Ow! Fuck you! Stop it!
Sam: I will drop invisibility. Are the guards around?
Matt: You guys are just on the outskirts of the entranceway.
Sam: Oh, we'll stay invisible until we get to the guards.
Matt: To the center of the town, or outside of Tooma's--
Laura: Oh! I thought we were already in the cave.
Matt: You're inside the cave. There's a path in there and it opens up into the actual subterranean village, and then in there, across from this fountain area, is where Tooma's tent is.
Sam: Where did we meet the guards last time?
Matt: As soon as you entered the main village area.
Sam: That's where we want to meet them again.
Matt: So as you both drop your invisibility guise, with your white crow friend hopping behind you, the same two guards are still patrolling. Only one of them notices you. Turns around and gives an odd look, his head cocked to the side as he grabs his spear and puts it towards you again.
Sam: Yep, same routine. We'll leave our weapons here. This is my friend Vex. We'd like to see Tooma again. I know it's very upsetting that we have to make these night calls like this but it's very important.
Laura: I speak in Draconic. I say  Sorry, my friend rambles.
Liam: (hacking spit)
Laura: My broom takes off behind me.
Matt: Yeah, exactly. Vanishes forever. Keeping the spear there, yells out (foreign word), and the other soldier who's wandering, turns around, looks and sees, steps over, puts his spear down, and they both have a conversation briefly. You can, as I recall, speak Draconic and can read lips, is that what it was? Yeah. They're both discussing why these stupid people keep coming back and bothering Tooma, as well as the coming tension of tomorrow's activities, and how they can't keep interrupting Tooma if she's going to be keeping her mind straight. But one of them leaves. The other one steps, circles around, and begins nudging you both forward, telling you in Draconic, "Then go, make it quick."
Laura: We will.
Matt: As you guys stay at the outskirts of Tooma's tent, the interior light has been sufficiently dimmed, as it was before, with a little bit of the embers that are still there in the fire pit in the center. Now, barely cracking ember. Tooma is passed out and curled up inside her throne-like chair, as one of the other dragonborn soldiers comes over and nudges her gently, "Tooma. They return." She rakes towards his face. He barely ducks out of the way. Unnatural speed for a creature as old as she is, per se, but then the hand recoils back with a snapping sound, and she wakes up, "You come again?"
Sam: Yes. We offer profound apologies for waking you from your slumber again.
Matt: Snaps her arm back into place. (cracking)
Laura: In Draconic  we apologize for waking you up. Unfortunately, I sent my brother here before with our compatriot, and he spoke out of turn. We're actually planning the attack the day after tomorrow.
Matt: (sigh, foreign words) Which you recognize as, "Tell the others: wait a day." And one of her servants wanders off behind you guys and exits the tent. She turns back to you. "Then what is to be done?"
Laura: We'll be releasing a very large fiend.
Sam: At the spot where you told us.
Matt: "At the stones, yes."
Laura: The stones. We hope that you will inform Vorugal that it's going to happen. He'll head over, fight-fight-fight. He becomes much weaker, we jump in, fight-fight-fight.
Matt: "It'll be done. Do not mess this up."
Sam: Question, before we go. Typically when you've done this in the past, you inform Vorugal and he heads on over right away? Does he need to see evidence of a hunt? How does it work? Do you typically inform him?
Matt: "I do not inform. Skork does the informing."
Sam: Skork?
Laura: Yes, Skork. I remember him.
Sam: And is there some sort of hunt horn or anything that signals the beginning of this, or does it just happen?
Matt: "Depending on where the prey is, whether it be nearby forests or presented in chains to the cinder stones of which I've sent you, Vorugal begins the chase."
Laura: He won't be in chains, exactly. Is that all right?
Matt: "Just keep it there."
Laura: Oh, okay.
Sam: I don't want to mess this up. If Vorugal were to see anyone near this summoning circle, would he be suspicious, or would he be okay with it?
Matt: "If it is not a Ravenite, it would probably make them part of the hunt."
Sam: Okay. Good to know.
Laura: Good news. Good. Great.
Matt: "Is that all?"
Laura: That's all. Be pleased. We will see you in a couple of days.
Sam: There's like a 50/50 chance we'll come back again tonight.
Laura: No it's not. We're not.
Sam: No? 60/40.
Laura: Let's just go.
Sam: We're out of here.
Matt: "Leave me!"
Sam: Sorry.
Laura: Again, I apologize for my brother. He's an idiot.
Matt: She doesn't even pay you guys any mind, just curls over, takes her heavy robes and like wraps them around her and curls up into a small little bundle of old dragonborn woman. The rest of the soldiers close in, cutting you off from her, and they all give you the very stern look that you have seen many times that tells you, "get the fuck out."
Laura: Okay. You make us invisible?
Sam: Oh yeah, invisibility yet again. I'm out of 3rd-level spells.
Laura: Is Pass Without a Trace still active on us? It's up to an hour.
Matt: Yeah it'd still be active.
Liam: As they're leaving, not wanting to get left out, I fly down from the air and land in my sister's hair and like a cat (growls) into the top of her head five or seven or 12 times.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: (caws)
Marisha: So tangled.
Matt: Instantaneous bedhead. You can't even see it, but you can feel it and it bothers you. All right. You guys both are invisible, the bird clutching to your side. You take the broom back up into the snowy storm. I need you both to make stealth checks with advantage.
Laura: I thought we were invisible. We're invisible.
Sam: Yes, I've made us invisible again.
Liam: Big bonus.
Laura: Okay, stealth checks.
Sam: With advantage?
Laura: Plus ten to whatever you roll.
Sam: Oh snap! 12, 22--
Laura: 36.
Sam: 24.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way up out of the ravine, up onto the top of the snowy banks at the top of where the cliffsides are. Eventually, over the next 20 or so minutes, finding the shimmering outskirts of Scanlan's doorway, joining the rest of the party.
Laura: Get the fuck off my head, you piece of shit.
Matt: Polymorph lasts for how long?
Marisha: An hour.
Matt: As soon as you get to the top of ravine, the white crow (impact) face-down in the snow.
Marisha: I think it's an hour.
Liam: Speaking of which  hold still, there's a little bit of bird shit right there.
Laura: Aw, I thought you were serious.
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: Thankfully, that doesn't transform, either. (laughter)
Matt: You make your way back into Scanlan's mansion.
Marisha: While they were gone, I, with Fenthras and Whisper, was playing make-believe archer Vex, like a 12-year-old in the bedroom with a Nerf bow.
Matt: As you enter the front of Scanlan's mansion, you see Keyleth in the corner, who's pulled Whisper back in Fenthras, and it goes (dagger impact) into the wall.
Marisha: It worked! How did it go, guys?
Laura: Give me the bow, right now.
Travis: Oh, busted.
Marisha: It might be like a cool combo move.
Laura: I'll think about it. Thank you.
Travis: She take it well?
Laura: She did! She said she'd wait.
Sam: She's a night person. She's okay.
Travis: Great.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You did catch on the way up, Vex, that even through the dark sleet-covered snow blaring night, there is the faint hint of light blue sunrise in the distance.
Laura: Oh shit. Day's coming. We didn't sleep! We need to sleep!
Travis: Wait! Should we see if we can get Pike first?
Sam: First? Do we have any spells to do that?
Marisha: I can try and scry.
Laura: What if you take the stone, pop over to her, then use Tree Stride and come back?
Marisha: That I can do, yeah.
Sam: You have another Tree Stride in you? Didn't we get here today?
Marisha: We did, but if I burn a higher-level spell, then yeah. What does it matter, at this point?
Travis: Yeah, let's get all our ducks in a row.
Marisha: All right. I'll be right back. See you guys in a minute.
Liam: Bye! A minute passes.
Marisha: A minute passes. This is like when you walk the same direction, you say bye, and then you walk the same direction to the car.
Matt: Awkward quiet. You hear Kima snoring with her back against the foyer wall, just (snoring). Until eventually, the stone begins to glow and pulse like a dull frozen heartbeat. (pulsing) Keyleth, your eyes open, and you see it flashing in your hands again, and you look up real fast and before you can say anything, your mouth opens to say goodbye before she vanishes in a swirl of glitter and blue light.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: Now, Pike! Come sit down! (cheering)
Ashley: Hello!
Marisha: I like your jacket! It's really great.
Ashley: Oh hi! Okay.
Matt: Just flew in.
Ashley: Yeah. Here we go. (laughter)
Matt: So. As the day has gone by and through the chaos of getting Whitestone ready, trying to assemble the followers of Sarenrae that you've gathered, and protecting the remnants of the city as Vox Machina went off, a moment hits you and you close your eyes and pray to Sarenrae and hope that all shall be well with your friends, and you wish that you could be there to help them. And there's a sudden warmth in your proximity, and then a sudden flash of blue light, and then nearby, you see a somewhat cold, damp Keyleth just appear in the space next to you as you're preparing to lay yourself down for an evening's rest, it being later at night now, clutching the stone.
Ashley: Hey! I was just about to go to bed!
Marisha: Were you sleeping? This is so awkward!
Ashley: I was just saying my prayers.
Marisha: Oh my gosh.
Ashley: I do it as much as I can.
Marisha: You know, I never thought about having poor timing with these gate stones. I'm so sorry!
Ashley: (stammers)
Marisha: I thought you were on the toilet.
Ashley: I know. I'm so glad I wasn't.
Marisha: Yeah, me too.
Ashley: I'm so glad you're here.
Marisha: I missed you.
Ashley: I missed you.
Sam: We saw her literally today.
Marisha: Yeah, but it seems like I went around the world and back!
Ashley: I was thinking today and I was like, "Oh man, I should've just gone with them."
Marisha: Yeah, we got all the way there and we were like, "oh, we forgot Pike!"
Ashley: I know. It's okay.
Marisha: Do you want to go?
Ashley: Or I will be there now. Let's go.
Marisha: We can go now.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Is that a new set of dice?
Ashley: I had to go buy some because I left all of my stuff in New York. Let's see how this goes.
Sam: You stopped on the way here to buy dice?
Ashley: No, I got those a little earlier. We're okay. We're here. Okay.
Marisha: Okay. So we Tree Stride back.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you gather your materials, your armor, your weapons. All things that you feel would be necessary for this type of a conflict. You rejoin with Keyleth. The two of you find your way back to the Sun Tree.
Marisha: Right. So yeah, so the leader of Ravenites, her name is Tooma, and we went there, and we were talking to her, and I think we have a plan, but not really a plan, so we're going to figure it out as we go. All right? Let's go. That's the plan; you're caught up.
Ashley: Okay, great. Hey, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So as the spell finishes, the Sun Tree opens, you step through the portal into the slow crawling sunrise. The sun hasn't quite crested, but you can see through the snowfall, which is lessening at the moment, the distant light blue is getting lighter and lighter. You probably have another 30 minutes before the sun hits the actual horizon line. But as you step out of one of the trees that you created previous, when you had journeyed to the ruins of Draconia, you do see about 150 feet off, the shimmer of the outside of Scanlan's mansion door.
Marisha: (whispers) Let's be quiet, okay? Let's do this.
Sam: Oh, great. Pike's good at quiet.
Marisha: We stealth there.
Matt: Both you guys roll stealth checks.
Sam: Oh Jesus.
Liam: This is so great. Now we can all die together!
Matt: You have disadvantage, Pike.
Marisha: Oh, that's a natural one.
Sam: Wait, what?
Ashley: I don't think I can get worse than that; that is a one.
Sam: Two natural ones?
Matt: Two natural ones?
Marisha: No!
Sam: Oh my god. The dragon's going to fucking kill us right now.
Marisha: Oh my god, Pike. The plan hasn't even started!
Laura: Dice jail!
Liam: We're all about to lie down for a three-hour nap. What are you talking about?
Ashley: Off to a great start.
Matt: As you guys begin stepping through the snow, Pike, you take a step and you hear this strange (cracking) sound and you feel this slight shift beneath your feet. And you watch as some snow begins to trickle off the side of the cliffside.
Marisha: Pike?
Ashley: I'm going to not move.
Marisha: I don't move, either. Do we not move or do we run?
Ashley: We should run. We should run because it's probably coming down!
Marisha: Run! (laughter)
Matt: As soon as you both push off running, (whoosh) a portion of the cliff actually shears off and begins to slide down the side. Pike, if you could go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw real fast.
Laura: Oh my god, Matt! Why are you trying to kill her right when she gets here?!
Sam: Yeah, Matt. Why did you roll two natural ones?
Ashley: Wait, what did you say it is?
Travis: A dexterity saving throw.
Matt: A dexterity saving throw.
Ashley: Wait, I get nothing, okay. A four.
Matt: A four. You begin to see Pike slide down off the edge.
Marisha: I cast Grasping Vine to grab onto her.
Matt: With that, some of the reeds, some of the nearby frozen plants on the edge that were largely covered with snow that were revealed as the rest of the snow began to crumble off, a large vine shoots out, wraps around you, and pulls you back up onto the side of the cliff: fine. The rest of the rock and snow and ice, you hear (crashing) clattering into the ravine below.
Ashley: Go!
Marisha: Go!
Matt: All right, you guys run. You see the doorway shimmering before you, you get closer and you hear in the distance, this strangely familiar distant echoing (growls).
Ashley: Aw, come on! What is that noise?
Marisha: Go, run!
Matt: You both just get to the doorway in time. The snowfall's still there though gentler than it was in the night. You both dart inside, slamming the mansion door behind you, into a warmer, comfortable, quieter atmosphere. (panting)
Ashley: Hey!
Laura: What just happened?
Liam: Jeepers.
Travis: Hey!
Ashley: Hey!
Travis: Hey, buddy! Why are you out of breath?
Liam: You all right? You look white as a ghost.
Taliesin: Have I had a full night's sleep, at this point?
Matt: No, not yet.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Marisha: Dragon might know we're here.
Travis: What, why?
Marisha: Well, there might've been a rockslide. And it might've been our fault. I'm not sure.
Travis: You just walked through a tree. Why was there a rockslide?
Marisha: I don't know, Grog!
Liam: The door is easy to see.
Sam: The door is shimmery and shiny?
Matt: No, nobody can see through it.
Marisha: They can see a shimmering door.
Matt: Only if you let them. Only individuals that you choose can see the entrance.
Laura: That's great!
Ashley: So whatever that was just saw us disappear.
Laura: Oh shit! Grog! Open the door! Dust of Tracelessness! Out the door! Right now!
Travis: Oh! Yeah, I open the front door and I take big handful of the Dust of Tracelessness and I (whack).
Matt: Okay, make a strength check. There's a mild wind here you're fighting against with dust, so we'll see.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. You take a big old heaping handful and (whoosh) another one. As you send it out there, all the snow crusts over and any signs of footprints, both half-elf or gnomish, turn into a gentle, untouched solid surface of snow, as you begin to hear in the distance another echoing (growl).
Travis: What is that?
Ashley: What is that?
Laura: Close the door.
Sam: Close the door.
Laura: Close the door, Grog!
Travis: I just want to see what it is!
Ashley: I slam it shut with my gauntlets.
Travis: Hey, pushy!
Ashley: We don't know what that was! Well, maybe you do, but I don't know.
Marisha: I'm assuming that was Vorugal.
Sam: The dragon.
Travis: It's a dragon.
Ashley: It's a dragon!
Travis: Yeah, a big white dragon.
Marisha: Big white. Big dummy dragon.
Travis: And you let it know we're here! (chuckles)
Ashley: Well, that was an accident. I was going to surprise you guys. And we almost died.
Travis: But hey, we're not, so we need to get some sleep, right?
Sam: Yes, everyone sleep now.
Travis: We sleep.
Matt: Okay. You guys all go to rest?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. A full rest is taken for all of you. Everyone's healed back to full. Spells are recovered. Percy, you are now down to a minus two, I believe, penalty to your rolls.
Liam: Wake up and it's two in the afternoon?
Matt: Technically, yeah. It's mid-afternoon by the time you guys finish your full rest, except for Percy. Percy is up before everybody else and is pacing about the mansion by himself probably.
Sam: The mansion will last 24 hours, so it'll be dark again by the time it wears off, so we can stay in here as long as we need to.
Liam: All right.
Sam: But do we have things we need to accomplish today?
Taliesin: How about making a quiet cavern, not too far away from the summoning circle, where we can hide?
Laura: That might be smart, actually.
Marisha: At the pace in which that cliff fell apart last night, I don't know about the structure of the topography here.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Laura: But we're also up high and the ravine is down low. That could make a difference.
Liam: Yeah, we could get piled on.
Laura: Oh! I understand.
Sam: But with Percival's engineering skills, he could maybe find a good little spot of granite for you to dig into or something.
Marisha: I can try and do a Commune With Nature and see.
Travis: These islands float, right?
Matt: Oh, they once did. All the islands of Draconia were disabled, the arcane essence that let them stay up, and they all crashed into the ravine.
Liam: Also, when shit goes down, we don't want to repeat the mistakes of the past. A) we don't want to teleport inside the dragon's belly.
Sam: I'm keeping all options on the table.
Travis: Only stupid people do that.
Liam: Clearly. B) We don't all want to be all grouped together.
Laura: We don't want that.
Liam: I'm eating one of these magic candies.
Laura: Those chicken candies?
Liam: Yes, there's chicken. We want to spread out so we're not all blasted at the same time.
Taliesin: Vex and I at a distance.
Liam: Separately, though, so you can hit from different angles.
Travis: So two caves? Four caves?
Marisha: I'll have to think on the caves.
Sam: They don't have to be giant caverns. It's just a little nook. A little foxhole.
Liam: Cubby-holes. Up high for anyone who can take to the air, down low for anyone who can't.
Marisha: Honestly, I'm not going to know a whole lot until we scout out the location.
Taliesin: Let's go scout out the location.
Sam: Okay, how do we do that? In broad daylight.
Marisha: I've got something I've never done before!
Laura: What is this?
Sam: It's called Invisible Reconnaissance.
Marisha: Almost. It's called Animal Shapes. And it's basically Polymorph, but for all of us. I can turn us all into whatever we want.
Laura: So we don't just look like cows.
Laura: We are cows.
Marisha: We are cows.
Travis: Quick question. In all of our time here, when we were scouting before, and when you two jokers were going to go see Tooma, did we see a bunch of animals around?
Laura: I have not seen very many animals, I don't think.
Matt: Within the ravine, there's been very few. What animals you have seen have been a few flying owls, other carnivorous birds that are generally scavengers. You've seen maybe a few small wolves that are picking through the ruins and eventually scattered off. White snow wolves.
Travis: As long as being animals isn't going to make us a mid-day snack, versus being Ravenites.
Sam: I will say this  I love the sound of this spell, but wouldn't travelling mist be really undetectable? Could we mist around?
Marisha: It's almost debatable. Because we look like an unnatural mist.
Sam: There's a snowstorm out there. We're just going to be one with the clouds.
Laura: Is there a snowstorm?
Matt: If you guys glance outside of the mansion and look, it is not a snowstorm, but there are heavy winds. (wind blowing) You can hear multitudes, a cacophony of off-harmonies of winds, of different portions of the distant ravine that are all howling together. There is a faint snowfall, but the clouds are dark and heavy, and more of a storm coming your way.
Laura: Does snow get thrown up to the wind?
Matt: A little further down in the ravine, it does.
Liam: And as long as we're not synchronized swimming in mist form and spread out, then it should be fine.
Laura: Behave like wind, you guys.
Travis: Can we do both animals and the mist?
Matt: No, they both require concentration.
Sam: My worry about animals is don't we also have the intellect of the animals that we become?
Matt: Actually, Wind Walk is not concentration. In theory, you could do both. Wind Walk is not concentration.
Marisha: We can be misty animals?
Matt: You can be misty animals.
Marisha: That's dumb. (laughter)
Marisha: That's a lot.
Sam: So we keep our own intellect?
Marisha: We always keep our intellect. Animal Shapes last for 24 hours.
Taliesin: Can you go back and forth?
Marisha: I'm going to find that out right now.
Taliesin: That's a question.
Marisha: Because if we were a flock of birds, Vorugal's not going to give a shit about birds.
Sam: A flock of hawks, they don't go together. But a flock of pigeons do, or a flock of geese.
Taliesin: I don't want to be food. I want to be something that eats.
Liam: While they're debating, I pull Whisper out, and I chuck it into a wall and teleport to it. I pulled it out of the Blink-Back Belt.
Matt: Yeah. So you chuck the dagger. As you're talking, you watch as Vax takes the blade, flings it across the room. It slams into the side of the foyer. You look back to where he was, and he's not there anymore. There's a flash of dark shadow energy where the blade is, and Vax's form appears right there, holding the blade where it landed in the wall.
Laura: That is so cool!
Liam: It didn't go into my belt. I went into the wall, and I'm holding it, still. I was a shadow for half a second, and I traveled with the blade. I am fucking Nightcrawler. Holy shit. And I throw it again across the other side.
Matt: Okay. This time make an attack roll because you're excited, not concentrating.
Liam: Okay. Sure, that's 27.
Matt: Yeah. It goes a little more elevated, lands about ten feet up. As it impacts, you guys watch. As he releases the blade, his form almost is pulled along, almost like it's caught on a tether and then just turns into dark smoke and vanishes with the blade. As the blade sticks into the wall, he reappears at the side, clutching the edge, and you drop a few feet and land onto your feet.
Liam: Aw, suck it haters! This is the coolest dagger I've ever had!
Sam: Tell me this, can you not do that? If you throw it and don't want to travel where it is?
Liam: I throw it right next to his head, and I don't go anywhere.
Matt: Roll an attack roll.
Sam: Go right in my neck.
Liam: 24?
Matt: 24. (dagger impact) Right next to him.
Liam: Does it go to my belt?
Matt: It returns to your belt.
Sam: Oh! You get to choose?
Marisha: That is awesome.
Sam: Maybe don't ever do that again, please.
Laura: Sure you're okay, Grog, that you don't have the dagger? I know you wanted it.
Travis: I just want to be able to move faster, but it's all right.
Liam: We can't all be all things, Grog. You are the strongest thing on the planet. You are going to take Vorugal all by yourself--
Travis: Yeah, if I can get next to him.
Laura: Which he probably can't.
Liam: You shut the fuck up, you trouble-maker. You bust my balls on a daily basis. What is that about? What is that about? What have I ever done but support you?
Travis: Pipe down! Calm down! Listen, how are we getting down there? Can we hurry this up, please?
Liam: Throw my dagger at the ceiling. Travel with it.
Matt: All right, so you watch his form vanish again. About 40 feet up, (impact).
Liam: Can I land on my sister?
Laura: On me?!
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw. This would be acrobatics, right.
Laura: What about me?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I was looking straight at him.
Liam: I rolled a 27.
Laura: Perception? 20.
Matt: You make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: (sighs) You piece of shit.
Liam: Quit starting with me.
Laura: Dexterity. 28! 30!
Liam: 30. She beat me.
Matt: She dodges right out of the way, and you slam onto the ground. You feel your ankles and knees (ping) a little bit. That sharp pain hits you in both joints and you're like (moans).
Liam: Worth it. (groans)
Marisha: So anyway. Back to the plan-- (laughter)
Marisha: So with Animal Shapes, I can actually decide what animals each of you can be, so we can all be different animals. Furthermore, on my action, I can use it to transform you guys into a different creature.
Laura: That's pretty cool.
Liam: I like how excited you are about this.
Marisha: I'm so excited.
Laura: I'm wondering if the mist form would not be better. But the animals are really cool.
Taliesin: Can we go in and out of mist form? That's a thing we can do?
Sam: It takes a while, but yes.
Liam: But we're not in the middle of a fight, hopefully. The animals, Kiki, save it for a rainy day?
Marisha: All right.
Laura: If we're not all dead come tomorrow.
Liam: Yeah, we probably all will be dead tomorrow, but it's a really cool idea.
Marisha: Thank you for your validation.
Sam: Two questions. Are we all going? And question two, when we get there and find a suitable location for carving caves, are you going to do this right now, or are we just scouting?
Taliesin: We're going to do this, as well.
Sam: We're going to do this right now?
Marisha: I imagine it depends on how scouting goes.
Sam: Well, we can't communicate when we're in mist form, so you just have to go do if you feel it.
Laura: Maybe scout and then go back. Because mist form stays for eight hours, so at least that way we can communicate not next to Vorugal.
Taliesin: If we scout and it's clear, and then we come back and then go back, it might not be clear again. If we scout and it's clear, then we do it. It's done.
Matt: You guys hear this faint gargling sound as Grog is currently gargling his own spit and staring at the ceiling.
Liam: I didn't follow that, either. We should do something.
Marisha: All right, let's go scout. I cast Wind Walk on everybody.
Matt: Okay. All of you begin to feel your form buzz a little bit with the instilled power of wind. As you all each step out onto the snow on the outside of the mansion, you can concentrate for a moment as your form then meshes into a mist-like billowing cloud.
Laura: Do we look natural?
Sam: Yeah, what do we look like?
Laura: Do we look pretty obvious?
Sam: Are we a yellow cloud, a white cloud?
Matt: I'd say it's more of a whitish cloud. I wouldn't say it's supremely obvious right now, but the wind is pushing you about a little bit. If you try and focus direction of move, you can get a better idea how well your movement is.
Taliesin: I'm trying to move in a very windy way, yeah.
Travis: And Kima is with us?
Matt: Kima is with you, yeah.
Liam: I am the fart.
Taliesin: I am the fart.
Matt: Kima, as you guys are doing this and it gets cast, Kima goes, "So what am I doing?"
Marisha: Do you want to come scout? We're going to scout. Or you can just stay.
Matt: "You know, I'm going to stay. You've got a big kitchen here."
Marisha: It's mainly filled with chicken.
Matt: "I love chicken." (laughter)
Travis: There's also a training room several levels down if you want to go smash some shit.
Matt: "I'm going to get some chicken, and I'm going to go smash some shit."
Marisha: And there's the spa under that.
Matt: "I don't think I've been to a spa. Does that also have chicken?"
Laura: It could if you wanted it to.
Ashley: You could bring it down there.
Matt: "This is the best place ever!"
Sam: It is. It really is.
Matt: "Come back when you need me." She goes and runs off to the kitchen area. All right. You guys, stepping out, keeping the focus on the spell, you move half-speed through this weather in mist form. So your 300 feet per round speed, whatever it is, is reduced to a mere 150 feet.
Marisha: It's okay. It's more for appearance.
Matt: What are you guys doing? Are you coasting through the ravine, are you heading directly, or trying to go overhead?
Marisha: I want to go to the summoning stone. I'm going towards there.
Sam: But we discussed before we left that we would mainly stick to the lowlands and the ravine to get there, yeah?
Laura: Yes, we did.
Taliesin: Hugging the walls, looking normal.
Marisha: Sure. I follow the crowd.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading?
Ashley: I am! (laughter)
Laura: I'll lead the way.
Liam: This is the quietest you've ever been.
Taliesin: I volunteer as tribute!
Sam: Shouldn't Laura lead?
Taliesin: Let Laura lead.
Matt: Okay. So Vex and Pike are leading the way.
Ashley: No, I was kidding.
Taliesin: Too late. No take-backs.
Travis: We all die together.
Matt: As you guys slowly drift down into the bottom of the ravine on the outside of where the mansion doorway is, you crest down to where a large portion of the rubble is currently buried by snow and ice. The wind is whipping snow up into the air, and you're finding little spirals and little snow devils that are making their way through as different clusters of wind tend to swell and subside. You make your way over to the opposite side of the ravine and start heading to the north way, crawling around.
Laura: I'm going to keep an eye out to make sure nobody seems like they're-- especially towards Vorugal's plateau to make sure he's not there.
Matt: Need you to go ahead and make a perception check if you could. And I need everybody to make a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Do we get some sort of bonus because we're mist?
Laura: Perception is 30.
Marisha: Jesus.
Ashley: How can you be loud as mist?
Liam: Natural 20!
Marisha: Stealth and what?
Taliesin: Just stealth for us.
Sam: Do I get to add Jack of all--
Matt: You can. As long as you're not trained in it, you can add it to it.
Sam: I'm not. Okay. 18.
Taliesin: 16.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 20.
Laura: 15.
Ashley: Eight.
Travis: Four.
Matt: Okay. It's fine. It's a group check, so successes outweigh the failures. You guys as a group begin to move forward. It's fine. As you guys are slowly moving your way, you keep an eye out. You can see there are some Ravenites in clusters that are out, currently poring through the rubble. There are crews that are basically excavating, trying to pull out what's worth anything from the remnants of Draconia. You make your way around this large, familiar curvature from before that leads towards the center area of Vorugal's now-claimed lair at the bottom of the ravine. As you turn the corner and you guys keep watch, you can see on the icy platform, with these spikes that jut out at various places throughout this larger central area here. On top, you can see perched and curled up the massive form of the white dragon itself, claws curled up under its chin, its chin slightly turned askew to the left, eyes closed, wings wrapped up around and gently flapping over the sides of the top of this icy platform. It sits there quietly, breathing in, and you can hear the breath itself, deep and guttural, just echoing. (snoring) The wind occasionally sneaks in and seems to almost carry the echo farther than it should be audible. And you can see there are two packs of about five Ravenites that are armed and are sitting at the base of the platform, that are looking out. Some of them are sitting, some of them are eating some small rations, some are just keeping an eye out. These appear to be essentially assigned guards to Vorugal here at his lair. So. You guys continue past?
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Matt: Heading which direction?
Laura: Towards the summoning circle.
Matt: You recall which direction that was?
Liam: It's east.
Matt: All right, so you head a little northward, following the curvature of this part of the ravine in an eastward direction. Eventually, you all move past an uncomfortable proximity of about 200 to 300 feet of Vorugal, seemingly not catching anyone's attention as you slowly move, following the pattern of winds. It takes you a little longer to get through, but you figure it's best to look as natural as possible with the moving terrain and weather. Eventually, you turn around and begin making your way eastward, away, following where two more portions of the ravine clump together. Anywhere between 80 to 100 feet in width, it expands a bit, shrinks in a bit, but it seems to be pushing into a very slight grade upward, like this portion of the ravine is making its way, over probably the next mile or so, to breach and hit surface.
Liam: So from Vorugal?
Matt: From Vorugal, heading eastward, it is slowly heading up. You get about a quarter-mile in before you begin to see the very thick ice being broken by occasional snow-covered dead trees that are breaking through. As you saw before, there are not a lot of trees in this central area of the ravine, but they're becoming a little more common as you progress forward, though many of them dead, thin and broken in places. Make another perception check, Laura.
Laura: Okay. 16.
Matt: Okay. It's fine. Pushing forward in your mist form, you do see that certain portions of the upper ravine have an element of erosion to them that have broken down, and there are some large stones that have dropped and are jutting out of the ice formation on the snowy platform floor. You glance around, and you can see that there are a loose circle of maybe five, six stones forming an oval shape in the center. And even looking about, you can see this area seems to have seen some scuffles. It looks like portions of the walls have been scraped and clawed apart. It looks like some heavy impacts have hit the side. If there was a place for there to be a setting ground for some sort of a conflict of previous hunts for Vorugal, this is probably what Tooma was referring to.
Laura: I look down towards it. Does it look like anything is around it?
Matt: Currently, no. It looks pretty--
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no! Tree's down!
Liam: It's an earthquake. The trees fell down! Keyleth! Your spells are too powerful!
Marisha: (laughs) I can save them! I can save them all!
Sam: Wow, Matt.
Ashley: It's so pretty!
Laura: It is so pretty.
Matt: This circle of stones here--
Ashley: Did you make the--
Sam: It's Arendelle!
Liam: He's been carving it this week.
Matt: So this circle of stones, the clusters of rock that have broken down and are sticking out, you don't know what the cultural significance of them are. They appear to have been there for a long time; these were not a recent series of landmarks that were presented here. These have been here for a while. But you do see a series of claw marks and damaged bits throughout the space in the area that is uncharacteristic of the rest of the ravine floor that you've been traversing.
Sam: Can Vorugal see this spot?
Liam: Curved away?
Matt: You make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'm great at those.
Liam: We just traveled about a half-mile?
Sam: Six!
Matt: About a quarter mile. You don't see Vorugal from here, so probably not.
Laura: I would be looking for Vorugal too, though.
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: From this perspective, it's a little ways in the way the ravine has crawled in this northeastern direction from where the lair center was. This area is not directly visible from Vorugal. You cannot see, for quite a bit, that area.
Liam: Wind fingers for Vorugal.
Laura: All right. Can I float down and get a closer look at the weird marks you were talking about?
Matt: Yeah. Make an investigation check.
Sam: While she's doing that, I'm going to fly through Pike a few times.
Laura: 13.
Matt: It tickles. But not in a good way. Glancing about, you can see there is some snowfall here and some ice that has sealed off this area. A lot of the snow that's hit here gets blown away by the wind that's coming through, so there hasn't been a lot of snow packed in this vicinity. A lot of these large claw marks are indicative of dragon claws, especially those of an ancient size. You do see bones scattered about-- many of them have been picked clean-- of varying sizes. There appears to be a half-eaten large insect-like carapace that's shoved off to the side. A number of creatures have fallen here and have been mostly eaten, devoured, or left to be picked apart by the other birds of prey that exist in this area.
Taliesin: We have cover from either side of the top. That's right. I'm going to fly over to the top of the far right of the ravine.
Laura: Behind those rocks right there?
Taliesin: Above them, all the way up here. And I'm going to take a look around and see if anybody, anything's around, anything living that looks suspicious.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: You'd think I'd be able to do this. 18.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you can see every now and then, a few birds fly overhead. Appear to be hawks, light gray in color. They're just looking around, circling and vanishing in the distance. You do see a few small furred critters; looks almost squirrel-like, but it's too far away to make out the details, and you're not very specifically detailed-- make a nature check, actually.
Liam: Check for critters.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: You have no idea. It's furred, it's small. It probably creeps you out a little.
Marisha: (giggles) My friends.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to survey. Would I think it's safer above the ravine or within?
Matt: I'd say within here, it's probably safer within the ravine, up at the top. This is not indicative of the true height; we'll say this is more of an example. The ravine height is probably closer to maybe 80 to 100 feet up.
Travis: Yeah. Got it.
Matt: I just didn't want to build Styrofoam that high.
Taliesin: Actually, that works out perfectly for me. Then I'll jump down to behind that rock and I will de-mist behind that rock.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll see him doing that and join him.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll watch as they do that.
Taliesin: I think a cave entrance right here to somewhere where you can hide after you do the summoning and dive in and get about 25 to 30 feet away.
Sam: Question, Percy. There's this annoying wind. (laughter)
Liam: Vax flies around them.
Taliesin: I'm not responsible for what you ate for breakfast.
Sam: Here's a question. Rather than scouting here, digging a hole, and going back to our mansion, should we just have a new mansion here?
Taliesin: Yes, that's actually-- well. Kima.
Sam: Kima.
Taliesin: That's all right. Somebody can mist back and bring her.
Sam: I could technically drop that mansion and she'd be on her ass. (laughs)
Taliesin: I think she's already so delighted with you. That might be a terrible idea.
Sam: Well, someone could go back and get her. We don't have to do this right now, but when we're done here, maybe we want to camp here so we have a place to hide inside a mansion.
Taliesin: That's a very good idea, actually.
Sam: And we don't even really need to make tunnels, do we?
Taliesin: We do. We want to have places to hide.
Sam: Yeah, that's true. We want to spread out.
Marisha: I'm going to mist down next to them.
Taliesin: We want to have a place to hide, and place to shoot from that has cover.
Marisha: Hey, guys. What are we talking about?
Taliesin: Digging a hole and moving the mansion here.
Marisha: (laughs) God, so windy tonight.
Sam: I know, it's so annoying.
Taliesin: It also means that if something goes horribly wrong, you can run downstairs and hide.
Marisha: All right, well, here's the problem. I need to figure out what all of this is made out of. I can't work with it if it's just ice. It has to be natural stone. So cover for me? I'm going to drop down and start meditating.
Sam: I'm going to scan the sky.
Marisha: I'm going to do a Commune With Nature spell. Do we have any other questions, before I do this, that we want to ask the land?
Travis: We're wind; you're good.
Matt: Everything seems fine.
Laura: We're still wind.
Marisha: In general, I guess.
Taliesin: How strong are the ravine walls, and can we dig into them, as well? Not just the ground, but the walls themselves. Small tunnels, just big enough for one person.
Sam: And there's these rocks here. We know there's some rocks. We knows that there's tons of ice.
Marisha: Do I need to figure out how far exactly Vorugal is from us?
Sam: We saw him on the way over. We know exactly where he is.
Marisha: I have three good questions.
Liam: Weather forecast is not a bad idea.
Marisha: No, it's not. The weather forecast.
Taliesin: Yeah, for tomorrow.
Sam: What sorts of things can you ask nature?
Marisha: Nature-y things. I can ask it about--
Liam: Where's the closest Erewhon?
Marisha: Yeah. Is there a Starbucks nearby?
Matt: Three questions. What you got?
Marisha: Oh, I was asking-- yeah. I can ask it about topography, I can ask about locations of people nearby. Things like that.
Laura: Ask about what the rock is, so you can find where to dig.
Taliesin: And where's the green dragon.
Marisha: Oh, that's a good idea. Where the fuck is Raishan? Okay.
Laura: She might be with us right now.
Marisha: She might be. Okay. Now I do this.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: First and foremost, what is the geological makeup of this land around me? This ravine. Cliffside.
Matt: What is the geological makeup?
Marisha: What is it made out of, yeah.
Matt: Stone.
Marisha: And all of this stuff on the edges?
Matt: All of this is stone with about a foot layer of ice on the outside of it. Portions of it that have been broken or struck, you can see some exposure to it. This ravine is not normally covered in snow and ice; Vorugal's presence has brought a persistent blizzard and icy atmosphere to it. So all the ice and snow you see here is technically not natural to the terrain, and most of this ravine has a very strong foundation of solid stone, natural rock, and other various geological layers beneath.
Marisha: So it is fairly sturdy and not apparently going to collapse at any moment?
Matt: Correct. It appears like what happened with you and Pike earlier was an anomaly that only happens when you roll two natural ones.
Marisha: Sure. Okay. Can I get a sense on what the weather is going to be like for the next 24 hours?
Matt: Reaching out to the vicinity and picking up what you can, it's hard to get specifics, but it looks to be at least a coming sleet storm. Not hail; nothing too heavy, but it looks like it's going to have some times of limited visibility, and very cold.
Marisha: Bummer. Okay. Good to know. And do I sense Raishan?
Matt: Within three miles? You get the essence of the surrounding terrain that there is another large dragon presence nearby, though you don't get a specific location.
Marisha: Bummer.
Taliesin: It was a good thought.
Sam: No, that's good to know.
Marisha: She's within three miles.
Laura: She's here, or it's Thordak.
Marisha: Well, no, he's said another, aside from Thordak.
Liam: Aside from Vorugal.
Matt: No, you asked for Raishan. Raishan was confirmed to be within the vicinity.
Marisha: Okay. That's it. Those are my three questions.
Matt: As that question fades, you do get a little better bit of location of Raishan's current presence. Raishan is currently on the very south end of the ravine, on the outskirts of the three-mile radius of near where you are right now. Close to where you guys first came to the ruins of Draconia, where you were first discovered by the Ravenites. That's all you know about her. Just that location.
Marisha: Close to the ruins of Draconia?
Matt: Where you guys first arrived when you first came here.
Liam: Not near us right now.
Marisha: And not where the library and the ruins of Draconia were.
Matt: Yeah. South of all that.
Taliesin: All right. I like the idea of someone going back to get Kima. I think one tunnel on this side, one tunnel on the other side, and one tunnel on the top of the ravine on either side, if you can do that.
Marisha: And do we want them to connect so we can get through? Little half loops, semi-circles?
Sam: Does this make noise? Will it vibrate the ground?
Marisha: I'm pushing out earth. Yeah.
Taliesin: Not a ton of noise.
Marisha: Vex and I mentioned that.
Taliesin: How loud will this be, do you think?
Marisha: How loud will this be?
Matt: As loud as moving large pieces of stone and earth would.
Travis: Loud.
Matt: Not stealthy work.
Sam: We saw a storm coming. Has it hit yet?
Matt: No, you've got a few more hours.
Sam: We can wait until the storm comes. It'll be super windy and loud.
Travis: Not nearly enough to move tunnels of earth and rock.
Sam: Can you do something to ice? Melt it? That's silent.
Marisha: Yeah, but it's only a foot of ice.
Sam: Yeah, but we could carve out ice tunnels.
Liam: No, the ice is only a foot thick, coating what is normally a temperate region.
Travis: We got the house. We got the mansion. That's it.
Liam: But it's one spot.
Sam: We can hide behind rocks.
Marisha: We could do a test.
Sam: Can you make new rocks that are hollow? I guess it'll still make noise.
Marisha: I could make walls of stone. I can make little-- But also keep in mind, anything that I do, he'll notice. And the whole point to this is to not make our presence known at all.
Laura: And ice dragons burrow. I remember that much.
Marisha: So we could pop in our tunnels and they could be like, "what's up?"
Sam: How important are these tunnels? Because if we want, while you're doing this I can go distract the dragon?
Marisha: On the other end of the ravine?
Sam: Sure, why not?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: No.
Travis: Why would you do that?
Sam: To distract the dragon so you can dig.
Liam: Because we can use your mansion, and when the time is right, we can all scatter in different directions quickly. Many of us can fly. I would rather have these cubby-holes, as well, but it's too risky, and it's too risky to let you go running your little ass off around and get that dragon to eat you in one bite. You're overruled.
Travis: How do we go get Kima?
Laura: Somebody that can turn invisible has to go get her.
Marisha: Well, you're still mist-form. That lasts for eight hours. You can mist back.
Laura: Yeah, but she can't turn into mist, so you can go get her and turn her into mist.
Sam: We have the stones. What about the stones? Stones. Someone can mist back with the stone, then mist back to us and give her the stone.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: That'll work.
Ashley: I'll do it!
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Wait! Does the stone make any sound or light?
Taliesin: No, just goes poof.
Travis: Really? Then sure.
Taliesin: Little bit of a poof.
Laura: It's a little bit of light, but we can hide behind something when she does it. She can poof from within the mansion before you make the mansion.
Travis: She can poof from within the mansion.
Taliesin: You can't poof within the mansion.
Matt: You can't poof within the mansion. It has to be on the same plane of existence.
Laura: But it's daylight, so it should be fine.
Marisha: The mansion's considered a pocket plane.
Sam: If Pike is going back as mist-- no offense, Pike-- can you find the mansion?
Laura: Why don't you go with her?
Sam: Okay. Gladly.
Ashley: Oh, okay. You'll know your mansion better.
Travis: Send the two bitties. And we're going to hide out. I'm still in my mist form.
Sam: Did you guys de-mist-ify?
Laura: Well, we've been talking, so I'm going to say yes.
Sam: Hey, clever elves, can you scout around, make sure we're not being watched?
Liam: There are no elves here. My mother was a human. Do you want to go right now?
Laura: I've been keeping an eye out, but yes, I will keep watch.
Sam: We're not being watched? You sure those hawks are hawks?
Laura: Is anything watching us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28? Looking about, there are a number of birds in the distance. There's some that have flown overhead since you've been here. Nothing that seems to be acting erratically or out of the ordinary. There's a couple that have come in a little close to watch, and then went off their own way, curious as to what's going down in the ravine.
Liam: Those are some birds.
Laura: I think we should all be mist, though, while we wait for them to get back. Just in case.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend some time in this form just studying to see if there's anything odd about this circle at all. Studying the stones.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Where is the circle? Oh. Thank you.
Matt: Right, so Pike and Scanlan, you guys go mist form, make your way over back towards where the mansion was placed. Takes you a while. Are you going through the ravine, or are you going over the ravine?
Ashley: Over.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you guys coast up to the side and over the top of the wall. There is some heavy dead forest area here, but you coast on the side of it, keeping an eye down. Both of you guys make a perception check.
Sam: Terrible. 11.
Liam: Ashley's got this.
Ashley: 21.
Sam: Ooh, my girl!
Matt: As you guys are pulling around and the weather has gotten a little better for the moment; the storm hasn't hit yet. Pike, you glance off and you can see some stirring down in the bottom of the ravine. You see two white wings (wingbeats) and you watch as Vorugal takes off like a bat out of hell up out of the ravine, past both of you, and you can feel the wind shake and the actual ravine quakes slightly at the presence as Vorugal shoots up into the air, spirals up, then wings go out and then coasts off westward, away from you guys.
Marisha: Oh, away from us?
Matt: Away from you guys in a western direction.
Ashley: Away from them, too?
Liam: Away from us.
Marisha: He's going west.
Liam: We're east.
Ashley: So you guys are fine.
Taliesin: Wait.
Ashley: I try to make wide eyes.
Marisha: (gasps) Does this mean we can dig?
Laura: Did we see him go in the air from where we are?
Matt: Make a perception check, actually, Vex.
Ashley: We should take his loot.
Travis: (laughs) Yeah. That ends well.
Laura: 20.
Matt: You do hear what sounds like heavy wings echoing through the ravine towards your direction. You see a faint movement in the sky, and then it vanishes and you hear the sound getting more and more distant. You gather Vorugal has at least left the lair. You're not sure how long.
Laura: I come out of mist form. Vorugal's not here right now. If you're going to dig, do it. I'll keep an eye on the sky.
Marisha: What do you guys think, should I do it? Over the earpiece.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: I think we should.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: I think two crow's nests for the shooters.
Laura: Do it quickly, if you're going to do something.
Taliesin: I draw out, really quickly in the snow--
Laura: I draw out an intricate map. Blueprints.
Matt: Meanwhile, Scanlan and Pike, you guys make your way back to the mansion? Coasting over, you find your way. You make your way into the mansion. The servants are rushing two platters out of the kitchen down to the stairs that lead to the subterranean portion of the mansion.
Sam: Okay. Kima, sorry to interrupt lunch--
Matt: You come downstairs and her armor is off, her maul's at the side. She is on the ground in the process of doing one-handed push-ups and scarfing chicken with the other hand. She's getting ready for a fight today.
Sam: Disgusting.
Ashley: That's amazing!
Matt: She stands up. "Damn right, it is. Stringy."
Ashley: We came back for you because he's going to build a mansion somewhere else.
Sam: We need to move.
Matt: "Okay." She takes one of the pieces of chicken and pockets it.
Sam: That will disappear when we leave here.
Matt: (groans) Pulls it out. Sucks it off the bone and throws it to the ground. It clatters off to the side. "All right, let me grab my stuff." And she goes and gets her armor and starts putting it on. "Do you want to help me?"
Ashley: To hold some stuff?
Matt: "Put the armor on! You know to put on plate. Come on." You help get her armor on.
Sam: Do you need me to help, as well?
Matt: "No!" You help her get all armored up. She gets the rest of her stuff. She came relatively light, other than the materials she needs for combat. She's ready to go in the next 15 minutes or so. "All right. So. Where's this going down?"
Sam: I produce one half of the stones that we brought, and I say-- oh wait, does she know how to do this? I guess you just think, right? You just think. You have to think. I know that's hard, but you're going to have to hold this rock and want it to be reunited with its pair. I'm sorry about that. And then you'll be bamfed back to where we're going, all right? Here, take this stone. All right, so we'll just step out of the mansion. I won't drop it yet, because there's no need.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And we're going to mist back, but after she's bamfed. All right. So think happy thoughts, click your heels together.
Matt: Steps out in the snow, crunching sound of her boots, closes her eyes for a second, opens one back at you, Scanlan. Focuses and concentrates. The minute progresses. She clutches it and touches the actual stone to the outside of her holy symbol. You see the small platinum outline of Bahamut's head. As it hits, it begins to glow. The blue glow is also surrounded by the bright white glow of Bahamut's light, and as her outer form begins to shimmer, it blinks out with a spiral of a glittery white light dust, and her form has vanished.
Ashley: She's the coolest.
Sam: She's okay.
Ashley: She was doing one-handed push-ups and eating chicken in the other.
Sam: Can you do a one-handed push-up?
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Can I see?
Ashley: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: And with those gauntlets, she does easily, fully armored and all. She's leaving this little Pike shape in the snow right there.
Sam: Can I try a one-handed push-up?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Seven. (laughter)
Matt: (grunts) Two-handed push-up.
Travis: On his knees.
Sam: I'm carrying a lot of stuff. Without my gear, I could probably do it.
Ashley: I understand. You're also carrying a mansion or something.
Sam: Yeah. Magic weighs on you.
Ashley: Magic weighs a lot.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right. You guys mist back, begin cresting over to return.
Sam: Scanning the skies for any sight of a flapping white dragon.
Matt: Okay. While that's happening, what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: I'm making ice plates.
Laura: I'm keeping an eye out for Vorugal or anything suspicious.
Marisha: I guess I'm making tunnels.
Matt: Using Move Earth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Let me see here. Move Earth is you can reshape any dirt, sand, or clay in the area. Not stone.
Taliesin: Not stone?
Matt: Cannot manipulate natural stone or stone constructions.
Travis: Or a budget rental center. (laughing)
Laura: So you can make walls.
Taliesin: Can you manipulate ice?
Sam: She can manipulate ice.
Taliesin: Can you manipulate ice?
Marisha: I can melt ice.
Taliesin: But you can't create ice.
Laura: Even if she did, it has to be something not noticeable.
Taliesin: I think that we could--
Marisha: I can make some more plant life.
Matt: Do you have Stone Shape prepared?
Taliesin: Stone Shape?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Yeah, Stone Shape would've been the spell to use in this circumstance.
Marisha: Cool.
Taliesin: If we pull some of the ice, I can try and make sheets of ice--
Marisha: But how long does Stone Shape last? I thought it was just for a little bit.
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. It just affects something.
Marisha: I know, but how much? It's only like a five foot cube, right? So I can't make a tunnel.
Matt: Not a heavy tunnel, no.
Marisha: Right, so no.
Taliesin: We can alter the topography just a bit by taking out some of the ice and then opening it up to make hiding places.
Marisha: I can make a little trench, like a trench wall-line for you guys at the top of the ravine, for the shooters.
Liam: Yeah, half-bubbles almost.
Marisha: Yes, exactly.
Travis: 80 to 100 feet up, right.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Laura: Yeah, I can shoot from that height.
Marisha: Right along the ledge.
Laura: Actually, after you do it, I can try to disguise it, so it's not seeable from the air.
Matt: Okay, so what are you doing? You're making a small ledge?
Marisha: So yeah, I'm going to do Wall of Stone. Fuck.
Taliesin: We don't need a ton of space, because we're never going to move more than six.
Marisha: Yeah, I basically want a little almost half wall for cover here and here, just extending the stonework.
Matt: Just out this way?
Marisha: Upwards. So that they can--
Matt: Oh, okay, I see.
Taliesin: Give us cover.
Marisha: Do the Gears of War.
Travis: Can I raise a point, Taliesin? Do you have anything to keep you from falling if he attacks you on that ravine?
Taliesin: It would be hard to fall if he attacks us. The best thing, actually, if he attacks us up there would be to jump.
Matt: So you're using it twice? Then over here, you said?
Marisha: You know what, let me flank it. Let me do one on that side and one over here. Yeah? You think?
Sam: Why a hundred feet up?
Travis: That's how tall the ravine is.
Sam: Can we just do 20 feet up?
Taliesin: You have a broom. I have a rope.
Marisha: Is this excessive?
Sam: Yeah! Why a hundred feet? Why not 20 feet? Why not 30 feet?
Laura: We can't do it in the middle of the stone. We have to do it at the top.
Sam: Why?
Matt: You could, technically.
Marisha: I guess I could, actually, because I can do a flat one. Okay. All right. You know what, I could make little pod bubbles for you guys on the half edge of the cliffs.
Taliesin: Make some pod bubbles.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Travis: Aren't those going to be obvious?
Taliesin: I'm going to start pouring water on this stuff, and it's going to be ice again so quickly.
Marisha: Yeah, if we try and camouflage it. Spend the rest of the day camouflaging it.
Taliesin: I've already started working on camouflage--
Marisha: The DM keeps looking at us like we're crazy.
Matt: I'm trying to figure this out, guys.
Marisha: All right. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to make (stammers) little balconies.
Liam: Spit some lyrics, girl.
Marisha: (giggles) So smooth. Yeah, little balcony ledges that they can go on.
Matt: Okay. We'll say...
Laura: He's like, "I spent a really long time carving this shit, you guys, and you're going to be altering it."
Matt: It's all good.
Liam: Is there any point to having you sharpshoot from behind that wall down below?
Matt: So right there is what you're saying? A little shelf.
Marisha: Yeah, little ledge. Yeah, a balcony. I want to make a cliff balcony.
Matt: How far up?
Taliesin: I would take it to the far edge. Even further.
Liam: If we're fighting, I'm not bound by shit, man. I can be anywhere.
Matt: Where do you want this to go, Marisha? Right there?
Marisha: One there, and one-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, so those are the two.
Marisha: And about what, 40 feet up? 50 feet up?
Taliesin: I'd say about 50 feet up.
Marisha: How about halfway up the mountain? I want to make it look rough, I want to try and camouflage it, and then I'm also going to help Percy and the rest of this excavation to use my Gust and little Create Water spells over top of it to start covering them with ice.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm creating a breakable ice shield for when it's time, but I'm just giving the nice cover.
Marisha: Yeah, cover it with ice to make it look like the rest.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and just roll a wisdom check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: He normally only asks me that when we're making a terrible plan.
Taliesin: I know. Ooh! Check out the big brain!
Marisha: Check out the big brains on Brad! 23.
Matt: Okay. As an Air Ashari, you have a very firm understanding of airflow, temperature of air, and how best it can quickly freeze water. Over time, utilizing the spells at your disposal, over the next 30 minutes or so, you do manage to coat the visible recently created stone with a layer of ice that in some regard would help, hopefully, camouflage it.
Marisha: Oh, he let us do it!
Taliesin: I'm just going to spend all my time also trying to keep hiding it, keep reinforcing it. Once the mansion's available, I'm going to take water and slowly add layers.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan and Pike, you guys do manage to return, as you watch the party preparing these small little ledges outside of the ravine interior.
Sam: Hey, guys. Did you see the dragon leave?
Laura: I saw him fly away, yeah.
Sam: Should we be concerned at all?
Laura: That what? He's going to get help?
Liam: Well, maybe.
Sam: That he's going to meet up with Raishan? And fuck us?
Marisha: He was heading west, right?
Taliesin: Which is not the direction where Raishan is.
Marisha: Raishan was south. She was far south.
Travis: Can you do your detect dragons thing?
Laura: I guess. Yeah, I can.
Matt: Kima, at this point, by the way, has been off to the side, keeping watch, goes, "You guys expecting anyone?"
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: You see Kima drops the maul to the ground and points down. And you see, stepping up from the ravine from this side, this way, you see a small, stout-looking dwarf character walking up (footfalls). Bulbous red nose. You can see a thick winter coat over, cloth tied over the top of the head, a crossbow to one side. Walks up and goes, "Hey. Larkin, the one you hired. The mercenary to help you with this exchange."
Sam: We hired somebody?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: When was this?
Laura: Back in Whitestone. We hired somebody to come help us fight.
Sam: We did? Why on earth would we do that? We're super strong.
Marisha: I kick Scanlan a little bit.
Sam: Oh shit. Sorry.
Matt: "So. Glad we've all gotten together. I see you've begun your plans, so tell me. What is your plan?"
Marisha: Larkin, was it?
Matt: "Larkin, aye."
Laura: Larkin, do you have any spells you can use?
Matt: "I've got a few tricks up my sleeve, aye. Let's see how it pans out."
Ashley: I'm going to talk to him in Dwarvish, and I'm going to ask where he's from.
Matt: Okay, you ask him where he's from? "I don't feel comfortable speaking our language in front of people who don't understand it. It's impolite."
Marisha: She's good.
Laura: It is quite impolite.
Matt: Watch as Larkin's expression gets very dire for a second like, "what are you doing?"
Laura: I whisper to Pike.
Travis: Larkin, are you ready to help us kill a dragon?
Matt: "That's what you hired me for, isn't it?"
Travis: Aye. Don't you think dragons are just the biggest dick-fucks ever?
Matt: "To be honest, yes."
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Oh! Oh, Larkin!
Laura: Just fucking got it?
Sam: Oh, yes! I totally remember you, Larkin!
Marisha: I kick Scanlan again, for sheer joy this time.
Taliesin: We're setting up camp. The attack begins tomorrow morning. There's going to be a beast. There will be a fight.
Liam: Yeah. We kind of have a plan, but fucking dragons.
Taliesin: We'll see how it goes. We're going to try and tire him out.
Matt: "All right. I'll keep an eye."
Taliesin: Once he's tired out--
Matt: "So I'll go on your signal, then?"
Sam: Will you be joining us here at the battle or providing support from afar?
Matt: "I'll be providing support from a comfortable space."
Sam: What kind of support? Long-distance attacks or healing?
Liam: What's your style?
Matt: "Oh. Let's just say, in the beginning I'll go ahead and bring some pain from a distance and only close that distance when things get real nasty and hot."
Sam: And Larkin, the reason we hired you, now that I remember, was for your extreme knowledge of dragons and their behaviors. Tell me this: should we be concerned when this one leaves his lair about hobbling its lair or somehow preventing it from returning?
Matt: "Do you know when it's returning?"
Travis: No.
Sam: Well, we know that it'll be coming here for a fight.
Matt: "If you don't know when it's returning, don't step into its lair."
Sam: Is there a way to prevent it from getting back to its lair?
Matt: "Killing it."
Travis: Real simple answer, I think.
Taliesin: It's not like a vampire.
Matt: Kima leans into you Scanlan, "Who's this?"
Sam: Mercenary.
Marisha: Larkin.
Laura: We hired him.
Travis: Yeah, he's a real dead-eye.
Taliesin: There's also going to be a field of--
Sam: Ravenites.
Laura: Potentially.
Liam: Yeah. Told you it was complicated, yeah?
Matt: Kima crosses her arms for a second. "You also told me you had another ally coming."
Sam: We did?
Taliesin: We did?
Taliesin: I wasn't there.
Sam: Who?
Travis: We have a hard time keeping track of everyone that we hire and fire.
Taliesin: That's why it's going to be a great plan.
Sam: You know why? We have Pike! That's our other ally. She's here now.
Ashley: Here I am.
Matt: "I'm so confused right now."
Travis: Yeah, it's all right. Listen, all you've got to do is smash dragon with us tomorrow, yeah?
Matt: "Which dragon?"
Travis: The white one.
Laura: The white one that's here. That will be here.
Liam: The only one that's here.
Taliesin: Let's make the mansion right now. Please make the mansion.
Sam: I'll make the mansion behind a rock outcropping. Kima, I need your help to make sure I'm not spotted while I do this ritual.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: So this is great. Tomorrow, you pop in, you summon, we all pop back into the mansion. We're hiding in the mansion while the fight's going on.
Sam: Well, someone has to be on the outside watching to find out what's happening.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: Should we have someone near where the dragon is, so we can get eyes?
Sam: Someone who can be invisible, someone who can be a hawk or Ravenite?
Liam: Scanlan, what are you going to do? You going to pop this thing out and then hop in the mansion?
Sam: Tomorrow, we're talking about? Yes, absolutely!
Laura: So Keyleth could be a hawk over by Vorugal--
Marisha: Watching?
Laura: Is there any way to let us know, though?
Taliesin: Not if we're in the mansion.
Marisha: Yeah, because the earrings don't work through the mansion, right?
Matt: From the inside to out, no. They have to be in the same plane.
Sam: Well, someone would have to be next to the doorway, pop their head in and say, oi, it's on. But we also have these bubbles of watching around, don't we?
Taliesin: Which would be you and I before the fight.
Sam: Or I can just drop the mansion.
Marisha: Well, the mansion could be good if things go terribly wrong.
Liam: That's true. If the mansion door is open and hidden behind that outcropping of rock there, you leave the door open but behind it, Keyleth could take to the sky, I could find somewhere low and be hidden. I can dart inside. I can be inside in a second.
Sam: And at the very least, Kima can be waiting inside the mansion, as can our lesser stealthy friend Pike. At least keep them in there.
Laura: Yeah. Sounds great.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: It's a plan.
Sam: It's something.
Taliesin: It's a plan! Anything more complicated would immediately fall apart when anything shifts, which will inevitably happen.
Laura: Actually, can I do Primeval Awareness and search for dragons to see if Vorugal's even in the area at all?
Matt: Sure. As you concentrate, you get a very strong nearby presence.
Marisha: She came in the mansion with us?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: There is no mansion yet. I haven't done it yet.
Marisha: Oh, you haven't done it yet. Never mind.
Matt: And you sense a closing dragon presence. At which point, you hear in the distance (wingbeats).
Taliesin: Mansion.
Laura: Mansion. Right now.
Sam: All right, I will cast the mansion behind a rock.
Laura: And run into it.
Taliesin: We will see you in the morning.
Matt: To?
Travis: Larkin.
Matt: To Larkin? All right. He goes, "Right."
Taliesin: Thank you. Truly.
Laura: Seriously, get in the mansion! Right now.
Matt: You glance off the side, and you can see Larkin looking off into the distance, and the white dragon Vorugal is curling in the air, currently wrestling with something, and then shoots down back into the ravine to the lair.
Marisha: Can I get like a glimpse of it before I run in on what it is? 27.
Matt: 27?
Sam: It's Yenk. (laughter)
Marisha: Damn it!
Matt: What brief view you have, it appears to be, by its size comparison, small-looking, but glancing at it, it looks to be some sort of a dire bear or dire wolf. Some sort of large furred entity that is currently being torn apart mid-air.
Marisha: So it went hunting.
Matt: Apparently. May have been hungry.
Liam: Snack.
Matt: You guys make your way into the mansion for a bit of a respite. Kima carries out the end of it, steps inside. "I don't trust that dwarf."
Taliesin: Excellent. That's why you're here. That's why he's not in here.
Laura: He can't know that you know.
Matt: "Good to know."
Sam: Kima, if it would help, I can erase your memory of this whole thing--
Matt: "You finish that sentence, and I will destroy you where you stand, Scanlan Shorthalt."
Sam: I'll let it alone for now.
Marisha: Good idea.
Matt: "Come near me--"
Taliesin: We wake up early. Before the sun rises, those of us who have to hide, hide. Once we see them bringing him to the summoning circle, we call the beast and we wait. We are going to be in the most danger, because we're going to be right in the thick of it.
Laura: What if he sees you, Percy? I'm better at hiding myself.
Taliesin: We're both going to be hiding in an ice-covered cubby-hole.
Laura: A lot of white.
Taliesin: It's not possible to get to those cubby-holes without a difficult climb, is it?
Laura: I could always bring you up on the broom.
Matt: If you get dropped off by broom, it's easy. Where is the mansion door, again?
Sam: Behind the bigger rock where Percy's stationed right now.
Liam: Yeah, we should wake up before sunlight.
Matt: Guess we'll say, as you guys all vanish from there, the entrance is right there, to the mansion.
Marisha: Who's going to keep an eye on Larkin?
Taliesin: I think it's hilarious that we can think we can.
Sam: Larkin can take care of--
Liam: Also, we've no fucking idea where Raishan is or what she's going to do, if anything.
Taliesin: We know that the one place she isn't is in here.
Laura: Larkin is Raishan. Really?
Travis: Holy shit. I even got that. (laughter)
Laura: You're the last one to realize that?
Travis: You're the last person in this room and on the internet.
Laura: No!
Liam: It's me. I'm the last one. I had no idea.
Sam: Hey, it took me five minutes.
Taliesin: Wow! Oh my god, we're going to die.
Marisha: I knew the second she walked up!
Sam: Ashley figured it out before us.
Ashley: No, she told me.
Matt: As you guys rest to prepare for your next day's excursion, we're going to take a restroom break here.
Liam: It's half of us, Laura! Jeez!
Matt: We'll see you guys back here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So! After that brief break, you guys have taken your time in the evening to rest up and get your spells back. Prepared for the coming confrontation, your now one-day delayed confrontation with Vorugal. As your evening comes to a close, the next morning is now before you--
Marisha: Hang on, we weren't done. We weren't done. We have to do things.
Laura: Yeah. One last thing.
Marisha: We have to eat. We have to do the Heroes' Feast, for sure.
Sam: Who's going to do it?
Ashley: I am.
Matt: All right. Pike drops down a Heroes' Feast. 1,000 gold out of your queue.
Laura: That's okay!
Marisha: Worth it, man.
Taliesin: Worth it, man.
Matt: All of you enjoy your first non-chicken related meal within Scanlan's mansion.
Laura: Feels good.
Matt: First in a while, at least. So as part of the Heroes' Feast, guys, if you recall the details of that circumstance.
Sam: Immune to fear.
Matt: Immune to fear, definitely.
Marisha: Saves on wisdom throws.
Matt: Wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Marisha: Also plus 2d10.
Matt: 2d10 to your maximum hit points.
Marisha: And I think that's it.
Matt: And you're immune to diseases. Immune to poison.
Laura: (gasps) You're immune to poison on this?!
Marisha: That's right. Fuck you Raishan.
Sam: Advantage on wisdom saves. Immune to poison.
Matt: All right, so marking hit points. Let me know what your maximum hit point totals increases are, currently.
Sam: Increased 14 points.
Matt: 14 points to Scanlan's maximum hit points.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 to Percy.
Marisha: An additional 11 to Keyleth.
Matt: 11 to Keyleth.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15 to Vax.
Laura: I got two tens! I got an additional 20!
Marisha: You got two tens?!
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: I got nine, so that brings me to 97.
Matt: Awesome.
Travis: I got 11.
Matt: 11 to Grog, and then to Kima  eight. Write that down right there.
Marisha: And are we sure we don't want eyes on her? I'm not concerned about her well-being, clearly. I'm concerned on whatever her name she's saying she is right now.
Taliesin: My theory on that subject is that she's clever enough that eyes on her would not be helpful in the first place. It's best to assume that even if we could see her that she would be tricking us over what she's doing.
Sam: Okay and if she starts killing us, what do we do? Hide in the mansion? Regroup?
Taliesin: Hide in the mansion and worst-case scenario, scream that she betrayed us and that she promised that she would help kill the white dragon and see if they'll fight it out.
Liam: Worst-case scenario, we'll pull back towards the mansion if she starts whaling on us.
Taliesin: Yes. And definitely inspire some conflict.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Let's go fight.
Laura: Now we sleep.
Sam: Oh, sleep.
Matt: Your evening meal complete, you all find yourself back to full rest, preparing yourselves for tomorrow's grand showdown.
Taliesin: I'm at negative one.
Matt: You're now negative one to all of your rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
Taliesin: Not to damage, though.
Matt: No. Just your d20 rolls.
Liam: You can get all 19s.
Laura: As I am going to sleep, I want to inscribe "sinaeth" on Fenthras.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What?
Matt: You don't know. Evening's rest complete, spells chosen for those who need to choose spells. Prepare yourselves for this confrontation. The morning comes. That early tension of imminent chaos fills the air. Conversation is short. What preparations do you wish to make this morning?
Taliesin: Vex is going to put me in that pocket.
Laura: Yes. I can't cast Pass Without a Trace on him from that far away.
Taliesin: We have Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: Yes, but that's only tracks. While we're over there, before I go over to my side, I'm going to try to cover his area with Natural Explorer and try to hide him.
Taliesin: We're going to fly over there, as well. And then also we're attaching a rope, just in case.
Matt: Attaching a rope to?
Taliesin: To the wall, so I have something to climb down with if I need to. It's not going to be hanging out; it's all in.
Matt: Okay, the stone is like a smooth wall that comes out and then upward for the protective point.
Laura: I have climbing gear. You can use it as a grappling hook, maybe. Does that work at all?
Matt: You can fashion something. Make an intelligence check.
Laura: Ten.
Taliesin: Six.
Matt: It seems like it'll hold? You have a metal piece wedged into a part of the stone that seems pretty taut with the rope attached.
Marisha: Can I ask a logistical question? How wide and alive are those trees?
Matt: They are maybe a foot wide each, and currently, it looks like a lot of them are dying or dead from the perpetual snowfall and coverage that they are unused to.
Marisha: So Tree Stride probably wouldn't work on these guys. I'm wondering if I should waste my time.
Matt: Tree Stride. Same size as you. Some of them, maybe.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Am I making us all Ravenites, or does that not even matter anymore?
Laura: I don't think that matters.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Have we left? Are me and Percy outside already?
Matt: You guys have gone outside if you're going to place him up in his perch there and help cover the area.
Liam: You have to do it, right? Because you're the one releasing this thing.
Sam: I guess if I'm going to be out in the open, I probably should.
Liam: And if you're doing it, does it take any more mojo to do it to all of us or just yourself? It can't hurt to do it to all of us.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Make us all white Ravenites.
Sam: You mean wearing white clothes?
Laura: Sorry, I meant so we blend into the ice, not so that we're white. That sounded so terrible. I meant so that we're the same color as the ice and we're camouflaged! Like chameleons.
Taliesin: Are there actually enough albino Ravenites that we would stick out, or is that a common color?
Matt: You haven't really encountered any.
Taliesin: Oh, then I would recommend not. I would recommend white clothing.
Matt: You've seen varying shades of chromatic and metallic.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Snow camouflage.
Taliesin: Snowy.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing?
Sam: I guess I'll make us all white Ravenites. Normal Ravenites with lighter-colored clothing that can maybe blend in. But also we can't dance very well and we clap on the two and the four. So yes, I'll make us all Ravenites.
Matt: Okay. So does that include Kima?
Sam: I can do eight people, so that's everyone, including Kima.
Matt: All right, so you are all currently for the purposes of this visually Ravenites of varying sizes and bulkiness. Okay, is everyone currently out and about right now? Outside of the house?
Sam: I'm going out.
Laura: Who all is leaving?
Sam: Oh wait, before I leave, doesn't someone have to buff me up for this spell?
Marisha: I do. Yep, I do. I'm going to cast Enhance Ability on your charisma.
Laura: How long does that last?
Marisha: An hour. So if we're ready to go?
Sam: Yeah, what time is it? Is it dawn?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. Make a survival check.
Laura: 18.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: You have no idea, Scanlan. It's about noon, from where you gather where the sun would be around that time based on what bits of shadows you can see. However, the sleet storm is starting to kick in, and you can see now the sheets of really cold rain with a slush to them are beginning to pound across the bottom of the ravine. The wind is picking up a bit, and the temperature is dropping significantly.
Laura: Bundle!
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: Okay. How will we know when it's time for me to release? We have to wait for Tooma to go report.
Laura: Is Vorugal back? He's back.
Sam: I assume.
Laura: Do we see Larkin around?
Matt: No, you do not see Larkin around.
Sam: Vax, do you want to go look?
Liam: For Larkin?
Sam: No, fuck Larkin. To see when Tooma's coming. I don't want to release this thing before Tooma is there reporting to Vorugal.
Laura: Well, maybe if we cause enough of a ruckus as soon as we release him.
Liam: I mean if we trust Tooma to hold up her part of the bargain, that dragon is coming here.
Laura: We need to make a lot of noise and then release it. Attract attention, release it, hide.
Sam: But when?
Laura: Whenever we want to.
Sam: No, when is Vorugal coming? We can't sit out here all day waiting.
Laura: Vorugal will come when we make a noise. He'll come over here.
Sam: The Ravenites have to tell him to come here first.
Laura: No, she told him that it's coming, I don't think she's telling him a specific time.
Sam: No, she's telling him now. Today. We told her to wait.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Vax and Keyleth, you guys notice down off the southern edge of the ravine, you see three humanoid figures walking up to your direction, coasting along the side of the mountain range.
Marisha: Do they appear to be Ravenites?
Matt: After a short time inspecting them, they appear to be Ravenite in structure, yeah. They are dragonborn, they are heavily robed, and they are coasting up along the side.
Marisha: Vex, you want to talk to them? They might have told him. Might have been the ones that just told him.
Laura: I walk over.
Matt: As you acknowledge them and begin to approach, one of them breaks from the two and they stay back. As it approaches you can see the tall burly dragonborn form, this is Skork. You met when you first came to the ruins of Draconia. He approaches. "Tooma sends me. When are we to tell the dragon the hunt is on?"
Marisha: We're ready whenever you are.
Laura: Give us 30 minutes. And then do it.
Matt: "30 minutes. It will be done." He returns to the other two, and they begin to make their way rather briskly back towards the direction of Vorugal's lair.
Taliesin: When you see the dragon pop up into the sky and head this direction, start summoning.
Laura: Percy? Up?
Taliesin: Yes, please.
Laura: All right. I take Percy up top.
Matt: You bring Percy up onto the top. The rain is starting to come down hard now and you're instinctively getting chills and shivering a little bit. You get up into your little parapet area, place him there.
Laura: I try to move some snow around and try to block it.
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a stealth check. Just in general.
Sam: Who, me?
Matt: No, just Percy.
Taliesin: That's 16.
Matt: 16. Good to know. Okay. So you place him up there. What else are you guys doing? You have 30 minutes, 25 now.
Liam: I'm going to hide behind the stone that's in the bottom end of the screen I'm looking at. Nope, opposite side. Nope, opposite wall. Sorry. Behind it.
Sam: Oops, Percy died.
Laura: Don't say that again!
Liam: And I think I already said it, but the Deathwalker's Ward is set to cold.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Does anyone want to be invisible for an hour?
Travis: Are we not going to be in the house?
Sam: Some of us will be. Do you want to wait in the house, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, I'll be in the house.
Sam: And Pike, too?
Ashley: Yeah, I'm going to stay in the house for a little bit.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to cast it and probably go into the house.
Matt: So Pike is staying up in the house?
Taliesin: I would not object to invisibility.
Laura: Yeah, can you make us invisible?
Sam: I can make a couple of you invisible. Keyleth, do you want to make anybody invisible?
Marisha: I can't do that. You keep forgetting that's you who can do that.
Sam: You can't do that?
Marisha: No.
Sam: You know what? I can't do it, anyway. I think Gate is a concentration spell. Even if I'm reading it off a scroll?
Marisha: No, it takes an action to cast.
Sam: It is a concentration spell.
Matt: It is, and as part of the casting of it, it would drop concentration.
Sam: Okay. Then I can't make anyone invisible.
Laura: Can I fly up and see if I can see Percy before I head over to my side?
Matt: You glide up into the air. Make a stealth check.
Laura: I don't want to go too high! 17.
Matt: Okay. You coast up. Make a perception check.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Against the white snow and the ice, the parapet structure itself is slightly off-color to the rest of the ice, and you do see the gleaming of Percy's cloak through the cover you've placed.
Laura: Shit. I dive back down and try to cover him a little bit more before I head over to my side.
Matt: Okay, that'll be the rest of this 30-minute preparation for you to do that. All right, who else is doing what now?
Marisha: I think I just peed a little.
Matt: Keyleth is peeing a little.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on myself as soon as I get to the other side so I can stay stealthed on my side.
Matt: Where are you staying, then?
Laura: On the other ledge. Yeah. I'm trying to hide myself.
Matt: Okay, roll a stealth check. And Trinket is staying in your necklace?
Laura: Yes! 32.
Matt: 32, good to know. All right. Pike, what are you doing? You're staying inside the mansion right now?
Ashley: I'm staying inside the mansion for right now.
Matt: Okay. Any other spells or casting preparation? Consider what spells you have that are not concentration that help defend. This is the time to do it.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and wait until the 15-minute mark-- no, I'm going to wait until the ten-minute mark and then Enhance Ability on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, got you.
Travis: If you pour poison on a blade, do you get poison damage if you hit them with it?
Matt: If there is a blade you can apply poison to, then yes, you would probably do a little bit of poison damage.
Laura: You know what, I want to pop Trinket out. I want him to be in the mansion with Pike and Grog. Go!
Matt: Grog, you're in the mansion, as well? All righty. Kima is like (anticipation noise).
Laura: Hide, Kima! Oh, she doesn't have an earring.
Matt: Nope. She joins you guys in the mansion for now. And Vax, you're hiding over behind that rock? Roll stealth, if you could.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay. You grasp onto the rock, and much like the elven cloaks in Lord of the Rings, you blend in with the stonework.
Liam: I'm going to go meditate on disguised dwarves. Goodbye.
Matt: Grog, any preparation you're doing for this? All righty. As time begins to tick down, 15 minutes left, ten minutes left--
Marisha: I cast Enhance Ability on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, you're enhancing his?
Marisha: Charisma.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: And then I am going to move. We don't have anyone over here yet, really, correct?
Matt: No. You have Percy up here but no one down there.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to-- fuck.
Matt: Going to?
Marisha: Hide behind the tree and stealth as much as I can.
Matt: Okay, roll a stealth check.
Laura: Keyleth, shouldn't you hide in the mansion?
Sam: Can you become an animal?
Laura: Shouldn't you hide right now? Just be out of the way until Vorugal--
Marisha: I can be an animal if you feel like you want eyes out here, as well, but I won't be able to go elemental.
Taliesin: Then no.
Sam: Ever?
Marisha: Until I rest.
Laura: We've got eyes on. We're above. Just go hide.
Marisha: All right, I go in the mansion.
Matt: Okay, Keyleth makes her way back into the mansion. All right. Five minutes. Four minutes. Three minutes. Two minutes.
Sam: I will inspire myself.
Matt: Okay, that's part of your ability.
Sam: Yes, I will say to myself  all right, Scanlan. I know that your palms are sweaty. Your knees are weak, arms heavy. There's cologne on your tunic, Grog's spaghetti. But just remember. You're good enough. You're smart enough, and doggone it, people like you.
Travis: Did you merge 8 Mile with--
Liam: With Stuart Smalley.
Matt: All right, so. As you step forward, where do you want to open the Gate scroll?
Sam: I'm still going to hang out by the rocks, and I can go at least 60 feet in front of me, but I'll do 50 feet.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: In the center, basically.
Matt: About there?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Remember to be super direct with his name.
Sam: And his name is Yenk?
Marisha: Here, let me give you the script.
Matt: As you pull the scroll out, fumbling in your fingers slightly, you're slightly sweaty and nervous.
Sam: I'm not going to read it until I hear wings flapping.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It takes six seconds to do, right?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh boy. That's an eight.
Marisha: You have advantage on charisma checks.
Matt: This is not charisma. This is his perception.
Laura: Do we see him in the sky at all?
Matt: You make a perception check. Don't hear any wings. You're listening; the wind's (whistles), the sound of the rain hitting the ground.
Laura: 19.
Matt: You begin to hear the flapping of wings in the distance and you glance over.
Laura: Scanlan! What are you doing? Cast it!
Sam: Okay, I'm casting.
Matt: Okay, as you pull the scroll out and begin reading it, the sigils and arcane glyphs are ancient and convoluted, and you're trying to trace them with your eyes and you begin speaking, letting the ancient knowledge that you've gained through your existence of wandering Exandria begin to pour out on its own. You feel the magic take hold and your grip tightens as the script begins to light up with a slight bluish-purple tint. As it begins to light up around, I need you to check to see if you succeed in reading to scroll.
Sam: Okay. So I roll with advantage?
Matt: You roll with advantage. Highest of two.
Sam: (gasps) Not great. Okay. And what am I adding?
Matt: Your d12 to it. So roll a d12. And plus two.
Sam: Plus two?
Matt: Plus two because Jack of All Trades.
Sam: Plus my charisma?
Matt: Plus your charisma bonus, which is six.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Okay, the DC was 19. (yelling)
Marisha: Every little bit helps.
Taliesin: Oh, we made the gumbo.
Matt: As some of the glyphs begin to shake and part of the scroll begins to burn at the edges, you maintain concentration, staring at it. The rain's hammering down on the scroll; it's growing slick and pouring off into the center of your sleeve. You're soaked to the bone now and shivering as you're reading out these various language bits that are flowing through. You're now an instrument for the spell that is beyond your capability, and as suddenly the spell finishes, your fingers tighten and the scroll bursts into flame and turns to dust around you. And for a split second, you think you may have failed. (spell noises) This giant bluish doorway erupts across the way.
Sam: Facing away from me.
Matt: Facing away from you. You see, all of you, that the somewhat dark and shadowed ravine is now suddenly aglow with bright vibrant bluish light. The blue light turns to crimson, to a deep burning red, and you hear this horrible, deep sucking sound. And you watch as Yenk the goristro is thrown from it, landing in the center of the ravine, fist to the ground--
Laura: We're going to die!
Ashley: We're going to die!
Matt: Are you leaving the gate open?
Sam: No, I close it instantly.
Matt: Okay, the gate slams shut behind, the reddish light then now being consumed with a final blip of blue before it disappears.
Sam: I'm going to tiptoe backwards into the mansion.
Matt: Well, the goristro swoops the head over in your direction. I need you to make a stealth check.
Sam: That's a seven.
Liam: Oh, Sam! (groans)
Travis: (whispers) Roll a little better.
Matt: You watch as the hulking behemoth, its extremely muscular body covered in fur and bony protrusions like spikes that jut out of its form, horrible hooked teeth and giant curled horns that push forward with brass jewelry emblazoned across the bone. Whips around, its red eyes beaming straight on you. In a deep, guttural voice, it (foreign words) and begins to just lumber in your direction.
Marisha: Oh god!
Matt: For right now, I need you, just for right now, Scanlan, roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: 21! (cheering)
Matt: All right, you're going before it does. What are you doing?
Liam: Bamf to the door and go in!
Travis: Focus your chi.
Sam: I sing at it.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: No, he's got a movement and an action.
Sam: I sing at it. I will sing  (singing) Yenk, you will be our friend, travel through the portal and back again. Your heart is true, you're a fiend and a confidant. Boom boom boom. (speaking) All right, so I will Dominate Monster, with the hand cone.
Matt: Right. All right. Puts you at a full DC of what?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. That is a 13. Those who are watching, Yenk comes barreling, and then comes to a stop and stands there, looking down at this tiny gnome about 40 feet away and nods.
Sam: I say, you will stay here, and you will kill a white dragon.
Matt: You see steam shoot out from the nose as now you notice the sound of the wings. (whooshing)
Sam: And I will tiptoe back into the mansion.
Marisha: That was the coolest thing you've ever done!
Matt: At which point--
Taliesin: No! (yelling)
Sam: It's huge!
Laura: Oh no, he's so big!
Travis: Holy shit.
Liam: Make all the action figure sounds, Matt!
Ashley: That's a biggie.
Matt: At this point in time, Vorugal lands. (snorting) And unleashes a torrent of frozen ice in this direction.
Marisha: I've been waiting for this all week!
Laura: I hope we can take it and it actually does damage.
Matt: That is going to be--
Marisha: Just dies instantly. Oh fuck. Apparently white dragons are its weakness.
Laura: I know!
Sam: We're in a lobby, eating chicken.
Travis: A little elevator music playing.
Matt: As the blast hits, you can see coats of ice across the floor. So you guys are aware, the ice and sleet and everything here is making the entire terrain rough terrain. So everyone is at half speed on foot in this entire battlefield. You can see the actual air around Vorugal itself is crystallizing into thick mist that surrounds his form sightly. Yenk is blasted with all this frozen frost-breath, and you can see the icicles crystallizing against his form. (roars) Goes running forward, and slams, goring with its horns into Vorugal's chest.
Laura: This feels like more like playtime than anything. All the action figures: bam bam bam!
Matt: Watch me play with my toys, guys! All right, you watch as the horns slam into Vorugal's chest, not really expecting the ferocity and the sheer force of this entity it's unfamiliar with. The horns spark with flames, strangely. It also tears this giant gash in two points across Vorugal's chest. You can see white scales fly from the impact. And also, okay. It is not pushed. Vorugal stands its ground as Yenk pulls back. You see dark purple blood from the edge of the horns of the goristro. End of his turn. All right, does not save against the Dominate Monster.
Sam: Yeah, that means he's still dominated. Okay.
Taliesin: He has not realized this is possibly a poor idea.
Travis: Yenk's going to go, "Come on, chum. Let's be friends."
Matt: It did take damage from the ice breath, so it would have been trying to make its save. Did not make it. At the end of Yenk's turn, Vorugal is going to use two of its legendary actions to do a wing attack. With a three, Yenk is knocked prone, and he suffers 15 points of bludgeoning damage. At which point, Vorugal's moving. Takes up into the air, right above. Now coming to Vorugal's turn. Vorugal gets cold breath back. And while Yenk is on the ground, looking upward and trying to get back up from the slick snow, releases another blast of cold breath down onto Yenk once more. Constitution save, plus 14. Does make its save again. It's a hardy individual; constitution saves are high. It causes this cluster of ice to gather around his form, and he breaks free. Vorugal is then also going to use its flight to move over this way and spin around.
Liam: Natural 20 on my stealth.
Matt: Yenk is going to use its turn to stand up. It looks around. It does make its save, breaking Dominate Monster, so that is gone.
Sam: Okay. Would I feel that? No, I'm on another plane of existence.
Matt: You're on another plane of existence. You guys are all in this quiet space, fingers crossed, hoping right now. Yenk looks frustrated at this point in time. Not a whole lot I can do right now at the moment, so it's going to run beneath and attempt to leap to grab it. Unfortunately, it does not make the full height. Leaps up in the air with all its strength; its thick muscular, hoofed hind legs crouch down and leaps in the air, its giant claws reaching forth, but Vorugal keeps just out of reach and kicks out with its claws and tail, knocking it back onto the ground. It lands, no effect. Vorugal's turn now. Actually, at the end of Yenk's turn-- no, it's not close enough. Come back to Vorugal's turn. Vorugal does not get the ice breath back. It's going to swoop down, eager to finish this hunt, and is going to unleash a series of attacks. Yeah, this is an interesting dynamic right now, because it looks like Yenk is resisting a lot of the cold impact from this. Vorugal's going to do a full range of attacks. Hits with the bite, hits with the claw, hits with the tail. Lands and bites into him. You see ice shards go shooting off from the impact with the teeth. Both claws tear into the chest, but you can see the flesh itself is hardy and resistant to the dragon's attacks. It's damaging it, but Yenk is definitely made of sturdier stuff.
Laura: While this is going on  Percival.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: If Yenk dies really fast, what do we do?
Taliesin: I'm going to signal them to come out.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Matt: Okay, it comes to Yenk's turn now. As you guys are having this conversation, he is going to make two of its fist attacks and one with its hoof.
Sam: Yes, Yenk! Yes!
Matt: A hit. A miss. And a hit.
Taliesin: He's expending power, as well.
Marisha: Yeah, he's burned two of his legendary actions already. Yeah, we're watching the dragon burn through his legendary actions.
Taliesin: That's the other thing.
Laura: Oh, that's great!
Matt: Legendary actions it gets every turn.
Laura: He hasn't burned through any resistances, though.
Matt: You watch as after the clawing goes through Yenk's chest, Yenk reaches up and grabs the edge of Vorugal's scaly back of its head and uppercuts right into the jaw, and then brings up one of its hooves and straight-up chest kicks with the sharpened hoof into the center of Vorugal's chest. It leaves Vorugal stumbling back for a second. At the end of that turn, it's going to use two of its legendary actions to once again beat its wings. Yenk, not being a very dexterous individual, fails and gets knocked prone once again, sending Vorugal once again up to there. Back to Vorugal's turn, he does not get the ice breath, but it looks like Vorugal actually is moving further and further away and is biding his time.
Sam: I'm going to cast Invisibility on myself and poke my head out the door. Yeah, that'll work.
Matt: Yeah, you look out. Make a perception check. The sleet is coming down pretty hard, so you're having to glean what you can.
Sam: Fucking eight.
Matt: You can see some movement of dragon stuff in the air, and you hear various pitches of growling, horrible, angry yelling in the center of the battlefield.
Marisha: So we know they're here.
Matt: You know they're there.
Sam: Battle is still going on. I'll check again in 12 seconds.
Matt: Yenk's turn, very frustrated, can't seem to figure out what to do, is going to attempt to leap once more. Nope. He runs, leaps, tries to grab at the foot. Vorugal steps out of the way. Yenk finishes landing on the opposite side; no effect. Turns around. All right. Vorugal. Gets the cold breath back. He is going to fly backwards, and as it does, sprays an unholy mess of frozen breath energy down towards Yenk, who does not make the save, but still takes resistant damage, thanks to cold resistance. You watch with each impact Yenk's open wounds are getting frost shards jammed into them. Right now, it looks like Yenk doesn't have much of a recourse until Vorugal is on the ground, and Vorugal seems to have noticed this and is starting to keep a distance, and is waiting.
Marisha: I can ground him.
Sam: And expose yourself?
Marisha: I'm just throwing it out there. I can ground him.
Matt: Back to Yenk's turn. At the end of Vorugal's turn, Vorugal is going to take up about ten more feet... to get completely out of his leaping range there.
Liam: How high is he?
Matt: Right now? 60 feet up. Yenk leaps and can't quite get that height and angrily begins to reach over and climb up the side of the mountain there.
Liam: Can I attack him right now?
Matt: What's up?
Liam: Can I attack him right now?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: Vorugal. 60 feet. I'm sharpshooter; he's 60 feet away from me.
Matt: 60 feet is your range. He's a little higher than 60 feet from the angle.
Sam: Are you on the ground?
Laura: He's on the ground.
Liam: Pop out the wings.
Matt: Or the wings, you could do that.
Liam: Fly within 40 feet of him. Throw Whisper at his ass. That's what I'm doing. Assassin.
Sam: Are you going to go up his ass into his stomach?
Laura: In the dragon again.
Sam: In the dragon!
Matt: All right. As you step over, the wings unleash and you fly up right underneath Vorugal right there.
Liam: Do I need to roll for stealth, though?
Matt: No, you're still stealthed. You were holding that, yeah. You don't seem to be noticed. Right now, Vorugal's attention is faced over as it's floating, staring at Yenk, who's now starting to climb up the side of the mountain.
Liam: So finally, this is advantage and an automatic critical hit? Assassin trait.
Matt: Well, let's see. I'd say, given the circumstances, it is unaware that you are part of the battlefield, even though there is a current threat in its circumstance, so in this situation-- let me double-check real fast.
Sam: It's not even a Dungeons and Dragons book.
Taliesin: It's a cookbook!
Sam: They're all people!
Sam: It's a cookbook!
Taliesin: It's a cookbook!
Matt: I would say, given the fact that it's completely unaware there was any other combatants in the vicinity aside from Yenk, I will allow this to be a surprise attack from you, though he is not considered surprised to anybody else. There isn't a surprise round.
Liam: All right. I rolled a 28.
Matt: Oh, that hits.
Liam: This is Whisper. I'm using Whisper. I'm going to cast Divine Smite on the attack, as well.
Matt: All right. Roll damage on that.
Ashley: Kill him. One turn.
Liam: Here we go. Two.
Laura: (laughing) Four!
Liam: Hold on. No, so all the dice first. Two plus the psychic damage, which is 1d8. Nine. Plus the Divine Smite, which is 15. Yeah, here comes the sneak attack damage. (counting) 38, plus my modifier which is 46. No, we double the dice first, so 38 times two. 76. Plus eight is 84.
Matt: 84 points of damage against Vorugal. Are you going with the blade, or you letting it sit?
Liam: Oh, I went with the blade.
Laura: So you're on Vorugal right now?
Matt: So as you throw the blade up, it strikes into one of the wounds that Yenk had already clawed under its chest, and the blade sinks up to the hilt and further in, and as you appear, you're actually wrist-deep in the wound right now.
Travis: Back in the dragon again!
Matt: You are right up with Vorugal right now.
Liam: I'm hasted. That's action number one. Action number two is to throw Whisper down toward the trees closest to you, DM, and bamf there, and use my bonus action to hide. I'll hit the ground, right?
Matt: The blade loses its luster and stumbles into the snow. (clinking) Hits the ground. It's out of range. It doesn't hit anything solid; you don't go with the blade.
Liam: I'm going to push off him, then.
Laura: You have wings.
Liam: Yeah, I know that. What did I use? I used 40 feet of movement?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. I don't know how much I have left. If I'm hasted, I would have 120 total, but that's halved, so 20 feet, because you said rough terrain. But I'm in the air?
Matt: You're in the air, but there's a lot of sleet and rain hitting.
Liam: So ten feet. That's all right. I'm going to keep moving away. I'm going to use all my movement to get away from him and go away from his butt. I should have a bonus action that I can use. The rest of my movement, plus dash.
Matt: All right, before you get there, he's now (roars). The angry scream. Vorugal's head swoops around underneath and directly into your eyes as you dart away with the blade. He spins in place and bites at you as you're trying to pull away.
Liam: I have advantage on dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Okay. This is a bite attack, so it doesn't matter. So that is a 26?
Liam: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 22 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Okay. Can I Uncanny Dodge this? Is this melee?
Matt: Yeah, it's a melee attack, so you can do that. Plus 14 points of cold damage.
Liam: Which is halved because of my armor, so 26 down to 13 and seven. 20 total.
Matt: Yeah, 20 total, reduced by half because of Uncanny Dodge, you said?
Liam: Okay, so I'm down to 95.
Matt: Okay. So 95. You pull away to about there, the rest of your movement?
Liam: I want to use bonus action to dash. I don't know if that gets me 60 feet away flying.
Matt: Flying, so it would be 30.
Liam: It's 120 hasted, so 60 feet halved.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, you can get all the way to the ground if you want to.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: You get down to the ground about there if you want. Okay. Now I need you to go ahead and roll initiative and put you on the initiative order.
Liam: Yes, sir.
Matt: You have now engaged.
Liam: Okay, so it's an 11.
Matt: An 11.
Taliesin: Have you said anything in the earpiece yet?
Liam: Well, you guys saw it. People inside can't hear me.
Matt: All right, so comes back to the top of the round now. Yenk is currently climbing up the side. Gets about halfway up the side. Is not entirely up, but is clawing up, and you feel the impact from where you're standing, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm holding.
Matt: Going to use the rest of his action to climb up. Gets all the way to the top of the ravine, which is about at the same height that Vorugal is. Based on your help, I need you to roll another stealth check because you helped him for the last half hour. You have advantage because she was helping you.
Taliesin: Oh! 13. 13, because I'm at a negative one.
Laura: 13? That's worse than it was before!
Matt: Yenk gets to the top and turns around and sees Vorugal off to the side, glances down and goes (foreign words). And is going to make a giant bowling underhand fist punch right towards you, Percy.
Taliesin: I was holding ready. Can I try and beat his initiative and get a shot off first?
Matt: As a reaction right now, you can go ahead and take a shot.
Marisha: It's time to go.
Sam: Has it been two rounds?
Taliesin: Jenga!
Matt: It's been more than two rounds since this started.
Sam: How about since I looked last?
Matt: It's been almost a round.
Laura: Can I see all this happening?
Matt: You do watch this happening.
Laura: I'm going to take an arrow and shoot it. I can see the door, but it's not going to register on a magical door, is it?
Matt: No.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: We're about to pop out.
Liam: Hey, B-T-dubs, I've just learned that Whisper can only bamf me once per round, right?
Matt: It needs to solidly hit something.
Liam: To stick within 60 feet. Got it.
Matt: You can't throw it as hard as you can and it'll teleport you wherever it lands. It has to impact.
Taliesin: I'm going to press a torso push with this, by the way.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to press a torso push. Better! 33. I don't even know why I bother. He's automatically pushed ten feet away from me.
Matt: He does still get the one hit on you, which is 27.
Taliesin: Oh, that hits.
Matt: You take 23 points of bludgeoning damage from the fist, and then the fist seems to sparkle with electrical energy as it goes to impact you.
Taliesin: That's magic.
Matt: It is not a magic spell, no. You take six points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Yenk is on top?
Matt: Yenk is at the top of the ravine.
Marisha: Isn't Percy halfway down?
Matt: Yenk got up to where he would see him and then saw him as he was passing by. Stopped to slam him.
Taliesin: So 23 plus six. That's fine. The lightning damage, the cloak doesn't absorb that?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay. Then I'm going to do my damage on him, which is new to me. That's terrible. That's 11 points of damage, plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage. Gets pushed back. Because he's still holding onto the edge, he has to see if he can-- No, it does not. Yenk loses grip from the blast of the gun after punching you, stumbles back. Claw hits the edge and falls down prone to the ground at the base of the ravine. 40 feet.
Taliesin: 50 feet.
Matt: 50 feet. Taking an additional 16 points of bludgeoning damage, which is halved.
Taliesin: Do I join the initiative order?
Matt: You do. Go ahead and roll initiative.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. All right. That ends Yenk's turn. Vorugal does not get the ice breath back. However, does see both of you in the vicinity.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Does not see you, no, but it sees Vax and Percy.
Taliesin: It sees me? All right.
Matt: The blast of the gun and the impact and the whole encounter with Yenk exposed you. It's going to use its action to use Frightful Presence, so I need both Percy and Vax-- and Vex, actually, because you're still within the range-- to make a wisdom saving throw. You have advantage. You guys are immune to frightening, so it doesn't actually affect you regardless, so don't worry about it.
Liam: Don't roll?
Matt: Don't have to roll; you're immune to fear. Yenk makes his saving throw, so Yenk is not afraid, either.
Marisha: Thanks, Pike! Should we pop out? Should we do this?
Laura: No, not yet!
Sam: After 12 seconds, I will look. I will stick my head out and look again.
Matt: Vorugal is now watching the battlefield and seeing the people that have been revealed. Vorugal's going to go up a little higher.
Sam: He's a total not-a-good-hunter. I thought he enjoyed the hunt!
Matt: He doesn't enjoy being ambushed or in a fight that he can't win.
Sam: I've poked my head out to look.
Matt: Okay. You look out and you see Vorugal way high in the air. You see Yenk on the ground, and you see a couple of your companions less stealthed than they were before.
Marisha: What's it looking like, Scanlan?
Sam: I pop my head back in and I tell them  shit's going down. Should we go out or let this play out a bit? Yenk is not dead.
Taliesin: Jenga!
Laura: They can't hear you, Percy. I can hear you, but they can't.
Sam: Yenk is not dead, so we will be fighting Yenk, as well.
Ashley: We can't leave them out there alone.
Sam: I guess we go.
Ashley: Right? Are we going to leave them out there to die?
Marisha: I can try and ground him. It's a strength saving throw, though; it's going to be tough.
Laura: Try and ground Vorugal? Try it.
Marisha: I say, excuse me, Scanlan.
Matt: Those who are entering the fray, roll initiative.
Sam: I'm going to leave the mansion and start running.
Marisha: Son of a fuck!
Sam: 14.
Matt: 14. What did you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: Four.
Sam: That's top of the round!
Matt: Anyone else? Grog?
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. All righty.
Liam: You get advantage, right?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Vex, do you want to roll?
Laura: I guess as soon as I see everybody run out, I would start attacking.
Matt: Pike, you as well?
Ashley: Five.
Sam: Yeah, this is great.
Travis: Wow. Fuck me.
Liam: Oh jeepers, we're going to die.
Sam: Don't worry, we've got our secret weapon. Our secret weapon, by the way, now wants to kill all of us.
Marisha: Did he lose his save against it?
Sam: He wants to kill us.
Taliesin: Except that he also has a dragon to contend with, so as long as we keep it a bigger threat than us, I think he'll keep his concentration where it is.
Marisha: We should still try to stay out of all this.
Matt: Everyone who has rolled initiative will be on the next initiative order. Vax, you're finishing up this round.
Liam: Oh, I am? I would like to throw Whisper to the rock I was initially hiding behind and bamf there.
Matt: Roll an attack roll.
Liam: Yeah. Sure, that's 25. I would like to use my bonus action to hide behind that rock.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Liam: That is a 25. Can I hold my last action?
Matt: You could hold an action to do one thing with a trigger, sure. You can use your hasted action.
Liam: I'm going to stay put. Stay hidden.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you're at the top.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay. I'm going to take a wing shot at that dragon to try and drop him. Come on. Natural 20.
Laura: (yelling) Yes!
Ashley: There it is.
Taliesin: Does the 1d6 also double? Is it all dice or just the standard damage?
Matt: No, the dice, as well.
Ashley: No mercy Percy!
Marisha: You're my favorite.
Taliesin: Oh, you say that now. Let's see how this goes. First the damage, which is not bad. 16 points of normal damage and 11 points of psychic damage, and he's prone.
Matt: What's the total on that one?
Taliesin: 16 and 11. That's 27.
Matt: All right. Well, it has to make a strength save.
Taliesin: No, not against the wing shot. Oh, strength saving throw; you're right. Against a DC of 19.
Matt: That is a success. 21.
Taliesin: Again. That'll hit. 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yep.
Taliesin: Same thing. 15 points of damage plus one psychic, so 16.
Matt: 16, and what was the DC again?
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19? Just fails with an 18, so instead of being knocked prone it drops 60 feet per round.
Taliesin: So it's dropping now?
Matt: We'll say for now, yes, it's dropping.
Sam: Come on, Yenk. Kill that thing. (plastic platform clatters)
Sam: He died!
Taliesin: What should I make it have difficulty with? Not saving, but checks.
Sam: He's not going to have to check anything.
Taliesin: You never know.
Matt: There. All right, Percy. That was your second shot.
Taliesin: One more shot. First, I'm going to Hex the dragon. I'm going to give him disadvantage against strength checks. And I'm going to shoot him with a sharpshooter shot for my last shot. Come on. Yeah! 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Taliesin: This is good. (excited yell) 18. Oh my god, okay. 28 plus five psychic, so that's 33 points of damage, plus another d6. Plus another five necro.
Matt: Nice, 38. As you're aiming up as Vorugal's getting further and further away, you aim up and fire. One side hits it and wings it ever so slightly, the second shot you aim the other side it actually hits the joint and causes the wing to flap. Vorugal tumbles out of the air for a second and just manages to catch himself and the final shot impacts right in the back of the skull spines and shatters part of the bone and ice off of it, leaving a nice, fresh wound in the back of the head.
Taliesin: Now, I'm going to take cover in my little cove.
Liam: I'd like to think of you driving and cutting someone off on the 101 and going, "Plus five necro."
Taliesin: Plus five necro, motherfucker.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: He's checking the sheet. Oh no.
Laura: Oh no, what are you looking at?
Taliesin: It means there's a very angry dragon now that's looking at me.
Matt: Okay, so Kima, who's now eager to get out there goes, "Okay. All right. Let's do this." She's going to cast Aura of Vitality on herself as her action. Then she goes running through the center of the portal, leaps out, turns the corner to there and stops and goes, "Oh shit." That's her turn.
Marisha: That's her turn?
Matt: She's just entering the fray and did a preparation spell as part of that. Ending Kima's turn, let's see here. From out of seemingly nowhere in particular, you see a flash of electrical energy arcing from one of the nearby sections of the crevasse alcove. The bolt of energy arcs out and slams into Vorugal, who does not make the save, not seeing it there.
Taliesin: All right. We've got a game.
Sam: Five points of damage!
Marisha: What are you good for?
Matt: That'll be 41 points of lightning damage.
Sam: Okay!
Marisha: Remember, she learned from the druids a bunch of fucking nature shit.
Matt: One of the arcs tries to reach for Yenk and manages to disperse before it can get to it. It's not quite within range, but that finishes wherever that lightning source was. Yenk angrily is going to stand up and turn. It is going to attempt to run and grab up at Vorugal again.
Marisha: Come on, Yenk!
Sam: Come on, Yenk!
Matt: Leaps and misses, (impact) landing right next to the rock. That's a natural 20 on a perception check as it lands (impact) and looks over right into your face.
Liam: Hi.
Matt: Yenk is now aware of you.
Taliesin: He's just noticing everybody.
Matt: At the end of Yenk's turn-- that's not going to help him right now. That's going to end that. Vorugal's turn. Breath does return this time. Vorugal, from up here, is going to send ice breath across the entire ground, sweeping up across both Yenk and Vax. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Could I use Evasion for this?
Matt: No, it's constitution.
Liam: All right. I'm going to use Luck. First Luck of the day. All right, 13.
Matt: 13? No. You suffer 72 points of cold damage, halved because of your resistance.
Ashley: How much, again?
Matt: 72, but halved because of your cold resistance. 36 points of cold damage to you.
Travis: Um. What?
Matt: Vorugal's then going to take higher up into the air.
Taliesin: Can he do that already, even recovering from the prone?
Matt: Yeah. The idea with prone is that unless there's something that maintains or it can't improve its movement past its next turn, it continues to fall. That's going to finish Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep. You're still inside the mansion.
Sam: Do not draw attention to yourself, friend.
Travis: Fuck that. We're all going down. I take the Titanstone Knuckles and I smash them together, and I use the Enlarge, and I will burst out of the mansion in a rage.
Liam: Big Grog!
Matt: So that's 30 feet of movement. You have 20 more feet, if you want.
Travis: No, remember it's halved.
Matt: All right. Then there, that's 25. That's your movement. The gauntlets took your bonus action. You can still use your action to dash, if you want to move further. Or do you want to stay there and hold your action?
Liam: Wait. I'm sorry. Yenk knew where I was. Did the dragon know where I was, too?
Matt: It's funny. It hit Yenk and the whole thing, but the dragon has an aerial view, and you have a single rock that you went behind to hide, and it saw you move behind the rock. You have to break eye contact to stealth.
Travis: I'll use that dash to keep moving towards the ice wall, towards you. Maybe two or three squares. That will be my turn.
Matt: You can get there. Hulking, axe gripped, giant Grog is leaping through the snow. (impacts) You're two-thirds the size of Yenk, right now, which is crazy. All right, that ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Me? I'm still invisible. I'm going to leave the mansion.
Matt: You're not still invisible, because you cast Dominate Monster.
Sam: No, I cast Invisibility after I cast Dominate Monster. I'm going to leave the mansion and clockwise around the game board.
Matt: That's as far as you can get, there, with your reduced movement.
Sam: If I inspire, that kills my invisibility?
Matt: Technically, no. It's not an attack or an action, so I would say it wouldn't. It may give away your location.
Sam: Then I will use my bonus action to keep moving. To dash?
Matt: To dash is your action. You can do that, yeah. Your bonus action, that's only a rogue ability.
Sam: I will dash and keep moving away and that way.
Matt: This way? Okay. That's your action.
Sam: That's it?
Matt: Yeah. It's big, heavy snow and slick ice. You're having to be careful.
Sam: Okay. I don't want to draw attention to myself, so that'll be that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I'm only within range of Kima. I'm not going to give away my position to inspire her.
Matt: All right, finishing your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Holy shit. Yeah, I'm going to take to the air. Holy shit. I'm going to fly within 60 feet of Vorugal. 55 feet away.
Matt: That will put you about there. Okay. Yenk has a reach of ten because his arms are long, and you're within his combat range, so as soon as you fly up, he swings out with his fist to attempt to impact you.
Liam: All right, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: As you're with your wings, dagger out, this fist comes swinging like a battering ram from the side. That is 22 to hit. Misses. (whoosh) You just barely dodge out of the way. You feel the force of it, the wind batter a bunch of errant falling sleet and snow across your face, but you rush past, the hasted bonus saving you on that one.
Liam: Okay, so how far did I just go?
Matt: That would have been 55 feet.
Liam: 55 feet. I can go 120 in one action, so that's my movement.
Matt: Halved, yeah.
Liam: Halved, but 120, so that's my movement, total. I'm going to throw Whisper in his face. I'm not going to bamf there; I'm just going to throw the dagger.
Matt: Into Vorugal?
Liam: Vorugal's face. That's halfsies, so I'm going to roll it again. That's way better. That is a 32.
Matt: That hits. How many Luck have you used, by the way?
Liam: One. That is 12 plus the psychic damage.
Matt: I thought you used Luck once before, today.
Liam: I don't think so. Not since waking up.
Matt: It would have been yesterday. You're right.
Liam: 12, plus two is 14, and I'm going to cast Divine Smite-- no, I'm not. No, just 14 of damage, so that's movement, action. My next action I'm going to use to fly under him, halfway between Percival and the gang, and land on the wall.
Matt: Land on the wall this way?
Liam: Yeah. Now, that wall is higher up than it looks, so I'm really flying straight, right?
Matt: Correct. We'll say you're about there, technically.
Liam: Yes, and then for a bonus action, my last spell slot, I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on my fucking self for a plus two to AC.
Matt: There you go. Ending Vax's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Yikes. Well. Are we outside the mansion?
Matt: No, you're inside the mansion right now. You just watched Grog, Kima, and Scanlan all dart out of it. Well, you didn't see Scanlan leave. Scanlan vanished.
Ashley: Scanlan vanished.
Matt: It's you, Trinket, and Keyleth.
Laura: Did I ever get on the initiative order?
Matt: What did you roll? Ten, right? You'd technically be after Vax. We'll do your turn after this, but you're after Vax.
Ashley: I'm going to pop out. Maybe I can stay in there and do this, in the door, and try to cast Divine Intervention.
Matt: Divine Intervention? All right, so you step out and you see this chaos happen: the dragon in the air, the fiend on the side, swinging and barely missing a flying Vax, who swoops past in the middle of this sleet storm. You close your eyes and concentrate, holding your holy symbol, praying that Sarenrae has the ability to reach beyond the Divine Gate and lend you her strength temporarily. I need you to roll a d10.
Marisha: Man, how awesome would this be?
Laura: It would be insane.
Matt: What did you roll?
Ashley: A ten?
Matt: A zero?
Laura: Yeah, a zero.
Marisha: (excited gasping) Shut the fuck up! She has to roll under her level, which she did.
Matt: So this succeeded.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up, Ashley!
Matt: So as you clutch your holy symbol, concentrating, hoping that she's there, feeling the division between the gods and their followers since the Divergence occurred. You've reached out to her a number of times. You look up through the darkness of your closed eyes, and you see a light, a beacon open. The clouds part, and suddenly the sound of rain goes away. The sound of all the chaos goes away, and it's just warmth and quiet, and you watch as Sarenrae's hand comes down and touches your forehead, and with your closed eyes, and says, "I'll do what I can." As she drifts away and smiles, you watch as her hand turns into a fist, and she looks up and disappears into the light. As you open your eyes, you now see up in the sky above Vorugal, the clouds that are dark, a sparkle of divine energy begins to swirl. As it grows stronger and stronger, the clouds suddenly part, and a giant column of divine energy (boom) slams down, right on top of Vorugal. Vorugal looks up just in time to try to move out of the way before it slams him back. Does not make his dex save with a roll of five. Vorugal suffers 50 points of divine damage and is slammed onto the ground. (cheering)
Taliesin: Stay down!
Marisha: Yes! Holy fuck! Pike! That was amazing!
Ashley: Oh boy!
Liam: Action figure is down.
Matt: Additional 26 points of bludgeoning damage. As the light column slams Vorugal to the ground, you can see some of the ice and snow underneath melts immediately, and what was once a column, you can see now looks like a giant fist made of spiritual energy that then withdraws slowly off the back of Vorugal and then dissipates before the clouds close up once more.
Ashley: Yes! It worked!
Matt: That's your movement and your action.
Ashley: For a bonus action, I would like to place a spiritual weapon at the back of his neck, since he's on the ground. And I would like it to be a very large flaming sword.
Matt: Okay. You watch as the hand of Sarenrae dissipates, some of the energy that's residual there lingers, and then forms into a flaming sword of pure golden-white energy. It is now hovering over the currently slammed-down, broken-looking body of Vorugal.
Sam: She's the best one of the group! (laughter)
Matt: All righty. That was... What level spell was that, again, Pike? Second level. Got it. All right, so make a melee spell attack against Vorugal. Roll a d20 and add, I believe it's 11. Roll a d20 and add 11 to it as the flaming blade attempts to strike down towards Vorugal.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: 25 hits. Go ahead and roll 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Okay, well, six. Sarenrae did the damage.
Matt: Six points of divine damage.
Ashley: Sarenrae does 50 points of damage, and I do six.
Matt: Through you, did 50 points. You're still part of it. All right, that ends Pike's turn. Vex, we're taking your turn because you weren't in the initiative order.
Laura: That's okay. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on Vorugal.
Matt: Because dragons are your chosen enemy, I'm giving you the plus two damage against it.
Laura: Okay, so I'm hidden, technically, so I get sneak attack on him, right?
Matt: Currently, you have not been noticed.
Laura: Okay, so I'm going to hit him, or try to. That is 34.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit. Divine Intervention, man. Finally worked. Can't use it for a week, by the way, Pike, just so you're aware. Once it succeeds, you can't use it for a week.
Ashley: That's fine. (laughter)
Ashley: I doubt it's going to work again. That, I think, has never worked.
Marisha: You've gotten close. You've gotten really close.
Travis: Three years, never worked.
Laura: 30 points of damage on the first hit, and two of those are lightning.
Matt: Great.
Taliesin: Is it gargantuan? Gargantuan. Trust Travis on this one.
Laura: 22 on the second, two of which are lightning.
Matt: Okay. Nice. All right, that ends your turn. You used your bonus action to Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I did. I'm going to hang out there and duck down, if I can, behind my little outcropping.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Oh god. I'm going to pop out of the mansion. I was expecting to do an Earthbind spell, but that's not necessary. That's okay!
Matt: Pike, do you want to move at all, or do you want to stay behind that rock?
Ashley: I'm going to stay behind.
Marisha: I'm going to fuck this guy up while he's down. I'm going to peek around the corner, going towards you a bit, and seeing everyone there and all this go down, I'm going to Fire Storm the fuck out of this!
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Death from above.
Marisha: Fire rains from above!
Taliesin: Fire rains from above!
Matt: How are you organizing the Fire Storm?
Marisha: I have ten of these? I'm shaking.
Matt: Fire Storm, you create ten ten-foot cubes. You can maneuver it to hit both him and Yenk, if you want to.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I want.
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Get that epic loot drop.
Marisha: I know. I want it.
Matt: That is a failure on Vorugal, with a ten, and a seven on Yenk. They both fail, so roll damage on that. 7d10 fire damage.
Marisha: 7d10.
Laura: Hey, Matt.
Matt: Yes?
Ashley: 1d8 plus your spellcasting modifier?
Matt: Which is five. It's your wisdom.
Ashley: Spell attack bonus.
Matt: Yes, there's a difference.
Ashley: I understand.
Laura: Do it, Keyleth!
Taliesin: Want a bonus?
Laura: It doesn't count on the floor.
Marisha: I'll roll this one. It's eight! Okay, hang on. (counting) 30. I picked it up. 38.
Matt: 38 fire damage to both of them. All righty. The Fire Storm tears through the ravine. You can see the flames burn over Vorugal's body. Vorugal is now trying to get back up. (roars) He's extremely angry. The flames curl over Yenk, who bats away at them. It burns him, but Yenk does seem to resist it fairly well.
Marisha: I'm going to use the last bit of my movement to pop back behind the stone.
Matt: Okay. There you go. All righty, does that end your turn? Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take aim and hold my full attack until he tries to get up.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Kima's turn. Kima sees the opportunity. Because of the snow, she can't quite get there yet with her full movement, unfortunately. All righty. Kima is going to use the rest of her action to dash and get right up next to Vorugal and is going to use her bonus action to use Vow of Enmity against it. She goes, "You are going to see Bahamut in pieces!" As she brings the thumb across, the holy symbol glows for a second. You see a mark emblazon and burn itself into the side of Vorugal's body. That's going to end Kima's turn.
Taliesin: That's a sick tattoo, y'all.
Laura: Maybe it's like Hex and Hunter's Mark.
Travis: We don't know what that does.
Matt: What's the range on that, actually? That's going to be a rough call. Okay, you watch as emerging from the treeline here, you see a little dwarf step forward, unaffected by the ice, and reach out a hand as a cluster of necrotic energy sparkles in the center. Leaps forward toward Vorugal. That is a success on the save, so it's half damage, but Keyleth, you recognize at a glance of your eye, this necromantic leap. This is a Blight spell.
Sam: Blight spell?
Laura: Who's doing a Blight spell?
Sam: Larkin.
Matt: Larkin.
Sam: He's secretly Raishan!
Liam: What? Where did that dwarf come from? Did you hire more mercenaries? When are they showing up? Hey, I'll own it. It's fine. It's been a long week.
Matt: Yenk turns around with a grin. (impacts) Coming forward.
Sam: Yes, Yenk.
Matt: Is going to make three attacks, and has advantage on these attacks, because it's prone. A five and a one. Are you serious? Misses the first strike, with advantage. Hits with the second attack. Hits with the third. Okay, so that's going to be 48 points of damage from Yenk. Slams a fist once and glides off the scales. Second one goes and slams into the side of Vorugal's neck, and then picks up the hoof and jams it into the side of the skull, cracking into the side of Vorugal's head. You can see some teeth break and get thrown off and scatter into the ice and snow nearby. At the end of Yenk's turn, Vorugal is going to go ahead and use two actions to wing attack once more, getting up. Let's see. Yenk's going to have to make a strength save. Fails. Kima fails, as well. They are both knocked prone and suffer bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Only if you're right on him? I'm only two squares away, I think.
Matt: You are also within 15 feet, Grog, technically, so I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: 17?
Matt: 17 does not cut it. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and you are knocked prone.
Liam: All the trees are down.
Matt: It's rough. And Vorugal gets half its speed.
Taliesin: Oh no. He's even starting to move? I'm laying into him. Spending a grit point and I'm knocking him in the foot, back prone before he can even stand up.
Matt: Okay. How many grit points do you have, by the way, now?
Taliesin: This is my third or fourth because I did crit, so I got one back.
Matt: You did. This is correct.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: That's a d10 and a d6, and another d6. 12 points of damage, plus one necrotic and two psychic, so 15 points of damage, and he has a save against 19.
Matt: That's a natural 20. Has disadvantage because of your--
Taliesin: No, I was about to say, it's a save, not a check.
Matt: Oh, right. Strength checks. So natural 20. Unaffected.
Taliesin: Unaffected? Again!
Matt: This is your last grit point.
Marisha: Can't say we're not honest.
Taliesin: Blowing it. It's worth it. Gun jams.
Matt: Gun jams.
Taliesin: You know what happens.
Matt: So as you go to fire Animus, it charges up for a second and blasts back, and you watch as a bolt of necrotic energy shoots up Percy's arm and into his head and bursts at his temples. You take 2d6 points of psychic damage.
Ashley: Does the spiritual weapon get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No, it doesn't get attacks of opportunity. It's not a creature.
Taliesin: Ow. That's the end of my turn. I'm going to dive down and hide and hold.
Matt: That ends Yenk's turn. It's now Vorugal's turn. Gets the breath back. Turns around here. At the giant cluster of shit here.
Sam: He does not see me!
Matt: Doesn't need to. You're in a very big space there. I need Pike, Scanlan, and Keyleth to all make constitution saving throws.
Marisha: The cloak doesn't have anything to do with this, right?
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words to reduce the attack?
Matt: It's not an attack. It's an effect that happens.
Marisha: With advantage? Natural 20!
Matt: With advantage? Why do you get advantage?
Marisha: I thought you said advantage.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Fucking fuck! Well, then I guess I reroll.
Liam: Rolled two dice.
Matt: Roll one dice.
Marisha: I should have kept the first one. That's an 18, which is good! 23.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan?
Sam: 13. I add nothing to it, right?
Taliesin: Is it constitution saving? Plus two.
Matt: 23. Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine. Kima failed. So that is 72 points of cold damage to Scanlan, Pike, and Kima.
Ashley: Divided between us all, right? (laughter)
Matt: No, sorry. Halved to you.
Marisha: That's 36?
Ashley: Just 72?
Matt: Wait, does one of you have the Cold Snap armor on?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Oh yeah. So yeah, 36 cold damage to you, Keyleth. 72 to both of you and Kima. And Vorugal is then going to get back a bit and fly a little higher.
Taliesin: He moved really far in one turn.
Matt: The wing effect is a legendary action on somebody else's turn, and then on his turn, he has a speed of 80 feet, flying.
Taliesin: Even halved?
Matt: He's not affected by cold. Sorry, white dragon.
Taliesin: We're still going to need you, then, apparently.
Matt: That's going to end Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh, well, he's in the air, which is my preference, all around. Can I get up, please? Now we're somewhere. Can I move directly under him as far as I can go?
Matt: That's half movement, so that's about as far as you can get right now.
Travis: Can I haste or pick my nose to go any further?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Liam: Hold for him to drop?
Travis: I will hold until he drops.
Liam: Oh, sad Grog.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Jesus. I will continue my movement clockwise around the board.
Matt: This way, you mean? That's your movement.
Sam: How far is he from me? A long way.
Matt: Quite a ways right now, yeah.
Sam: 150 to 200 feet?
Matt: Not quite that much, no. Maybe somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 feet.
Sam: Has my invisibility dropped when I got blasted?
Matt: Actually, make a concentration check with advantage, because you have War Caster.
Sam: Concentration? Is it plus anything?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw.
Sam: 14.
Matt: 14. Yeah, no. You had to beat a 36 because of the damage from the ice blast. Yeah, your invisibility drops. You are now fully visible.
Sam: Okay. Is he within 120 feet of me?
Matt: Yeah, he's within 120 feet, probably.
Sam: All right, I'll punch him in the face.
Matt: Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Yeah. I will Bigby's Hand him.
Matt: All right. Bigby's Hand flies up to meet Vorugal.
Liam: Can you yank his shit down?
Sam: He's way too big. I can try to grab a wing.
Marisha: Can you grapple him? Grapple a wing?
Sam: DM, how does this work? I cannot grapple anything above a huge monster. Can I grapple part of a gargantuan monster?
Matt: Unfortunately, he's just too big for Bigby's Hand.
Sam: So I just punch him. Simply a punch. Bigby's Hand!
Matt: Roll a d20 plus your spell attack bonus.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. (whoosh) The fist swings past. Vorugal dodges out of the way, batting his wings and getting out of the trajectory of the fist that just streaks by harmlessly.
Sam: Great. I think I'm within range of Lady Kima? I can inspire her, maybe?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: You know what? Fuck her. I'm going to heal myself. (laughter)
Sam: She crossed me one too many times.
Marisha: She crossed you?
Sam: Fuck her.
Laura: Poor Kima. Trying to get mind-wiped so many times by him.
Marisha: He's a dick to her, and now he's angry about it.
Sam: Healing Word. Can I do level two? That's 2d4 plus six now?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 12 points. Great. Okay. Thanks.
Matt: All righty. That's your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Oh jeez! Really? Okay. So I'm right there. Am I within 60 feet?
Matt: Maybe.
Liam: I'm going to fly 20 feet forward through the storm toward him.
Matt: Okay. That will put you right about there.
Liam: Yeah. Dagger, dagger, dagger.
Laura: Oh, you have three daggers still?
Liam: They come back, man. First is 26. Second is a 17, but I'm going to use my second Luck, so the second is a 21. And the third is 19.
Matt: All right. The 17 and 19 miss.
Liam: Okay, so the first one was really high. The second two are mediocre.
Matt: The first one hits. The other two streak off.
Liam: Whisper hits.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Does he get sneak attack because I'm on the flank with my hand?
Liam: No, I didn't think so. That is terrible. That's just ten. And I use my movement to fly directly under him.
Matt: Okay. You're not going with Whisper?
Liam: Say again?
Matt: You're not going with Whisper?
Liam: No.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: No... Yes, I am.
Matt: Are you?
Liam: Could I have hit him in the tail?
Matt: If you want to, sure. Why not? You impact.
Liam: I got the blade on his tail, and I'm there.
Matt: Okay. You're right there with Vorugal.
Marisha: It's becoming a Jenga mini-game.
Liam: That's where I am.
Matt: All righty. That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to try to hit him a couple times.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: My moves are really intricate. 25 for the first one, and I'm using Blazing Bowstring on this. Okay. (counting) Oh! Okay. I have 40 points of damage on the first hit, two of which are lightning, seven of which are fire damage.
Matt: 40.
Laura: And I get sneak attack because Vax is on him.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Is that Fenthras?
Laura: It's Fenthras. And then 25 on the second hit.
Sam: Points of damage?!
Laura: No, that's just to attack. Oh, jeez Louise. (counting) 23 on the second one, with four points of lightning damage and two points of fire damage.
Matt: All right. So that's your turn?
Laura: And I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay. Roll a stealth check.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace still on me?
Matt: No, because you used Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Right. So that is 27.
Matt: Okay, good to know. End of your turn, Vorugal is going to use his legendary action to make a tail attack against Vax.
Liam: Is that melee? Can I use Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: You can if it hits you, yeah. So that is a 26?
Liam: Shite! Yeah, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay. So as you get up there and the arrows smack into the sides, from both Vex's attacks--
Liam: Wait! I want to use my last Luck to make him roll again. Which I can do.
Matt: Okay, you can. That is 27.
Liam: Wow. It's all right. Uncanny Dodge!
Taliesin: No, what are you going to do? Ancient white dragon. Someone's going to get knocked unconscious.
Matt: 23 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail (whack) slams you in the side, almost breaking one of the wings off, and you just manage to catch yourself in the air. So 28, and you can half that. All right. So that ends Vex's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right.
Sam: Do that Divine Intervention thing again. That was really good.
Ashley: It's been a week, right? One week is one round, right? Okay. So what I'd like to do... Here's a question. Flame Strike, since it comes from the sky, would it work since he's up in the sky? Comes from above.
Matt: Ten-foot radius, 40-foot high cylinder. Centered around a point within range. So it's a 60-foot range. Doesn't say it has to be on the ground, per se.
Ashley: All right, let's give it a try.
Laura: Do it towards the front of Vorugal, so it doesn't hit Vax.
Liam: Hit him in the face.
Laura: Hit him in the face.
Matt: Ten-foot radius. Yeah. You can direct it where it's not going to hit Vax.
Liam: Thanks, Matt.
Matt: (laughs) All right, so what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18. This is dex, right? It's a 21. He succeeds, so that's half damage. Go ahead and roll damage on that. It's 8d6 damage.
Laura: Oh, do you even have to roll the attack on that?
Matt: It explodes, and it's a saving throw to see if he manages to avoid some of the damage, which he did. What did you get?
Sam: It's ten-foot radius? Ten-foot diameter?
Matt: Ten-foot radius.
Sam: It doesn't hit the Hand, does it?
Matt: No. She's directing it in a way where it hits the front of him. It bursts right through his head and the edge of his wings.
Ashley: 19.
Travis: And two more. That's 8d6.
Laura: It's 8d6?
Matt: 8d6, yeah.
Ashley: Oh! (giggles) Do I add anything else?
Matt: Just those.
Ashley: What is it? 29.
Matt: 29. All right. So 14 points of damage with the halved. (explosion) The blast hits; the flames spin around. You see Vorugal starting to look a bit rough now. It's getting angry; wings are beating faster. You can see there's a feral desperation in Vorugal's eyes right now at all the things that are starting to come at him.
Ashley: I'm going to stay put. And for bonus action, I'm going to cast Healing Word on myself.
Matt: Okay. All right. At the end of your turn, Pike, using another legendary action to make another tail attack at Vax, trying to beat you away from behind at this point. That is a 25.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: That hits? Okay.
Liam: And I'm out of Uncanny Dodge, right?
Matt: Well, you can only make one reaction per round, yeah. That'll put you at 14 points of bludgeoning damage. (whack) Right at your side this time. Though you were able to dodge most of the first impact, this one smacks you to your side, and you spiral over for a second, catching yourself, and still keep afloat right there. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to cast Earthbind on him.
Matt: Earthbind. What's the range on Earthbind?
Marisha: 300 feet.
Matt: Yeah, that will do it. All right, what's the saving throw on it? Saving throw on that is a strength saving throw. All right, that is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary resistances to make it. (groaning)
Taliesin: Good, you've burned it. Had to burn it.
Marisha: (frustrated noise)
Travis: She's speaking Parseltongue. (laughter)
Marisha: I am going to do a bonus action to cast Healing Word on myself. Heal myself real quick. Same thing, I want to scoot back a little bit, behind that tree, a bit.
Matt: Right behind here?
Marisha: Yeah, because I got whacked with that ice breath, and I don't want that to happen again. All right.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn? At the end of your turn, he's going to use his third and final legendary action to make another tail swipe at Vax. That is a 27.
Liam: You've hit me right now? Yeah, that hits.
Matt: Okay. This third tail strike right now is going to do 17 points of bludgeoning damage. (impacts) You've been battered in the air by the white dragon tail swinging behind. The focus is less on you as it's hitting you, and it's focusing on the whole battlefield down in front of it and the giant demon that is still lying on the ground.
Liam: Thanks, Heroes' Feast.
Matt: That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I am going to heal, as my bonus action. That's not bad. That's 19 points. I'm a little better now. I'm at 108; I'm fine. Now, I'm going to take out Bad News. Fuck Animus for now. Take out Bad News and take two shots at this bastard with sharpshooter.
Laura: What's Yenk doing down there? Sleeping?
Matt: Yenk got knocked prone.
Taliesin: For fuck's sake!
Sam: Gun jam?
Taliesin: Yeah, gun jammed.
Matt: Fire again, this time (click, explosion). You see a burst of smoke come out, and part of the metal slightly bends. And you're like, "Shit!"
Sam: All your guns?
Taliesin: No, I have one more gun. But I don't have time. That burns an action.
Matt: Yeah. You could use your action surge, if you wanted to.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm using my action surge. Might as well.
Marisha: You try to unjam it?
Taliesin: No, I'm taking out my last pistol and I'm shooting. I'm just going to shoot. See if I can take two more shots. Technically not; it's two shots.
Matt: No, if you're pulling your next gun out. You're not trying to repair?
Taliesin: No, I'm not trying to repair.
Matt: You'd still have two more attacks. Yeah, because you have quick draw. You drop Bad News, grab another weapon. You still have two more attacks.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm taking two more shots, then. Sharpshooter shot with Retort. No, it's different. 16.
Matt: Nope. Fires off in the distant cloud.
Laura: It's that new damn gun. Its sight is all shit.
Taliesin: Ah! That one hits, on the other hand, I think. 22?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's not much, but I'll take it. Nine points of normal damage plus two necrotic, so that's 11 points of damage. No, 21 points of damage. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Right, with the ten. Yeah. There you go. 21. First one misses. (click) You set it up. This time, takes a shot. (impact) It hits Vorugal from underneath a few feet off from where Vax is. You can see the wound beginning to bleed now. The more damage Vorugal gets, the more you can see the trickle of reddish-blue blood darkening against the white skin. Vorugal is looking fairly damaged.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge and take three more shots. Fuck it. See if I can lose the third gun. It's that night, apparently. No, I will not. That's 18?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Fuck the sharpshooter shot. I'm just going for it. No sharpshooter. Thank god! That's 20?
Matt: 20 just hits.
Taliesin: Excellent. Good to know. Oh my god, that's bullshit. Ten points, three necrotic, so it's ten points of damage.
Matt: Your final shot?
Taliesin: My final shot. No, it didn't. This one doesn't do that. That's nice, but I miss. That's 16. That misses.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thankfully, it doesn't burn that gun. No, that gun is better built. I'm rolling really poorly.
Matt: That ends your turn. That comes to Kima's turn. Kima is going to get up.
Travis: Come on, represent us melee-ers!
Laura: The three of you down on the ground.
Matt: I know. This is a rough fight for the melee.
Travis: I'm making a mean face, so far.
Marisha: You're mad-dogging the dragon?
Matt: Did maintain concentration. That's good. Kima's going to use a bonus action to heal you, Grog, for nine points. Nine health, using her Aura of Vitality.
Sam: Why wouldn't she heal me?
Matt: She's not close enough to you, unfortunately.
Sam: And she hates me.
Matt: Yeah, you may have pissed her off. She will move up into range with Yenk, but she can't actually attack. Too much ice, and her legs are not the longest, and she's having a hard time getting in the fray, but now she's locked in the battle.
Sam: Larkin's turn.
Laura: Good old Larkin!
Sam: Good old Larkin! Come on, Larkin. Bring him down!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Where is Yenk?
Taliesin: Yenk ain't got nothing but us to hit right now. Let's not dwell on that.
Matt: It's Larkin's turn, technically.
Sam: (singing) You see him Larkin. You hating. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as the tiny dwarf form looks around at the chaos here, and with how things are going, "Shite!"
Laura: Don't you fucking ditch! Don't you ditch out!
Matt: His form vanishes as a green dragon appears. (shouting)
Liam: Cards on the table!
Matt: All right, uses the movement to fly up.
Marisha: Is she going to go for him?
Laura: She's going! She's doing it. She's so teeny compared to him!
Matt: She is a diseased dragon. And releases (blows air) cold blast of poison breath at this direction.
Marisha: Heroes' Feast, man.
Matt: As the billowing cloud of toxic fumes fills you, you instinctually freak out for a second before you realize that the magical protection in your lungs is preventing any of it from taking hold inside. That's cocked. It does make its save.
Sam: What kind of save is it?
Matt: It's a constitution.
Sam: Does the Hand need to make a save? Hand has an AC of 20 and my hit points.
Matt: I don't know if the poison's going to affect Bigby's Hand. It'is arcane. It's not going to affect that. That's for more of physically hitting it. However, Vorugal does end up taking 38 points of poison damage.
Sam: And then Vax goes, "Wait a second, Larkin was a dragon?!" (laughter)
Matt: Okay, at this point, that's going to end Raishan's turn. Yenk gets up, looking at the battlefield. He sees this giant, hulking goliath. Well, technically with Seeming, a large dragonborn with an axe. Lurches forward. Kima gets an attack of opportunity against Yenk.
Laura: Would he still look like a little dragonborn?
Matt: No, his physical form still shifts into a larger one. He looks smaller than his actual self, I guess, comparatively. We'll say for the fun element of it, he still looks like a bigger dragonborn, as Grog wants to look bigger on this one. Kima does hit Yenk. She's going to use Divine Smite, 4th-level spell against him as part of that. Ooh! That's going to be nice.
Taliesin: Remember to go into the stomach, if it goes. We've got a relic in its stomach.
Marisha: Don't eviscerate him. It's fine. It's not going anywhere.
Matt: 21 plus 4d8. 5d8 because it is a fiend.
Travis: Yeah! 5d8 because it is a fiend!
Matt: I don't want to rob her of any awesome damage here.
Travis: Yeah, come on. For the very few times Kima gets to get shake the dust off.
Matt: I know. Seriously!
Marisha: It does look like he's copping a feel.
Sam: Cupping?
Ashley: Little pinch.
Matt: She gets additional 1d8. It's 5d8 additional damage.
Sam: Trumping right now?
Marisha: No, this is our fantasy land, man.
Taliesin: No! Nixing it! This is my safe place.
Matt: 48 points of damage in one strike from Kima against Yenk.
Travis: Just from the attack of opportunity?
Matt: Just attack of opportunity, yeah. She poured a level four Divine Smite spell into it and (impacts) as she slams behind. Fiends are a paladin's thing. As Yenk's running away towards you, Grog, she says, "No, you don't!" (impacts) Slams up with her maul and strikes at the side of Yenk, causing him to tumble. He's still keeping his trajectory, though. He slams forward towards you. That's more than 15 feet. He's going for a gore attack against you, Grog, with the horns, like he did with Vorugal at the beginning of the battle.
Liam: He's going to take 15 percent of your hit points.
Matt: (chuckles) Yeah. That is a 22.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words that?
Matt: I don't think you're in range.
Sam: Am I 60 feet?
Matt: 60 feet? Let me se. 60. Just out of range. You suffer 55 points of piercing damage from the horns, halved, plus an additional 38 points of piercing damage from the momentum from the gore.
Travis: And you said additional 30?
Matt: Additional 38.
Travis: Additional 38, so that's halved also. 19?
Matt: 19 on top of the half. Plus an additional seven points of cold damage as the horns strike into you, the horns almost solidify into ice spikes as it hits you, the ice breaking off.
Sam: Would have been great against a fucking dragon.
Laura: It did. It did the fire damage against the dragon.
Travis: 48 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. There you go. That ends Yenk's turn. It is now Vorugal's turn. Vorugal's pissed and hurt and angry and is going to move away.
Laura: You get an attack of opportunity!
Liam: Did he move away?
Matt: You do get one, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. No sneak attack because it's just me and Bigby, right?
Matt: Currently, yes. You don't get sneak attack here, no.
Liam: Right, because there's nobody here with me. 27 hits, so that is a three plus eight is 11, plus my psychic damage is 12.
Laura: How do you want to do this?
Liam: That'd be great, cut him in the butt.
Matt: Nice. That's some good luck with the ice breath this battle.
Travis: There are three giant monsters.
Marisha: Jesus, he's back for my shit. He's back for me and you, Pike.
Matt: I need Keyleth, Pike, and Scanlan to all make constitution saving throws.
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Okay. 18.
Matt: 18.
Sam: 15.
Matt: Pike? All right, all three of you guys take 72 points of cold damage.
Laura: Okay. So that's unconscious.
Matt: So Pike is unconscious. Scanlan?
Sam: I'm okay.
Matt: You're okay? What's your hit points?
Sam: I healed myself last time just the amount of hit points I have right now.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth, where you at?
Marisha: I'm at 36. Luckily I also healed myself up.
Liam: I'm a field medic. I'll get you out.
Matt: All right, and for the rest of Vorugal's turn...
Laura: What the fuck are you doing now, Matthew?
Marisha: This isn't good.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Marisha: I'm up, but Pike isn't, correct?
Matt: Pike is currently unconscious, yeah. That ends Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Sam: You're not unconscious, Marisha?
Marisha: I'm not. Pike is. There is an exit door. We can literally toss Pike's ass in the door. How many are you down, Pike?
Travis: Can I go to a frenzied rage and unload on Yenk?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Okay. This will be reckless attack. Great weapon master. Because fuck it. Why not? 28 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Natural 20. (shouting)
Ashley: Get him.
Travis: And 27 for the third.
Matt: Yeah, all three hit. The middle one gets critical. Don't forget your additional 1d4 damage with your axe because you're enlarged.
Marisha: And those were all great weapon master? That's fucking awesome!
Travis: The first one is 15 plus six points of necrotic damage. 21.
Matt: Including the 1d4?
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25. Does that includes the ten for great weapon master?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: So 35 points of damage on the first strike. All right. Second attack, which is the critical.
Laura: All dice are doubled? Is that how it works?
Matt: Yeah, all dice rolls double. Roll a d12, plus d6, plus d4.
Travis: That's an 11. It's a six. One.
Matt: 18 times two. (laughs) 36 plus ten. 46, plus 2d12 because of brutal critical.
Travis: One. Six. Seven. Seven extra points.
Matt: Plus 46. 53 points of damage with the second strike. Roll damage for the third one.
Liam: Maniac! Here it is! Get it!
Sam: Finally, he gets to attack! It's been six months since we've seen you actually attack anything.
Laura: I know, and he kills everything.
Liam: This is a rage spanking, right here.
Travis: 28 on the third one.
Matt: 28 on the third. Nice. You did over 100 damage on one round of melee combat.
Laura: Did you add your ten to the final one? It was 38 on the final.
Matt: (laughs) Jesus! So as you angrily get up, your large, draconic form, you rush forward, stepping right up to where Yenk is slamming into you. And after goring you in the chest, you embrace the anger and (impacts) bring the axe down, right into the inside of the shoulder. For the final attack, you put a foot up and drag it down across, cutting into it. You see a bunch of black-blue blood scatter across the snow, darkening it, the snow immediately melting with a (sizzling) hissing sound as it impacts with the ground around you. Yenk looks visibly hurt now. He's like, (pained grunts).
Laura: Can we see a little spire poking through its belly?
Matt: No, but you do see that the red, beady, coal-like flame eyes of Yenk are now burning with a vibrant red and are focused entirely on you.
Travis: I've got everything you want, big boy.
Matt: All right. That ends Grog's turn, I believe? Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Me? Oh, shit. Okay.
Matt: Actually, at the end of Grog's turn, Vorugal is going to use one of his legendary actions to attempt a tail attack, which has a reach of 20 feet. You are within 20 feet.
Sam: Against me?
Matt: Yep. That is cocked. 18 plus 14 is 32?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You take (counting) 16 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage. As I see the tail coming, I pick up my book of Shakespeare insults, and I will say: with thy brawls, thou hast disturbed our sport! I love thee not. Therefore, pursue me not.
Matt: As the tail swings towards you, roll a d12.
Sam: Six. And I live. (laughter)
Sam: It was 14 points of damage?
Matt: It was seven plus eight, so it would have been 16. It was eight plus eight. 16.
Sam: So reduced to ten. I'm okay. I have four points left.
Matt: Oh shit!
Sam: My turn?
Matt: Now it's your turn.
Sam: I look at Pike, and with my bonus action, I will heal her. Healing Word, second level. I will sing to her, (singing) you're trying to kill a white dragon, just like the ones we used to kill. May your days be merry and bright, and I hope we all survive this fight. (speaking) Okay, so 2d4, right?
Matt: 2d4 plus six.
Sam: 13 points.
Matt: Pike is up 13 points.
Sam: Shit. I've got to get out of here. Are you okay, Pike?
Ashley: I am at 13.
Sam: Are you going to be okay?
Ashley: Well, I'm going to run away. I'll be fine.
Marisha: Don't forget, you can go in the mansion. Pop in the mansion to heal.
Sam: I don't want to be a coward.
Laura: You can be a coward, Scanlan. It's okay.
Ashley: You're at four, Scanlan.
Sam: Shit. Well, I'll move away from it. Wait, I'm within its melee?
Matt: Yes, you are within range.
Sam: Jesus. That far away?
Matt: It has a 15-foot bite reach, a ten-foot claw reach, and a 20-foot tail reach.
Sam: Oh my god. Okay. I don't want to hit it. I don't want to go away. Fuck. I don't want to leave my Pikey. I'm not going to leave my Pikey. You never leave your wingman. No.
Laura: Four, Scanlan! Get somewhere safe. That way, you can keep helping her.
Marisha: If he takes you down and multi-attacks you, he could kill you. You healed her, right? She's conscious now.
Sam: I Dimension Door away.
Matt: To where?
Sam: Over in Yenkville, but not in Yenk range.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, there you go.
Travis: In Yenk-adjacent?
Sam: Yeah. The suburbs of Yenkville.
Liam: Mighty Yenky has struck out.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: I know that from here to here, I'm 100 feet, so from the angle, am I 180 feet away to Pike?
Matt: Scanlan, by the way, I need you to make two concentration saving throws. Make two constitution saves.
Sam: With advantage?
Matt: Well, it's one of them with advantage, so roll twice.
Sam: I rolled twice. One was a 17 and one was a ten.
Matt: Yeah, even with the bonuses, Bigby's Hand is gone.
Taliesin: It would have been 19.
Matt: You took full damage from the last blast, so that would have been 72. Half of that would have been-- you had to roll a 36.
Liam: I want to save one action to grab Pike and yank her, so that means I have an action and a bonus action and movement to fly a total of 360 feet, halved, which is 180 feet to Pike, like a rocket. Grab her and roll into the door of the mansion.
Matt: Okay, so as you dart past and grab her--
Laura: Oh, does he get an attack of opportunity on you because you fly by?
Liam: I can arc.
Matt: You're then taking your action to grab her.
Liam: And roll us into the door.
Matt: Okay. You are leaving his combat range in doing so, so he's going to get his attack of opportunity on you, as part of his bite strike against you. That is 18 plus 14, so 32.
Liam: That hits. Do I have momentum, grabbing her?
Matt: If it drops you, you drop, and you drop with her.
Liam: I would imagine I did this. That's the intention. Up and over.
Matt: I understand that. The attack of a bite is going to change your trajectory of a dragon slashing at you. That is eight--
Liam: I'm out, dude. I've got five hit points.
Matt: Total would be eight plus eight, plus an additional 4d6 cold damage. Yeah. You grab Pike. As you begin to try to make the way, the bite snatches into you and lifts you up and throws you to the ground next to Pike, and you're both there on the ground.
Liam: But he bit me, right?
Matt: Yes, didn't bite Pike. You're both right outside of the door right now.
Sam: Pike's alive, and she's super strong.
Marisha: I'm just watching everybody barrel to my feet?
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Laura: My boyfriend!
Matt: That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Fuck. I'm going to try to get his attention and say, hey, stupid! And then I'm going to hit him because that's all I've got.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: 22?
Matt: 22 does hit.
Laura: Do I have sneak attack on him, at all? Marisha is next to him.
Matt: No, he's within range for Marisha. Marisha is not threatening him, at the moment.
Laura: So no sneak attack, although I was hidden at the end of last turn.
Matt: You were. He did not see you.
Ashley: I'm threatening him.
Matt: (laughs) You're growling at him.
Laura: (counting) 28 on the first.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: That was damage. And then the second attack hits. It's a 31. (counting)
Matt: These are sharpshooter shots? It's the 1d10, plus bonus--
Laura: 1d8, plus eight, plus two for dragon, plus Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, there we go. Second one is how much damage?
Laura: 24, with two lighting damage. The first one had four lightning damage.
Matt: Okay. Does that end your turn?
Laura: (sighs) I want to help, I just don't know what I can do. That's all I can keep doing. I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Go for it. Roll a stealth check.
Laura: Like an asshole. 13.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, Vorugal's going to use his second legendary action and is going to swing around with the tail over the top of the rock (impact) to slam down on the conscious Pike. You are prone. It has advantage on the attack roll against you. That is 28 to hit.
Ashley: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm out.
Matt: Pike's now unconscious. Okay. Vorugal is now in this ravenous, primal rage, and is trying to finish things off successively that have been a problem. Now, with that, both of them are unconscious on the ground, Scanlan's out of the picture, Keyleth is still standing right by the side of the tree. Pike, you're up next, so I need you to go ahead and roll a death saving throw. Roll a d20.
Taliesin: This is where being at the end of everything is great.
Liam: 20.
Matt: A 20? Natural 20? You are stabilized. You gain one hit point. You're conscious.
Marisha: Holy shit. That changes everything!
Ashley: I'll take that hit point. Okay. I don't even know what that means.
Matt: You're conscious again. The tail slams you, and you go out, and then as the tail pulls away, (gasps) you catch yourself again. Your turn's over, but you're back. Pulling the tail back. That's the end of your turn.
Ashley: I didn't do anything.
Matt: Your turn was the death saving throw. You take that at the end of your turn. You woke up at the end of it. At the end of your turn, Vorugal uses the third and final legendary action for this round and with a 20-foot range, is going to swing the tail around, breaking through the tree, towards Keyleth. That is a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah. Wait, is this melee? Does this come into play with the cloak? So you're at disadvantage.
Matt: That is a 24. Ancient dragon, sorry. That is 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: And that's it? I'm still alive! (roars) 22? Okay. I have 14 hit points.
Matt: All right. Now it's your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Now it's my turn.
Liam: Go earth elemental!
Marisha: I'm so torn, you guys. Do I heal you guys, or do I do damage and go earth elemental? It's a big decision. Scanlan?
Sam: It's all on you.
Marisha: Pike, you're at one?
Ashley: I'm at one.
Marisha: You're down.
Travis: I'm doing real good.
Marisha: What do I do, guys? Do I try and kill him, or do I heal?
Sam: You've got two nearly dead people right next to you who are feet away from a mansion.
Laura: Can you Grasping Vine them through the mansion door? It's open, right?
Matt: The vine wouldn't pull them through the door because you can only create it within a space where a natural plant would grow.
Marisha: It doesn't work like that, unfortunately.
Sam: But you can throw them, as a beasty elemental.
Matt: What are you going to do, Keyleth? Hurry up.
Marisha: Okay, fuck!
Sam: When I left the mansion, I locked it.
Travis: Did the key break off when you locked it?
Sam: No, it's a code lock. And I forgot the code!
Marisha: I'm going to cast Sunbeam. I'm going to beam in his face.
Sam: On Yenk, of course.
Marisha: It's okay. I've got this. Beam in his face.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Sunbeam. 60-foot line, five-foot wide. Right past that way. Okay.
Taliesin: Actually, does that hit both of them?
Marisha: 60 foot, right through them? Can I?
Matt: You might have to reposition to do so.
Marisha: What, scooch over one? Yeah, I'll scooch over one. Take a side step to line them up.
Matt: You get around the tree and past the rock. Yeah, you can hit both of them.
Marisha: They have to make a constitution save.
Matt: Vorugal, that is a 32. Yenk is a 27. They both make it.
Marisha: Well, they still take half damage. It's 6d8. Normally, they take full damage and they're blinded. It would have been way cooler if it would have worked. Ooh, that's a good roll. 26 points of radiant damage.
Matt: 26, then halved?
Marisha: Then halved. And then I'm going to go air elemental form.
Matt: Embracing the age-old tradition of the Air Ashari, Keyleth vanishes into a form of swirling wind, picking up the various bits of sleet and snow around you. You're almost like a slushy tornado.
Marisha: That's cool. Can I then take whatever movement I have left to try and drag--
Matt: You've already used your action to cast the spell, unfortunately.
Marisha: I can't use my movement to try and move someone?
Matt: You can use your movement to move. To pull somebody with you--
Marisha: That's an action?
Liam: It's all right. I'm fine.
Marisha: Then I'm going to use my movement to go airborne. I think I can go 60 feet? Let me see my fly speed. I have 90 feet.
Matt: 90 feet, so it would be 45 feet up, if you want to.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Kick him on the way up, and then he'll follow you.
Marisha: I give him a little air poof kick in the face, just for flavor.
Matt: Sure, why not?
Marisha: He's getting slushied in the face.
Matt: You rush up into the air. Vorugal does not get an attack of opportunity because he already used his reaction against you. So you (whoosh) without an issue.
Marisha: I hope that was right.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Percy.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take my three shots.
Matt: Right above you, you see Raishan, wings beating, looking over and assessing the battlefield. You see Vorugal down there, bloody. You see Yenk, bloodied. Both engaged and distracted. You are currently not in either of their attentive sphere.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, so the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my bonus action to reload. I'm going to take my three shots at the white dragon with what I have left. I can do nothing. That's 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Taliesin: One necrotic. 12 points, with one necrotic. Shot number one. Next shot, same thing. Standard shot. That ran, but 22? Oh, sorry. It's not 22. I'm so tired. 17. That misses.
Matt: 17 misses, unfortunately. It hits the side, but the shot shatters across the dragonhide.
Ashley: Can I do War God's Blessing from where I'm at?
Matt: You know what? Hold on, Percy. You are conscious on the ground, barely paying attention, and all of a sudden, you hear the shot go off, and you see it about to blast against the hide. As a war cleric? I'll see if he has to be within range, or if it's one of the things that you can do if he attacks an enemy. The creature has to be within 30 feet of you, so no. He's way too far.
Taliesin: 24 for the next shot.
Matt: Third one does hit.
Taliesin: That's 12 points, with two points of necrotic. And I'm going to grab my rope, and I'm going to wave at the green dragon and start dropping down.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I have a rope.
Matt: I know you do. As you leap off the side, the clench in the stone (tink) comes loose, and you (impacts) tumble down the hill. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Yeah! I can do that, even at negative one, I can do that. No, I can't. That was a one.
Matt: Natural one? You tumble Homer Simpson-style (repeated impacts) down the icy, rocky side, landing prone and suffering 18 points of bludgeoning damage on the way, landing prone on the ground. (impact, groan)
Taliesin: Fine!
Matt: Kima's turn. Kima's going to go and flank Yenk against Grog, giving her advantage on her first attack. Yeah, that's a 25 to hit, and her second attack is-- yeah, both hit. The first strike with her Holy Thunder Maul. 19 points of damage against the goristro, and she's going to burn another 3rd-level spell to do a holy smite at third level. All righty. 23 additional radiant damage on top of that, and then her second strike, she's going to burn her last 3rd-level spell to do another smite. That is 16. (counting) 31. Nice! Yeah, she did a lot of damage on that round. Slamming twice with the maul into the backside of Yenk. The first one slams into the shoulder, sending him to the ground with his fist. (grunts) He starts getting back up. She spins, using the inertia, and slams the maul into the side of his knee, which pops out and sends him down onto one knee now, and Yenk is basically half-prostrate in front of you, Grog, preparing for your next round of combat. (growls) Ending Kima's turn. It is now Raishan's turn.
Travis: She made him bend the knee.
Matt: Raishan does not get the breath back. However, is going to fly. Not used to the ice and can't quite get to full speed there, but can get close enough to attempt a Blight spell, at the very least. Vorugal fails. That's an 18. Yeah, fails the save.
Laura: Blight spell.
Marisha: A lot of damage. Come on.
Sam: He's going to resist it.
Taliesin: He might have burned it.
Matt: Yeah, burning a legendary resistance to make it happen, so it still makes the save, so it's still half, but it has one left. Okay, so it takes 18 points of necrotic damage. That's the end of that turn. It is now Yenk's turn. Yenk is going to do a full-on multiattack against you, Grog. That is a 24 to hit?
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: Actually, it has advantage on you because you used reckless attack. That hits. Second one is 26 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And natural 20. All right.
Travis: I'm going to use my Stone's Endurance on the natural 20, and I'll do retaliation on one of those three hits.
Sam: Retaliation? That's new.
Matt: So the first fist is 29 points of piercing damage, so reduce that to 14, plus three points of fire damage as the fist suddenly bursts into flame as it slams into you. The secondary fist comes swinging around the other way, dealing 20 points of piercing damage, reduced to ten. Plus, you take eight points of lightning damage as suddenly an arc of energy streaks from the fist, slamming into the other side of your face, as you're taking it on each side. As you grin, he leaps up into the air, his strong, thick legs getting almost up above you, then kicks down with its hooves towards you like a very angry goat. This is the critical.
Laura: What does stone's endurance do?
Travis: d12 plus my constitution modifier.
Matt: Reduce the damage, yeah.
Taliesin: I've been hit by a goat in the face before. No, really. I got nailed by a goat.
Liam: At the zoo?
Taliesin: No, we were filming this ridiculous television series called Hell Town when I was a kid. It was awful.
Liam: You weren't trying to call Satan?
Taliesin: Not in the show, either.
Matt: 46 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to 23, plus ten points of ice damage as the hooves slam into you, leaving these frozen cracks where the blood should be emanating from. It seals the wound, almost.
Travis: 14, so I reduce that by 14.
Matt: Correct, reduce that by 14, and then make your retaliatory strike.
Travis: Great weapon master, reckless.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 26?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 22.
Laura: Plus ten.
Travis: 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: Yeah, Grog! Get me that staff!
Travis: When he jumped up and did the hoof kick down, I'm going to take it and then grab his hooves and wishbone him. (cheering)
Matt: As you grab him, you try to begin to pull, and he slams onto the ground, and you see him grab his arms back to try and pull himself back up. You kick him straight down again, and as you laugh, you push your foot into his crotch area as you pull Yenk in half with a sheer show of strength, smearing you with black, burning blood. It does burn you. You do suffer five points of fire damage as the blood that's spurting on you is burning into the skin. You tear him mostly in half. You can see the innards spilling into the snow and melting the snow within a five-foot radius of you as he (death rattle) is still surviving as you pull him apart. As you get closer, he reaches forward and grabs you and palms your head with his last bit of strength and begins to squeeze, and then the fingers eventually go lax before the hand (impact) onto the ground.
Travis: I look at both of the legs in my hands, and I look at Kima and go, which one's lucky?
Matt: She goes, "You are." (laughter)
Matt: That ends Yenk's turn.
Sam: Hey, Matt. Can I rewind?
Matt: No. Sorry. Yenk is done and torn open on the ground.
Marisha: Now we have to deal with the two dragons.
Laura: Well, one. Hopefully.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're going to let one leave. One's going to walk.
Matt: Vorugal is going to go ahead and (whoosh) come up and then--
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Pike is not currently threatening him. Yeah, with Raishan blasting and seeing the dragon, Vorugal is going to turn this way, behind this space underneath the air elemental. "You betrayer!" (roars) And unleash a blast of frozen death down, hitting Raishan, as well as Vax and Pike. You're unconscious. Vax, you fail a death saving throw automatically.
Marisha: I thought Pike had one hit point.
Matt: RIght. If you make the save, you're still taking 30-something cold damage, so you're down. Automatic one fail on a death saving throw. Raishan does not make the save and takes 72 points of ice damage. Yeah, that's going to end Vorugal's turn, very angrily. All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: Yeah. Can I make a quick look down? Do I see any Spire of Conflux?
Matt: Make a quick investigation check.
Travis: In my rage? Natural one. I'm going to take off running toward Vorugal!
Matt: That's as far as you can get on your full movement.
Travis: I'll dash to get as far as I can.
Matt: Yeah, you can get about there. All right, that ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will bonus action take my potion of greater healing, right? That's the medium one?
Matt: Yeah. It's 4d4 plus four.
Sam: Okay. Terrible. Okay. Oh man, that's terrible.
Laura: What did you get?
Sam: 11 total.
Travis: From which potion?
Laura: Greater.
Sam: Okay. Well, shit. I'll move towards the dragon a bit.
Matt: Actually, Percy, make a concentration check, if you could. Make a constitution saving throw for Hex, yeah. Forgot about that.
Taliesin: Constitution saving? That would be a negative one? No, not a negative one. Add negative one. That would be 15.
Matt: 15. For you to take half damage? Yeah. Hex stays. All right. Scanlan?
Sam: There are no options. Not to save our friends! I'm way out of range.
Laura: Can you Dimension Door and then run with her?
Sam: I'm done. I've moved. I've acted. I can throw a ball. I'll throw a Fireball at Big Whitey. Centered way back so it doesn't hit any of my friends.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Sam: Three charges, I guess. What do I do? I just do it.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on his save, so he does make his save.
Sam: What I was going to say, I rewind. Because you didn't let me, he has disadvantage on his save this time, because you didn't let me retroactively go back and do it.
Matt: That's right. Natural one. 20, one.
Travis: Are you kidding me?
Marisha: Burn this motherfucker!
Travis: Every time we have one of these big fights--
Taliesin: There's no middle ground, is there? There's no middle ground at all.
Matt: To be fair, we do a lot of rolls in these big fights.
Travis: We do, but a straight 20 to one flip-flop only happens one time.
Sam: 29.
Marisha: That's pretty good. That's okay.
Matt: (explosion) The explosion hits. You see it sends ice shards shooting everywhere, leaving a big crater on the ground where the snow once was, and part of the stonework is barely scratched. The blast hits Vorugal, and Vorugal (grunts). Looks down at the two unconscious bodies on the ground. Looks up at Raishan. (huffs) Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: End of your turn, it's going to use two actions to do a wing attack, beating its wings, hitting every creature within 15 feet. You're out of range, actually, Marisha. Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I think I have advantage on this because of rage. I do. 21.
Matt: 21? That unfortunately fails. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage, and you're knocked prone. Also, Pike and Vax, you both fail a death saving throw from the bludgeoning winds of the ice dragon's wings beating downward.
Marisha: You guys are at two failed?
Laura: He's at two failed. Pike's at one.
Matt: Vorugal is going to head upward and begin flying this direction to turn tail and flee.
Sam: Do you get an attack because he's flying by you?
Marisha: Yeah, do I get an attack of opportunity here?
Sam: You are right over him.
Matt: You were right over him. As he gets up, I'll give you one. I don't have any more of these things here.
Liam: Blow everything you've got. Blow it. He's leaving. Unleash.
Marisha: Can I do a spell attack on him? It's just melee, right?
Matt: That's specifically a War Caster feat ability.
Marisha: Just one slam attack? Nope. Definitely not.
Taliesin: How fast? Is he still within visual range?
Matt: Currently, yeah. He just moved 40 feet with that one reaction.
Laura: We can still hit him with the ranged?
Matt: Possibly, yeah. That ends Scanlan's turn. Vax, I need you make a death saving throw. You have advantage.
Sam: Advantage?
Liam: 17.
Matt: So you're okay for now. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to hit him twice.
Marisha: Fucking burn this guy down!
Taliesin: Hit him with everything we've got.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25 on the first.
Matt: 25 damage? All right, and the second hit?
Laura: The second is also 27.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: We're going to live!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: He's taking away, and you have a shot as it's arcing to the right of you, bleeding and limping in the air, but managing to pick up speed. The sleet and snow is strong and firing around you.
Laura: I want to see a cut on his stomach where Yenk left a hole, and I want to go straight into his heart.
Matt: The first arrow, you aim for it. It streaks off and hits another wound and gets jammed in. You pull back with the second arrow, and right as you see the snow beginning to blind, the one moment of clarity that hits you, (arrow firing) you release the arrow, piercing inside where the wound was, where one of Yenk's horns had gashed into the front of his chest. Vorugal (roars) and spins into a corkscrew, plummets and crashes into the side of the ravine, tumbles backward. Rocks come tumbling onto it. Vorugal hits the ground, smacked open. As it begins to get back up, (impacts) a bunch of rocks slam down, and one big shard of ice (impacts) slams into it. (panting) Still writhing in place as he's bleeding out.
Laura: And a tree grows out of his guts.
Matt: He's still currently holding on as he's jammed to the ground. You see the bluish-purple blood leaking out the side of the mouth. (panting) It can't move, and you can see the strength leaving Vorugal's body. Raishan swoops up next to Vorugal's corpse, leaning over. (cackles) "Tell your master on the other side, when you see him, that it was worth it." And Raishan sinks her teeth into his throat and tears it out. You see the spray of blood across Raishan's mouth and across the front of the ravine as Vorugal's body falls limp onto the ground. Spits the chunk of white dragon flesh onto the bottom of the ravine. The green dragon spins around, facing you all. "Well done." And backs into a sitting position. The wings furl down and fold into her side. "Take your spoils. It seems the war is nigh."
Taliesin: There will be a conversation.
Travis: I run as fast as I can over to Pike and Vax.
Taliesin: I run to the body of the big demonic thing and start going through it.
Matt: Okay, roll an investigation check.
Travis: I have two basic potions. I de-cork both of them and shove them in their gullets.
Matt: While that's happening, in the time it takes you guys to rush over, I need you both to make one more death saving throw.
Marisha: Oh, fuck. Come on, you guys.
Liam: A ten and a three! (laughter)
Taliesin: Not funny!
Ashley: 11.
Matt: Grog comes by, scoops you both up, and force-feeds you two basic healing potions. You both come to consciousness bruised, beaten, but apparently the current struggle is done, though you're now shivering, cold, soaked through. All of you, the elements have really sunk in once the adrenaline begins to wear off.
Laura: I fly down and cast Cure Wounds on Vax.
Travis: The two of you, inside the mansion. Now.
Matt: How much do your potions heal for them? It's 1d4 plus four. Sorry, 2d4 plus two.
Marisha: Yes, we do.
Taliesin: Vex, we have a dragon to disassemble.
Marisha: You go. I'm the one who's good at harvesting.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Plus two, eight. You heal eight, Vax.
Travis: Eight.
Laura: Get inside, now.
Matt: So seven to Pike.
Laura: I'm going to fly over and try to help Percy, now that they're safe.
Taliesin: I got a 16.
Matt: 16, you healed?
Taliesin: No, 16 to investigate.
Matt: As you start peering through, you can see there's an intestinal tract that's covered in thorns. It's a very weird, fucked-up alien creature, based on any sort of anatomic understanding. As you pull back, you can find there's one rigid portion of the inside of its intestinal tract that is swollen and looks to have this weird black, pulsing mass that surrounds it, like it's infected perpetually.
Taliesin: I pull out my sword and cut it out.
Matt: As you pull it back, you can see there are actual vines and ivy that have begun to grow inside its abdomen. You tear back and pull it, and as soon as you cut back the rest of the muscle that's currently tensing it in, the muscle almost instinctually pulls back, all the tension lost, and it almost fires this staff-like entity out. It shoots outward, and you have to dodge to the side immediately. You see that it's strangely pristine amongst all the crimson and gore. The blood of this creature does not even touch its surface. A twisted series of clumped-together thorny vines that form this curvature at the top. A singular yellowish-green gem in the center that hovers, locked in place by no noticeable force. It's there, jutting out of the body of the creature.
Marisha: I run to Percy.
Taliesin: I walk to you. We're walking to the dragon, anyway. I hand it to you. Your majesty.
Laura: I land next to them. Oh my god. Let's get inside. (offscreen clatter)
Marisha: That's right!
Taliesin: Karma's a bitch!
Liam: Vorugal ain't shit!
Matt: You all rush into the inside of the mansion?
Marisha: I don't, immediately.
Taliesin: We're finishing up the harvesting, and I go to talk to Raishan really quickly.
Laura: I stay out, and I search more around Yenk.
Taliesin: I'm sending you to work on the dragon.
Marisha: I'm coming with you to have that conversation.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: I'm coming with you to have that conversation.
Sam: I will come, as well, to make sure Keyleth doesn't kill anyone.
Taliesin: Thank you. You've earned a conversation. We'll see you at home. You should get there quickly so there's no suspicion.
Sam: What's home?
Taliesin: We don't say it.
Matt: "Very well. I hope that perhaps this display of intent has quelled some of your worries. I'll see you at home, then." The form shifts down to that of Asum, closes the eyes for a second, and the form shifts as you see a sudden glyph appear beneath, and vanishes.
Taliesin: That was not a fight we were about to have.
Marisha: (sighs heavily) I silently go and start harvesting the white dragon.
Laura: Did you see how weak she was, compared to Vorugal?
Marisha: Let's just hope she stays that way. I start harvesting the white dragon as much as I can.
Liam: I'm going to find Larkin.
Sam: Send up a signal flare.
Laura: I take an empty potion bottle out and get some of Yenk's blood and put it in the cold.
Matt: Okay. As you're doing that, too, you're noticing that Yenk's body is rapidly decomposing. Its form is dissolving from the inside.
Marisha: I try as fast as I can-- wait, from who?
Taliesin: I'm going to run over and try and pull anything from Yenk.
Matt: I figure, for the fact that it's near midnight, we can begin next game working out the logistics of what you've managed to harvest with the rolls and such. We'll pick up from here next time. That was intense, guys. Well done.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Sam: Perfectly executed plan.
Taliesin: It really was. It actually was. How was this terrible?
Travis: That couldn't have gone any worse in the beginning. They hit each other maybe once, and then it was all on!
Matt: Actually, they did some pretty decent-- I think Yenk did close to 100 points of damage before you guys even engaged Vorugal.
Marisha: Can I see it?
Matt: (laughing) Can you see it?
Marisha: I really don't want to wait a week.
Matt: Sure. You can go ahead and have a look at your Spire of Conflux. You earned it.
Taliesin: Good work, girl.
Marisha: I didn't think I was going to get one, you guys!
Matt: Well, guys. Well done. You've now taken three of the five Chroma Conclave dragons, and with the death of Vorugal, pretty much are spearheading the final push to Thordak.
Liam: Is Thordak scared yet?
Matt: We'll find out. (chuckles) Well, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night. Thank you for those who stuck around for as late as this epic battle went. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Travis: Glad Pike was here for the fight! (cheering)
Marisha: Sarenrae!
Matt: Divine Intervention! Punched Vorugal into the dirt, man.
Laura: Thank you, Loot Crate.
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate for being awesome sponsors. Thank you, Critters for being such amazing people and for being so supportive of the community and the show and the story and making your own stories. We're so happy and so proud to have you with us. Be sure to check out the many charities that we support: 826LA, as well as all of our individual charities. You can look up the Critter's Guide to Critmas and see the list of them there. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [no audio]
Liam: I said a bad word. I got the soap.
Matt: That's called karma. First and foremost, we're going to get through our announcements for the evening so we can hop into the game. First off, tonight's awesome sponsor returning to us is Backblaze.
Sam: Yeah, are we good, guys? Are we good? What's going on over there? There's lots of people pulling out their hair.
Offscreen: I think we're having sound issues.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Sam: A lot of people doing this. (panicked sounds)
Travis: Out of sync, is what they're saying.
Offscreen: All right, Twitch has sound.
Sam: Twitch has sound? We're good to go?
Matt: All righty. So Sam.
Sam: Hi. You know, Backblaze is one of our top two favorite sponsors. (laughter)
Sam: We love them to death. They love us. They are Critters. In fact, coming up later, you should tune in to the break to see their newest ad. It's made for Critters by a Critter. Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. I actually use it. All my shit's backed up. Tonight, I prepared a word game for all of you to compete. You have to buzz in. You have to give me the answer. I can give you two clues, like two words, and you buzz in and tell me what the words are. Here's a hint. Here's a clue: all the answers are the same. Okay, so like, for instance, if I were to say, the rear part of your chest and what a fire does--
Laura: Backblaze.
Sam: Backblaze, that's right. One point for Laura. Okay. Here the game begins. The opposite color of white, and the topmost part of a helicopter.
Travis: Black blades! (laughter)
Sam: Classical composer Johann Sebastian, and a hairstyle made popular by Pippi Longstocking.
Laura: Bach braids!
Sam: Laura Bailey. Two points.
Marisha: Is there a buzzer system?
Sam: You just have to say it. Pages of paper bound together and a climbing or rappel technique.
Travis: Binder rappel!
Laura: Brad! No.
Travis: Book rappel. Book belay. Book belay! (laughs) I'm the smartest man alive!
Sam: Is it two-to-two right now?
Laura: I thought pages binded together. I was going to say brad.
Sam: Okay, this is not a real game. I invented this on the drive over! Okay, one more. You know what? You guys aren't playing anymore. This is between Laura and Travis. You know what? I'm going to do two more, just because I love them. Popular Ben Folds Five song, and the abrasive sound a donkey makes.
Liam: Brick bray!
Sam: Brick bray, yes! One more. One more. To get stoned and to get stoned. It's bake blaze. Anyway, Bakeblaze is an unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs. It can backup fanart, fanfic, music, photos, videos, drawings, documents, all of your data. You can restore by mail. If you crash, they'll send you a hard drive. It's amazing. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, Bakeblaze, for your sponsorship. All right. Let me get through the next few announcements really quick, then. You guys got to see a video before this that Geek and Sundry put together. It was a fun weekend shoot to talk about the game Masquerada. I talked about it in previous episodes, but it's an awesome PC RPG. I am so in love with the process of us putting this together. It's a great story, fantastic cast, incredible writing, and very much hearkens to the isometric, Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment-style RPG format of the early 2000s. I highly recommend it. You should check it out. I think it's in Steam now, and hope you like it. Next up, my first episode of the new GM Tips series is out today. It goes a little behind my screen, and gives some ideas as to how you can set up your own GM circumstance and experience. Mind you, most of it's just fluff. You don't need any of that to run a game. You can just have books, dice, paper, and pens, and you're good to go. But these are just suggestions and an example of the things that I do to run my game smoothly, and you should check it out if you'd like it. New episodes will be coming out every Wednesday on Alpha, I suppose, and then on Thursdays coming out on YouTube and the website proper.
Travis: Is it pronounced GM tips, or gmmm tips?
Matt: Gmmm tips. They are now. It is now Matthew Mercer's Gmmm Tips. Thank you, Travis. Disadvantage. (laughter)
Matt: So check that out. Also, my last announcement for me. There's a project up on Kickstarter right now called Open Legend RPG. It's a cool new RPG system. Both myself and Ed Greenwood, the creator of Faerun and the Forgotten Realms, are contributing to this project. It looks pretty cool, people involved are really nice, and go ahead and check it out, see if it's your jam. And if it is, you should go ahead and help support it, so check it out. It's Open Legend RPG. That's all my announcements. Does anybody else have anything they want to talk about?
Laura: What about our Halloween costume competition?
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: I've been seeing some of them. It's Critical Costumes, is the hashtag, right?
Sam: #CriticalCostumes. You explained the competition?
Laura: Yeah. Next week, I think, is where we're stopping. Halloween will be the last day?
Marisha: On Halloween.
Laura: Halloween's the last day to submit, and then we're all just going to look at all your costumes and just decide who we like.
Marisha: I will say I had a cat dress up as my character, so the bar is pretty high.
Laura: I saw a really amazing Vex today. I'm just saying, I may be biased.
Sam: So just to be clear, the winners are not going to be announced next week. It's the week after.
Matt: No, the week after. The first Thursday of November, we'll be announcing the winners.
Sam: We don't know what the prizes are. But it will include my shirts.
Liam: Your sweaty shirts.
Laura: But not that shirt.
Sam: Yeah, this is my shirt. Forever.
Matt: One of these days, you're going to wake up, put a shirt on, and the universe is going to fold in on you. I'm excited. All righty. Anything else? All right, then. That being the case, let's go ahead and dive down into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Marisha: --balanced breakfast!
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. I just physically ordered the other torch, so that'll be fixed soon. Because sometimes you just got to do it yourself. Anyway, welcome back. So to continue from where we left off for tonight's episode of Critical Role, Vox Machina, our heroic players and characters, in fighting their way across the land of Tal'Dorei against the Chrome Conclave, a gathering of ancient chromatic dragons that have torn the current civilization asunder. They've gathered a number of artifacts of old called the Vestiges of Divergence and recently made allies with one of these dragons, Raishan, the green dragon of the conclave, apparently interested in revolting against the conclave's leader, Thordak the Cinder King. A tentative alliance has been forged and to prove both the stalwartness of that alliance, as well as to further your agenda against the conclave, you all traveled back to Wildemount, to the ruins of Draconia. With the help of the Ravenites you set a trap for Vorugal, the Frigid Doom. You summoned, using your single Gate scroll, from the Abyss, Yenk the Goristro, a great, powerful siege demon and caused it to battle with the white dragon. Partway through, the encounter got more intense, you all rushed into the fray. Got the crap kicked out of you in a lot of cases but when all was said and done, with the aid of Raishan, you felled Vorugal. The final shot being landed by Vex'ahlia herself.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You guys have now taken a moment. You've discussed with Raishan to meet back in Whitestone, after which she reverted form and vanished. And you've now begun to collect your spoils and gather what you can from the battlefield at this moment. So that's where we pick up this week. What would you like to do?
Liam: Man, we've gotta find Larkin.
Laura: Did you have dragon bits you wanted to gather?
Marisha: I did, very much so.
Taliesin: And some Yenk, I imagine.
Marisha: A little bit of Yenk, a little bit of dragon.
Laura: I got a little Yenk blood already.
Matt: You did.
Liam: Brazen, guys.
Matt: All right, so, you're heading to the dragon or Yenk first?
Marisha: Dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you head to the dragon. Okay. So you guys head over there. You now see partially elements of the wall that had crumbled in on Vorugal's body. You see now, emerging from the center of the scales in the chest as it lays on its back, slain, its throat torn out by Raishan, a piercing tree begins to burrow its way through the torso of the dragon and bloom outwards. Waiting for that process to finish, you bring out your carving dagger and--
Marisha: I patiently wait for the tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I don't want to interrupt. That's rude.
Matt: It grows pretty fast as part of the enchantment of Fenthras. So, that brief pause completed, you go to town with your blade on the dragon's corpse. Let's go ahead and make a check on this. This would be--
Marisha: Nature, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: With advantage. Oh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28, okay. It'll take you the better part of about an hour to really harvest everything you want from this that's usable, and that's with aid from Scanlan, because it's a very big dragon, and that's a pretty small blade. So you begin that process.
Laura: I can help. I want to go up and carve a bear onto the tree growing out of Vorugal.
Taliesin: I may lend my cut-dragon-like-butter blade to this whole process.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I just pull off a scale? A single scale. Is that really hard to do?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Two.
Matt: You spend the next minute and a half going (grunting sounds). It's not budging.
Sam: It's actually three.
Matt: Oh, the next minute and 20 seconds going (grunting sounds).
Sam: Great.
Matt: You do manage to found a couple loose scales on the ground nearby after you've thoroughly embarrassed yourself.
Sam: I'll grab one and then I'll immediately start yelling for Tooma. (yelling) Tooma!
Matt: Okay, while he's doing that, what are you guys doing?
Travis: Right, so the dragon's got booty, right?
Laura: Yeah, like a lot.
Travis: So I look over and they're working on the dragon bits. Everything's cool? Yenk is like melting into the snow, right, because he's like a hell fiend or whatever?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running towards the lair.
Laura: Grog!
Sam: I'm going to go with.
Matt: Grog's already run off. Scanlan's following.
Sam: I'm going to Polymorph into an eagle.
Laura: Fucking fuck! Do you guys have this?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Give me a claw. I want a claw to wear around my neck.
Marisha: You're going to be like Mr. T.
Laura: I want something to wear around my neck. Fucking something, all right!
Taliesin: We'll find something.
Laura: I'll take off on the broom after Grog.
Liam: Just scooping up Pike into a bit of a piggy back ride and carrying her inside and we're going to rest.
Matt: Okay. She's thoroughly hurt, but you still have the entrance to the mansion. Yeah, so you guys pull into there to rest for the moment. While Grog, as you're running, this eagle comes up to your side, is gaining on you a bit. As you come over the top of this one little ridge area, as the ravine begins to widen and head towards the lair portion that Vorugal was using, you see before you a group of about 22 or so armored dragonborn that are currently jogging up the ramp in your direction. As soon as you cross over the top they come to a slower point, with their weapons out, and you see one of them raise its hand. You recognize Skork, who you met earlier, who goes, "We've come to aid you!"
Travis: I'm still raging using Persistent Rage and I point over my shoulder and yell, Dragon that way! And I keep running past them.
Matt: All right! They pick up their weapons and keep running past you as you [whoosh] through them, the eagle following closely after.
Sam: Is Tooma with them?
Matt: Tooma is not with them, no.
Laura: I followed too. I am following as well.
Matt: Yeah, you coast up behind, you begin catching up to Grog and the wayward eagle. You're the fastest of everything right now.
Sam: I'm following him.
Matt: So you're staying back at same speed. Okay. As you guys begin carving, you begin hearing the footsteps approaching of numerous dragonborn. The rest of you guys continue down the path. You see the icy throne, if you will, of where Vorugal had placed as the new lair on this northern portion of the ravine. You guys that are staying behind, as you're carving your way into the dragon, all of a sudden you hear the footsteps and a bunch of these dragonborn, armored, with scavenged pieces, leather hide with metallic bits of armor. Weapons, definitely not of the highest degree from what you can tell, though some are ornate and seemingly unused, maybe scavenged from the fall of Draconia. They approach and slow their jog and look over at the destroyed corpse of the dragon.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Things went well.
Marisha: Man, how long of a jog is that?
Matt: They all look confused at each other and start talking to each other in a language you don't understand.
Marisha: Man, ooh, Vex isn't here.
Taliesin: No. All good. Good.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: They nod and Skork gives a respectful nod and they all approach the dragon's corpse and start hacking into it.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, no. Hold on.
Taliesin: No. I'm going to point at all-- you all, sun goes down, all of us drink back there. Go back. Everything's fine.
Matt: Skork takes two steps forward and goes, "I understand this speak."
Taliesin: Oh, why didn't you say something? You're standing there making us very nervous.
Matt: (disgruntled grunt) "Look. We have to come to aid you in the battle as promised. You have seemingly done well without our presence. So let's all harvest the uses of what remains of this beast."
Taliesin: I'm fair with that, all right. Harvest gently. We're trying to keep as much of it--
Marisha: Yes, I'm working right here on this area and Vex wants a claw.
Matt: "Take what you wish. We are interested in hide and meat."
Taliesin: And we are interested in scale, tooth, and claw, and maybe some eyeballs, so that works out very well.
Marisha: And blood.
Matt: "Perhaps some teeth and claws as well. We shall trade." (speaks Draconic) All of them rush up and start hacking into the soft portions of the underbelly, where it's been exposed from where you guys have left large wounds and such and basically start to carve huge bits of dragon meat off the body.
Taliesin: Mind the tree. Mind the tree.
Matt: One of them was going for the tree and stops like-- And then looks very confused that the tree wasn't piercing through the dragon, but was rooted inside of it. They all take a moment to start carving around it. It's a very awkward. They don't know what the hell happened and it looks very strange from an outsider's perspective, but they're trying to adjust best they can.
Travis: New town square will be built around it.
Matt: In the meantime, the three of you guys coast down towards the lair. You can still see all the ice spires that are jutting out from portions of the snow, the various dragonborn corpses still adorning a number of the spires. As you begin to approach the throne of Vorugal, you can see there's a group of about 15 or so dragonborn currently there that are starting to climb up and get to that portion to inspect. You see, first, before anyone else does, Vex, that one of them appears to be Tooma, who is walking with this gnarled staff that she keeps to her side. And they're all approaching and climbing up the sides of the throne to get to the top.
Laura: I shout out, don't go up there!
Matt: You shout that and there's a moment of pause. Then, all of them turn and look in your direction.
Laura: I fly down close to Tooma and say quietly, Thordak has means of seeing through the stones up there. If you go up top, it's possible he'll be able to know that Vorugal has fallen. He might already know.
Matt: "This is good to know." (speaks Draconic) And the dragonborn around slowly pull backwards. You understand her saying, "Hold off. Words of warning." They all pull back and gather around you, and stand, awaiting what this conversation is going to entail as Tooma steps forward to you. "So am I to understand, then, that the dragon has fallen?"
Laura: (laughing) Yes.
Sam: I'll drop my form and throw the scale in front of her. It's done. There's your fucking dragon.
Matt: She looks over at the rest of the people who are all looking towards her for confirmation. She goes, "You came to us with words. You stood behind them. You displayed honor and honesty, things we find rare in supply outside of our people. Us, the Ravenites, survivors of chain and frost, are now truly free. We thank you."
Laura: And we thank you.
Sam: But we'll need something more than just thanks. We have two requests to make of you. One, this is not the final fight. There will be more, and unlike this fight, we would expect your aid in the next one. Is that something you can guarantee us?
Matt: "I am curious as to what you require from us."
Sam: We don't know yet, but you have many men, and they seem like good fighters, so we may call upon you in the future.
Matt: "Against what foe?"
Laura: Thordak the Ancient. He was commander of all of these dragons.
Matt: You see her face immediately goes from that calm, welcoming, elated expression she had a moment ago to this guarded, retracted position where she shifts her weight onto the back leg and--
Laura: You are not beholden to us. We ask this of your own free will. All of Tal'Dorei is at risk.
Matt: "We are not an army. We wish to help in this fight, for we had a stake in it, both of us. This was a mutual arrangement. You owe us nothing. We owe you nothing. But we are not ready to continue the fight immediately with a more dangerous foe than this one."
Sam: Hopefully, it won't be immediately. And might I remind you that you did not help us in this fight. We did it all by ourselves.
Matt: "Who do you think arranged, through previous conversation, to send the dragon your way into the trap that you had sprung? At my suggestion of the place of proper, and most conventional and helpful circumstances?"
Laura: It's true, Scanlan, they did help a lot in that regard.
Matt: "We may not have the might to finish the dragon--"
Sam: You told us that you would have men there to help us, and there was nothing. We almost died.
Matt: "We sent men your way!"
Sam: You knew when the fight was.
Matt: "We knew when to begin the fight, but we do not have means of travelling as fast as a dragon!"
Travis: I'm running around like a cracked-out PCP addict in the background. Just looking on the ground for booty, that's all.
Matt: Perception check.
Travis: One. (laughter)
Matt: There is snow and ice and it's pissing you off!
Travis: I'm doing the dog thing.
Matt: More snow. More and more snow. In the middle of this conversation, some of it starts spattering the side of Vex. You're like, "Stop it!" Angrily rage-looting nothing. (laughs)
Laura: Draconia has had a history of separating itself from the rest of Tal'Dorei. This is an opportunity for you to welcome other communities, to become part of the rest of the world.
Matt: "You are right. [no audio] And from this, I think we could try to rebuild, a new home for the dragonborn of Wildemount. Learn from the mistakes of our predecessors and our oppressors. We are no majestic mage nation by any means, but we can learn."
Laura: You are strong.
Matt: "They are strong. My time is nearly up. But what time I have left, I fully intend to make sure that there is a future for my people. For the Ravenites."
Sam: One more request, before we go. Once we're long gone, you can feel free to inspect this hill where the dragon slept, and be very careful in disarming any traps that you might find there. I would ask you one favor for us: we lost a friend in this fight, a dragonborn. He's buried near here. We'll tell you where. We would like a proper tomb for him on this hill, where the dragon slept. Could you build a statue, a fine statue, a handsome statue of Tiberius Stormwind, and bury him underneath it. And on the pedestal, could you please write, "I encourage peace."
Matt: She looks over at one of the nearby dragonborn. "This is Korsa. He is our finest stonesmith. I will see to it that it is done."
Sam: Teach your people of him, your offspring, that he was a brave dragonborn that wanted to unify all of your peoples.
Matt: "This can be done. (sighs) This mound represents the spoils of the remains of Draconia the dragon greedily stole, hoarded, and forced us to gather at the base of its icy seat. This will be the beginning of our new nation, and with this, we will make sure this statue comes to bear."
Sam: Good luck.
Travis: Where the fuck is it?! That's all you hear me say. (laughter)
Sam: What are you looking for?
Travis: Help me look!
Sam: For what? What are we looking for?
Travis: Just dig! (laughter)
Travis: Can I make another perception check, please?
Matt: No.
Travis: No?!
Matt: You can, Scanlan.
Sam: What am I looking for? Grog, what am I looking for?
Travis: We're looking for that booty.
Sam: Booty? Just dragon booty? It would be up where the dragon sleeps, not down here.
Laura: There's some under the ice right here.
Sam: All right, I will peer down into the ice below us with my 21 perception.
Matt: Okay. You glance down, and after pushing some of the snow out of the way, it's amazing that Grog didn't see this at all, but not really when you think about it. Encased in this pedestal that Vorugal had taken as a perch, beneath multiple feet of thick, locked ice, you see an incredible amount of hoarded gold, silver, platinum glittering as bits of light break through the overhead clouds, as the sleet is still raining down in places. Bits of it gleam and shift and shimmer. You can see finely crafted knick-knacks and statues and gems and antiqued metals all buried deep beneath this platform. It looks to be pieces of ornate armor and weaponry, all sorts of a random assortment of items that are locked beneath feet of ice, right there before you.
Sam: Nothing there, Grog. Sorry.
Travis: No! It has to be here somewhere!
Sam: (whispering) Just look right there, friend.
Travis: What?
Sam: (whispering) Right there.
Travis: Where? What?
Sam: He's my BFF.
Travis: I see it?
Matt: Oh yeah, once he points it out, you immediately clarify and the red haze that was covering your eyes suddenly fades and you see shiny.
Travis: Can I use the siege portion of the Titanstone Knuckles and start smacking the shit out of this ice trying to get down there?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Just like (smashing noises).
Matt: Yeah. (laughs)
Travis: I deal double damage against objects or structures.
Matt: Yeah, and as you start, each punch, the ice (splintering noise) more cracks begin to spider out. An incredible feat of strength and you can see the dragonborn take a few steps back at this view, and Tooma is almost intrigued at this point, staring with this grin across her face as this symbolic destruction of what represented Vorugal's lording over their entire life is being ripped apart by this half-giant madman. A few more punches through and a whole portion slides off and you have to move out of the way. You knock it aside with your fist and keep punching through and eventually you get about, over the next ten or 15 minutes, breaking through enough of the ice that you start hitting (clanging), starting to hit the actual outskirts of this large pile of gold pieces.
Laura: Wait, Grog. Can I check for any traps or is it like totally fine? Because I've been here before and it's not pleasant.
Travis: I really wouldn't mind.
Laura: Investigation? 18?
Matt: Okay, glancing about best you can in the vicinity, you don't see any traps.
Laura: What about the gemstones? Those are up high. I'm staying away from those.
Sam: We're outside the perimeter of the gemstones or the the main portion of the lair, right?
Matt: Yeah, the orbs are embedded in the top restful area. The actual hoard is hidden, locked beneath the ice at the base of this large platform, so you're essentially punching through the bottom portion. Much like any sandcastle, the further you go, the less structural integrity it has. You're starting to make headway into releasing and finding access to some of the horde yourself.
Travis: We need heat, and more than my wee urine can generate.
Sam: I can give us a little bit of fire?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, or get Keyleth over here.
Laura: Do you have dragon's breath?
Matt: She points to two of them and brings them over and two of the dragonborn step forward and release this torrent of flame into the area that you've already carved out.
Sam: Ooh, they can do that?
Matt: Yeah, it only lasts a few seconds and it causes a portion of it to melt back, but it's still extremely strong ice and it didn't have as much of an impact as you hoped it would've. This is very, very sturdy white dragon-conjured, ice-protected walls.
Laura: Just keep on punching it, Grog.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Just punch it. You're doing some good damage.
Travis: But no fireballs?
Sam: I have a fireball. I'll send a fireball over there. Back up a little bit.
Travis: Why? What if I want to be close?
Sam: Well, you'll get burned.
Liam: You're way down by 101 hit points, though.
Travis: I know. Yeah, I'm still up in the three digits. Let's make it exciting.
Sam: I'm not going to burn you, Grog. Just take ten feet.
Travis: All right, all right! Ten feet!
Sam: All right, I'll send a wand of fireballs down. I don't know, is that magic actually hot when it goes off?
Matt: Yeah, it's hot and it's an explosion. It's not just fire. It's an explosion. So it detonates from the inside of that small concave path that you had punched through and as it hits and detonates you can see the ice further crack. The ice begins to crack even further and portions of it, you see a bit of snow bank that had gathered at the top shakes free and off the side, revealing some of the upper platform.
Sam: We don't want to make too much of a disturbance here.
Laura: No, we don't.
Sam: Let's just take some stuff on the outside.
Travis: Is there any free platinum or gold or little bits I can start to put in my hands?
Matt: Yeah, you can start scooping bits.
Laura: You might want to ask Tooma if she has a problem with you taking all of Draconia's gold.
Travis: You saw what his face did, didn't you? Tooma, we are about to unsheathe and reveal a great fortune, of which we have very little interest because honestly it weighs us down. We're, like, plenty loaded already. However, it is a tradition to take little bits here and there as keepsakes.
Matt: "The spoils here were largely collected from the wreckage of our captors and much of the gold here was earned through our blood and turmoil. However, we were able to free ourselves and have access to this fortune a great deal thanks to your aid. We are more than willing to divide this between your folk and ours."
Travis: That sounds most generous. Shall we look for specifically interesting little bits, or just grab the platinum?
Sam: Just grab whatever's closest and leave.
Travis: Are there any interesting-looking weapons or unique items that are out of the ordinary?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Any looking-magically thingies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yes! Minus two. 17.
Sam: I will look for weapons of any sort. Ooh, 30. Investigation, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: 16.
Matt: (laughing) Do you want to add your bardic inspiration dice to that to be a dick?
Laura: Inspire me!
Sam: Did you suck or something?
Laura: Yeah, I only got 16.
Sam: Okay, I will add my bardic inspiration. I will sing to her. (singing) Something in the way I wink, inspires you like no other gnome can. Something makes you stop and think, how did he get so handsome? How did he get so suave?
Laura: Six extra points, so 22.
Matt: All right, there you go. Now Critical Role owes a royalty to the Beatles. All right, so, Grog, you find a painted gold war mask that looks really cool and nasty with the lower jaw. You're like, yes and you can put it on.
Travis: Yep, in fact, I lick it knowing that it's cold and I stick it to my face.
Matt: Okay. Your tongue sticks to the mask.
Travis: Fuck! And I rip it off.
Matt: You rip it off, all right. You take a point of damage. And your tongue is pounding with pain (throbbing) as the top layer of skin has been torn off your tongue. But the mask is still yours. You do also find a really beautiful black stone. It's really well cut and it's about that big and it's really pretty and dark and awesome.
Travis: I love stones. I'm a fucking fan.
Matt: And a whole shitton of gold and platinum. You, looking through, you find a beautiful reddish ruby gem that has this slightly gold refraction in the center of it that's somewhat symmetrical, it looks otherworldly almost. It's beautiful. You see deeper within the actual hoard a ship's mast that was plated with gold that has been jammed in the center of the hoard, wreckage that was dragged here and included in the hoard. You do also see, amongst some of the gold, a small vial with liquid that is unaffected by the freezing temperatures around it.
Laura: What color is the liquid?
Matt: The liquid is-- let me look that up.
Travis: This is my favourite part, getting new shit.
Matt: It is like a thick syrupy metallic, like a liquid iron, a reddish metallic tint to it.
Travis: I had an idea until reddish, but I don't know anymore.
Matt: And you find a pair of boots that are made from a very thick, dark brown hide.
Laura: Another boots of haste! For sure!
Travis: They're probably like elephant strength boots.
Laura: Definitely boots of haste! Pair of boots out of brown leather, you said?
Matt: Yeah, a dark brown leather, not very elaborate in their design, but they're well made and seemingly have braved the cold weather well enough.
Taliesin: They're Boots of Taste that you have.
Travis: I appreciate well-made boots.
Liam: They're Uggs.
Taliesin: They're Uggs.
Travis: Do we have an approximation of the gold and platinum?
Matt: We'll get to that in a second. Sam!
Sam: I'm sorry, who?
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Whoa! What just happened?
Matt: You find amongst this a platinum bracelet set with a gorgeous sapphire that looks like it's probably worth quite a bit. You also find another unbroken vial amongst a series of other vials that did break in the process of being hoarded here, the liquid spilled out. There's one unbroken vial. This one is a yellowish fluid with black swirls that shift on their own inside the vial's contents. As you shake it, you see they move at a faster speed and then slow down in a reverse direction. It's a very interesting pattern.
Taliesin: Lava lamp.
Matt: Kind of. Underneath that vial, you see a very beautiful--
Laura: Ooh, sheets of paper!
Travis: I love this shit. It's like walking into a Toys 'R' Us. It's the fucking best. It's like, "Which way do I go?!"
Liam: Find the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
Sam: That was easy!
Matt: There you go! You find a gold and platinum band that is two separate bands that are woven together like a braid in a band.
Sam: Like a back braid?
Matt: Kind of. Other than that, it looks nice. There's no other defining markings on it. Looks like it would be worth quite a bit. You do, also, as you rolled ridiculously high, in pulling the ring out and the vial, you glance over and a handle is embedded in a large part of the gold. You go and grab it and it's actually a pretty big handle once you get your gnomish hand on it. You pull and you pull forth a very beautiful platinum greatsword. It has a series of small symbols carved along the base of the blade on each side. The handle comes a gradual upward curve. It looks beautiful, ornamental, like something you'd see in a temple as part of a centerpiece. But it's weighted properly for a greatsword and is far too big for you to ever possibly muster in battle.
Sam: I can't use this, so I'll just leave it.
Travis: Wait! Let's not be hasty! My god, it's beautiful!
Sam: Do you want it?
Travis: I'm very emotional about this right now. Can I check it for traps?
Sam: Check it for traps.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: It is a natural 20, oh my god.
Matt: You have never been so sure in your life that this sword: totally not trapped.
Taliesin: I'm so hoping it talks to you now, I'm so hoping it starts talking to you.
Travis: 'Tis clean.
Sam: 'Tis clean?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: You hold it, I can't hold it, it's too heavy. It weighs as much as I do.
Laura: How's it feel, Grog?
Travis: Feels like money, money, money.
Laura: Speaking of money, money, money.
Matt: As you begin pulling out these materials, a series of the other Ravenites start gathering gold, filling sacks and having to pass them off. You see now two of them are pulling two big carts over and are loading up cash in the area. This is going to push your bag of holding.
Travis: That's why I said we can't take that much.
Laura: But if it's platinum, it'll help.
Marisha: More bang for our buck.
Sam: What can we lose from the bag of holding?
Travis: I'm very emotional about some of this.
Matt: You get about 20 minutes of gathering gold and platinum pieces from the section you have access to. You could get more, if you continue to dig beneath, probably. You manage to pull roughly, between the three of you, 18,000 gold pieces and about 12,000 platinum pieces. (yelling)
Travis: Forget the dragons, let's go buy real estate.
Matt: That's a third of what's in the hoard right now.
Liam: Park Place, motherfucker!
Travis: Build a fucking water park, let's go!
Laura: We don't need any more than-- This is really nice.
Taliesin: Let's build a condominium.
Liam: Condos in Marquet.
Marisha: Parking garage, that's where it's at.
Laura: How many gold is a platinum?
Matt: For the gold to platinum transition here--
Travis: It's a lot. Scrooge McDuck over here is fucking swimming in that shit.
Sam: With Brexit, it's not worth as much any more.
Matt: Ten gold pieces per platinum.
Laura: How many?
Sam: Ten gold pieces per platinum. So that's another 120 grand. Grog. Vex. We don't need to tell the others about this
Laura: They don't need to know. No!
Sam: We could go to a warm place, the three of us, and live out the rest of our days.
Travis: We'll build a bank. It'll just be us.
Sam: They'll never find us. We have the Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: I'm tempted. This is amazing.
Travis: Right. We kill Vex after the first month.
Laura: Wait, I can hear you.
Travis: I was joking.
Sam: We might need her to restart civilization.
Travis: True, true.
Laura: Oh, you know what? Let's go back. You lost me. I'm out. (laughter)
Liam: Meanwhile, for the last twenty minutes, I've been combing blood out of Pike's hair, and we've been having god talk, and as I put little fun buns in Pike's hair I say, "You know, sometimes I feel like she is right there with me. I ask questions and I know the answers, but most of the time I don't know anything. Does the balance ever shift?"
Matt: "No, not really. It's part of what's great about it, is you put your trust into them and everything turns out okay."
Liam: That is so cool.
Matt: "You saw her, she punched a dragon for me!"
Liam: We've got to find Larkin though, what do we do about Larkin?
Laura: Okay, all right.
Liam: You're not here!
Matt: "I didn't like Larkin very much. It's probably for the best."
Liam: Aye, but he's out here on his own in the cold. Ravenites everywhere!
Matt: "Dwarves are made of hardy stuff, I'm sure he'll be okay."
Liam: You're probably right. Let me even you off.
Matt: (pained) "Thank you."
Marisha: What did we find? (laughter)
Sam: Ten dragon scales, the end.
Matt: All right, come back to you guys. So Vorugal is butchered in the center of the snow here. Strangely, as you begin to carve, the air, as freezing as it is, actual touch on the skin of Vorugal is colder, and there's a few moments where your fingers begin to adhere to the cold and you have to pull back a bit. But you do manage to carve from the hide, if you can carry it properly, about 150 pounds of dragon hide.
Marisha: Oh jeez. Oh boy.
Laura: How much?
Taliesin: 150 pounds.
Laura: We got 40 pounds of black dragonhide in the Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Well we now apparently have 150 pounds.
Taliesin: We're going to have to fill the Whitestone coffers with some of this stuff when we get back.
Sam: Grog is dumping stuff out of our Bag of Holding.
Travis: So one black studded dwarven armor suit, because Pike's the only one that wears full armor. There's another full set of regular plate armor. That's going too. There's a totally decomposed orc head. A brain chunk, two dark elf heads, one random arm, a piece of bulette armor.
Liam: That shit has been festering for months!
Travis: Twelve beef jerky strips are going.
Taliesin: I was saving that!
Matt: As you're doing this, Tooma is watching you, going--
Travis: By the way, this is totally up for grabs, anytime you want. You say something to me and we'll work it out.
Matt: (speaks Draconic) Another dragonborn walks over and picks up the beef jerky strips, hands them to Tooma, and Tooma keeps watching you all, chewing on one.
Liam: They're starving.
Travis: Those are super fresh. (laughter)
Travis: I'm throwing out a greatsword and replacing the platinum greatsword in its spot so that should make enough weight out. Bye, black studded dwarven armor. That was the first thing in the bag of holding.
Sam: By the way, excellent note-taking and keeping track of what's been in the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah, that's great.
Matt: Well done.
Travis: Half of that body part stuff came out as gelatinous poo.
Matt: Yeah, it's the gamiest of gamey meat you've ever touched.
Travis: Just strings of-- You pull it up and you got to wrap it up in the string and toss it.
Matt: It is why I love the word "slough." (disgusted groaning)
Matt: You guys pull away portions of that, Kima helping out where she can. The sweat beads on her forehead; even among the cold exterior, she's a workhorse. You also manage to pry from Vorugal's mouth 20 individual dragon teeth that are harvestable outside of the ones the other Ravenites take for themselves. You manage to get six dragon talons pulled from the whole body, and about-- let's see, with all the destruction of the outside, and there is this creeping ice that's beginning to freeze the body from the inside, post-death-- the hide includes the scales, you have to pull off the scales and destroy the hide, and any other organs? You said the eyes, you were thinking about taking?
Marisha: Blood. Eyes.
Matt: Do you have any more empty vials?
Taliesin: Empty vials? I'm out of vials.
Laura: Did you take any healing potions? If you did you'd have an empty healing potion vial.
Taliesin: In theory then, I have three empty vials because I did have three healing potions that I've used.
Matt: We'll say you go ahead and recork three vials of white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Anything else?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to go sit down for a little while, and breathe.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to go into the mansion as well.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go ahead and join Vax and Pike. Kima comes and joins you as well, to rest for a moment, while the rest of the Ravenites begin tearing off pieces of Vorugal's body, leaving the ribcage, the spine. They pull most of the organs out of it, but the tree itself is rooted into the ribcage and the roots reach down and burrow into the ground beneath it. It's left this really interesting sculpture that they've torn everything away from. At this point now, the Ravenites have descended upon the interior of the hoard, and they're hacking away at bits of ice to open up more of the space beneath, while keeping a very careful eye to make sure the structure remains intact. You guys have gathered what you decided to take from the hoard, and are doing what?
Travis: Scanlan. Vex. We should disable the orbs, right?
Laura: I don't know how to.
Travis: Just beat the shit out of them.
Sam: Wouldn't that alert Thordak?
Travis: We don't want to taunt him first?
Laura: I'd rather him not know, right now, that Vorugal's dead because--
Sam: He would instantly know that we're not in our home base, he could launch an attack on that place.
Laura: Yeah. Maybe let's not do that just yet.
Travis: But what if he comes here?
Laura: Well if he does, hopefully they'll be inside their caves? I don't think he's going to leave Emon to come check out what's going on with Vorugal, unless he knows that Vorugal's dead.
Travis: All right. Shall we check in with the other members first, before we biggity-bounce?
Laura: Well, let's go back to the mansion. Maybe we can destroy it on the way out, if we feel necessary.
Travis: What about that big golden mast? You think there's a golden ship under there?
Laura: What if there's a skyship in here?
Sam: I assume it wouldn't fly very well, but all right.
Laura: Maybe that's how the Ravenites can get to Emon, if they can help us?
Travis: It was made of gold, right?
Matt: Gold plating around it. There are portions of it where you can see the wooden mast with large bands of gold.
Laura: Did it look like airship or normal ship?
Matt: It was hard to tell. From what you could tell, it is a mast. The airships you've seen do not have masts, since they do not use the wind.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So it was most likely a sea-faring ship, and was torn asunder, from a great distance and then dragged here as part of the hoard by Vorugal.
Sam: What are we going to do with a mast?
Laura: I have no idea. Maybe on the way out we can see if it's uncovered any more.
Sam: We'll stick a Google Maps pin here. We'll always know it's here, because when we come visit Tiberius' grave, we'll also leave some flowers and take a mast with us.
Laura: They've been working on this for a while now, is it possible to wiggle my way in and check out the mast now?
Matt: Sure, make an investigation check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You push past some of the Ravenite workers, their shoulders don't give and you have to squeeze through. As you get there, the upper part is still locked in ice, and the lower part is locked in ice. For how much they've carved through already, is the central portion, but what you can see is a wooden mast with large, thick bands of gold around it that are ornamental. You can see within them carvings and designs of a language you don't really understand-- actually, what languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal and Draconic.
Matt: You do not recognize this language, but it appears to be ornamental, and that whatever ship this belonged to was a prized ship of either a navy or merchant fleet. Based on some of the marks on it, it looks like it was grabbed and broken off a ship. Looking down below, there is a portion of a ship that is beneath it as well. Much deeper, maybe another 25 feet of solid ice below you with the rest of this hoard. There's a portion of this ship that was dragged here by Vorugal.
Laura: That's crazy. It's a ship! I'm coming back out.
Sam: All right. Let's go back to the main group and tell them what we've discovered.
Matt: As you're hustling your way up the ravine to the east, you pass by a number of Ravenites coming by with large sacks, and chunks of dragon meat draped over them. You can see the meat itself is freezing the air and shoulders of those that are carrying it. The essence of the dragon's ice-built form is causing them to constantly shift it because it's starting to stick to their armor, and you see icicles beginning to form at the outside of these large dragon-meat haunches that they're carrying.
Travis: When you dry-age meat like that, salt it first, then hang it. Just a pro tip.
Matt: (speaking Draconic). Keeps walking, doesn't seem to understand you.
Travis: Really bad sinus problems.
Matt: Eventually you make your way back to Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and gather the rest of the party. Percy, Kima, Keyleth and Vax are all there, resting and eagerly awaiting your return.
Taliesin: I've got to try and fix my guns.
Matt: Okay, make some tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Is this a misfire check or a tinkering check, since I'm not in combat?
Matt: These are tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's proficiency bonus, dex roll. Ooh, 28!
Matt: That's your Animus?
Taliesin: Yep, that's fine.
Matt: I believe Bad News was also?
Taliesin: Yup. 26.
Matt: 26 is fine. You manage to get Bad News functioning again in the workshop below. And Retort was okay, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort's fine.
Matt: So as you all return and gather around--
Marisha: Keyleth has laid out the Vorgual spoils like she got back from a yard sale.
Matt: Which, by the way, is a macabre view as you walk in, and there's this smear of dark purple dragon blood, and long, haphazardly carved chunks of dragon hide, almost like the preset green lawn rectangles that roll out and smeared across the center of the foyer.
Laura: I drop the Bag of Colding next to Keyleth.
Marisha: Grog, can you help me see how much we can shove in here?
Travis: Shit, yeah.
Marisha: Here, maybe like a sleeping bag, and I'll sit on it and you can wrap it up?
Travis: Yeah, good deal.
Marisha: Okay, we'll do that. Try and shove as much as we can. (squishing)
Matt: When it's finally wound up, it won't fit within the Bag of Colding. The Bag of Colding is the size of a relatively large satchel. The dragon hide, rolled up, is about that big around, what you managed to carve off.
Laura: Ah, shit. What do we do?
Liam: Can we make Percy some dragonborn armor right now, somehow, so he can be all white, all over?
Taliesin: Wow, that would be a thing, wouldn't it?
Travis: How much do you think that roll weighs?
Matt: About 150 pounds.
Laura: Oh jeez. We can't carry that.
Travis: I could drag it behind me for a little bit.
Liam: Scanlan, do you have a room here?
Sam: A room?
Liam: For cold things? You have everything here, do you have a chilly room?
Sam: Sure, in the kitchen there's a chilly room. The mansion will expire in 12 hours though.
Laura: We just got to go through the tree, yo. That's it.
Sam: We could bring it into the kitchen for now.
Travis: Can we get everything else into the Bag of Colding, besides the roll of hide?
Matt: The teeth and those things can be put in the Bag of Holding. The only thing that needs to be preserved is the hide, until it's treated.
Laura: What about the blood?
Matt: The blood's been capped. That should probably be put in there.
Marisha: Three vials of dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Yeah, mark three vials of white dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: And we have six talons.
Matt: The talons themselves are large claws that have been removed.
Marisha: Okay, so we have six talons, 20 teeth and 150 pounds of hide.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Word.
Travis: We got so much bling. We're stupid rich.
Sam: A lot of things that we don't know what they are.
Liam: What's that mask?
Travis: I take the mask, and like Jim Carrey in The Mask, I stick it to my face and (yells).
Liam: Do you feel anything? What's it doing?
Matt: Okay, I need you to-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Matt: It is chilly against your skin.
Travis: I feel like it's making me fall in love with the first person I look-- Vax!
Liam: Oh, you don't want to fuck with this. Are you sure?
Travis: No, you're right, I don't.
Liam: Maybe just a little bit. (laughter)
Travis: I take the mask off and put it in the bag of holding. But we got this! And I hold up the big-ass platinum greatsword.
Liam: Whoa.
Laura: Can anyone identify things in our group?
Taliesin: Do I recognize the text on it? Celestial?
Matt: Celestial, yes, you do.
Laura: Oh, you can read it!
Sam: When did you learn Celestial?
Taliesin: I was a very lonely child.
Liam: It's like Latin in the world of D&D.
Travis: It's like, covered with prunes, up and down the blade.
Liam: Priss, what's it say?
Laura: Are you calling him a priss?
Liam: (laughing) Yeah.
Matt: Looking across the symbols, they are specifically symbols speaking of creation, devotion, the power of a deity's love and the unity between god and creation. It is a very religious and holy text across the blade, both sides.
Taliesin: This is some sort of paladin sword. It's a holy weapon of some kind.
Laura: Oh, I bet Kima would want the shit out of that.
Travis: Oh yeah, is Kima here?
Matt: She's right now in the process, in the kitchen, of massaging some of the bruising and wounds she took from the battle.
Sam: Got some meat tenderizer on that?
Liam: Couple of chickens on it?
Travis: Stop what you're doing. I want you to get your hands on this big, beautiful bastard. And I hand her the greatsword.
Matt: "Where the heck did you get this?"
Travis: I could tell you, but I don't remember.
Matt: "Give me a little bit of time, I need to see if I can make this part of my communion. Hold on a second." And she walks away, staring at the blade. Without leaving her eyes from the scrolling on the side, walks quietly past all of you in the center of the foyer, sits down with it and starts meditating over the blade.
Travis: I walk over and go, "Before you hit anything with it, you come talk to--"
Matt: (shushing)
Travis: I leave.
Taliesin: Anything else interesting?
Laura: I found a jewel. It's red. It looks pretty neato.
Taliesin: How were the dragonborn about us taking some of their--
Laura: They were great about it actually, they were quite generous.
Taliesin: Anything else we should go back for, as well?
Travis: There was possibly a giant gold ship, underneath.
Taliesin: There was a what?
Sam: Gold mast, underneath the hoard. And also, much more gold and platinum that we can't possibly carry.
Laura: Wait, it had runes on it as well. Do they look similar to the runes that were on Greg-- Grog's sword?
Matt: No, the symbols on the side of weapon look like an ancient text, they're laid in a very ceremonial format. The text that you saw on the side of the mast looked more like an engraving.
Laura: Did it look fluid?
Matt: It was fluid.
Taliesin: There's a ship in the dragon's collection?
Laura: Yes. I don't know if it was an entire ship, but it was a ship.
Liam: So you didn't go in, you saw it?
Laura: Well I got down, but most of it was still frozen.
Taliesin: I think this would be a really good idea, before we left. If a dragon grabbed a ship, it was probably filled with something interesting. It got his attention and he kept it.
Marisha: It could take days to potentially melt the ice, right?
Taliesin: The ice is already melting.
Liam: Keek, you could probably melt your way in there in 24 hours.
Marisha: And I also have this. My new toy.
Laura: We should check that out before we go.
Sam: Are we in any danger staying here, leaving our special hidey place unprotected?
Taliesin: It's not like anyone can get in here.
Sam: No, I'm talking about your homeland. Leaving it unguarded.
Taliesin: It's as guarded as it's going to be right now.
Sam: We know that Raishan's out there, doing something.
Taliesin: She was doing something previously. I don't think that anything awful is going to happen.
Travis: I also took this little keepsake. I call it Stoneblack.
Sam: Because it's a black stone?
Travis: Well don't fucking break it down like that.
Laura: It's so neat.
Marisha: Does it look fancy? Is it magic?
Sam: Why don't you Detect Magic, whoever can Detect Magic?
Marisha: I can't. Wait, can I? No, I can't.
Sam: I can look at it and see if it looks magical.
Matt: Yeah, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh, 20!
Matt: It is not magical. However, your keen bardic eye, looking at the gem, it is a very rare gem. It is worth quite a bit.
Sam: Platinum zirconia.
Matt: It's actually a black sapphire, an extremely rare gem. It runs in the market anywhere between four to six thousand gold.
Travis: So anyway, I got rid of my old saltlick rock and now I've got Stoneblack here to take its place. Do you have a pet rock?
Sam: No.
Travis: Oh my god. I sleep with it, I put it under my back and it gets all the knots out.
Liam: That is the cutest.
Sam: Do you paint a face on it, or anything?
Marisha: I've actually had a lot of rocks that are friends.
Laura: Oh, that's great. You can make little clothes for it.
Marisha: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of friends growing up.
Travis: Sometimes I carry it in my armpit to keep it warm. You don't need to know about that.
Sam: That's very maternal.
Laura: Oh, and these boots!
Sam: Leather boots, could be anything.
Laura: Are they magic, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh sure, I'll look at those. Wow, 24! Arcana check, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. They're very simple leather boots, there's no real ornamentation beyond being functional boots. As you take a moment to look at them, there is a faint shimmer to the leather itself. When the light hits it, the brown gives way to a slight purplish undertone. It looks to have some sort of enchantment.
Laura: Does it seem evil or good?
Sam: I have no idea. However, they look fancy.
Taliesin: They are interesting, and I'm indifferent to such things.
Laura: I want to put one on.
Sam: Go ahead, put one on, what could happen? We're in a safe place.
Laura: I just want to see what it does.
Sam: Wait, what if it's single use only?
Travis: Well, now's a good time.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: It's a boot, it's probably made for multiple uses.
Matt: You can take a short rest and take time with the item to figure out what it could do, if you want to.
Marisha: I attune to my staff.
Matt: Okay, so you attune to your staff. What are you unattuning from?
Marisha: Currently my Ring of Protection.
Laura: Oh, that's painful.
Sam: AC down!
Matt: So all your saves are down by two, your AC is down by two, for now. Good to know.
Sam: By the way, we have two unused Ring of Protections that we can trade for things. I have one that I haven't used in months.
Matt: Like Stone of Jordans now. It's the thing you trade. Props to you if you know what that reference was. What do you guys want to do? Do you want to take a short rest to try and figure things out?
All: Sure.
Matt: Kima's focusing on the sword, you're focusing on the boots.
Travis: I'm focusing on the war mask.
Matt: Who else is doing what?
Taliesin: Is there other things?
Laura: Here's a beautiful red gem. It looks special.
Taliesin: Does this actually look like a special gem?
Matt: Which gem is this?
Laura: The red beautiful gem you told me about.
Matt: Oh, the ruby. It looks very pretty.
Sam: I've got a vial with yellow and black swirly stuff in it.
Taliesin: That requires somebody who knows things.
Sam: I'll look at that.
Marisha: Can I do a check on the potion since I've got alchemy training?
Matt: You know what? Yeah, if you wanted to take a look.
Taliesin: There's some bracelets and such, I thought I'd take a look.
Sam: I have a gold and platinum band with braids.
Taliesin: Ah, I'll take a look at the back-blades.
Sam: The back-blades. That's nice.
Matt: So Keyleth was taking a look at the potions?
Laura: What about the bracelet, you also had a bracelet with a sapphire?
Sam: I just gave it to back-blades over here.
Laura: No, you had a ring and you had a bracelet.
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet which I assumed was just fancy and pretty. Here, look at that one too, Percy.
Taliesin: I think I can only handle one of these, but we'll find out what happens.
Matt: All right, so as you guys make a short rest. Keyleth, you identify both potions, one of which is a Potion of Speed.
Marisha: That's what I thought it was. The yellow one?
Matt: Yep. The other is a Potion of Invulnerability.
Sam: What does it do? Read it! Out loud, with your mouth.
Marisha: For one minute after you drink this potion, you have resistance to all damage.
Liam: God-mode!
Marisha: The potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron.
Travis: So you half all damage.
Matt: Half all damage for a minute.
Laura: That is so insane.
Marisha: And then Potion of Speed  when you drink this potion, you gain the effects of Haste spell for one minute.
Laura: I'm putting that in the party inventory.
Sam: No, no, no. Hand it out to somebody. Oh, that one should go in the party inventory.
Marisha: Which one, the Potion of Speed?
Laura: The Potion of Invulnerability, so we can decide later.
Liam: That's for a very special day.
Sam: Grog could take the speed.
Marisha: Yeah, do you want to take the speed potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, sure, I won't use it.
Marisha: Give the invulnerability to Laura.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: All right, the boots. To you, Vex.
Taliesin: So many things.
Laura: Is it Boots of Haste? (yells) Oh my god, this is so crazy, because I was about to learn a spell, for somebody, but these take care of that. These are Boots of Feral Leaping. When you wear these boots you can instill your leaps with incredible bursts of power! As a bonus action you can attempt to leap. Make a strength check with a DC of 16. If you are successful you leap either 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally.
Sam: (meowing)
Travis: Do you have to attune to them?
Laura: It doesn't say!
Matt: Yeah, those aren't attunement. (cheering)
Laura: There you go Grog. You need those.
Travis: Does anyone want the Potion of Speed? I don't want it to be just my Christmas. That's amazing!
Sam: Anyone need the Potion of Speed?
Matt: If you fail the check though, you fall prone where you stand.
Laura: Oh, that's important.
Matt: Strength check, so you'll probably be okay.
Liam: Most of the time, but once in awhile--
Matt: Once in a while banana peel.
Laura: I have a question, because the spell that I was going to take, because I still have one spell that I haven't learned yet, is Jump, which triples your jump for one minute. So if I did that, would that triple that as well? Or would it just be Grog's normal jump?
Matt: That magic would override the spell, based on the enchantment. It's two different magical forces affecting the same thing. The Jump spell is part of the enchantment that boot was crafted around.
Laura: Oh, so that's perfect.
Matt: The platinum band is not magical.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: But it is worth quite a bit, actually. The platinum band is worth about 2500 gold.
Taliesin: That's a magic all its own.
Matt: And the ring, who had the ring?
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet?
Matt: The platinum bracelet was what he looked at right now. That's worth 2500.
Sam: Oh wait, the gold platinum band? The band was a ring? Got it.
Matt: You have the ring?
Sam: Yes I do. Oh, it's a thing! I'm stuck here. Oh god.
Travis: The cube shrinks to half its size.
Liam: A centimeter.
Sam: It's a Ring of Invisibility. While wearing this ring you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell or until you get Backblaze. I don't need this.
Liam: Does it say attunement on it?
Matt: It does require attunement. It's a legendary item, meaning it's extremely rare. You know how you use a spell, and once you do something the spell's gone? That, while you're wearing it-- you can turn back invisible for another action. As many times as you want, for as long as you wear it. So situationally, it can be very useful, if you're trying to do infiltration or something.
Sam: You can pop out, cast a spell and pop back. But not a bonus action.
Matt: No. It's less of a combat benefit, necessarily, in some situations it may be.
Liam: Like going to a white dragon lair.
Marisha: Who wants to keep it?
Laura: Stealthy people need it, probably.
Matt: Kima is happy.
Travis: Kima is happy?
Matt: Kima is very happy.
Marisha: What'd she get?
Laura: Did you just give away something amazing?
Sam: We can always take it back.
Matt: As she stands up she takes the blade and swings it. It hits the ground, and when she hits you can see a spark of divine energy from the impact. She looks at her maul and goes, "Sorry, old friend. You'll find a good new home. But I'd say this Holy Avenger is going to do me quite well."
Marisha: What's it do, Kima?
Matt: To give you specifics, it requires attunement by a paladin.
Laura: Oh, so it has to be a paladin.
Matt: Only really Vax or her could attune to it. It's plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls. Hitting a fiend or undead, the creature takes an additional 2d10 radiant damage on every hit. While you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a 10ft radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects.
Travis: Kima is now an associate member of Vox Machina.
Sam: Provisional.
Travis: Provisional, yeah. That's amazing. So the maul-- Kima, because I want to respect your weapon, what does the maul do?
Matt: "Oh, you want the maul?"
Travis: What? No, I'm just saying, what it does, or does it just beat the shit out of people beautifully by itself?
Matt: "It's my Holy Thunder Maul. It deals additional thunder damage when I hit something. That's about it."
Travis: Cool. You want me to hold onto it for you, or are you cool?
Matt: (thunk) I'm good for now.
Travis: Boss. Total boss moment.
Laura: She can do 100 push-ups.
Travis: That's true. Enjoy that.
Matt: "Oh, I shall."
Marisha: I run downstairs to the training area with my staff.
Travis: Anything from the war mask?
Matt: No, but it is worth 750 gold.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: I'll unlock its secrets. Wear him down.
Sam: Well, if we're ever invited to a Masquerad-- is that how you say it?
Matt: No, but continue please.
Taliesin: Paper faces on parad.
Travis: Can I get a description of it?
Matt: Yeah, it resembles the Maori warrior masks with the big open mouth, the tongue sticking out, the two pronged teeth coming up from underneath. It's a war mask, it's meant to inspire fear and give you an ominous presence on the battlefield.
Sam: Is it platinum?
Matt: It's gold. Old, very old.
Sam: Does it go with his hat?
Matt: If you were to attach it some way, it would look very interesting.
Taliesin: Would you like me to attach the mask to your fine hat?
Liam: To the back of his head.
Laura: Ooh, to the back of it.
Liam: So they don't know if he's going or coming.
Taliesin: All right, bring it downstairs.
Marisha: They're both metal, right? I can help you by heating metal, actually.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just do this.
Travis: Can you also put my title on the inside?
Taliesin: Your what?
Travis: My title.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course.
Marisha: I'm going to go test this out, and I'll meet you in the workshop. I'll be right back.
Travis: Wait! Are you going downstairs?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see what this does.
Travis: Can I come with you?
Taliesin: We're all going downstairs.
Marisha: It's a free mansion, man.
Liam: You want to have a drink with me?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: So while you guys go downstairs, you two are going to the dining area?
Laura: Is there a lounge in the mansion, is there a bar?
Sam: There's mostly lounges in the mansion.
Liam: Is there an aerated wine cellar? (laughter)
Sam: It's constantly aerating. (swirling)
Sam: Inside joke. I'm being teased right now for owning and using a wine aerator.
Travis: Whoever sold you that and said it was an aerator is laughing their happy asses off.
Sam: I appreciate fine things, and I'm not going to apologize for that.
Travis: Some guy broke that off of his kid's toys and was like "It's an aerator!"
Laura: So yes, that's where we'll go. We're going to go to the wine room.
Matt: All right, you guys find your way to the wine room. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: A whole lot of nothing. I'll go down and watch the show, I guess. I'll watch the training show.
Matt: All right, you four head down to the training room. Kima comes down to watch as well. Pike comes down, eager to watch what this new artifact does. You head down to the training area. You have the big sandpit that's cordoned off with the wooden outskirts, you have the various dummies set up in certain ways, you have the portion of the room that has the armor stand on the side, the weapon stand. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Ooh-hoo. Okay. All right. Everyone stay back. I'm going to start by casting the lowest level of spell out of it, see what it does.
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: Apparently a Fireball.
Matt: Okay. At where?
Marisha: Whatever is further in the sandpit. I told everyone to stand back.
Matt: Everyone stays back. Furthest part of the sandpit is going to be one of the various combat dummies. So you launch-- put the staff down, you guys watch as in the centerpiece at the top, where that one gem is hovering and slowly rotating in place, the gem begins to glow bright red from its soft bluish-green composure. As it hits bright red, this beam of familiar red arcane energy streaks forward, hits it and detonates into a shaking explosion, destroying the wooden dummy and singeing the one immediately left to it.
Travis: Whoa. Cool.
Marisha: Did you see that, Grog?
Travis: Yeah. Really nice.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Travis: Was that the biggest thing it does?
Matt: So that's three charges off.
Laura: How many charges are there?
Marisha: 20, and they recharge at the top of a day. They recharge 1d6 plus four.
Laura: Oh. How many recharge a day?
Marisha: 1d6 plus four.
Travis: So five to ten. Five to eleven.
Marisha: Because I've been really excited about this one, I'm going to point at the other dummy and cast Chain Lightning.
Matt: Okay. As you do, you watch as this giant bolt of electrical energy arcs off the same place on the staff, hits the dummy and the dummy immediately bursts into flames from the energy hitting the wood, and then arcs off and hits the two others. Suddenly the dummies are partially blown apart on one side, the charred section slowly smoldering as smoke pours up, and you can see bits of the electrical energy going (crackling) through the remainder of the wooden dummy.
Marisha: Grog. Did you see that?
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing. I kind of want to get out there for whatever you do next.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah, just to see how much damage it does. Wait, can you use this in Minxie form too?
Marisha: Hmm, I don't think so.
Travis: No, you think so, or you don't?
Marisha: I can try this though! Hang on, wait, that was five charges. No sorry, six charges. Burning through all the charges, but I don't care.
Travis: Do you have another one you want to do?
Marisha: Watch this Grog, watch this. I'm going to do Conjure Elemental.
Matt: Okay, and which elemental are you going to conjure?
Marisha: What elemental?
Travis: Earth, big!
Marisha: Earth!
Matt: You watch as she slams the staff in the ground and you feel this quaking, and the sandpit behind her begins to slowly billow and rise up. As the sand falls away from underneath, you see, standing behind and looming over Keyleth, this giant, cracked stone earth elemental, very much like the form she often takes, standing behind her. Its eyes flash up with a bright green glow and it sits there, awaiting her command.
Marisha: Then I do a bonus action and I also turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: That's right, because you got your forms back at a short rest.
Marisha: Yes I did.
Matt: So now she turns into the same form. There's now two elementals there.
Sam: Fight, fight, fight!
Marisha: Then we walk by and we Top Gun each other.
Matt: Each slam itself causes the air around to (cracking) like a small thunderwave in its own right.
Marisha: Then we both turn and look at Grog.
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Then I punch Grog in the face!
Liam: Yes!
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: That's not a spell attack, is it?
Marisha: That was for me!
Matt: And for the other elemental, what's your bonus? As an earth elemental, what's your attack bonus? Because the other elemental is going to punch him at the same time too.
Marisha: He gets a plus eight.
Matt: Plus eight? That's a 16, that does not. So here's what happens. In slow motion, Grog stands there with a big grin on his face, and both fists go (slamming) and glide off, no impact. And you're still dumbfounded and enjoying the moment.
Travis: Keyleth.
Marisha: (gruffly) I did that on purpose.
Travis: Can I understand what she's saying?
Matt: No, you hear (rockslide crashing).
Sam: Wow, she can become far-sighted earth elementals. (laughter)
Sam: Amazing.
Marisha: Okay, I drop my form to hear what Grog has to say.
Travis: That sucked. That was the worst one of all of them.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Did it hurt you when we punched you?
Travis: No, like-- wait, is the beard all right?
Matt: The beard is fine.
Travis: Yeah, okay, no. It's all good. Does it do anything else than whiff?
Marisha: Well. And I tell the elemental to--
Taliesin: No, it does nothing else.
Laura: Nothing.
Marisha: Attack Grog again.
Travis: Let me turn around.
Matt: That is an 18.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: It doesn't miss, what it does is it hits you and you're like (slamming). You barely felt it.
Marisha: How was that?
Travis: Oh man, yeah. Really, whew. Stout.
Marisha: Really? Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. I'm questioning my faith now.
Marisha: Man, this staff is so powerful.
Travis: Yeah, sure is.
Marisha: Jeez, wow.
Travis: Not that I want to feel any more damage after that hurricane of pain, but does it do anything else?
Marisha: I can keep burning the fucking charges.
Matt: By the way, you've now burned 14 charges.
Marisha: Yes, I know.
Travis: Give me one really big one.
Marisha: Goddamn it. I hope we're not fighting anything so I can recharge these.
Laura: It's going to be like three days for her to get them back.
Sam: Does this thing protect you at all?
Marisha: No, it's a damage-dealer.
Laura: Don't do any more. Don't waste any more, Marisha. Don't do it.
Liam: You're not there.
Laura: That's why I said Marisha.
Marisha: I'm going to wait. I'm going to see. I'm going to save some action. Real fast, just in case-- and I whack him with the staff.
Travis: Like Rafiki?
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20. Add your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Marisha: My strength and my-- Let's see, 18. No wait, 19!
Matt: 19. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: 20.
All: Aww.
Matt: Whack!
Travis: (melodramatic groaning) Oh, the pain of-- what's this thing called? Confires! It hurts so much.
Marisha: Wow, really?
Travis: I feel the reflux-- the conflux.
Marisha: Oh, it gave you acid reflux?
Travis: Yeah, it's real bad. I have to leave because I feel like I might toss.
Marisha: That's good to know. It induces sickness?
Travis: Yeah, I feel like I'm going to cry too.
Marisha: Okay, good to know, all right, thank you.
Travis: And I leave, holding my forehead and laughing. Small, little laugh.
Marisha: I'm good for now.
Matt: Percy, you're going to the workshop, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, grabbing the helmets and here, I'm going to borrow you.
Marisha: And now I go.
Matt: So you guys go and do that. In the meantime, both of you find your way to Scanlan's wine room. (aerating noises and laughter)
Liam: I don't know what any of these are; do you know what's good and what's bad?
Laura: Pick the one that looks the fanciest.
Liam: You were better at that than I am.
Laura: I go to the corner-- the highest shelf, I don't fucking know. These are probably all fake wine anyway. I fly up and grab the one on the highest shelf and fly back down.
Matt: You grab it, look at the label. It's a Pinot Noir, and the title of the brand says Le White Meat.
Laura: Oh no, it's chicken wine. Fuck.
Travis: Oh no, is it really?
Laura: Whatever, we'll drink it anyway. It's going to be disgusting.
Taliesin: There's actually a drink called Cock Ale, which is brewed in a dead chicken.
Travis: Of course you would know that.
Matt: No, it's regular red wine. But definitely is labelled with a chicken on it.
Laura: That's funny.
Liam: I'm grabbing a random Two Buck Chuck next to me on the wall.
Matt: Same label. They're all the same wine.
Liam: Hey, hey, hey. To Vex'ahlia, the dragon slayer.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Liam: (slamming) Oh shite, we should do it for real.
Laura: Oh yeah, right, what's up?
Liam: Oh man, I'm proud of you.
Laura: Thanks!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Is that all you wanted to say?
Liam: No.
Laura: I didn't think so.
Liam: Well, that's three of five.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know if we're all going to live, but I think that collectively we might actually pull it off.
Laura: I think we have a good shot of it.
Liam: Yeah. Almost bit it, out there.
Laura: Yeah, I noticed.
Liam: Again.
Laura: Yes. Scary.
Liam: Can I have a hug?
Laura: I'm glad you're not dead.
Liam: Yeah, old news. We've done it before, we'll do it again. Hey, do you want to try jumping around with those boots?
Laura: Oh, I gave them to Grog.
Liam: You want to try to jump around anyway?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: What can you do? How high can you go?
Laura: I jump. It's a jump. A normal little jump.
Liam: It's good, yeah.
Laura: Why?
Liam: No reason, I'm procrastinating.
Laura: Oh, yeah. So tell me what you're procrastinating about?
Liam: How long are you going to torture yourself for?
Laura: Oh, you fuck. (laughing) What? (muffled) What are you even talking about right now? Do you want to see how high I can jump now? So high. I get on my broom and I fly up to the ceiling.
Liam: Push out the wings. No, I can't!
Matt: Yeah, you already used it.
Liam: Will you come down here and talk to me?
Laura: (groans) Fine, fine! Hi.
Liam: Yeah. What are you doing?
Laura: I don't know! I don't-- what?
Liam: You know I've known for a while? It's all over your face, I've known you since you were a baby, I've known for a while.
Laura: Okay. (nervous laughter)
Liam: I've almost died. You have died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: He died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What are you fucking doing, Vex?
Laura: (sighs) It's just timing, you know? It's all timing.
Liam: Timing could have you dead in the ground tomorrow.
Laura: This is true.
Liam: And do you know something? Hey.
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: He leads with this. Not with that.
Laura: His collarbone?
Liam: Yeah. Fucking smart-ass. Maybe he'll surprise you, but I don't know.
Laura: I think he isn't thinking that way at all, and honestly--
Liam: (snorts) You're a dummy. I'm the dummy, why are you such a dummy?
Laura: I don't know, darling. It seems so trivial. Doesn't it?
Liam: What the fuck do we have in this world except for moments with each other? That's all we've got.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I want you to have some happiness in your life.
Laura: I do have happiness!
Liam: I want you to have a little more. There's no reason to hold back. Why?
Laura: Wouldn't it be so awkward though?
Liam: Who cares? You know what's awkward?
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: A life not lived.
Laura: Hey, I'm living a life. I've got Trinket. I've got you, sometimes, when you're not with Keyleth.
Liam: Listen, you're my sister, and I love you very much, and I know a lot about you, and I can help you in a lot of ways. But not every way.
Laura: I know.
Liam: There are facets of you that have nothing to do with me.
Laura: Very few.
Liam: I want you to be happy, and we all could be dead in a week. You know that.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm a fucking idiot. I don't know anything.
Laura: (laughing) I want you to remember that you just said that.
Liam: I never forget it. Ever. In the game or out of the game, Laura.
Laura: Oh, don't!
Liam: It's a short life we got. I'm not going to tell you what to do, but I won't tell you what to do. I do want you to be happy.
Laura: Thank you. And I'll try.
Liam: And on a side note-- he's a little fucked up.
Laura: Oh, I know.
Liam: And he only listens to you.
Laura: Well, that's not true.
Liam: Yes it is.
Laura: No!
Liam: Who does he listen to?
Laura: Keyleth. They're like, so close.
Liam: Yeah, they enjoy each other's company, I know that, but you're really the only one who he listens to. So I need you to-- he has impulses. He has impulse control. I have impulse control.
Laura: Yes you do!
Liam: He has a different kind of impulse control.
Laura: Okay. You want me to control him then. Get him under my thumb. Bring him to the light, just a little bit?
Liam: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: I know what you're talking about.
Liam: I take another bottle of wine and I (gulps).
Laura: (laughing) I thank you.
Liam: Am I drunk, am I at disadvantage now, if do the whole bottle?
Matt: In a minute you will be, yeah.
Liam: Grab another bottle.
Laura: Hm? Glug glug glug? Well, all right.
Liam: (groans) I want to go see some fireballs get shot, I'll see you later!
Laura: Okay, have fun.
Liam: Woo!
Matt: As Vax sloppily leaves the room, you're left in quiet, by yourself with your--
Liam: (booming) And I walk away!
Laura: I pop Trinket out, cast Speak with Animals and have a nice fun conversation with him.
Matt: We're going to go ahead and take a break here, come back here in a minute, use the restroom.
Marisha: Aw, we haven't done shit!
Matt: That's not true. You've discussed the spoils from your last major story bit, so we'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, fill up on drinks. Stay tuned and we'll see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone and welcome back to Critical Role! After a barrage of delightful phrases that were just shouted at me. It's great.
Travis: Love you, Matt!
Matt: Love you too, guys. I do want to say real fast that our wonderful Kiki Day, who made a number of other Vestiges--
Laura: Fenthras!
Matt: Made Fenthras, made--
Marisha: And the Spire!
Matt: Made the Spire of Conflux, which you can see on Marisha's twitter right now?
Marisha: Geek & Sundry's twitter.
Matt: Geek & Sundry's twitter. As well as making me a belt buckle that I'm going to be wearing at Blizzcon. (yelling)
Matt: That's fucking fantastic.
Travis: That's a badass motherfucking belt.
Matt: (McCree voice) Just saying.
Liam: (Oprah voice) Spire of Conflux!
Matt: (McCree voice) Now I've got a reason to go ahead and wear myself a tucked-in shirt. (normal voice) Anyway, let's get into the game. You guys, finishing those scenes. Taking a short rest. You roll your hit dice to heal up a bit. What more do you wish to accomplish? What's your next plan of action, Vox Machina?
Taliesin: I say we pack up all of our things and raid a ship.
Laura: And then head back to Whitestone. I mean-- Oh, no, we're fine in here.
Sam: Are we?
Laura: Are we?
Marisha: Do you want to rest before we do that?
Taliesin: I say we--
Sam: We have to rest. We're all severely injured.
Taliesin: Well, some of us, yes. I say we take a night, we hit the ship and then head home.
Liam: It's good wine!
Laura: Oh, he's drunk.
Marisha: You guys got into the wine?!
Sam: Did you aerate it first?
Liam: How do you do that?
Sam: If you don't have an aerator, you can put it in a mason jar and shake it up a bit.
Liam: We just drank it out of the bottle.
Sam: Well, that's just pedestrian, really.
Laura: You have so many.
Taliesin: Put some ice in it, keep it cold.
Marisha: Are we still melting a mask to a helmet?
Taliesin: We had a little bit of metallurgy to do.
Matt: Make a tinkering check, and this, actually, make--
Marisha: I help him with my Heat Metal spell like a soldering iron.
Matt: Okay! That being the case, it's going to help with the metal's pliability. Go ahead and make your regular dex-based.
Taliesin: Regular dex-based? All right.
Matt: Would make it strength-based for the metal, but the Heat Metal is helping you with that.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That's a 26.
Matt: 26? Yeah, without an issue you manage to apply the mask onto the back of the helmet after looking at some brief glances at the shape of Grog's head, making sure that it has a hinge so if he leans forward, it doesn't restrict or press into his back if he looks up. It is a functional backmask onto his delightful pointed helmet.
Taliesin: I've also carved, in Elven, in the inside, "Kick Me."
Matt: On the inside of the mask?
Taliesin: Yeah. So it's there.
Marisha: It's magnificent.
Taliesin: I think so.
Marisha: Shall we present it to him?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Marisha: I feel like we should go at this with a little bit of theatricality. Just because it's so much fun to fuck with Grog.
Taliesin: I know!
Marisha: How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Oh! I turn into an elephant. Get on my back!
Taliesin: Did you say that before turning into an elephant?
Marisha: Yes, I do! Get on my back!
Liam: (elephant sound)
Taliesin: For god's sake, Vax, stop aerating more wine! We've had enough! You've had enough!
Matt: Sam is so over it.
Taliesin: No, never!
Marisha: Percy's on my back and I'm an elephant holding the mask while we go find Grog.
Matt: Well, first you get to the doorway of the workshop.
Marisha: It's a temporary fucking mansion. I bust through.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: I don't know how to-- Will you put this in dice jail for me?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. What do I roll for a--
Matt: Look it up. You add your strength modifier as an elephant.
Marisha: Well, I don't know what an elephant's stats are!
Matt: I'm going to find it right now. I'm going to find for you what an elephant's stats are! Just going to go look it up for you!
Marisha: Well, I rolled a two!
Matt: You rolled a what, a two?
Marisha: Yeah, a two.
Sam: It's not going to work!
Marisha: I'm a fucking elephant and it's a door!
Matt: It's plus six because it has a strength of 22 because it's a goddamn elephant. So eight. You (slam). It lurches ever so slightly, but that is a very strong doorway. It's almost like the arcane nature of Scanlan's magic makes a good home.
Marisha: Can I try it again?
Matt: You hit it again. Make another strength check.
Marisha: That's much better! 16 total!
Matt: 16. It causes some of the plaster to crack. Doesn't get that much further, but you're starting to get a serious headache.
Travis: Are we hearing this? Are we hearing a massive commotion?
Matt: You're starting to hear it now. There's this low, general slamming sound in the mansion.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Yeah, do you hear that?
Sam: I do. Doesn't sound right.
Laura: Should we go find out?
Sam: I pull out Mythcarver and run down the stairs!
Travis: I take out the bloodaxe and I follow him!
Matt: Another strength check.
Marisha: They get better with each time. 19!
Matt: 19. The door gets knocked partially off of its hinges and the frame is now slightly bent forward. The wood is splintered and the stone has more cracks into it. The headache is now pounding.
Marisha: I should have thought about this!
Matt: You guys hear another, even louder slam this time. As you rush down to the outside of Percy's workshop you see some crazed, large, shifting gray movement of some creature, on the other side of the doorway.
Travis: Jesus! Scanlan, is this one yours?
Sam: No. It's definitely an intruder.
Travis: Then we fucking kill it! We race forward and attack.
Matt: All right, both of you guys roll a--
Liam: Wait, is Percy still riding?
Matt: You don't see Percy, because Percy's above you!
Taliesin: Am I aware of this happening? At all, I don't see them at all?
Matt: No, because you're inside the workshop and you're above the doorframe she's slamming into.
Travis: 23.
Sam: One.
Matt: So Scanlan, you go running with Mythcarver in the air, and as you go to strike, Grog shoves you out of the way, in the middle of his angry grab and you go skidding across the ground, Mythcarver spinning out of your grasp across the floor. Are you making a single attack or are you doing a full round of attacks on this beast?
Travis: This is a giant beast, I'm giving it what for!
Matt: So roll another attack, are you raging for this?
Travis: No, I'm not raging. (laughing) 24.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks, non-rage damage.
Marisha: No, go with it. Go with it.
Travis: 20 points, four points of necrotic.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: I know, I don't hit lightly.
Sam: Elephant's going to die.
Travis: 22 points of damage.
Matt: You take 42 points of damage from your maximum of 76 hit points as an elephant, as all of a sudden, what little bit of vision you have through the pounding headache, you glance through in time to see Grog's form (roaring) run up and slam his axe into you twice.
Marisha: How much damage?
Matt: 42.
Marisha: What's my form?
Matt: 76.
Marisha: I fucking headbutt him, I'm going to gorge him! Let's go!
Matt: You're going to gorge him?
Travis: Scanlan!
Sam: Careful Grog, it has some protection magic on it. It threw me across the room! (laughter)
Matt: All right, Marisha. I would like you to roll for a gore attack against Grog.
Laura: This is ridiculous.
Marisha: What do I add? I don't have a stat.
Matt: Plus eight.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? No, I don't think that hits you. So you go ahead and try and gore Grog, and Grog ducks right beneath the two giant ivory horns.
Marisha: Do I knock down the doorway a little bit more?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay. 20 total.
Matt: With that, as you duck below, the elephant slams through the archway, sending stone and pieces of wood flying, and stumbles past. You duck down to try and the avoid the attack, going underneath the elephant as it begins to stomp over you into the room. You see this as you spin around. The elephant bursts in, and it is very much an elephant, you can see now, with Percy on top being dragged through the rubble.
Taliesin: I'm thankfully wearing a helmet.
Sam: It's got Percival!
Travis: Roll off! Roll off, Percy!
Taliesin: (deadpan) Oh help. Help, please.
Travis: He's so weak he can barely speak!
Sam: We must kill this elephant.
Travis: We must destroy this beast!
Matt: Scanlan and Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: We got to kill this thing.
Travis: Yeah, you go. Come on.
Sam: I will throw a Wand of Fireballs at it.
Matt: How many charges does it have left?
Sam: Oh, plenty. I have only used one of seven.
Matt: But each time you use it-- okay. Not quite how it works, I don't think.
Liam: Just look at the shirt, Matt, just look at his shirt.
Matt: Oh, you're right. One charge is a third level spell, I misunderstood. So you launch your Fireball, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Oh wait, what is the damage? It's 8d6. Got it.
Matt: 8d6. Keyleth, I need you to roll a d20 minus one.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Rolling your die! Wait, a d20 minus one? (laughing) Six total. Goddamn it Gil.
Matt: Okay. Percy, I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad, that's 18.
Matt: Okay, what was the damage you said?
Sam: 26.
Matt: I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw, with advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: I'm still wearing my cloak, so do they get disadvantage on attacks against me? Because I'm in the Cloak of Displacement.
Sam: You're an elephant though.
Taliesin: You're an elephant in the Cloak of Displacement.
Marisha: But whenever I Beast Shape I absorb my items.
Matt: That would have been something to mention earlier, so going forward the attacks will have disadvantage, but you have to remember that for it to have an effect.
Marisha: But they're just now rolling.
Matt: He hasn't attacked yet, he's rolling because a Fireball just blew up in his face!
Travis: I got a natural 20, so I'm good.
Matt: So that's half damage to you. You said it was 26 damage?
Sam: 26.
Matt: So 13 points of fire damage to Percy and Grog, and a full 26 points of fire damage to you. That puts you at a total of 42 plus 26, so 68. You're still up. The elephant that's now storming through the center-- hold on, I have to go with the battle music for this now.
Sam: Where's your battle map?
Matt: --storming through the center of the foyer, is now spinning around, flames exploding, engulfing Percy, Grog. The elephant is now covered in blood and scrapes. That finishes your go. Grog, you're up.
Sam: Before I'm done I'm going to inspire Grog and say: Grog, remember. They never forget! (laughter)
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration.
Travis: Thank you. I'll take two strikes at the elephant's ass. That's a one.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Oh. Well, that's a one, so.
Matt: I know. You still have the second attack.
Travis: That's a two.
Marisha: (heavy footsteps)
Matt: So as you go--
Laura: Wait, it's not a two!
Travis: So the second one was 16, the first one was a 15.
Matt: It still hits. You rolled a two and it still hits because its AC is 12. It's very big and easy to hit. Go ahead and roll damage on the next attack.
Travis: Oh, nice. What a joy!
Taliesin: It's not hard to hit an elephant.
Liam: Can we also say that the two winos have come down to watch?
Laura: Yeah, we're staring from the top of the stairs at all of it happening.
Travis: The first one is 20, with four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: You only hit with one.
Travis: Oh, that's right.
Matt: How much was that, 20 points?
Travis: Yeah, 20.
Matt: Okay, so Keyleth, you yourself take 12 points of damage. As your axe swings through and slams into the elephant, the elephant's form suddenly vanishes, as your axe cleaves through Keyleth a little bit, causing her to fall back and catch herself.
Laura: Is Percy still on her back, piggy-backing?
Matt: In a second, Percy goes (thud) on the ground next to you.
Marisha: (pained noise)
Travis: Percy, you've been riding Raishan! Die, evil witch!
Laura: Grog! It's Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, Grog, thank you! That elephant ate me! You saved me!
Travis: I did?
Marisha: You did.
Travis: Sometimes I don't know if you guys would live without me. I'm really glad I'm around, sometimes.
Taliesin: I can't imagine it. I legitimately cannot imagine it.
Travis: Ooh, is that my helmet?!
Taliesin: It is!
Liam: Ayy, Fredrickstein the Science Guy, nice job! Look at that! That is beautiful.
Laura: (whispering) He's drunk.
Marisha: The elephant ate this too.
Taliesin: It's Dr. Fredrickstein, please.
Travis: Is there poo on it?
Marisha: No, it's good.
Taliesin: It's clean. It's perfectly reasonable.
Travis: Ooh, the mask's on the back. Did you write on the inside like I said?
Taliesin: It is engraved in Elven on the inside, it's lovely.
Travis: It looks like writing. What's it--
Taliesin: It's your title, sir.
Travis: --is that? What language?
Laura: Oh, that? It's Elvish.
Travis: Oh, it's Elvish? So not everybody knows what my title is.
Taliesin: It's meant to be secret.
Travis: Very smart. Did you see my title?
Laura: I did, it's impressive.
Marisha: I wrote it down.
Taliesin: Did you? Oh dear.
Marisha: I knew it was going to be handy.
Travis: I will put on the new mask slash horned helm.
Matt: It feels impressive.
Travis: Does it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Actually, because now the mask is facing the back, right? Can I fucking turn it around and put the mask on the front, with the horn sticking out the back like a big Nike swoosh?
Matt: You can. It's not as comfortable, but it definitely feels badass.
Travis: (muffled) I don't feel like this is the best--
Taliesin: You sound very intimidating.
Liam: He got polymorphed into De Niro. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Sam: I feel like I'm going to have to write some house rules from now on.
Taliesin: It'd be good to have a list of things to ignore, I agree.
Liam: You need some of those blue guys with an aerator at all times down in those cellars.
Sam: Blue man group?
Liam: One of your blue guys! The blue guys! That disappears with this place--
Sam: My hundreds of--? There's no guys here. They're all female servants. I don't know how many times I need to say this.
Liam: Well, nobody farted in our wine tonight. We had to drink it regular.
Sam: I am sorry for your loss, because it's really excellent once you let it breathe and open up.
Liam: It's pretty good right now.
Travis: Well, now that I got my helmet, are we going down to the ship?
Taliesin: I propose that we have an evening's rest. In the morning--
Liam: We should go now.
Laura: No. Maybe you need to rest.
Taliesin: No, I think we need an evening's rest.
Liam: I have 25 hit points. I'm fine!
Laura: Yeah. Well, Pike is resting because she was hurt quite badly.
Liam: Yeah, but did you see her fun buns, though? I did those.
Laura: I didn't.
Taliesin: You did her fun buns?
Liam: Yeah, I pulled little fun buns--
Taliesin: Oh! Okay! That's good--
Liam: What do you think I meant?
Taliesin: I didn't think anything, I'm going up.
Liam: What else does fun buns mean except for little, cute, little hairballs on your hair?
Sam: I'll give you a book later.
Laura: Oh, yeah! You have a book?
Sam: I have a few. I have a library.
Liam: Oh, gosh! Neither Vax nor Liam knew there was anything other than little cute hair buns-- Fun buns. What is a "fun bun" besides a fun bun?
Matt: Ask Larkin.
Liam: You guys! We got to find Larkin!
Matt: Okay. All right, so you guys take your long rest. You regain your spells, you're all full hit points, you regain half your max hit dice. So if you spent more than half of your hit dice, you still--
Laura: Do we keep our hit dice from our Heroes' Feast? If we never got rid of them? Or are they gone?
Matt: No. By the time you'd wake up, they'd be gone, probably.
Liam: Can you use the hit-- never mind.
Sam: When they wake up in the morning, Vax has a bill under his door for three bottles of wine. And Vex for one bottle. And Keyleth for a construction bill of 5,000 gold pieces.
Laura: I promptly rip the fuck out of my bill.
Marisha: I think it's a scam, and I throw it away.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It is a scam. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Well-rested. A fresher day. The mansion, growing fairly close to probably expending the rest of its magic. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: Let's pack our things, head down and take a look at that pirate ship, then head home. Well, that ship. I don't know if it has pirate symbols, but I'm very excited.
Marisha: So wait, do we need things-- how far under the ice is it?
Taliesin: Probably a bit. Having the ability to melt some ice would probably be helpful. Also, you're going to have to do the tree teleport and possibly we want to deal with reforestation of some kind.
Marisha: Reforestation. Oh, sure because the Ice Age wiped out--
Taliesin: We have to go out like Captain EO. It's a thing.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Just throwing this out there, is there anything to gain by going up to the dragon lair and communicating with Thordak? Is there anything we want to say to him?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Misdirection? Taunting? Anything?
Travis: Like, you suck. You can find us at the Glintshore?
Liam: We don't even want to take an hour for me to slip this on and go see if there's anything of value?
Sam: Up in the lair?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: You can do that while we look at the ship.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Sam: But don't go alone. You can still get hit with traps.
Liam: I can look for those. I do like buddies to go. Do you need to go to the boat?
Taliesin: It's all in the same place.
Laura: Yeah. It's all in the same place.
Sam: I can hover above you or something.
Travis: Let's jauntily head over.
Taliesin: If there's a problem, we can call the others. We won't be that far away.
Liam: All right. Ooh! I slip Whisper into my pack and I put this ring on.
Sam: (whispers) Ooh! Precious!
Laura: Right, so you have to attune to that.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Travis: Nasty woman.
Liam: (Gollum voice) She's a nasty woman! (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, I may need a ringtone later.
Matt: Yeah. All right, great. So you guys have put yourselves together. Kima and Pike joined you downstairs in the foyer. You make your way back out into the ravine just as the magic of the mansion fades. There you can see most of the dragon bones picked entirely off the corpse of Vorugal, except for the ribcage, still remaining as a landmark of the battle that took place with a central tree still sprouting from the top of it.
Laura: Is it any bigger?
Matt: No, the magic of Fenthras creates the tree and it stays that size as it sprouts. Who knows if over time it may grow? You haven't had the time to really tell. You guys make your way--
Marisha: I didn't know you are an artist.
Laura: It's quite lovely, isn't it?
Marisha: It's pretty amazing, yes. I appreciate this.
Laura: You're welcome. I did it for you, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Certainly adds something, doesn't it? To the whole valley. It's quite nice.
Travis: Yeah. Green.
Matt: The weather has cleared up. There's breaks in the clouds. It's still mostly cloud-covered, but you do see glimpses of blue sky here and there. Still cold, still see your breath out in the air. But the temperature does feel slightly warmer than it was the day before. You begin to walk down to the ravine center on the north side of the ravine where Vorugal's lair once resided. You can see hundreds of footprints, up and down, through the snow, through the ravine; looks like there's been a lot of foot traffic to and from while you guys were resting. You make your way to the ice throne of Vorugal and you see a portion of it has collapsed inward. But you also see a lot of foot traffic around, most of the ice spires that remained up there have been broken. The remaining Draconian corpses that were adorning them were taken down, or aren't in sight. And you can see there are a few remaining dragonborn Ravenites that are stepping in and out of the cavern-like chamber that you largely punched through and they continued to excavate it into the night.
Taliesin: If you could let them know that we're going to make one last venture into the ship and then we'll be on our way.
Laura: I walk up to one of the guys going in, and say in Draconic, have you unearthed the giant ship yet?
Matt: He looks for a second and says, "It is nothing for us. But we've worked around it." He points down, and you can see the portion of it that has collapsed, filled in part at the side and shoveled out in these large chunks of ice that are sitting outside of this cavern area. Parts of the ship have been moved around-- it looks like it's been somewhat damaged. It's not a full ship. It's a large portion of a ship. It looks like in whatever battle or attack that Vorugal took this ship, it destroyed a huge portion of it in doing so and took the rest of it with it, in pieces. And it is a very pretty ship. It looks like it may have been the jewel of a navy somewhere. And here it resides. However, it does appear like the ship has seen many moons since it was originally taken, if that makes any sense. Like, it wasn't brought directly here. It looks like almost a keepsake that Vorugal has moved from lair to lair.
Liam: (whispers) Oh, that's legit!
Matt: Has some sort of sentimental value.
Laura: Oh, wow! It had some engraving on it. You speak a lot of languages, right?
Taliesin: Well. I speak a couple of languages, I read a couple.
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Does it look familiar?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Taliesin: Celestial, Elven, Common.
Marisha: Sylvan, Primordial, Druidic, Elven.
Travis: Giant, Common.
Sam: Gnomish. That's it.
Matt: You don't even know Common. No one has understood you this entire game!
Laura: Pike speaks Dwarvish.
Matt: Pike does pick up on it. It is Dwarvish text.
Travis: I speak Dwarvish, but I can't read.
Matt: That is a problem.
Travis: I have a belt, yeah.
Matt: It is Dwarven, and as Pike begins reading around it, this-- it's the name of the ship across the mast, which is "The Floebreaker." This ship appears to have been, at least in some way, shape, or form, designed as a means of travelling through very far north icy regions, meant to break through elements of heavy glacier flows and such. The construction of it, as you get closer to the actual bit of the ship that is there, you can see it's very heavily reinforced with metal and has a very rigid structure to it. The fine scrolling that you saw before, it looks to be partially filled with ice at times. So as soon as it broke away, you could see it's actually more of a harsh, broken Dwarvish runic writing to it. The ship has definitely seen a lot of wear and tear. That's about as much you can make out of it.
Laura: Can we get inside of it? Is there anything to see inside of it?
Matt: You can attempt to climb inside if you want to.
Marisha: How much is exposed right now?
Matt: Just the top of the deck, and where the mast connects to the-- that portion is still frozen into the upper part of the throne. There is no entrance immediately visible, but you can break through some more ice or try to break through the actual deck to get there.
Marisha: I cast a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay. A flaming ball begins to roll on the bridge of the ship.
Marisha: Where does it look like the most convenient entrance? With ice and stuff?
Matt: Maybe four feet away from where the ice begins. You can see there is one broken portion of the ship deck, maybe about a three-foot, four-foot hole that you could melt towards if you wanted to.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to concentrate my Flaming Sphere on that and start melting it.
Matt: Okay. It's taking a while. About how long does the spell last, the Flaming Sphere?
Marisha: About a minute, I think?
Laura: (hums the Jeopardy theme)
Matt: All right, Flaming Sphere, up to a minute, yeah. The spell expires, the minute done, and you've managed to melt maybe three inches into the ice?
Laura: Grog, go punch it.
Marisha: How much was it?
Matt: About four feet of ice.
Marisha: Oh, fuck that.
Travis: Ugh! I got it.
Marisha: I step back.
Travis: And I start going Rocky-ribcage on this big piece of meat.
Matt: Okay, make your strength check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. He continues to punch, and punch, and punch, and each one you see the ice crack, pieces of it break away. You get quite a ways to punching through towards the direction that you are currently melting before a lot of the ice crumbles and falls and almost buries you for a second. But you knock it away and pull yourself out of it as you do, scooping the shards that occupied the space where you were and get out of the way.
Marisha: I cast a Gust cantrip over top of him to keep ice from falling on him.
Laura: I hope there's really something in here.
Marisha: Me too.
Matt: Keeps punching. You get to one point, and you hit, and you hear a (dull impact). You watch a crack spider up to the top of the throne.
Travis: I think we need to go.
Matt: Portion of the throne above you is now starting to crack and fall onto the side.
Travis: I start running out of there.
Laura: We should get out. Let's go.
Marisha: I also back out.
Matt: Okay. I need the three of you who are closest to it to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Travis: Can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping?
Matt: You have advantage on dexterity, though. You'll be fine.
Liam: I could've hanged back, but I've been meaning to say this whole time that I was creeping around the thrones, I'm just going to throw that out, that I'm up there.
Matt: Okay, so you see this happening. A portion of it, like a whole half side of it has cracked and is sliding down into the cavern that has been excavated by your party and the Ravenites.
Liam: So if I'm almost on it, should I be making a dex save as well?
Matt: If you're almost on it--
Liam: I was going to poke around and look around it.
Matt: Only half of it's collapsing, I'll say sure. Go for it. You who offers me to let you make a dexterity saving throw, yes. I will take it.
Laura: Really? Did you really do that?
Liam: I rolled a one, but I have lots of Luck left. And now I'm fine.
Travis: I'm not.
Liam: So that's a 26.
Matt: So yeah. You manage to leap off and tumble in the snow to the bottom and don't have to worry about it. Travis?
Travis: Eight. With advantage.
Laura: 29.
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: 19. But I burned a Resolve.
Matt: So as you guys dart out, Grog and Keyleth unfortunately are left a little bit behind. You both are pummelled with chunks of hard ice and jagged points of broken frost there, dealing 13 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage to both of you. And you find yourselves partially buried in the ice that cracks off it. You see most of Keyleth's body is currently buried, just her head and arms are out. And Grog, you're about up to your waist now in broken ice and snow. And you're like, (grunts), and pull yourself out.
Travis: Look at Keyleth's arm.
Laura: Yeah, I see it. Can you get her out?
Travis: Okay. I start moving the ice and pull her out.
Matt: You pull Keyleth out.
Marisha: (coughing)
Travis: That didn't go well.
Taliesin: Let's burrow straight into the side, I think, to be on the safe side. Let's stop melting ice.
Laura: Isn't it buried completely at this point?
Matt: At this point, the entire excavation portion-- by the way, as you guys came back, most of the gold and platinum that was in there has been completely removed by the Ravenites over time. And this whole area that has been excavated so carefully left it in a precarious place. Those physical hits by Grog sent that whole south side of the throne to collapse inwards. So it's partially collapsed. There's a large pile of ice, rock and snow. And it's not very accessible from the current standpoint.
Laura: Maybe it was one of Vorugal's first kills or something? And it's sentimental?
Taliesin: I don't know, I'm irritated by it.
Liam: I think it might have given him a little bit of juice when he was at home.
Marisha: Do you think it has some sort of icy-like--
Liam: Extra ability when he was here, maybe.
Marisha: I could try, and maybe now that the ice is broken I can melt it through it easier?
Liam: Why would a dragon keep a boat?
Taliesin: Why would he?
Travis: Maybe his woobie, you know--?
Laura: Like a blankie.
Liam: Yeah. You know about that, Percy?
Marisha: Some people like collecting ships, you know? Maybe he's a nautical kind of guy.
Travis: Yeah, guns and ships.
Laura: He was a nautical kind of guy.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Travis: (hums the intro of "Alexander Hamilton")
Liam: While we're all standing here with our thumbs in our butts, could I look around and see if I see a little stone, a little palantir?
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Sam: Where are you standing?
Liam: Ugh, Luck again. Jeepers creepers.
Laura: He's up top.
Sam: If he's up top, I would have been up there with him, too.
Liam: 26.
Sam: I'm a crow. Circling around, watching him from above.
Liam: I'm invisible.
Sam: Well, I'm watching the area.
Matt: All right. What did you roll? 26? Yeah. You see within the north side of the throne, there are two orbs embedded in the ice, about a foot beneath the surface. Previously you saw more.
Liam: In the past, in other locations, you mean?
Matt: No, meaning when you guys first came to this when he wasn't there, you saw three stones. You now see two. But half of the throne has collapsed as well.
Liam: And how far down are they under the ice?
Matt: About a foot, a foot and a half from the surface.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I'm going to go find my sister.
Laura: (groans) It's--
Liam: Hey! I'm invisible! Here I am.
Laura: Hi.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Did you see it? It collapsed.
Liam: Yes, I saw it. I dodged out of the way.
Laura: Good.
Liam: I'm right here.
Laura: I know! I'm looking at you.
Liam: Yes, but I'm invisible.
Laura: I'm looking in your direction.
Liam: Boop!
Laura: Ugh, goddamn it.
Liam: Remember those little round seeing stones?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: There's a couple under the ice over there. Now, I was invisible so I don't--
Laura: You saw them under the ice?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You saw a couple under the ice?
Liam: A couple under the ice, a foot or two away.
Laura: Where were the other ones?
Liam: I didn't see any other ones.
Laura: Were they there before it collapsed?
Liam: I don't know. I was standing right beneath the throne when the throne collapsed. Then I found them.
Laura: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Liam: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Matt: One of them was, yeah.
Liam: One of them was, yeah.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Fuck!
Travis: Fuck!
Liam: Fucking--
Sam: (caws)
Marisha: Hold on, did we maybe get-- is Thordak going to-- we should go.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Percy, want to leave a mark anymore?
Laura: We should tell Tooma that--
Taliesin: We left one.
Laura: I go find Tooma.
Matt: The handful of dragonborn that were there, after the collapse, were walking back to the internal cavern area. As you head back, a large portion of Ravenites have all come out of their caves, and right now are in the process of scouring the ruins. Some of them are putting armaments away. Tooma is out there, currently conversing with a number of the other community leaders that are deciding what the next steps are.
Marisha: I approach Tooma. (clears throat) Tooma, it's time that we make our departure very soon.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: I want to thank you so much for everything that you provided and everything that your people have done.
Matt: "I wish to thank you for your sticking to your word."
Marisha: Of course. I would love to help and leave some parting gift in any way that I can.
Matt: "The riches from the hoard will provide enough for us. You need not worry."
Marisha: What was your land like before Vorugal got here? I know it wasn't as icy and as frigid.
Matt: "It was without snow. We are at the south side of Wildemount. I hope this fades with time, we are not bound for snow people."
Marisha: I can attempt to maybe revitalize your plant life as much as I can before I leave.
Matt: "You can do this?"
Marisha: I can.
Matt: "By all means. We would appreciate it."
Marisha: You have a good, strong people and I want to see your recovery. Just like I hope the same with mine.
Matt: "Me too."
Marisha: Anything that I can do.
Laura: Tooma?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: You know the stones we talked about?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yeah, they got jostled.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: It looks like that ice wasn't super-strong, and it collapsed.
Taliesin: The ice was going to collapse eventually, anyway.
Matt: "What does this mean?"
Laura: Not sure exactly.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: But you should keep an eye on the sky. If you see something red, maybe hide. Just for a while. Thordak doesn't know what was here. But if he realizes Vorugal's been killed, he'll come looking. Potentially.
Matt: "But you're going to kill this Thordak, yes?"
Laura: Oh, yeah! With your help, I think. Just in case he comes before we get to him.
Matt: "You should get to him quickly, then."
Laura: Good plan.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: The whole time she's been talking, her braid has been going like a magical jump rope because I'm standing here doing this with it.
Laura: Not. The time.
Taliesin: If you find something--
Laura: (whispers) Fucking dick! Stop it!
Taliesin: If you find an ice weapon in that ship beneath the throne-- anything magical, some sort of ice power, we may need it. That may be useful.
Matt: "Keep in mind for it."
Marisha: I go up to the group. Percy, Vax, I need to take time with this, so are you all all right spending the rest of the day here while I help them?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. I ascend to the top of the ravine and I start meditating, and I cast Plant Growth.
Laura: We all need to go up there anyway because that's where the trees are that we're going to transport through, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We make our way to the top of the ravine as well.
Matt: What level is Plant Growth?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: 3rd-level. Gotcha.
Marisha: And I'm doing the eight-hour--
Laura: Eight hours!
Matt: Boy, guys!
Sam: Super boring day for us.
Marisha: Yep. Sorry.
Taliesin: God, I want to get in that ship!
Marisha: I start doing that and revitalizing their landscape as close to what it was before, giving their-- [no audio]
Matt: It affects all normal plants within a hundred-foot radius. So you have a very specific portion that you revitalize in the ravine.
Marisha: Okay. Well, I talked to Tooma and find out where she--
Matt: Actually, no, all plants in a half-mile radius are--
Marisha: That's what I thought, yeah. In the eight hour one that's like, crazy.
Matt: I should have kept reading. Okay, so yeah. You talk to her about it, and she tells you, "The ravine itself does not have the nutrients to support crops, but we had farmland right above the ravine."
Marisha: All right. Do you plan to still reside there?
Matt: "Once the snow melts, yes."
Marisha: I'll do what I can. And I go there.
Matt: Okay. You get there, and through the use of your elemental magics, you easily cast aside the snow. And from underneath, you can see where once there was a heavy amount of cropland that has all died off because of the recent freeze that came with Vorugal. You take the eight hours to concentrate and as you, do you enrich the land. You can watch as many of these dead seeds come to life with green once more. Suddenly, you see sprouting bits of delicious cabbages and other forms of produce begin to spring to life and grow nutrient rich. As this happens, you can see a few of the Ravenites who followed you to watch this are taken aback and excitedly rush down to tell the rest of the people. The rest of you are bored out of your mind for the next eight hours.
Travis: Kima and I are sparring.
Sam: Challenge Vax to a peeing in the snow contest.
Matt: He's had a lot of wine.
Liam: Oh yeah, that was last night.
Laura: So you're pretty hungover, you don't have a lot.
Sam: Distance and accuracy.
Liam: (sings a fanfare) I've brought one from your house.
Sam: It's gone.
Laura: It disappeared.
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: Yes, as you reach for it, there's nothing there.
Laura: That's amazing.
Matt: So you guys have fun sparring for a while, you beat the crap out of each other off and on for a few hours and you both feel good about it. When the eight hours have finished, you guys reconvene.
Liam: V-A-X. Your turn.
Marisha: Vax is shorter than Scanlan.
Travis: Cursive, baby.
Matt: I want both of you guys to make performance checks
Sam: Okay. Performance for peeing in the snow.
Laura: Oh, what what. He's got a really high modifier, though.
Liam: Oh, I'm sure he'll win.
Taliesin: No, you're going to win.
Sam: Not good.
Liam: No, even at his lowest it'll be higher I bet.
Sam: 18.
Liam: 21.
Matt: You want to add your d12?
Liam: Zorro.
Matt: You can add your own bardic inspiration.
Liam: Yeah, if he thinks of it.
Sam: It's a fair fight.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Sam: This is a fair fight.
Matt: It is close, but as much as your cursive writing was on point, it was impressive that Vax was capable of cursive drawing the X, stopping and then crossing the X.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: It stings when you stop.
Sam: That's impressive, but you know my wang is built for power, not accuracy.
Laura: As soon as the cube comes out  can I talk to you, do you mind stepping away?
Travis: With the cube out?
Sam: You talking to me?
Laura: No, not you.
Taliesin: Sure, yeah, I'm going to do nothing but stare at that bloody ship if I don't, so sure.
Laura: How are you, after dying?
Taliesin: I'm trying really hard not to think about it, actually. I don't know, honestly. There hasn't been a lot of time to process.
Laura: No, there hasn't. It's a lot in a few days.
Taliesin: I would say it would be nice to be going home, except I know what we're going home to. So there's going to be no relief.
Laura: No, not for a while, I don't think.
Taliesin: That creature hanging around.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, death was not pleasant.
Laura: No. I have to tell you something
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Do you know what Fenthras means?
Taliesin: I don't, actually.
Laura: It comes from the Elvish words, I'm surprised. Growth and protection.
Taliesin: I would've eventually looked it up. It's the sort of terribly boring thing I would do.
Laura: It's odd that Saundor had it for so long, since he was quite the opposite of that, don't you think?
Taliesin: I tend to think that many people tend to exalt the exact opposite of what they are.
Laura: Yes. I don't know, I think he focused for so long on the betrayal of his love, on all of the horrible things within himself that caused that, that he became the physical embodiment of it. And I think he was trying to do the same thing to me. Even though I refused him, I could feel those seeds being planted. Self-doubt and loathing echoing in my mind every night. Reliving every wrong that people have done to me and everything I have done.
Taliesin: I recently-- I will say, before death-- had a bit of an epiphany, and have been trying-- not always succeeding, but trying-- not to dwell on such things.
Laura: That's actually what I wanted to talk to you about. In the fight with Ripley.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Your last words to her were, "I forgive you."
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: It was such a surprise.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I pull out Fenthras and I show him what I've carved onto it, it's "sinaeth." Do you know that word?
Taliesin: How common is that word?
Matt: You know the word.
Taliesin: I would know the word.
Laura: It's forgive.
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: I carved this on Fenthras because that's the key, isn't it? It's the only way to really grow.
Taliesin: I think so. I'm trying. It's the only thing I've tried that's made any sense so far. And it felt very liberating, it felt good, it felt perfect. And it wasn't about her. It was just about me. Honestly, that was really the thing that I noticed, was I didn't say it to make her feel better, I didn't say it to give her any peace. I came to that feeling before running into her. I didn't know if it would be true when I saw her, but I feel like so much of my energy had been such a waste. And worse than a waste, it had been twisted in the wrong direction. And it's too late for a lot of things. There are things I cannot take back and things that I have done that will forever be terrible, but that's not the point, I suppose.
Laura: It isn't. Whoever that boy was that created those things, that suffered such horrors that he felt they were justified? You have to forgive him, too. Because everything you've suffered and endured and created in that time has made you into the person you are now. And you have a brilliant mind. And any darkness that might cloud your vision on occasion, the fact that you found it within yourself to forgive her means that it will never overtake you.
Taliesin: Thank you. I would like to think we're all better than we think we are. Except maybe your brother. I think he's just a mess.
Laura: He's terrible, isn't he? Just the worst.
Taliesin: Is he in here?
Laura: Maybe, he's probably hiding somewhere.
Taliesin: Shouldn't have given him that ring. Thank you. I know I have to forgive myself. I'm not quite there yet, but I can see a path. I like where we are and what we're doing. I think that we're the right people in the right place and the right time.
Laura: I agree. And this engraving is a reminder that every time I attack, it's not out of vengeance.
Taliesin: I would be horrified if you were taking yourself too seriously.
Laura: Never. Did you see the bear that I carved on the tree? It's quite lovely.
Taliesin: It was quite lovely. I don't know if the tree is quite as happy with it, but I was quite impressed.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: That's all.
Taliesin: What room are we in, out of curiosity?
Laura: There's no room, we're in the woods.
Taliesin: Oh, no room, we're in the woods. Yeah, all right. As I walk away, I walk up. I kiss her. So we'll talk later. And I walk away.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh shit!
Matt: And it's ten o'clock. We're going to go ahead and end today's session.
Taliesin: Bam, motherfuckers! Bam!
Travis: (singing) Go on and kiss the girl.
Laura: Oh man, oh man.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching! That episode had a lot of interesting moments.
Sam: We had an elephant fight. (laughter)
Matt: The spoils of war.
Travis: A whole bunch of new shit.
Liam: Look at our signatures in the snow, that's fucking beautiful!
Taliesin: There was pissing, there was kissing, there was everything!
Sam: Pissing and kissing.
Taliesin: Pissing and Kissing is the title.
Marisha: That's a good title.
Matt: That is not going to be the title.
Liam: I shit it.
Taliesin: You're welcome, Internet.
Matt: Well then. We'll get ourselves to rest for the evening. You guys do the same, thank you for hanging in there. Once again, amazing community, we love you guys so much, all the support you have. Make sure to dig into all the awesome charities that we support, and you guys support as well. We're continuously getting messages from them, blown away by the generosity of the Critter and Team Hooman community, so thank you guys so much for your support on those.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze.
All: Thanks, Backblaze!
Travis: That amazing commercial. They're always so good.
Matt: I guess until next week, guys. Is it Thursday yet? See you then.
Travis: Oh shit, man!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voi-- (gibberish) voice actors. It's been a long year, a lot of us voice actors-- Look, there's very high nerves in the studio right now 'cause tonight's going to be crazy. A bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight's going to be an intense episode but before we get to that, let's go ahead and get through our announcements for the evening. First and foremost, we have an amazing sponsor tonight. We have Backblaze. (cheering)
Laura: We love you, Yev!
Matt: Our final episode of the year. So Sam, you have a few words on that?
Sam: Yeah well, you know Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just $5 a month. You can go to backblaze.com/criticalrole for a full 15-day free trial, and I was going through my library. You know I have a whole library?
Matt: It's pretty impressive, actually.
Sam: Yeah and I dug up an old poetry book and buried inside there was a very curious poem by a young Dr. Seuss.
Travis: Oh really?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: That's worth a lot of money.
Sam: I know, I know. I thought I would read it for you all today.
Travis: Doesn't even look yellowed or anything.
Sam: He printed it on his laser printer.
Travis: Oh good. (laughter)
Sam: But it happens to concern Backblaze. The drive did not spin. It just clacked and it clicked. I rebooted and prayed and gave it a swift kick. But my data was gone, poof, every byte and bit. And I cried, "How I wish I had backed up my shit!" But who should appear in a car that he revved? A zingity zangity furry red Yev. The Yev jumped through my window, he pounced on my mouse and said, "You must have wished Backblaze to your house." But I looked at him cross, shouting, "What do you mean? My files are corrupt. This is one dead machine." He just laughed and said, "You daft binkle blot, Backblaze works whether you remember or not. Your pics of your kids and the food that they eated, all stored on the cloud. Nothing's ever deleted. Your docs, Firefox, alarm clocks, and your socks will all be restored from our miracle box." The Yev yelled, "Don't worry from midnight to morn, we save all your stuff, your taxes and porn. Your music and apps are safe on Backblaze." And with that, the Yev tipped his hat, "Good day." So remember, go visit backblaze.com and find the red Yev sing-singing his song. Let them take care of you heart and soul and tell him you're sent there by Critical Role.
Travis: Damn! Man, I don't know if that was Dr. Seuss or Lin-Manuel but that was great.
Liam: It was sweet and offensive. By the way, Sam, that's a very handsome hoodie you're wearing. I can't wait to open you up like an advent calendar later.
Sam: Oh! There's nothing offensive to Matt Mercer under this shirt. It's just another shirt progression to inspire us. This one goes four deep. (yelling)
Laura: It looks like your tiny little weenus is--
Travis: You're shirt-cocking your own mouth!
Matt: I am so happy!
Sam: It's to inspire us in our final fights. It might be the last time I'm ever on this show, so I wanted it to be five of me.
Matt: For the power of five Sams. Thank you, Sam, and thank you, Backblaze, for being our awesome sponsor for our episode tonight. You guys are awesome. We have a great video for you to watch from them at the break.
Laura: Wait. Can I say, Yev, about the stuff? All the little pictures you see in the different videos, he's giving some of those away tonight? Giving some away! If you sign up for Backblaze or if you have signed up for Backblaze already, you're entered into the competition. And then you can win them, and we've signed them, and it's wonderful. Did I say it right?
Sam: Yep, you did great.
Laura: Okay. Cool.
Matt: It was pretty bad. As a quick addendum, while they're not officially sponsoring the show tonight, our friends at Loot Crate, who sponsored us for a large portion of the year as well, wanted us to give you a heads up about their current Halo Legendary crate. It's filled with a bunch of exclusive Halo figures, collectibles and in-game items. If you're a Halo fan, this has some exclusive stuff that comes through Loot Crate in that specific crate. You can go to lootcrate.com/LDNHalo to check it out. You can use the code "LDNHalo," all one word, for a discount to that. The cutoff for orders is tonight, so if you plan to do that, you might want to check it out in the next couple of hours. Now's your chance to do it, go. Do it, it's awesome. Right. That's our sponsorship. Couple of other things to mention. We will be returning January 5th, will be our returning episode in 2017. The new year. We'll pick up wherever tonight leaves off.
Liam: Those characters are going to be awesome.
Matt: You have so much faith in yourselves! It's very possible. No. So yeah, we'll be back January 5th. We wish you guys a very very merry holiday, in all your celebrations, and your families, and your New Year's, and all that crazy stuff. We'll have more of that at the end of the episode, but we'll see you back then. We have a merch shout-out, actually. Laura, if you want to talk about what we have up on the store for them?
Laura: That's a good question. I have no idea what's in the store tonight. I have no sheet in front of me, and I have no idea what's there. I think there's some hats left, I know there are some hats--
Travis: The dice got restocked.
Laura: No, they did not. No, the dice did not get restocked, the dice are coming back in, like, January, so there's a lot more coming in January, so that's good. I have no idea what else is in the store though. A hat? There's a hat.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Shit, I got nothing.
Sam: You are the best.
Laura: You guys, I'm focused on spells, and I'm focused on arrows, and hit points and-- (gasps) And the patches! And our mugs!
Matt: If you go to the Geek and Sundry store under Critical Role, you'll see merch! That's our announcement for the evening!
Laura: There's still patches left, you guys! That's pretty cool! Yeah, the hats are still there. There's only a few left, though! There's only a few hats left, I know that for sure.
Marisha: Only a few hats left.
Marisha: And they're gone.
Taliesin: And they're gone.
Laura: Sorry. I'm stressed!
Marisha: Yes, tomorrow we have a last-minute special edition Signal Boost episode that is a stocking stuffer edition. Yeah, coming out tomorrow, and it's got, like, coupons in it, so you should watch it. And also: everyone likes coupons!
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: End of statement. Also, there was a playlist that we put out that is a collection of all of the artists that we have boosted over the year.
Taliesin: Except one.
Marisha: Except for one because they're not on Spotify and it's not my fault. But yeah, go check it out and I also wrote a little thing giving some insight into the background of the show.
Matt: It's a great write-up, I recommend you guys check it out. Even if you haven't watched Signal Boost, it's a great write-up. I recommend it. Thank you, Marisha.
Marisha: You're welcome. I'll be here all week. Yeah, not really, it's Christmas time.
Matt: This is a pretty cool announcement. After a back and forth for the past year, we just got approval from Blizzard Entertainment to incorporate their music from their game projects into our Critical Role soundtrack.
Sam: For the final fight?
Matt: I've incorporated a few tracks for tonight's battle, as well as a couple of community-made tracks that have been submitted over time, so we'll have some fresh tracks for the evening. But, Blizzard, thank you so much, thank you to Woody Day, and a bunch of the guys who have helped out over there to make this happen. We're excited to include those amazing soundtracks into our atmospheric background tracks in future episodes.
Liam: I was not prepared. Oh! I'm fired, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, you are. Anything else anyone wants to mention real fast?
Brian: (distantly) Critmas!
Matt: Oh yes. (laughing) Thank you, disembodied voice of Brian Wayne Foster, ghost of Christmas Tuesday. Next Tuesday we have a special Critmas episode of Talks Machina. A bunch of us are opening your awesome Critmas presents, and we'll be showing the videos the community submitted about what Critical Role means to them, to you, and to us! So check it out next Tuesday in the usual spot. I think that's it. All right, cool! Then let us go ahead and bring the tension up as you guys wander into the flaming core of Emon to show down with Thordak, the Cinder King, on tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So! Last we left off, Vox Machina, after spending the better part of a number of months traversing the Prime Material Plane and planes beyond in search of ancient relics known as the Vestiges of Divergence, they finally increased their abilities, they've made allies, and they've begun their trek to tear down the collection of evil chromatic dragons known as the Chroma Conclave that destroyed your city of Emon and took over most of the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond. You've defeated and you've slain three members of the Conclave, allied with a fourth, and you've made your way, along with an army combined with the powers of Fort Daxio and Syngorn, to the central city of Emon. Utilizing aid from the Ashari people to cover the skies as the armies began to assault the outer walls, you, along with Zahra, Kashaw, Jarett, Gilmore, the whole party, everyone's there, Kima--
Travis: Britney Spears, NSYNC--
Sam: My other brother.
Matt: Drake's staying back with the army to help them with the assault. You guys made your way underneath through the sewer system, made a brief alliance with some wayward Clasp who led you to the center of town where the volcanic essence of Thordak's mutated draconic form has been pulling volcanic activity up beneath the city. You climbed out on top and there, at the walled gates to the central Cloudtop District, which Thordak now calls his home and his lair, you saw two fire giants guarding the entrance. Kashaw and Zahra, in a heroic display, bound the giants to place and decided to take care of them while you rushed into the fray, bursting through the door due to the strength of your Titanstone Gauntlets. You rushed into the cloud, smoke, and ember-filled Cloudtop District ruins, jumping from ruined building to wreck of rubble and stone. The air itself is dense and black with dark fume and it's hard to see anything. You all carefully, gingerly, stealthily made your way into the alcove of one ruined building, where across the way, you see a giant raised central cavern, a hole, a burrow, if you will, that is close to 40 feet across. Apparently, your approach was somewhat sensed by the red dragon himself, as you watch Thordak emerge from this burrow and climb out saying to itself, "It appears we have visitors." (sound of liquid pouring)
Sam: I'm really nervous. (laughter)
Matt: So, as Ashley unfortunately can not be with us, Pike's control and duty will be taken care of by the twins for the evening. You guys will be dual cleric-ing tonight.
Laura: We're Jaegering.
Matt: Indeed. At this point in time, you guys are all keeping as still and as quiet as you can while figuring out your circumstances. You can hear the low growling voice of Thordak as he begins to scan the vicinity. (growling)
Marisha: Potions! Potions!
Sam: Oh, good idea, good idea.
Laura: I take fire resistance.
Matt: Fire resistance? Fire resistance, fire resistance--
Liam: Am I able to make a jello shot of invulnerability and haste at the same time?
Laura: But you know they only last for one minute each. Just wait for like a second. Just wait. Fire resistance lasts for a while, I passed them out, so if you've got them, take them.
Matt: Okay, so we have Scanlan, Keyleth, Vex, Grog, all with fire resistance? And Percy? All right. That's pretty much everyone but you, I believe, right?
Laura: Oh, but he's got the armor--
Matt: So yeah, the entire party, thank god, is set to resist fire. That may help your chances here. As you all guys quietly begin to drink and figure out your circumstances--
Travis: Why are you laughing? Why'd you laugh?
Matt: Because I was rolling Thordak's perception check to see if he noticed any of your presences as you were drinking the potions. I got a natural one.
Laura: Wow, just drinking a potion would make him notice us?
Liam: "I guess I'll go back to sleep now."
Matt: He's still scanning, and he's still like, "We can sense you here. Where are you?" And you hear (heavy footsteps).
Sam: Should I cause a distraction?
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. What are the components of that spell? Let's take a look here.
Laura: It can't be vocal because it's Pass Without a Trace-- oh no, it's verbal.
Matt: Yep!
Laura: No, I don't do that! I don't know what those things mean!
Travis: You better get your shit in gear.
Laura: It's a whisper. Tell me it's a one! Tell me it's a one!
Matt: That was not a one.
Travis: I mean, let's be clear, what are we really going to hide from? Look where his fucking head is. He's like the sun. We ain't hiding from that shit.
Laura: He may have heard us, but now we've got plus ten stealth.
Matt: So, as you guys are all quietly huddled over in this broken space there, Vex'ahlia begins to do her incantation beneath her breath and as you feel the shadows cling to you, you hear in the distance, "Ah. There you are."
Travis: I just want to pee on myself and run.
Matt: He has currently moved out to this area, and began to asses the scenery. I need all of you to roll initiative. (screaming)
Laura: Already!? Take your potions!
Liam: I can't, we're into initiative, right? It's too late for potions.
Matt: You took your fire resistance potions. That's all you had time to do.
Marisha: That's not too bad, not too bad.
Taliesin: That will do.
Laura: Who's rolling for Pike?
Liam: I'll do it. I got 11, plus what?
Laura: I don't think she has anything, so--
Matt: Pike has no bonus.
Travis: 14. Oh wait, you ask them, in order.
Laura: I'm freaking out, shit, I'm sorry, I thought I was helping.
Matt: Vex, what did you get?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 for you? All right.
Liam: 12, and Pike got 11.
Taliesin: Pretty good for Pike.
Laura: That is pretty good for Pike.
Marisha: That is pretty good for Pike.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 17.
Laura: Good.
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty good for Keyleth. Oh god.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: 25. Fast, fast.
Sam: Eight. I'll be bringing up the rear. That's how I like it anyway.
Liam: While we're cowering here, Pike says, "Guys, I think I could really help you out if you wait a second. Okay?"
Laura: Oh, Pike didn't even get a chance to--
Travis: Were we supposed to have a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: We did, we did have a Heroes' Feast.
Travis: I'm so glad, I was totally here last week.
Laura: We're all immune to fear and poison still, we all have advantage on wisdom.
Matt: You do indeed.
Taliesin: And extra hit points.
Matt: All righty. So! With that, beginning of the round, at the very top: Percival. You glance around the corner and you see sifting through the large columns of smoke that are billowing off each one of these destroyed, burning buildings, you see the gargantuan form of Thordak (heavy footsteps) and looks right over. You see all of a sudden as his eyes pass in your direction, almost like a cat caught in a light beam, as his eyes flare up with bright white light as it sees your presence.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: What do you see?
Taliesin: It's coming. Is there room, can I get even vaguely a shot in that room?
Matt: From here, at his size, you could get a shot if you moved a little bit.
Taliesin: I'll move a little bit.
Matt: Jump between these folks there.
Taliesin: I have Spider Climb on right now, so actually I'll climb up on the wall and then climb back down when I'm done.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- Ignore that, I've been drinking. First of all, I'm going to cast Hex on him. Because that's really going to make a difference.
Travis: No, it is! Stay positive!
Taliesin: What kind of checks should I-- I'm going to down him for--
Marisha: I feel like he's real good at everything.
Laura: Like, wisdom, or something.
Taliesin: I'm going to give him a disadvantage on dexterity checks. Because fuck it. All right, I'm going to take out Bad News, and I'm going to take two shots, which is my way, with Hex and Bad News, and hopefully everything's going to go just fine. I'm going to use Sharpshooter, and I'm going to use Deadeye on the first one. I'm going to drop a point on Deadeye. So, Deadeye roll-- That should have counted, damn it, I shouldn't have picked it up. Oh, thank god. That's-- sorry, I'm blanking. 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a good sign.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's not start saying that now. And that's-- wow, I'm nervous!
Sam: Wow!
Taliesin: That's actually really good. First shot is 21, 37 points of damage plus five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: In addition to 37? That's nice.
Taliesin: That's really nice. I rolled really high, and I have Sharpshooter running.
Matt: Good opening shot.
Taliesin: Next one, I'm going to shoot Sharpshooter, but no Deadshot. Is an 18 to hit?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay, second one misses. I'm going to crawl back and hide again and get a little bit of-- yeah, I got up on top, took two shots, and crawled back down to hide.
Matt: All right, as you climb up to the top, you slam Bad News over the top of the stonework, and as soon as the barrel catches a little bit of the light through the smoke, you watch as Thordak's face whips over in your direction. (gunshot) The first shot smashes across the crest on the front of the dragon's face. You see sparks fly, and bits of flame, red crystal get shattered in the distance. The head spins back towards you, and immediately you start shaking, and you fire the second shot and it ricochets off of its angry, thick hide. You immediately duck back behind the wall.
Taliesin: I'm regretting so many things right now! Not you! Oh god! I shouldn't avoid my family. It leads to dragons.
Matt: In all of your focus, and all of your attention into the arrival, and the crawl into this, and Thordak, none of you noticed that Larkin is not with you.
Laura: No surprise there.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Piece of shit.
Marisha: Piece of shit. Okay, I don't know what to do here? What are we trying to do? Do we have a plan? Should I try and burn a big spell?
Sam: Do whatever you do! We've been practicing for this our whole lives.
Marisha: Okay, before I do something crazy, based off of Percy saying that, I turn to Vex and I go, by the way, I've been meaning to ask you about that, if he ever followed through, so stay alive, we can talk later! Okay! And I pop over the corner and I'm going to cast Tsunami?
Sam: I've never heard you say those words.
Liam: No, it's not.
Matt: So you're casting Tsunami.
Liam: She did this once and wrecked our enemies.
Marisha: That was Tidal Wave, this is like a big daddy version of that.
Liam: It's worse than that?
Marisha: This is my 8th-level spell. So I create a wall 300 feet high, 300 feet long, and 50 feet thick of water.
Matt: You watch as the smoke is instantly replaced with steam in the vicinity, completely filling the area with fog, as this giant wall of water is conjured out of the broken, cracked, dry earth and begins curling over towards Thordak's front side. All right, so, strength saving throw-- Wait, any Huge or smaller creature.
Laura: Is he bigger than Huge?
Matt: He is bigger than Huge.
Laura: So it doesn't have any effect on him? Is he bigger than 300 feet?
Marisha: Yeah, he's not bigger than 300 feet, is he?
Matt: It's big, but the sheer mass size-- You watch as the tidal wave smashes into Thordak and splits and falls around him, no effect. His form is too big--
Marisha: None at all?
Matt: The water crashes against him, he's too big for it to actually have an impact on him.
Liam: Are there any fires left burning in the vicinity?
Matt: Actually, this fire is out now, this fire goes out, and water spills down into the tunnel and you watch a bunch of steam (whoosh) rise out of it.
Marisha: Well, it's also a six-round spell, and he's supposed to get stuck in it. Nothing? No.
Matt: He's too big.
Laura: He doesn't even get damaged at all, though?
Travis: Does he question his choices in life?
Marisha: Because I'm questioning mine.
Matt: It says any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall has to make a saving throw or take damage, creature caught in the wall can move, but yeah, it only seems to have an effect on--
Sam: Well, that was a valiant effort.
Matt: I was with you. But, hey, 8th-level spell!
Sam: You got tons of 8th-level spells, you'll be fine.
Marisha: "But, hey, 8th-level spell?" Did you just say that to me?
Matt: Sorry! I'm sorry! I didn't mean to.
Marisha: Holy fuck.
Sam: No problem.
Taliesin: I would get back behind the wall if I were you.
Matt: So Keyleth, do you want to use the rest of your movement?
Sam: Don't get back behind the fucking wall, don't get back behind the wall, we're all bunched up. Go somewhere else.
Travis: Scatter.
Laura: I know how painful this is right now, Keyleth, but it looked really cool. Just run.
Liam: Our pores are cleared-- the steam--
Taliesin: The wall will at least take some damage at this point, most things he's going to do are going to be a giant area effect anyway that you're not going to be able to outrun, you might as well have cover--
Matt: Oh, wait, hold on--
Sam: Judges weighing in.
Matt: Sorry, I scrolled past that part there-- Each creature has to make a saving throw, so it does affect him the first round. It does.
Marisha: Just on the first round, though?
Laura: Still, that's something!
Matt: Each turn after that-- so, yeah, basically as it gets smaller it affects less and less creatures. Sorry, I scrolled past that one.
Marisha: So it just doesn't keep him restrained?
Matt: That is a 21.
Sam: What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 20.
Matt: So it takes half-- so roll 6d10 and it takes half damage.
Sam: Oh, that's something!
Laura: That's better than zero!
Marisha: It's better than-- yay, 8th-level spell, to quote Matt Mercer.
Taliesin: That will be our next t-shirt, "Yay, 8th-level spell."
Matt: It's fine. keep digging. This is my battle against you guys.
Marisha: I'm not digging!
Laura: No, no, not at all! We're very happy with that!
Marisha: 26, 35, halved.
Matt: Okay, half of the 35--
Marisha: But it's not going to do anything to him on subsequent rounds?
Sam: 17 points, that's something!
Laura: Is there water all over the ground, though?
Matt: It says here that at the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall along with any creatures in it move 50 feet away from you. So it will move him 50 feet back, unless he gets out of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it says any Huge or smaller creatures must make a strength saving throw in order to move.
Matt: Correct. He can move through it fine, he's too big now, he doesn't take the additional damage in following rounds.
Marisha: So he gets to move out of it no problem? Is that essentially the deal?
Taliesin: But he is picked up for 50 feet, though.
Marisha: Yeah, but is he moved back?
Matt: It still has to try and make an athletics check against your spell DC to move at all, but it doesn't take any additional damage.
Marisha: All right, I'll take that.
Matt: It's her first time using this spell, guys, so be patient, we're figuring this out as we go.
Taliesin: I would say also just because Pike was going to do a thing, so come back for Pike's thing that she was going to do.
Marisha: Pike's going to do a thing?
Liam: So is he.
Laura: I feel like, run, Marisha, 'cause the thing that Pike's going to do is--
Marisha: Is that an AOE thing that she's going to do?
Laura: Yeah, but just go.
Marisha: All right, here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to move in this area over here. Kind of poke into this building?
Matt: That's as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: No, no, I don't want to go that way, I want to go behind-- sorry, this isn't very--
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yes, that way. Thank you.
Matt: That right there is as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Sam: It's going to be great.
Marisha: It's going to be so great, it's going to be great.
Matt: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is going to go ahead and rush around here. Pulling out his heavy crossbow, he's going to go ahead, as he runs past, releasing a bolt towards Thordak-- two bolts, actually, that is a-- nope, that misses. That also misses. Well, they both hit, but they both splinter across his hide. All right, Jarett's going to make the full move behind this wall and begin loading another bolt. "It's all right, we got this!"
Sam: He's dead.
Matt: It is now Gilmore's turn.
Sam: Shaun Gilmore!
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know how I just stole two pencils.
Liam: I do.
Matt: Gilmore is going to-- As he watches Jarett rush off and Keyleth rush back around the wall, watching the wall of water crash past the dragon, goes, "All right. It's been a while since I've had to do this." And he points his finger up towards the dragon's head, and you watch as this green spark shoots this single green beam in the direction of the dragon's face.
Travis: Please hit his face. Please hit his face. Please hit his face.
Laura: Hit him, Gilmore!
Matt: Let's see if it makes its dexterity saving throw. That is-- yeah, he succeeds. Against the spell DC, yeah, he succeeds with a 19. He goes and fires and you watch as Thordak sees the beam glimmer out of the fingers and he ducks down and it fires past, dodging between the side of the head and the beam goes casting out that way, no effect.
Travis: Shit hammer.
Laura: What level spell was that, Gilmore?
Matt: "6th."
Marisha: I look at him and I go, yeah, 8th, I feel you, man.
Matt: "It's okay, we've got this."
Marisha: Fucking sucks, bro, all right, let's do this.
Matt: And he's going to go ahead and--
Liam: I don't understand all this arcane terminology.
Matt: "Scatter, right?" He pushes past and goes running this way. All right, that's going to end his turn. Grog!
Travis: Yeah, I see Gilmore take off running, and being there's a giant T-Rex on the map, I'm going to go, "Must go faster, must go faster--" And I would like to run as fast as balls this way towards this cover as far as I can for 50 feet.
Matt: Okay. You get right about there, as Thordak has the same initiative as you.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: Thordak, who has dodged the beam, and is seeing the ants begin to scatter in front, goes, "Moving targets--"
Travis: Glad I joined Gilmore!
Matt: "We love moving targets." And he's going to step forward--
Laura: No! Don't move!
Matt: --and is going to rear back and (inhales) (whoosh) and unleash Flame Breath.
Sam: Oh, Kiki, you're okay!
Laura: You made it!
Matt: I need Vex, Percy, Vax, Pike, Scanlan, Trinket, Grog, and Gilmore to all make dexterity saving throws. Hold on to that number.
Taliesin: Does partial cover help at all?
Matt: No. The flame is like napalm.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling that.
Matt: Kima fails. Gilmore rolls a one! Are you serious?
Laura: Did you roll for Pike?
Taliesin: That's a little better.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words to do anything?
Travis: The Ancient Dragon?
Matt: Cutting Words actually can reduce the damage.
Sam: Just the damage, not his attack?
Travis: We'll take the damage reduction.
Sam: Will it reduce the damage for everybody?
Matt: I'm double-checking that. I'm pretty sure it does.
Sam: If so, I will do that.
Taliesin: I just had to use a Resolve.
Laura: What did you roll?
Taliesin: A one. So I had to burn a Resolve, which I have done.
Matt: Yeah, so you can reduce the damage by a certain amount for everybody.
Sam: It won't be much, but I'll do it.
Taliesin: It'll help.
Laura: And then he's got disadvantage on something next, doesn't he? After you use Cutting Words?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right, so--
Sam: So as he goes, I will yell at him, oi! What sexual position makes the ugliest children? I don't know, ask your mama! (laughter)
Matt: Wow. That's a thing.
Liam: I like to think of all of Vox Machina nervously laughing.
Matt: She has advantage on her saving throw-- Kima does make her saving throw! All right, so! Go ahead and roll your d12 and it will reduce the damage.
Sam: Guys, you can reduce that damage by five.
Laura: Sweet.
Sam: So instead of 150, it's 145.
Matt: No, instead of 99 points of fire damage, it is 94.
Sam: 94!
Matt: 94 points of fire damage.
Laura: 9d4?
Matt: It was 99, now it's 94.
Taliesin: Does the five get subtracted before we halve it, or after?
Matt: It reduces the damage of the attack.
Laura: And then if we have fire resistance, then it-- But what if we rolled 28, did we make our save?
Matt: Grog, what was your--?
Travis: 17.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 28?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24--
Sam: Oh shit. He has to look?
Matt: You just make it.
Taliesin: 24 is a "just made it?"
Liam: So I take zero, because I'm using Evasion.
Matt: Yes you do.
Marisha: I didn't have to roll.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18, nope.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21, nope.
Laura: And Trinket and Pike both fail as well.
Matt: Okay. Thankfully, that's half damage. So that would be, at half of 94, 37-- I'm sorry, no, 47. 47 points of fire damage to Grog, to Percy, to Scanlan--
Laura: Pike and Trinket.
Matt: Well, Trinket does not take half.
Sam: Wait, I thought you said I didn't save.
Laura: Takes the full 90-- Trinket is in my necklace. Again, already.
Matt: Trinket goes right into your necklace.
Sam: Wait, wait, so I get 94 or 47?
Matt: You didn't succeed, so you would take 94, but because you have fire resistance, you take 47.
Sam: Oh, okay! That's not bad!
Matt: You take half of 47, because you have fire resistance and you made the save.
Laura: So 23. 24.
Travis: Tell me he has only one of those per day.
Matt: Nope, that regenerates.
Laura: 23 or 24?
Matt: It would be 23.
Sam: And Matthew DM, do our temporary hit points go away first? Or last?
Taliesin: They're technically not temporary, it's actually your max increases, so they can come back.
Matt: Correct, they can come back, yeah.
Taliesin: You can heal into them.
Travis: Did somebody get temporary hit points?
Sam: We all did. 17, from our feast.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Pike has-- I need to--
Taliesin: You're 17 up. You can go 17 up even if you lose them.
Travis: Right, well I'm going to add them now.
Taliesin: Your max is now much higher.
Travis: Oh, thank you, that's much better.
Matt: Okay. Kima's doing okay, but Gilmore is looking rough. As the flames burn through, hyper white, red, orange, blazing fire, you haven't felt heat like this before. You instinctively close your eyes, but it doesn't seem to help. As the flames pass by you, Keyleth, you can even feel the impact from here, singeing your eyebrows, and you have to cover your face for fear of being disfigured by the proximity. As the fire eventually burns away, Gilmore is like stumbling right now, burned all around. The rest of the party is already smoking, bits of your outfits and edges of clothing are now actually curling up and burning. That was bad. So that ends Thordak's go. Grog?
Travis: Well, being that my run was so rudely interrupted by shit-chest over there, can I change course seeing that he's going to barf fire at all of us and run straight at him in a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: Yeah, can we go ahead and see how we do here, and I will go Reckless Attack, Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't that mean he gets advantage on his attacks against you?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, let's buy the ticket and take the train, right? Who fucking knows. One! Better. 19.
Matt: 19 misses.
Travis: Shit. Roll better. That's better.
Laura: He's so big, though!
Matt: But his armor is hard.
Travis: That is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits. So the second attack hits. Are you doing--?
Travis: Reckless and Great Weapon.
Matt: Right, but I mean are you doing your frenzy for the third attack? Or are you going regular?
Travis: Yeah, I'm going frenzied!
Matt: All right.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 misses. But you did get a hit in.
Travis: I do.
Laura: Oh my god. What was the second attack?
Travis: 25. So somewhere between 21 and 25. Which one is the d12? This one. 11. Two points of necrotic and 36 total.
Matt: 36, nice! As the flames subside from the dragon breath, the flames part and you see, rushing out, flames curling off the edges of the fur, this angry raging goliath (yells) runs and takes one swing. It skids across the scales of the front of Thordak's chest, gleaning past the giant scar in the center. No damage. Thordak (laughs). You look up into the beaming star-like eyes and angrily (yells). This time, the axe sinks in and the laughter stops. You see the slight twinge of pain in the right eye of the dragon as you pull back for a third one, brings its claw up and swings down to try and crush you. As you swing for your attack, you instinctually realize it's probably best to let this go and you duck out of the way in time as the claw (slam) into the ground in front of you.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah! Fuck. That ends my turn.
Matt: Vex! Your turn!
Laura: Cool! I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You feel, for the first time, the adrenaline surge through you and you suddenly go, "My brother's been hoarding this this whole time?!" Everything slows down around you ever so slightly, and for a second, your mind's racing faster than it normally does.
Laura: With my full movement, can I get behind the wall up where Keyleth was headed?
Matt: You can move 60 feet.
Laura: I want to stop in a place where I can attack before I finish my move.
Matt: You'll go over there and as you're rushing past, Keyleth--
Liam: As she rushes past, she hears  (slowly) Those are just a loaner!
Laura: (slowly) Go fuck yourself! Okay. All right. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark. Then, for my first attack, I'm going to try a Bramble Shot.
Matt: Percy, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check. It's a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Yes! 30 on the first.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Your Hex fades.
Laura: I took the bracers off, right? Yes, I did. Okay. 15 plus two lightning damage plus two sneak attack and a Hunter's Mark. Ooh! 12 plus 4d8 for the Bramble Shot.
Matt: Nice! So already at 29 damage plus--?
Laura: 15. No. 13. 17.
Matt: Plus 17. All right! 46 points of damage on the first strike! What's the DC on the strength saving throw?
Laura: Oh. 16.
Matt: Yeah. He makes it.
Laura: That would have been amazing.
Matt: Ten plus 12. That would have been amazing. As you run past and fire the first arrow, it sinks in and jams into the side of where the plates of the chest armor meet the scar. As it hits, you watch it cause a spurt of dragon blood, knowing exactly where the weak points of the armor are, being a person that studied dragons.
Laura: Oh! That's right! And an additional d6 because he's a dragon, right? 2d6?
Matt: You should have the additional damage, I think it was plus two damage against creatures that are--
Laura: Oh, just plus two.
Travis: 2d20 of damage.
Laura: I thought it was a d6. Sorry. You're right, I think.
Matt: Do you want to go look it up?
Laura: No, it's fine. I'll look it up between. My next attack, I want to try one of my poisoned arrows.
Matt: You see the brambles extend out from the arrow and the dragon leans forward, already focused on Grog as you're slamming him in the side. As his body flexes, the brambles shatter.
Laura: 27!
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay! 14 plus four lightning damage. Plus Hunter's Mark is another four. What is the poison? Do I do anything for the poison? MATT I am going to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw for him. Which succeeds. So, yeah, he just resists the poison effects of the arrows.
Laura: Okay, and then I'm going to do a third attack, right? Because I am hasted.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: And that hits too! That's 31!
Travis: Damn, girl.
Laura: 16 plus another four lightning damage! Plus Hunter's Mark, plus two plus two, because he is a dragon. But I didn't do plus two on the second one because I--
Matt: So 24 damage that final strike. Nice! You did almost 100 points of damage in a single round. (cheering)
Laura: And then I finish my round of movement and I keep running behind the building. Yeah. Right there. I know.
Matt: As you rush past, looking up into the face of the creature that you know for certain, seeing it there, that this is the creature that brought your mother to her end and half the city of Byroden to the south. And as that anger swells into you and mixes with the surge of adrenaline in your body and you don't even feel the momentum, your hands instinctively go through all training, all the years that have gone by, as each arrow gets loosed, there is just kind of this fuzz, this kind of numbness, around as your hatred is focused so clear on this dragon's head. And then the air rushes back into your lungs and you slam your back into the wall, preparing for your next round. All right, that finishes Vex's go. Vax and Lady Kima go at the same time. What do you want to do?
Liam: I am going to down the potion of healing with a bonus action.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then now I have two actions because of the potion--
Matt: The potion of healing?
Liam: No, no. Haste. So that's bonus action, now I have two actions? Because of the potion.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Second action's used to pump out the wings.
Matt: Okay. Wings are up.
Liam: Then I am going to fly directly towards Thordak's face to-- you don't need that-- to ten feet away from him to his face. you can just hold it for a second, and cast Vow of Enmity at him.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And then I am going to barrel roll back, fly, and land hard right down next to my sister where she's hiding.
Matt: Okay. At a non-hasted fly speed.
Liam: 120, hasted.
Matt: Oh, because you are hasted with the potion. So yeah, not a problem. Land right next to your sister.
Sam: So you prayed at him? Good job!
Matt: You swoop up, right in front, you cast the Vow of Enmity.
Liam: He could have taken a swipe at me. I'm just glad he didn't.
Matt: Oh, but we are going to get there. As you swoop up within ten feet of his face and cast the Vow, focusing on him, the dragon grins, and as you pull out of his attack space, because he has a reach of 15 feet with his bite, he is going to take a bite attack at you. That is a 32 to hit.
Liam: Can I Uncanny Dodge this?
Matt: You can.
Liam: Yeah. I have to.
Travis: 32 to hit?
Laura: We're fucked.
Matt: That's actually a bad roll. 17 points of piercing damage plus--
Liam: I knew it was going to happen.
Matt: Plus 16 points of fire damage reduced to half.
Liam: No, 17 plus 16 total.
Matt: Well, because you have fire resistance that is reduced.
Liam: Okay. So eight and 17. 25.
Matt: Yes, 25 points of damage to you.
Liam: Gives me advantage on every attack.
Laura: Oh, that's great.
Liam: I will get sneak attack on every attack whether there's someone next to him or not.
Laura: That's good.
Taliesin: Good! That's really good.
Matt: Kima is going to--
Sam: Who that? Who that? Is that Kima?
Matt: That's Kima. Kima can't do too much at this distance, unfortunately. She is going to cast Aura of Vitality on herself.
Sam: On herself?
Matt: Correct. What that does is allows her to heal people as a bonus action for as long as it lasts. Which is pretty damn helpful, right now. Let me pull it up real fast. Let's see, Aura of Vitality. She can use a bonus action to cause a creature in the aura, including herself, to regain hit points. She's doing okay. She looks over at Gilmore, who's hurt on the ground, staggering over in flames. As she rushes up, casts the spell on herself, holding her holy symbol of Bahamut to her chest, she looks up at the dragon. "Remember me?" Without even losing her vision, she puts her hand out like this, and you watch as a beam of divine energy streaks out, slams into Gilmore's side. He almost doubles over as it swirls around his body and heals his wounds for 2d6.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So he heals four hit points.
Sam: He's looking better.
Matt: All right, that is going to end Kima's turn. Pike's turn.
Sam: By committee.
Laura: Okay, we're going to move to the corner of the building that she's standing in.
Liam: Inside. Squished into the corner.
Matt: Okay. Ten feet of movement to get there.
Laura: Yes. She's going to, as a bonus action, cast Spiritual Weapon. At fifth level.
Liam: Okay. I'll mark that off.
Taliesin: Go nuts with it, yeah.
Matt: What else is she doing this round?
Laura: And then she's also going to cast Beacon of Hope.
Matt: Beacon of Hope is a 3rd-level spell. If you are casting a 3rd-level or higher spell as an action, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as a bonus action. So you can either do Beacon of Hope and then a 2nd-level Spiritual Weapon or--
Laura: So we should do Beacon of Hope and not do Spiritual Weapon because we want to do a higher Spiritual Weapon later?
Liam: So anyone within 30 feet of her is getting some nice things.
Laura: So anybody within 30 feet gets advantage on wisdom, which you already have, but you get advantage on death saving throws as well.
Liam: And the best part--
Laura: --is any time you're healed, you're automatically healed to the max possible amount.
Sam: What do you mean any time you're healed?
Liam: When someone heals you, you don't roll. You calculate the maximum amount you could possibly roll.
Laura: And that's what you're healed for.
Taliesin: So, if it's 3d4, you just get 12. That's amazing!
Sam: Do we get any healing from this as well?
Laura: No, this is a prep spell. This is something that probably we should have done before Thordak started attacking us.
Sam: Yeah, well, you're not Pike. You don't know.
Liam: So, DM. Who all gets that? Looks like Grog is just out of reach of it?
Matt: Within 30 feet of her? Grog is just out of the radius. Gilmore, Kima.
Laura: Should we have run around the corner? If we had run around the corner, would Grog get?
Matt: If you run to there? Okay, yeah. That would get Grog, Gilmore, Scanlan, Percy, Keyleth. It does not get either of you.
Laura: Well, that's fine.
Marisha: This looks bad, but I feel okay about this.
Matt: So that's your action?
Laura: And that gets Pike in that as well.
Sam: You get a bonus action.
Laura: Bonus action?
Sam: You can do a Healing Word.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Healing Word!
Matt: You can do up to a level two.
Laura: Okay, so she should do a Healing Word. Is Healing Word a level two?
Taliesin: You can do it at any level you like.
Liam: Percy needs it? Grog needs it?
Laura: Grog needs it?
Travis: Yeah. I took like 40 points of damage.
Laura: I feel like he's okay still, so Percy?
Taliesin: One of the two of us, I would say.
Marisha: I didn't get hit. I'm good.
Taliesin: Oh, I'll take it. How much do I get back?
Laura: At a level two, that's 2d4.
Matt: 2d4 plus five.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Is that for everybody or just for her?
Laura: Everybody.
Matt: Anyone who is affected by the spell, all healing is maximum. For as long as it lasts, and it's concentration. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Pike can technically move five more feet from where she is.
Laura: But she can't hide, though.
Matt: No. She's out in the open right now. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'll move ten feet towards that way, still ducking behind that stone there. I will inspire Percy. Wait, should I heal or inspire? I'll inspire Percy. I'll sing him a lovely Christmas song, (singing) You know Raishan and Vorugal, the Frigid Doom, Brimscythe and Umbrasyl, we killed in his room. But do you recall the most fucked-up dragon of all? Thordak the Cinder King had a very shiny gem. And if you ever saw it, run the fuck away from him.
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration die.
Taliesin: All right. d12 is awesome.
Matt: Bards are great. All right, that's your bonus action.
Sam: And for the move, I guess I'll attack him? I don't do that very well. I'll do Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! At level seven.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Matt: 7th-level Bigby's Hand!
Taliesin: We're just going to spray-paint Matt's hand purple and he's going to sit there, punch things.
Liam: Check out the big hand on Scan.
Matt: Where do you want Bigby's Hand to appear? Within 120 feet.
Sam: I guess keep it low. Just go for the ball shot, yeah.
Matt: All right, so what are you having the hand do?
Sam: Punch. Just punch.
Matt: So Clenched Fist, and that is with plus 2d6 for each. Sorry, plus 2d8 for each slot above fifth. That is an additional 4d8. That is 8d8. If it hits. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18, no. The fist gleans off of Thordak's chin. The dragon just kind of grins (growls). "Is this all you've got?"
Sam: Actually, yes. That is my biggest thing, so yes.
Matt: "Good." All right. That brings us back to the top of the order. Now at the top of this round, we're going to start doing lair actions.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: Lair actions are the worst.
Matt: It happens after Percy's turn, though.
Taliesin: Oh, good.
Matt: So, Percy, your go.
Taliesin: Fine.
Laura: Make sure he dies before he gets anything else.
Liam: Pull out your dragon gun.
Taliesin: My dragon gun?
Marisha: We're going to be real disappointed if you can't take this all on your own.
Sam: Wait a second, Matt! Doesn't he get a disadvantage on his save because of my Cutting Words?
Matt: That wasn't a save, that was your attack.
Sam: Yeah. That's what I meant.
Matt: On the next saving throw he has to make, he has a disadvantage. Yes.
Sam: Making sure you guys know how spells work.
Travis: Yep, thank you. I was confused.
Sam: Jesus, Sam #3, why didn't you tell me that?!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a deep breath and shoot directly north, or I suppose to you it would be south, down the map towards that building on the far corner. I'm just going to run in that direction.
Matt: As far as you can get with your full move?
Taliesin: That's as far as I can get with my full movement? And he has to recharge his fire probably before he can do that again?
Matt: Yeah, when it comes back to his turn I have to roll to see if he gets it that round.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. I'm going to take two shots while I'm running. I'm going to, just because I'm not feeling lucky right now, I'm going to burn another Deadeye on my first run, so let's do that.
Marisha: Are you feeling lucky?
Taliesin: No, no, I am really not. So less so that I'm not even going to do sharpshooter. That's awesome! I take that back.
Marisha: Percy! You should have done it.
Taliesin: It's okay. Actually, that doesn't affect the crit at all. Sharpshooter isn't affected by a crit. I critted, by the way. Sorry. That's nice. So, hey! I get that Deadeye back. That's cool.
Travis: You should have said that first and we'd all go, yay!
Taliesin: This is like bad college theater. No one knows when to applaud. Excellent. That's-- oh my god, that's kind of nice. 1d12, 2d12, 3d12, 4d12.
Liam: Nice. Actually not bad. Pretty good. This makes me happy. This is going to be funny.
Taliesin: Pretty good. That's not great, but it'll do. 24 points of damage. And I'm going to take another shot. You know what? Screw it. Let's put a sharpshooter on this. Actually, no. Never mind. Yes! I'm going to put a sharpshooter on this. I am so nervous. I'm putting a sharpshooter on it. Which is good because I rolled--
Sam: You have an inspiration.
Taliesin: 17, 18, 19, 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Yay. And that's 2d12. Yay. Boo, but that's okay. 30 points of damage.
Matt: Nice. So both shots as you are running past, you watch as it slams into the sides, causing a little (explosion) out of the side of Thordak's armor, the scales slip for a second. The second shot smashes a small hole in one of the wings, but you watch as the leather seems to be largely unaffected by the impact. It's already tattered at the bottom anyway, but well done.
Taliesin: (high-pitched noises) Okay.
Matt: So, there you are. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use one of his legendary actions to do a tail attack against Grog right now, because you're within range.
Travis: Yeah, test your might. Oh no, please don't! (sobs)
Matt: That's going to be a 25 to hit.
Travis: It hits.
Matt: Yep. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half, so 11 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, it's good.
Matt: All right. That ends that. At this point now, you watch as through the clouds this winged figure comes and (crashing) lands on this distant building, the flames flickering out.
Laura: Moment of truth. Moment of truth.
Matt: As the impact happens, you watch as Thordak turns and grins. "There you are. Oh, you're going to taste so good." Raishan grins from the side. "Not to worry, my king."
Sam: Oh shit. That doesn't sound good.
Laura: I can't tell what she's going to do.
Sam: Is she lying? She's a deceitful one.
Matt: At this point, she will-- let me pull it up. Oh there you go, there's the spell sheet. She's going to go ahead and move right there. Gets right up onto the building that you guys are hiding behind as you feel the rubble and rock tumble around you, you look up and you can see the giant green leathery wings unfurl. She inhales, her chest expanding. (cheering)
Matt: Releasing a giant cloud of poisonous gas in the direction of Thordak. Into his face. Suprise, motherfucker!
Sam: We have the best friends.
Matt: Does not make his-- wait, this is a poison, oh, it's constitution. He does make that. He takes 38 points of poison.
Travis: 38?
Matt: 38 points of poison damage on that one. As Thordak rears from the attack. "Oh, you'll die especially painfully."
Liam: Is Thordy La Forge poisoned there?
Matt: No, he just takes poison damage.
Liam: No disadvantage. I really just wanted to say Thordy La Forge.
Taliesin: Of course you did.
Matt: All righty. So, that ends Raishan's turn. Raishan's like, "Now, get in, circle and finish this!"
Marisha: Wait, Raishan said that?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: No, that was Lady Kima's voice. (laughter)
Liam: Clarota, is that you? On a flying steed.
Marisha: I turn to Raishan and say, I don't take orders from you, I'm only doing this because it's a good plan. And then I run in. If I run my full movement, can I get into touch range with him?
Matt: You can, yes.
Marisha: Okay, angry at what happened before and realizing that not a lot is probably going to work unless I get ballsy, I run in guns blazing, and I am going to do Contagion on him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to attempt Slimy Doom.
All: Ooh.
Marisha: In honor of Zahra! And her teaching us about hentai!
Travis: Yup. I saw that hentai.
Sam: We hear Zahra in the distance, "I'm still alive!"
Matt: Okay. So make a melee spell attack against him. So roll a d20, add your spell attack bonus.
Marisha: I know, I'm picking the right one.
Laura: It should probably be like a black or a green or something that's like slimy.
Marisha: I'll do a green one. Green's good.
Travis: Or just any dice.
Marisha: Shut up, Travis. Ooh, that's not too bad. That's not too bad, plus 12? So that's 28!
Matt: 28 hits.
Marisha: (laughs) Redemption!
Liam: Keyleth is on The Price is Right.
Matt: Contagion, we'll put that blue there. So at the end of each of the target's turns it has to make a constitution saving throw. After failing three, the disease takes effect.
Sam: After failing three?
Marisha: He has to fail three.
Matt: So as you're rushing up, running past the tumbling rocks and boulders of the barely standing ceiling that Raishan's stepping on, you rush towards Thordak, and getting closer you see the immense size towering above you. And getting this close, there is a heated presence around him, like an aura of superheated air that burns you as you get close enough to touch him. You reach out and grab as you cast the spell under your breath. And as you touch the edge of his scales, it's like touching a hot iron (sizzles). Your fingers singe upon contact, but you feel the burst of druidic energy pierce through the scales and you watch as a little bit of black power seeps into the body and curls in between the scales and has taken root.
Travis: (whispered) Yes.
Marisha: That's all I got, right? I'm going to turn. Grog, you're still down, right?
Travis: (weakly) Yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to do a bonus Healing Word on Grog. I'm going to go ahead and do it at third--
Matt: Can't do third level because you cast a 5th-level spell.
Marisha: Second level.
Matt: All right. So 2d4 plus six.
Marisha: But it's max. Eight plus six.
Matt: 14. You heal 14.
Travis: Woohoo! 14 points. 194.
Matt: All right. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his next two legendary actions to use his wing attack. Thordak, now being surrounded by everything, goes (wing flapping). He begins beating his wings. You watch as the flames on the ground begin to curl up into these small tornadoes in the presence from the sheer vacuum of wind up under the wings. I need Grog and Keyleth and Raishan to make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: I think I have advantage on those, (singing) because I got Danger Sense!
Marisha: 12.
Travis: Natural 20.
All: Ooh.
Matt: So you stay put, hunkering down for this. Keyleth, you suffer 13 points of bludgeoning damage. 13 points of bludgeoning damage and six points of fire damage.
Marisha: To three, so 16 total.
Matt: Yes, and you are knocked prone as the wind blows you to the ground. And the dragon can move up to half its movement speed. So it's going to pull back to there.
Sam: Do you get an attack, Grog?
Matt: You do. As you get hit by that, by the way, you can do retaliation or you can do your attack of opportunity, either works right now.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. Reckless and Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Eight and that's a natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your brutal damage there.
Sam: Wow. That's a hit.
Travis: 19, 20, plus ten is 30 points of damage, including the one point of necrotic, and then I double that?
Liam: Double all the dice.
Travis: Double all the dice. Right so, 60.
Laura: No. Double the dice.
Travis: Oh, sorry. Okay. 12, so 25, 35, 37.
Matt: 37, nice.
Travis: Thanks. Two points necrotic.
Matt: Yes. Okay. So, as the wind beats up and the dragon begins to back up--
Laura: Did you add your plus ten, because it was Reckless?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: --hovering off the ground, you strike out with the-- technically, yeah, it was Reckless, you cannot do Great Weapon Master on the-- well, I guess you can on any attack you make. I'll double check on that real fast. So we'll say that's right there.
Travis: Yeah, if it's a reaction I'm not quite sure.
Matt: I'm going to double check just to make sure.
Travis: That could have been better.
Laura: That's okay, that was a six.
Matt: On your turn, so no, you cannot do that, so 26, yes.
Sam: That's great! That's extra! That's just bonus.
Matt: You reach out with the axe amongst the heat and the wind blowing in your face (wind blows) and strike across the front of Thordak's chest as he begins to swing back with his wings beating out. All right, at the end of that turn, as Thordak does that, at the end of that turn, Raishan's going to use two legendary actions to cast Blight on Thordak.
Travis: There's some shit going down on this map.
Laura: Oh my God, Matt. I'm impressed and terrified of you for having to keep track of this.
Liam: They should really just do it already.
Laura: I honestly had no idea what my hands were going to do.
Matt: Constitution saving throw from Thordak.
Sam: At disadvantage!
Matt: At disadvantage. That's a natural one. He is going to use one of his legendary resistances.
Laura: Get rid of them.
Marisha: Burn it, burn it! Burn that shit.
Sam: He might have five of those.
Taliesin: Yeah and now he's got four.
Marisha: He has three, right?
Laura: He's probably got more than three. He's Thordak.
Taliesin: Thordak, he's got like 12.
Matt: He takes 18 points of necrotic damage. All right. And because I initially forgot it, lair action!
Sam: Oh shit. Lair action.
Matt: Lair action, indeed.
Laura: Isn't that like if you forget to move or something, you don't get to do it later, if you forgot about it?
Sam: Everyone with knees dies.
Matt: For that, we're going to choose--
Laura: No no no no, I was just joshing you!
Taliesin: Don't make him look things up, it's always going to be worse.
Matt: The two twins that have currently ducked around the way, you feel the ground nearby begin to shake, and down below you the earth cracks open and a giant column of magma (explosion) shoots out and sprays in the vicinity.
Liam: Evasion!
Matt: You've already used Evasion.
Liam: On this round? It's once a round. This is a whole new round.
Matt: Actually, you're right, you're right. You haven't gone since then. All right. Dexterity saving throw from both of you.
Liam: Okay. At advantage, because of those boots, man!
Laura: That's good. (whispers) Okay, that's good, that's good.
Liam: 23.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Okay. You both take--
Liam: Did we fail the save?
Matt: You succeeded on the save.
Liam: So I take zero.
Matt: So you take zero. You, however, take what would be 12 points of fire damage reduced to half, so six.
Sam: (scoffs) You call this a lair?
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's go, it's now Jarett. Jarett, who's loaded up his crossbow, is going to go ahead and spin around, take two shots at Thordak. That's a cocked die. That's good. 18 plus seven hits, and the second one just barely hits, actually. There's two hits on him. Five points. Two ones in a row for damage, are you serious? Okay.
Marisha: Goddamn it, Jarett.
Laura: It's okay, I'm happy that he's here.
Liam: Happens to everybody.
Matt: And then he is going to try and move back this way to keep everyone scattered and use the space to his advantage. That's going to end Jarett's turn.
Taliesin: Is there a little hole in the ground where the magma came out or no?
Matt: No, it burst and then it cooled and covered the space. All righty. That brings us to Gilmore's turn. Gilmore, who's in a bad place, is going to go ahead and take his superior healing potion.
Taliesin: Gets max healing, because he was in the spell.
Matt: That's true. Yeah, so he takes 16, 20, 24 plus eight is 32. Nice.
Marisha: That's awesome! Good spell!
Liam: Thanks Pike. We're so glad you're here.
Matt: Gilmore, who currently drinks the potion. "This is already not the best start to this, but let's see what else I can do here."
Liam: Come on, Shaun.
Matt: He's going to try a Hold Monster. From where he is right there. That's a wisdom saving throw for Thordak. Yeah, that succeeds. That's a nine plus-- but he tried.
Sam: And looked good doing it.
Laura: That's right. Those robes are fabulous, Gilmore!
Matt: "Thank you!" He goes darting behind the other building off the opposite side. Yeah, that actually doesn't help in this circumstance. That ends his turn. Grog.
Travis: Yes?
Matt: It's you and the dragon's go.
Travis: (giggles) Now, who's going first this time?
Matt: You both are going at the same time, so what are you going to do?
Travis: Ah, you want to know what I'm going to do, do you? Intimidated by my presence, eh? Whack the Titanstone Knuckles!
Sam: You're now 1/16 his size.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. I now come up to his ankle bone. Life is a thrill.
Matt: Basically.
Travis: Can I use my full-- oh, he's far away. Shit.
Matt: Yeah, he moved away from you.
Travis: Balls and ass. I would like to run straight forward and then veer off to this side, I'm flanking him.
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. You can get over to there.
Travis: Great. Am I now within striking range?
Matt: You are.
Travis: I would like to make all three attack Great Weapon Master, Reckless!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 12, oh, so close. Damn it, covering up the wrong page. That's, damn it, 19.
Matt: 19. The first strike, you slam the axe as your form grows, rushing up next to the dragon, grinning, feeling the foam gathering at the corner of your mouth. You swing with the axe and carves a small line, but doesn't actually penetrate the armor of Thordak.
Travis: (Scottish accent) Great. That's better. That is a 26.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Good.
Taliesin: You beat the Scottish into him.
Travis: 27 minus five is 22.
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: Good to know. We're learning. 22 misses.
Matt: Roll damage on that strike.
Travis: I got to get rid of that fucking Great Weapon Master, that thing's killing me.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: His AC is high, so ditch the handicap.
Travis: Hey, that's a six! Six points of necrotic for a total of 36 points of damage.
Matt: 36 points of damage. Nice. So, as two blows are deflected from the armor, one does sink in pretty hard, carving a piece of dragon flesh that's dangling off now in the torso region. Thordak's like (snarls).
Travis: 'Ello, poppet.
Matt: "Insect."
Travis: Sect?
Matt: Is that your turn?
Travis: Oh, insect. Yeah, that's my turn.
Matt: Yeah, okay. Thordak begins laughing, (deep laugh).
Laura: Oh no, this is the laughter we heard about. It drives you crazy. I cover my ears!
Matt: The fire breath does not come back, it's a two.
Sam: Oh, whew.
Travis: The fire breath does not recharge?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: That's good, that's good.
Matt: However, he does make a full multiattack and that's four attacks against you.
Travis: On me? I'm trying to keep him warm! Like, I'm trying to give him a little touch, little feel, let him know that we love him.
Matt: And it's with advantage against you?
Travis: Yeah, that's right.
Matt: Okay, that's a 34.
Travis: I think that'll hit.
Matt: Natural one and a 15, that is a 32. Natural 20.
Sam: On the last one, I'm going to Cutting Words.
Travis: There's three. There's one more.
Sam: Then on the last one.
Matt: Okay. Natural 20! (laughs)
Sam: Well then, maybe that won't help.
Travis: (singing) Happy trails to... shit.
Matt: Okay, so a bite, two claw attacks, and a tail attack against you, as its tail swings down and whips towards you. So, first, the bite attack. You suffer 16 plus a 12. 28 points of piercing damage reduced to 14 as well as--
Marisha: Come on, this is what you're built for. This is why we trained you.
Matt: 19 points of fire damage, reduced that to nine.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: So that's the first, that's the bite attack. The two claw attacks against you. That is 18 points of slashing damage reduced to nine. And then the critical on the claw attack. That is--
Travis: Was there no fire damage on the second one?
Matt: No, that's just the bite attack. That is 32 points of slashing damage, reduced to 16. And the tail attack, that is also a crit. 24. 36 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words that?
Matt: You can, yes.
Sam: So I yell at him, "You're so ugly, you scared the shit out of an outhouse!"
Matt: Go ahead and roll your d12. 36.
Sam: Make that a 33.
Matt: So 16 points of bludgeoning damage. And as part of his multiattack, he also uses his Frightful Presence, so everyone, as you see it clawing at Grog, it's like (roars), the tail whips down and slams the ground. The entire ground quakes and you feel all the flames grow brighter in the vicinity. While Thordak is large in this moment, it's like staring at a fire god. I need everybody--
Taliesin: Who is not immune to fear?
Laura: We're all immune to fear.
Matt: Everyone, yeah, all of you are immune to fear.
Laura: Yeah. Except for Jarett.
Matt: Except for Jarett. Jarett does not succeed! Jarett is pissing himself right now behind. He almost ran into the wall and is like, "Oh, this is not good!" (yells)
Liam: Hey, Thordy, eat a dick.
Matt: Raishan does make her save.
Sam: Does not?
Matt: Does.
Laura: Oh, good.
Travis: Legendary? Did he do his legendary thingy? Or he just made it?
Marisha: Yeah, he also has to save against my Contagion.
Matt: His turn's not done yet. Raishan uses her legendary resistance to resist the-- Oh sorry, she doesn't have to because she made it. From the shaking and the quaking you watch as the flames that brighten up leap out of the sides in the form of two fire elementals.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: That leap out of the sides of the cavern.
Laura: Can they fly?
Travis: Can we bring all the alcohol on set right now?
Taliesin: There's a lot of alcohol on the set right now. A lot of it's hiding.
Liam: How about acknowledge it?
Taliesin: There's a mini fridge built into Trinket.
Liam: Ancient dragon wasn't enough, huh, Matt?
Matt: Thordak is going to move around Grog to this side.
Travis: Yeah, move around me, bitch. I'm going to get my insults in while I'm still breathing.
Marisha: He accidentally stepped on one of his elemental friends.
Matt: He moved around it. It's fine. The elementals are now going the same turn as Thordak. 50 feet. Ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50. This elemental. 35, 40, 45, 50. Right there. They're going to rush up and get into base to base with you guys, and up to Keyleth, who's currently on the ground prone as the elemental (roar) and comes up against you. You hear the familiar sound of the flickering flame of its elemental form rush up towards you.
Marisha: I feel like I saw you, in like the fire plane! 'Sup, man?
Matt: All righty. At this time, you also hear a distant sound in the sky. A (sharp whooshes), but you make no visual. Everyone roll a perception check.
Sam: 21.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: Do I get advantage because it's dragon-related?
Matt: This is not dragon-related.
Liam: 25.
Travis: Six.
Laura: 16.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you rolled a 21, you said?
Sam: 21.
Matt: So, Scanlan, Keyleth, and Vax. You guys see a shape in the darkness of clouds and the smoke ahead. In between the sounds of thunder and lightning in the distance, you see the bow of the skyship Deera.
Laura: Yes, the skyship!
Taliesin: Fucking Teddy Ruxpin.
Matt: (laughs) Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: Me? Okay. Where can I go to where I can hit him?
Travis: Pretty much anywhere.
Matt: With your bow, you have quite a few options. So you'd have to move around this way or this way.
Laura: Is the fire elemental right next to me?
Matt: It is. It'll get a swipe at you if you try to move away from it.
Laura: Asshole. If I'm a third level rogue, do I get disengage?
Matt: As a bonus action, yeah.
Laura: Okay, so for my bonus action I'll disengage. And then I'll move so I can hit Thordak. So can I move towards-- back towards the very back building? Can I get all the way there?
Matt: With Haste, yes, you can.
Laura: Okay. So then I'm going to shoot him! Before I duck in around a corner or whatever. And I want to-- oh, that's 18.
Matt: 18 does not hit. So you rush past, disengaging. You hit up against the edge of the wall with your arrow out (arrow whoosh). It arcs past and misses.
Laura: Yeah, it's pretty far. Okay. This next one. I'm going to use another poison arrow. Oh my God, I miss him again. Dice jail!
Matt: That one hits the hide but ricochets off.
Laura: Okay okay. Third attack. 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Yay! One, that's one lightning, at 17 plus, Grog is standing next to him? Yeah, it's good. That's nine, 13. Plus 13.
Sam: Hey, that's many points.
Matt: So a total of--?
Laura: 14, 15, 16, 17 plus 13.
Matt: So 30. Nice. All righty. So the final arrow releases and (whoosh) gets stuck up under one of the scales on the side of where its shoulder and body hits and the dragon, Thordak, turns and (roars and laughs).
Laura: Oh no, I hide behind that building.
Sam: Oh, God. What was that?
Travis: Those faces are-- wow!
Taliesin: Yeah, way too many emotions happening there.
Matt: You hear the voice ring out, "Don't worry, we'll take them down. All of them. Each and every one."
Laura: He's crazy as fuck.
Sam: He's straight-up crazy.
Taliesin: No, he's not.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: I guess so, I mean, I don't know what else I can do.
Matt: All right. Vax and Kima.
Sam: When I was younger, I had an imaginary friend, too.
Liam: Should I go, or should Kima go?
Matt: (chuckles) Kima, frustratingly so, being a short-ranged lady that she is, is first off going to glance over and see Keyleth on the ground. How are you doing, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm okay. I'm on the ground, but I'm not super low. I'm still full on hit points. Well.
Matt: Yeah, she's going to go full double move on this one. She wants to get into the fray and is so frustrated that she's too far out of the way. Kima is going to go ahead and rush out and do a 2d6 heal to Gilmore again. So that's seven to Gilmore.
Sam: No, well he gets full healing.
Matt: Oh that's right. 2d6, so it's a full 12.
Taliesin: That's so clutch. We should do that every time from now on.
Matt: Kima is now taking a full 50 foot move. 50. Okay, she's charging in. "We've done this before and we can do it again!" as she has her Holy Avenger arcing over her shoulder, running screaming. (yells) Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: Bonus action, I'm taking the potion of invulnerability.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Time to get crunk.
Liam: Next action, I cast Hunter's Mark on Thordak.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You can do that?
Liam: Then I fly at Thordak's face and strike at him with the dragon-slayer sword. (cheering)
Liam: Face. Face.
Matt: Right, so you're up in the air now.
Liam: At advantage. Good. 26 hits.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Liam: So this is dragon-slayer sword plus Sneak Attack, I'm going to Smite and Hunter's Mark.
Sam: That's all the attacks.
Liam: Yes, all the attacks.
Taliesin: Every die.
Liam: Okay, nine plus six is 17, plus-- 18, 19, 21, balls. 21, okay plus the Sneak Attack. 27, 29, 33, 39, 40, 42, 44, plus the Hunter's Mark, 45 total.
Matt: That includes the Smite damage as well?
Liam: No, no.
Matt: It's 2d8.
Liam: Now we're at 50.
Sam: What about the dragon sword? Did you do that?
Liam: That's done. So I don't know exactly how far it was to his face and I know I'm all out of moves and I'm open to getting bitten again, but I want to fly away from his face as far as I can and land opposite everybody. Maybe near the lip. No, behind the building behind him.
Matt: I'm currently working out how much movement you've done, because you're crazy.
Liam: 120 feet of movement.
Matt: It's about 65 to get up to his face.
Laura: Oh, sweet.
Matt: All right, and you're going to pull back from him?
Liam: Curve over his, oh, no-- sword's in his head? My friends are going to fucking kill you today, you fuck! Arc over his head.
Matt: The blade, which has jammed itself right in the cheekbone under the eye of the dragon, as you draw it out, there's a streak of dragon blood (roar, unhinged laughter). You arc over. As you do, he reaches up with his face, his jaws (snarl) reach out to try and bite you. That is a 21 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: The jaws snap in the air, just as you coast through with your wings.
Liam: I'll slam down, if I can, behind the building behind his big fat ass.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I whisper on the earring, that was my brother! That was my brother.
Matt: You are going to have an attack of opportunity from-- oh, no, you disengaged from the--
Liam: I didn't disengage.
Matt: Oh, sorry, so the Fire Elemental actually would have gotten an attack of opportunity on you as you ran past.
Laura: Before all that, he knocks you unconscious.
Matt: That's a 20-- yeah, misses.
Taliesin: Vax, it might be worth taking a peek in that crater when you get a second.
Liam: Working on it, working on it.
Matt: All righty, that ends your turn, Kima's turn. Pike's up. However! At the end of Vax's turn, Thordak is going to go ahead and use a tail attack against Grog.
Marisha: Did he ever make that save, by the way?
Sam: Not yet.
Matt: Disadvantage, which is good because it was a natural 20. And a six, plus 16, 22. Makes it.
Laura: 22. He's got to roll under a four or lower to get--
Sam: There's no way, it's not going to happen.
Laura: It's possible! It's possible!
Marisha: It keeps going. It still goes.
Matt: It keeps going. It lasts for seven days.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a seven-day thing.
Travis: After we're all dead, he'll get very sick.
Taliesin: If we die today, he's going to get the flu later in his life.
Travis: Let's reason with him! You can die now, wait for later--
Liam: "That doesn't look normal."
Travis: "Why does it burn when I pee?"
Matt: However, it lasts for seven days, but remember, that's if the spell succeeds. If he succeeds three saving throws, it goes away.
Marisha: If he succeeds three?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I thought he just had to fail.
Matt: Fail three to take effect, succeed three to just get rid of the disease.
Liam: Just dish out damage.
Laura: These damn spells.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage.
Matt: So, anyway, that brings us to Pike. Oh, he was doing the tail attack to you. So, using one of the Legendary Actions to make a tail strike against--
Liam: So Legendaries can fall whenever they want?
Matt: At the end of someone else's turn.
Travis: This is against me.
Matt: Yeah, because you're right there. With advantage. That would be 31. So yeah, that hits you.
Taliesin: I pray for a single-digit number.
Travis: Almost double my AC.
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to ten.
Taliesin: Man, you are a tank.
Travis: Not much longer.
Taliesin: We're working on it.
Matt: All righty. So, Pike, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Okay, Pike is going to run forward--
Liam: "Oh, Grog!"
Laura: "Oh, Grog!" And she runs as far forward as she can.
Matt: That's as far as she can get.
Laura: We're trying to get a little diagonal, she wants to be 60 feet away from him.
Matt: He's within 60 feet.
Laura: Okay. Can she be at a diagonal so she's not lined up with Keyleth and Bigby?
Matt: I mean, that's as far as she can get.
Laura: Okay. Then she casts Heal on Grog, which gives him 70 hit points, automatically healed.
Travis: That's amazing!
Matt: Yeah. So you're up 70 hit points, Grog.
Laura: And that's a 6th-level spell, so she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon as a 5th-level spell as her bonus action.
Matt: She can't, because she already cast a 6th-level spell. If you do a spell that's higher than 2nd-level, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as your bonus action.
Laura: Oh, that's how it works. I thought it just had to be lower than--
Matt: Technically, rules as written, you can't do that, but as we've been playing, for the sake of having so many players, I allow bonus action spells as long as they're level two or lower.
Laura: Should we just do it?
Taliesin: No, no.
Laura: If she does it at a 2nd-level, then--
Liam: And it'll keep going.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: But what happens if you do it at a higher level?
Marisha: More damage.
Laura: Well yeah, but she's always going to be at a higher level than 2nd-level spells, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, like, next round though, if she does that at a 5th-level, just the damage it'll add will be more than double the damage it'll do now.
Liam: I say wait, because she's doing her job. She's keeping Grog alive.
Marisha: So you might want to do that at a lower spell level, and keep the higher levels for healing.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. Wait-- okay, she can also do Mass Healing Word as a bonus action at-- never mind, that's a 3rd-level spell, so fuck it.
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Laura: She can do Healing Word, though! At second level.
Matt: She can.
Laura: Should we do that? Who needs healing?
Sam: I mean, everybody.
Laura: She's going to do Healing Word on Grog again.
Liam: At max.
Matt: Okay. So at second level, that means that's 2d4 plus five. So 13, you heal 13 hit points.
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: Which is like another attack you absorb. That's great. It's like one more attack to absorb.
Matt: All right, that ends Pike's turn, then. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For my attack, I will punch the fire elemental currently menacing Kiki with my fist of fury.
Matt: All righty, go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Okay, 24.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: It would have hit the fucking dragon.
Matt: It would've. So 8d8 points of damage to the fire elemental.
Sam: 8d8. I need all the d8s.
Travis: All the d8s.
Marisha: Here, I've got d8s, how many do you need?
Laura: Hey, Scanlan. (mimes playing a flute)
Taliesin: That's seven.
Sam: Four... I need one more. That's a d12. (laughs) Oh man, these are all good, though.
Taliesin: So you want one more, though.
Sam: I do. Oh my God! Okay. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 30, 41.
Matt: 41 points of damage, nice! It slams into his form and you watch as his body kind of tears open for a second, the flames dissipating and then form back in, but they're starting to flicker.
Sam: He's not dead?
Matt: No.
Sam: As my bonus action, I'll punch him again.
Matt: No bonus.
Sam: That was my action, as a bonus action, I can do something else with Bigby, no?
Matt: Let me double check.
Sam: Every subsequent action I can do something as a bonus action, does that also negate the action?
Matt: When you cast a spell as a bonus action, it says here you can move the hand and cause the effects. It's your bonus action to move the spell. So your action is there, I'll say-- it says specifically bonus action.
Sam: So I can't do it as my action?
Laura: So you can do something else!
Sam: So that was my bonus action, then.
Matt: Correct, to do that is your bonus.
Sam: So I can do something else, then?
Matt: I'll let you do it again if you want to.
Sam: No, no, no, I'll do something else. Oh! By the way, I can't use my movement to drink a potion, right?
Matt: No.
Sam: Okay (laughs).
Travis: (laughing) I'd like to drink a potion.
Sam: Can I lean over the wall there? And I'll Lightning Bolt the same guy.
Matt: Okay. So it would be over the edge of that wall there and (blasting noise). All right, go for it. So that's a no. That is a 12 for its dexterity saving throw, so it takes full damage.
Sam: All right, so.
Taliesin: Oh!
Sam: Oh!
Sam: Four ones in a row so far, so-- (laughter)
Sam: So I made up for some of them. 15.
Matt: 15 points of lightning damage against the fire elemental. Okay, the bolt hits it and the fire elemental goes (sizzling), not terribly damaged by the impact.
Travis: At least it didn't point and laugh at you.
Matt: Okay, do you want to stay where you are?
Sam: Yeah, absolutely.
Matt: Okay, that ends Scanlan's turn. Up to the top: Percival.
Travis: He used your full first name.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay, that's fine.
Marisha: It's like when you're in trouble.
Taliesin: I am in trouble. I have a whole bunch of your d8s over here, by the way. Feel free to pull them out whenever you like. I'm going to try a couple things. I'm going to do a piercing shot on the fire elemental, which I think I can do. I'm going to start moving in a northerly direction, so I guess I'll take like one or two steps southwest, I suppose it would be to you. Yeah, there you go.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: Yeah, that'll do it. And I'm going to do a piercing shot. That burns a grit, okay. That'll do! That's 25 to hit the elemental.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: And now I have to roll again for Thordak?
Matt: Well, you have to decide whether your-- if it's a piercing shot affecting also Kima or Grog. Because it's a straight line, and it hits-- depending on how you angle it, you're either hitting Kima or you're hitting Grog.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Really?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: I'm saying Kima's not actually attached to a human being, just saying.
Taliesin: Kima's not short enough that it'll go right over her head?
Matt: Nope. As per the rules as designed, no.
Travis: I totally love Kima, I got nothing against her. Just looking out for myself right now.
Matt: She's parkouring off of the damaged wall, trying to get into the fray with the dragon, and happens to catch where the bullet would be going.
Taliesin: Okay, that's happening, apparently.
Marisha: Are you shooting Kima?
Taliesin: It's either Kima or Grog. Although Grog takes half damage.
Matt: This is true.
Travis: Yeah, okay, come on.
Taliesin: You take half damage.
Travis: All right. I'll remember this later.
Matt: So Grog it is? Roll for attack against Grog.
Laura: I know, his head is so high. How are you hitting Grog?
Travis: It's in the rules.
Taliesin: It's in the rules.
Matt: In theory, from this angle, in to hit the fire elemental and Thordak, he has to aim up.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Against Grog hits?
Travis: Yeah, it hits.
Matt: And roll against Thordak.
Taliesin: And, no. I can't have a misfire once I've already hit the first?
Matt: Correct, only the additional attack can misfire.
Taliesin: Okay. That's 15, that doesn't hit.
Sam: So you only hit Grog.
Taliesin: I only hit Grog. No, I also hit the fire elemental.
Matt: Roll damage once.
Taliesin: Yeah, I hit the fire elemental, though.
Marisha: Maybe you'll kill it.
Taliesin: Maybe I will. Maybe it's Maybelline. Where are my d12s, they seem to have all vanished.
Marisha: Kill it! Oh, jeez. Come on, man.
Taliesin: That's awful. 13 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Grog, you take 13 points of piercing damage, halved to six. Round it down. Six.
Taliesin: Sorry! And the bullet gets lodged in you.
Matt: Yeah, basically.
Liam: It's there for 50 years.
Taliesin: Sorry! And then, is the fire elemental still standing?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: I'm irritated. I'm burning another grit, and I'm going to do a pushback on the elemental. That's actually no save, that's just a pushback. I just have to hit. And that hits, I should have done a-- that's a 29, 32 to hit.
Matt: 32 to hit. That'll hit, go ahead and roll damage. And it just gets pushed back ten feet?
Taliesin: No, I'm saving you.
Marisha: I mean, I could have handled it.
Taliesin: 14. I want you to be able to get up without that thing on you. 20 points of damage. And it gets pushed back ten feet. Thank you.
Matt: Its form gets knocked back, coalesces again as a flickering flame creature. It's looking hurt, it's barely keeping its form together at this point, it's still standing.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action for a healing surge to add 22 points to my hit points. Then I'm going to keep running, use spider to run over that wall into that little house beneath the green dragon.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Spider-climb is cool.
Sam: Little house on the prairie, with the dragon on it.
Taliesin: There we go.
Matt: All right. That finishes your turn, Percy. Now you watch as the skyship Deera pushes through some of the clouds, and you can now see a series of small shapes as it looks like a half-dozen wyverns are currently harrying it from the sky, attacking it. You can see some sort of combat going on on the bow of the ship, but you also watch as two of its arballists are set up, and fire towards Thordak. That actually hits. That's cocked. And, yeah. A 16 and a 15. With bonus, it hits both.
Laura: That's Captain Damon, right? To the rescue!
Matt: So, they're both super-heated, they are flaming arballists, fire doesn't have an effect, but they still do piercing damage, for a total of 22 points of piercing damage. You watch these two large, thick heavy metallic piercing bolts come arcing through, slamming into Thordak's hide. The flames flicker on the edge where it impacted, though it has little effect, and Thordak is (insane growling).
Travis: Crazy motherfucker.
Laura: He's so fucking crazy.
Matt: (insane growling) (maniacal laughter)
Sam: Oh, god.
Matt: Two of the wyverns apparently, noticing the fray, and peel off, beginning to make their way down to where this struggle is happening.
Sam: No problem. (whispered) Big problem!
Liam: This is a busy battlefield.
Matt: At this point in time, I'm going to do--
Taliesin: You're having way too much fun.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Sam: Matt has been waiting a year for this.
Liam: Don't worry, sir, we didn't see you playing with your dolls.
Matt: (laughs) Grog and Kima. Suddenly the ground quakes beneath you, and it splits open, and a very thick, yellowish-green sulfurous gas just spills out in the vicinity, immediately filling your lungs and causing your chest to seize just from breathing the air in. I need both you and her to make a... The area is now heavily obscured, so now there is a heavy smoke all in this area right now.
Laura: Does his head peek up above that?
Matt: Yes, it does.
Laura: He's so tall.
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: Nothing yet?
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: On my turn.
Matt: On your turn, you'll do it.
Sam: Does that affect the fire elemental, too?
Matt: It may.
Laura: You don't know.
Sam: I don't. Sam Five has his theories, though.
Matt: For Raishan's turn, as smoke has filled the area, (coughing) you're having a hard time-- Raishan sees this, picks up off the ground as the wyvern begins to strike. First I'm going to see if her breath comes back. It does not. Seeing the new creatures in the fray, is going to rush up and interfere with this one immediately, and just do a full round of attacks against the wyvern.
Travis: (singing) Eat the little pterodactyl.
Matt: That'll hit. That'll hit. That'll hit. Bite and two claws. Yep. That wyvern is looking really hurt, as you watch as Raishan reaches up and just tears into its side, and claws into its belly, they're both wrestling in the air, almost in a momentary freefall, then catch themselves again. Raishan just clings on. The wyvern is already in a really, really bad place.
Sam: Oh, that's great.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. At the end of Raishan's turn, Thordak is going to do another wing attack.
Liam: Man, Groggy. 17 displacer beasts just appear.
Laura: Like, why would he add wyverns? For his own sake!
Matt: He's going to do another wing attack, at the cost of two of its actions. Picking up the wind around it once more, I need Grog... Kima's just out of the range, thankfully. Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I have advantage because of--
Matt: You do.
Laura: Would the wings disperse the gas on the ground?
Matt: Nope! But it does push it.
Laura: Damn it.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, nope. You take--
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you take eight points of fire damage, reduced to four, from the impact, and you are knocked prone. So you are now prone on the ground. And this gets pushed ever-so-slightly this way.
Travis: Off of me?
Matt: Off of you, onto Keyleth, Pike, Kima, currently. The dragon does shift.
Taliesin: Oh! No, Grog's down, so there's no attack of opportunity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up. Initially, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah, all right. Not that one, not that one. Gil! Don't fuck me, Gil. All right, that's not too bad. 19.
Matt: 19, you succeed. You manage to just hold your breath, and the poison doesn't makes its way and fit into your lungs.
Marisha: So, I still have this asshole in front of me, right?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: But he's been pushed back?
Matt: It's pushed back, yeah, so it's not in contact with you.
Taliesin: Yeah, you got to see if you can get up and walk away.
Marisha: Yeah, that's cool. I will stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Rise up! This guy in front of me is almost dead, right?
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, yeah.
Sam: Focus on the dragon.
Travis: What was that?
Sam: "Focus on the dragon."
Travis: "Focus on the dragon."
Marisha: How far away is Thordak from me?
Matt: Quite a ways away. I'd say close to 65, 70 feet from you.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to-- Can I move up one square closer to Thordak, but not get near the--
Matt: Yeah, right there, you can.
Marisha: But I'm in this cloud, too! Shit.
Sam: You have resistance to poison clouds, remember?
Marisha: I don't, but that's nice. And now I'm going to--
Matt: You are immune to poison, just so you're aware.
Marisha: Am I?
Matt: Because of the Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Oh, because of the Heroes' Feast! Oh, that's right. Oh, well, fine.
Matt: Thordak doesn't know that.
Marisha: Right. And then I'm going to cast Blight on Thordak.
Matt: Okay. Thordak's going to make a saving throw. This is constitution?
Marisha: I think so?
Matt: Success. So half damage.
Sam: Success. Half damage. Hey, you caused damage! That's great!
Marisha: I did! I did a thing! Not too bad. 11, 17, 21, 23, 25, 31, 35. 35, halved.
Matt: Half of 35, all right. As the Blight spell takes hold, you watch as the tendrils of black necrotic energy begin to carve between the scales of Thordak's body. You watch as portions of the scar in the chest split, almost like a fresh wound. A little bit of pus begins to pour forth. It's nasty.
Marisha: I take a few steps back. Can I tuck into that little broken building, a little bit? Just inside the doorway?
Matt: Sure. You are just inside the doorway right now with Percy.
Marisha: Perfect.
Matt: Actually, you can't quite get that far because you were knocked prone, so you're just barely... No, you can just get in there, so you're good.
Marisha: How are you doing?
Taliesin: I am just-- I am regretting so many things right now.
Marisha: I don't know how we got here.
Taliesin: Neither do I. I should have saved him--
Matt: Well, it is a 30-foot range.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Blight has a 30-foot range.
Marisha: Oh. Hm. Yeah.
Matt: So we're going to take that damage off.
Marisha: Okay. Well...
Sam: Can we say that she walked 30 feet closer to--
Matt: No, because she was prone at the start of her round, she can only move 15 feet.
Marisha: Okay. Well, then instead, (reverse words), take me back. I can only do 15 feet. All right. How many feet am I from the elemental?
Matt: He is 15 feet from you. Ten feet.
Sam: You could have cast it on the--
Marisha: No, I'm not going to blow a 4th-level spell on his ass. I'm going to do a 1st-level spell, though, and do a Thunderwave.
Matt: Okay. So in that right there. What level, you're going to do first level?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. That is a, what save? Constitution?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: That is a 17, so it does not succeed, I don't think.
Marisha: It does not. It takes 2d8. Ooh, that's good! Ten damage! Please kill it, please kill it!
Sam: Does my hand need to make a save, as well?
Matt: No, because she aimed the-- It's a cone, right?
Marisha: It's a radius.
Matt: Radius? So yeah, your hand would have to--
Marisha: Oh, no, sorry. It's a cube. It's a cube, 15-foot cube.
Matt: Yeah, so you can just go right there. You're fine. As you get up off the ground, the smoke, you slam your staff into the ground. The smoke around you dissipates momentarily as the shockwave hits the fire elemental. It just turns into ash, and vanishes.
Marisha: Got rid of that fucking asshole. All right. And that's all I can do.
Matt: You have 15 feet you can move.
Marisha: Okay, now I'll tuck into there.
Matt: Now you can tuck in, yeah. Since you did move that time. There you go.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: There you go!
Matt: At the end of Keyleth's turn, Raishan's going to use a legendary action to make another attack against the wyvern. That will hit. And that will do it. With that, the wyvern gets its head ripped off by Raishan. The body plummets, the lizardman that was riding it ends up falling off. Slams into the ground.
Travis: Wilhelm scream!
Marisha: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: I've got shit to do in the morning, I'm not going to do it for real.
Travis: All right, fair enough.
Matt: Nine points of bludgeoning damage, as it hits the ground. It's still alive, but it's looking up at this green dragon. That ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is currently afraid as shit.
Travis: (laughs) Because he rolled not very good.
Matt: He's going to reload, and look over. He has to roll with disadvantage against Thordak from that distance, can't get closer. Even with disadvantage, hits, on the first attack. With 16 and 18. Misses with the second one.
Travis: Crossbow?
Matt: Yeah, with the crossbow. Still manages to do 13 points of piercing damage. To Thordak, which is nice. Jarett is then going to finish moving out of visual sight of this, like, "Nope, nope, nope!" Behind the wall, (panting) "This is, uh. This is a terrible idea. They're not paying me enough for this."
Taliesin: He's not going to take a shot at the elemental while he's running away?
Matt: No, he was focused on Thordak. He was just like, (yells). That ends Jarett's turn. Gilmore's turn. Gilmore is dodging out of the outside of the cloud, and goes, "All right. Let's see if we can try this again." He's going to go ahead and move up into the building just outside of the radius.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Matt: Looking behind where the window is busted open, he's going to blow his one 7th-level spell as a lower-level spell of Disintegrate once more up towards the chest, where it's kind of cracked open. That is a 24, 13 plus 11, that hits.
Travis: Boom! Nobody else is excited about this?
Laura: I am. I am very excited.
Taliesin: Once I hear a number, I'll be excited. I'm not saying anything until I hear a number. It's going to be, like, 11 points of damage.
Travis: 7th-level Disintegrate.
Matt: That's an additional 3d6 to that. That's 13d6
All: Oh!
Matt: Plus 40 points of force damage.
All: Whoa!
Laura: 13d6.
Travis: Now y'all are excited!
Taliesin: Now we're on board.
Travis: I'm with you, Gilmore, I'm a true fan, OG!
Matt: So it deals 88 points of damage to Thordak. (cheering)
Matt: You watch as the beam slams right into the side of Thordak's shoulder and torso area, the beam firing out from behind the broken wall. The wings extend as he's bearing down on Vax, and as it hits, the flesh kind of peels away and turns to dust in the vicinity. (pained roar) You can see he's just reeling from the pain, the mouth opens wide, the eyes go wide, as it begins to curl across. As it does, you see it. There's a bit of bone exposed there where the flesh once was. You can see scar removed and pulled back. You can see on the inside of the ribcage, just barely exposed, the outside of a glistening red crystal that is embedded in Thordak's chest.
Sam: He does have it.
Laura: It was just covered.
Travis: The skin's grown over it.
Laura: And it's being absorbed, so I'm not going to get it.
Matt: That is the end of Gilmore's turn. That brings us to Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Would you like to go first?
Matt: First let me see-- This roll is going to-- Yes. I would like to go first.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: He just got his fire breath back.
Matt: After getting disintegrated, Thordak, who was focused on you, his attention keeps shifting from place to place. He's not focused in his current mental state. (enraged roar) And you watch as he heaves, you see the flames flickering brighter and brighter across him. (fwoosh)
Sam: Oh, god. No.
Matt: Or actually, he'd be right there.
Laura: No!
Sam: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: You do get an attack of opportunity against him.
Liam: Yeah. Sneak attack, on top of that.
Matt: Yeah, because you have advantage, if you hit. So go ahead and roll twice.
Liam: Got him, got him. That's 26 plus... is 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with the sneak attack.
Taliesin: Are you using the sword?
Liam: Yep. Yes, I am using the sword.
Taliesin: Yes, you are. Love it.
Liam: Yes, where is my ten-sided die? Ten plus six is 16. Plus all of this shit. 16, 17, 23, 29, 33, 34, 38, 42, plus Hunter's Mark. 43.
Laura: Plus 3d6 for your dragon.
Liam: I already did that.
Laura: No, you didn't.
Liam: Correct. 43, thank you. 49. 50. 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage as Thordak rushes away from you. (pained roar) As you cleave across his underside, you watch as the blood just spills out. (wings flapping, hard landing) Actually, no, he's not going to land, he's staying up in the air.
Laura: There's no plastic big enough to support him!
Travis: Yeah, he ate too much, he can't get up in the air!
Laura: He's too fat to fly!
Liam: Too many Krispy Kremes.
Matt: Thordak is currently up--
Laura: Oh shit, he's high.
Travis: You just hit Grog.
Matt: I did, yeah. Hold on a sec.
Travis: He does not appreciate that.
Matt: Grog will calm down.
Liam: Here's Jenga, right here, that dragon's coming down. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh, my. There's rocks, it's on the rocks.
Liam: It's like Mousetrap. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh my god. Grog!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: He's too big to fly, we told you!
Liam: We'll use the theater of the mind, Matt!
Travis: One little bump of that table, and it's falling down.
Laura: It's all coming down. It's like he's going to knock over everything when comes down.
Matt: He's going to fire breath. That's going to be Grog, Kima, Pike, and Gilmore.
Sam: And the hand.
Matt: And the hand.
Travis: I really don't want that to fall. It's going to break.
Matt: So I need Grog and Pike to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: All right. Come on, come on, Gil. Yes. Even better! 21.
Matt: That's still not enough.
Laura: Pike rolled a ten.
Travis: That was a 19.
Sam: The hand rolled a nine.
Laura: Oh, wait, does she get-- Wait. No.
Matt: That's 102 points of fire damage. Halved, for both of you, so 51 points of fire damage. No, no, to both of you! So 51 points of fire damage to Grog, and Pike. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw to try and maintain concentration.
Liam: 19.
Matt: What's her constitution save?
Liam: Her modifier, so, a total of 20.
Matt: Not enough. So-- It's half the damage you take. She had to roll a natural 20. She probably couldn't have made it, yeah. So Beacon of Hope is gone. Beacon of Hope is gone. You took 51 points.
Travis: I took the 51.
Laura: Right when she needs it the most! (shriek)
Matt: Kima rolls a natural 20 on her save, so she takes half damage, at least, so Kima's still up!
Laura: If we hadn't had that Heroes' Feast, Pike would be unconscious.
Matt: Kima does not maintain her spell, unfortunately.
Laura: Pike is way low.
Liam: Pike is going to be looking out for Pike on her next turn.
Taliesin: That's cool.
Liam: Got to have that ray of sunshine, man.
Matt: Gilmore rolls a natural 20 on his reflex save.
All: Yes!
Matt: That's awesome. And thank god, so he's still unconscious. Gilmore is down and in flames right now.
Sam: Oh, god.
Travis: Wait, Gilmore is down, and is unconscious?
Matt: Unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit. I got him.
Travis: How high is Thordak in the air?
Matt: Thordak is 50 feet up.
Travis: Sam. What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to not let him die?
Travis: Okay. Is somebody planning to go into the fucking tunnel, on the earring?
Laura: Wha-- why?
Travis: Because I can't hit him. He's too high.
Laura: But he's-- There's crystals in his belly.
Travis: But wasn't there a tunnel that we wanted? I attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and I throw it at his feet.
Matt: Okay. So you stand up.
Travis: Let me move 20 feet to his right rear, over here. Just in case he decides to do the Cone of Fuck Everything again. (laughter)
Travis: Then I'll throw the axe.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Reckless! 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Hey, that's a 12, that's great. Sorry, I'm blanking out. 25, 27, plus the 1d4 because I'm enlarged, which I didn't do last time. That's 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage. Good.
Travis: And I need to roll a DC of 14 to bring it back in, but it's strength.
Matt: Go ahead and roll.
Travis: That's too wild. That's off the wall. That's a 12. That's off the wall. God, nipples on a horse! Wait, do I have advantage?
Matt: While you're raging, you have advantage on strength rolls. Was it athletics or strength?
Travis: Strength. Advantage on strength checks, strength saves.
Matt: So, roll again.
Travis: 19.
Matt: You yank the axe back down, catch it in your hands. You did the extra 1d4 damage from being enlarged, right?
Travis: I did. It's that little tiny one.
Matt: That is going to end Thordak's turn. Now it is the elemental over here. It's going to (flame crackling) over next to Percy.
Travis: Ooh! Is the Second Wind a bonus action? Second Wind, the fighter thing?
Matt: That's a bonus action.
Travis: Can I do that?
Matt: Yeah. Go for it.
Travis: 1d10 plus fighter level, which is one.
Matt: 1d10 plus one.
Travis: Nine. Ten! Ten hit points.
Matt: Ten hit points, all right. All righty. Let's see. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to shoot him. I'm going to reach back and I'm going to get a poison arrow.
Matt: It's your third and final poison arrow?
Laura: No, I've got six poison arrows. That one missed.
Matt: It just barely misses Raishan on the way.
Laura: Sorry! Poison arrow. No, it's okay, it's good. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: 15 plus four lightning. Does he have anybody near him? Does he see me? Am I sneak attacking?
Travis: He's in the middle of the motherfucking sky.
Matt: You're not sneak attacking because nobody nearby can hit him.
Laura: Plus four because that's two for being a dragon. Okay, so you know. And then the poison arrow thing.
Matt: Right. He makes his save.
Laura: My last attack. I'm going to try using my last dragon-slaying arrow that I have.
Matt: Okay! This is the one you've had. This is the one you've kept this whole time, right?
Laura: It's got Thordak's name on it.
Matt: You reach back and you pull and there's two.
Laura: There's two?
Matt: There's two in there.
Liam: Do it.
Laura: Why do I have two?
Matt: You pull one out, look, and there's a small piece of paper attached to it.
Laura: Ooh! I rip it off and tuck it in my shirt. Pull. 21? No!
Matt: It arcs into the darkness, past the clouds and out of the Cloudtop.
Laura: Goddamn it.
Travis: It's okay!
Matt: You still have movement if you want to do something else.
Laura: Is the building on fire?
Matt: There's small flames here and there, but there is a wyvern up above the wall now that seems to have noticed you as you went around the corner and fired a few arrows.
Laura: Can I use my bonus to hide? From him?
Matt: You don't have anything to hide behind. It notices you over the side. You can move, if you want to, and try to do that.
Laura: The building is on fire? Can I move and try to duck into the building? I see a hole that's not on fire.
Matt: You could move around here and duck inside there.
Laura: Yeah. I'll try to hide in the building because wyverns, he's so dumb.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth.
Laura: How about that? That is a 14.
Matt: That's a 14? All righty. I forgot to do the fire elemental attacks against you, Percival, from earlier.
Taliesin: I had an environmental attack?
Matt: Fire elemental attack that came over there and attacked you. It was during Thordak's turn; I forgot to do that. It gets two touch attacks against you. That is 13.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: That's cocked. Natural 20.
Taliesin: That hits.
Travis: Yes! Oh. Not your natural 20.
Taliesin: Yeah, not mine.
Matt: 17 points of fire damage, halved to eight, and you are on fire.
Taliesin: Yeah, oh.
Travis: And you are on fire.
Taliesin: Does stop, drop and roll work in--
Matt: You have to use an action to get rid of it. So yes. And every turn, you'll take 1d10 fire damage until you get rid of it. All right, so, finishing Vex's turn, it is now Vax and Kima's. Kima's going to make a constitution saving throw. Kima makes it and is unaffected. Well, she's unaffected by the poison anyway because she was part of the Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Oh, right, that's poison. So she's immune.
Matt: Yeah, Kima is angrily going to rush over to Gilmore.
Sam: (pouring drink)
Marisha: It's never not weird.
Sam: (contented sigh)
Liam: It's really on Matt for there being no pee break.
Matt: It's true. It's true. Kima is going to go ahead and Lay Hands on Gilmore.
Marisha: Oh yeah, Kima.
Matt: She's going to heal him for 35. All righty, so as Kima rushes over, still staring at Thordak up in the air, (wing flapping) she hand vaults over the destroyed wall, runs over to Gilmore's unconscious burning form and, moving her hand out of the way to put the flames out, pats him down and as her hand glows and she slams onto his chest and you watch (gasping) the breath come to him. As his eyes flicker open, she goes, "It's not your time yet, buddy." Picks up her sword and angrily looks over towards Thordak again. She can move five more feet that way, that's as much as she can get this turn. But that's her action. Pike's turn.
Liam: Vax's turn.
Matt: Sorry, Vax's turn.
Liam: I'm going to fly straight at Thordak's flank. You can put me, well, don't actually put me there, because he'll topple.
Matt: Yeah, but you're up there.
Liam: But I'm going to attack twice, once with the dragonslayer sword, once with Whisper, so here's the dragonslayer sword. Natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: Sneak attack damage!
Matt: Okay. So you have the sword and Whisper both attuned?
Liam: Yeah. But this is the sword.
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Laura: He's going to use a legendary. I can see it on his damn face.
Liam: He can't against damage, can he?
Liam: All right, well, here we go.
Matt: Can't legendary resist against damage.
Laura: You can't?
Matt: No, it's only against saving throws.
Liam: Yeah. So seven. I'll save the bonus for later. Seven plus the three.
Sam: Roll high. Roll strong.
Liam: Seven, eight, 14, 18, 18 plus all of this. And I'm smiting, by the way. 18, 21, 24, 26, 30, 32, 35, 39 plus Hunter's Mark is 42, plus Divine Smite-- 46. 48 times two is 96.
Matt: Without the bonus.
Liam: Without the bonus, so a hundred and... two.
Matt: 102 points of damage against Thordak.
Laura: On your first attack!
Liam: For the second attack-- good, this is, yeah, it hits, 16 plus, 20, 20, 25. This is Whisper, so that is one plus-- is nine plus psychic damage...
Laura: Can't you just attack twice with the dragon sword?
Liam: No.
Laura: Why not?
Liam: Hand, hand.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: 16 for Whisper.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And I will use my last action, so that was action, bonus action-- last action to disengage and fly down and land by Kima and Gilmore, this side of the building. Closest to me.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: On the ground, even, if I can, yeah. Behind the column in the corner by Gilmore's head, I think.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, sword at the side, jam it to the hilt to the side of Thordak's haunch and upper torso area, using the momentum behind you, you continue to push forward and yank the blade around like a can opener. Just cutting through the scales and hide. (pained yelling) And as you tear through, the blade, it comes out the other side, cutting through the flesh as you spin around with your wings still out in front, you spin with Whisper and slam it into the open wound with the exposed crystal, hitting the crystal with the Vestige. (shattering) There's a flash of light, and you continue downward, landing off to that side. As you turn around and look up, you watch as the crystal begins to crack. (shattering) (gasping)
Sam: It's got a weak spot. Weak spot.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: Pretty sure I just had an orgasm. (laughter)
Sam: In game, or right here?
Taliesin: Could be both now, actually. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's your turn.
Sam: You've done your thing.
Liam: Take it, take it. Pike cheat sheet, here we are.
Laura: Pike cheat sheet.
Matt: All righty, that brings us to Pike's turn.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Pike has to make-- nothing because of the poison.
Laura: Heroes' Feast?
Matt: Yeah, so, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is going to cast Heal on herself at seventh level. So she's going to heal herself for 80 points.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So she's got 84 points now.
Liam: She was low.
Laura: She was super low.
Taliesin: She can take a death, remember. She can actually take a death. But yeah.
Laura: Okay, but then she can't heal people. And then is anybody injured around her?
Sam: Everybody's injured around her.
Laura: Gilmore's still pretty low, right?
Matt: Gilmore's not too great.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to run, she's going to cast Healing Word on Gilmore.
Matt: Okay, he's within range.
Laura: At second level that she can do it at?
Matt: Right, so that's 2d4 plus five.
Laura: So that's, oh, right, because now shit's gone.
Matt: Yeah, Beacon of Hope is gone.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And she's going to use her movement to run back into the building with Scanlan.
Matt: That's as far as she can get, right there. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh. I'll, through the earring, say, Grog, you want to go for a ride, or no?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, action, I will arc around and Lightning Bolt the dragon real quick. With the hand cone, I don't know if that makes any difference. No, it doesn't. It might.
Marisha: It can't hurt. It's got to save against that shit.
Matt: Yeah, you can see it from there. It's high enough in the sky. You don't have to arc around, you can go (magic shooting noise). Okay, makes his save.
Sam: Yeah, great, so what, I still roll damage and he takes half?
Matt: Yeah. He takes half.
Sam: Okay. That's fine. 23. So, 12, 11, something like that.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Great.
Matt: 11 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Good job, buddy. Man, good thing we gave you that flute.
Laura: I know, right, fucking A, Scanlan!
Sam: We're doing great, guys, nobody's dead yet.
Taliesin: It's so great that you did that 11 points.
Marisha: Yeah, wait until we're-- he's on the other side of the continent. It could like--
Sam: And as the bonus action-- The Hand, who is still alive. He took 102 points of damage, but is still alive.
Travis: Bigby's Hand is?
Sam: Yes, because he has my hit points. So he'll go over and lift up Grog by the scruff of his neck and go as high and mighty as he can. He can move like 120 feet, I think.
Travis: Like a fucking puppy.
Matt: You can move him up to 60 feet per turn.
Sam: What? 120! Wait.
Matt: No, the spell's range is 120. Per turn, as a bonus action, it can move at 60 feet. (laughter)
Sam: Well, knowing that, I'll just punch the dragon.
Matt: Okay. So the hand (whoosh) goes up. Punch him. Roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Whiffs.
Laura: Wait, you're close to Pike. She uses War God's Blessing to increase your attack by-- can she do that? Is it technically an attack that she could add?
Matt: Let me check real fast. Let me see here.
Laura: Was it really low?
Sam: I mean, you don't know.
Matt: Makes an attack roll.
Laura: So yeah? So, do I roll the ten, or is it just a plus ten bonus?
Matt: Plus ten bonus.
Sam: Yeah, 23.
Matt: 23 just hits. (cheering)
Sam: It does hit! 6d8.
Matt: 8d8.
Sam: No, it's usually 4d8, I think.
Matt: 4d8, and you cast it, it's usually fifth level, you cast it as a seventh level.
Sam: So it's 4d8, so now it's 6d8.
Matt: It goes up by 2d8 every level higher.
Sam: Oh, shit!
Laura: Oh my god. 4d8?
Sam: No, 8d8.
Laura: 8d8?!
Matt: Yes. Just punched the dragon in the face with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Pike happened. Oh my god, Ashley is the MVP tonight. (laughter)
Sam: Okay. Not huge, but okay. It's okay. 36.
Laura: That's great!
Travis: That's great!
Marisha: That's better than 11.
Sam: Yeah. Hey, I just dealt 47 points of damage! That's respectable! (approving murmurs)
Travis: How's that Vestige treating you?
Matt: Top of the next round, Percy. First you take... You take ten, five points of fire damage.
Sam: (whispering) Laura.
Matt: That is terrifying. Oh my god.
Laura: Thanks for getting my attention for that. (laughter)
Matt: Goddamn it.
Sam: That will inspire you.
Liam: Somebody gets an inspiration die. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to spider-climb-- I'm going to stay within striking distance, I'm not going to disengage from the jerk, but I'm going to climb up on the wall above him, if that's okay.
Matt: I'd say yeah, you can do that. The wall next to him, there's nothing above him.
Taliesin: Like, oh, I'm shooting at the television. Here.
Matt: Here? So you can move around and get on the wall.
Taliesin: Yeah, like climb up there and be sideways. I'm going to pull out Bad News, I'm going to try something new. I'm seeing that big spike, there's a big metal spike stuck in his chest right now?
Matt: No, there's no spike. There's a crack in the crystal that's exposed.
Taliesin: Is there still not a metal pole?
Matt: There's no metal pole.
Taliesin: I thought he got hit by a thing.
Matt: No, he got hit by a Vax.
Taliesin: Okay, I thought he also got hit by a thing. But that's okay. I'm going to try something weird. I'm going to spend a grit for advantage on this shot, because--
Sam: "Constructing a pole vault."
Taliesin: I'm going to add two points of Cabal's Ruin to this.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What does that do? What? You have a thing?
Taliesin: I'm going to spend two points of Cabal's Ruin. I have a thing.
Matt: You can spend them once you roll to hit.
Taliesin: Oh, I can wait until after?
Matt: Wait until you see you hit it, then you can spend the points.
Taliesin: Well, that's even better. So first shot is a 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: So I'm going to drop two-- I've got the little thing running through my glove, I've got the wire. I'm just going to let go of the little grounding wire and see what happens. I'll hold onto the barrel and pray. Let's add 2d6 to that. Is that right? Yeah.
Liam: I really like this spider-climb guy.
Taliesin: I know, I'm digging this-- augh, it's okay. Yeah, this is okay. 22 points of damage plus two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Did you roll your Cabal's Ruin thing?
Taliesin: I did, yeah, I did, I'm going to do that again.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn two more points-- Well, I'm going to wait. That's really cool, that I can wait.
Laura: That was the softest little roll.
Taliesin: I hate it when that happens. I know, that was the worst roll I've ever done. That's okay. It's 22. Just hits?
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: 22 misses?! That's fine. I'm not going to burn any Cabal. So that's fine.
Matt: The first blast fires off... It impacts the side of Thordak. You watch the little charge of energy shoot through. Second shot, however, goes a little wide, as you feel the fire still burning up the front of your torso. It's enough to distract you from your actual aiming.
Taliesin: That was very cool, though.
Marisha: You can do that.
Taliesin: Once I set it up, I can arc a charge to the bullet.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That ends my turn. I may drop back behind-- No, I'm good, I'm good.
Matt: At this point, the ground quakes beneath--
Taliesin: That was a terrible roll. Terrible roll.
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Taliesin: Snake eyes was not cool.
Matt: No, he can't do the same twice in a row, so it's going to do another magma erupt. (laughs) Beneath where Gilmore is, the ground splits open-- (groans)
Matt: --and another burst of magma billows out from underneath. Going against Kima, Vax, that's where most of them are clustered. Kima, Vax, and Gilmore. I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Yeah, evasion for me.
Taliesin: Walls hate NPCs.
Liam: With advantage. 18 for me.
Matt: 18 for you. All right, that's okay. Gilmore rolls a--
Laura: Natural 20?
Matt: 15, which is enough. Kima rolls a natural 20-- (cheering)
Matt: So half as much damage to each of you guys. You take none.
Liam: I'm sitting pretty. I mean, I'm really rough.
Laura: Don't say that out loud.
Sam: Have you taken any damage?
Matt: That's 21, that's ten points of fire damage to both Kima and Gilmore.
Taliesin: Halved?
Matt: That was halved.
Liam: I am Borishnakoffing all over this battlefield.
Taliesin: Somebody's going to dive into that hole.
Matt: As that bursts off, you also watch as the airship Deera coasts around this way and takes three shots. (cheering)
Matt: Misses. Hits! And misses. So three of them shoot past. The third one impacts for seven points of piercing damage to Thordak. You watch as two other wyverns get cut down from the edges of the ship, slamming into the ground near you. Their arms curl up, and the wings fall limply to the side. You also hear a slamming sound as from a nearby wall, you watch as a fire giant that has climbed over the edge of the wall.
Laura: Why would you bring more things onto the battlefield?!
Matt: It charges into the fray, this way.
Marisha: Wait, over what wall, over what wall?
Matt: On the outside of the side of the Cloudtop.
Sam: Is this one of the fire giants we've seen?
Marisha: Yeah, is this one that Zahra and Kash were guarding?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I do it?
Matt: You barely have a view of it, so yes, you can.
Laura: Do I have a view of it?
Matt: No, you're inside the room.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah, 25.
Matt: You see it, this one does not appear to be coming from the direction they were.
Laura: That's good, that's good. That's not a damn it, that's a good.
Marisha: Means they're still alive. Hopefully?
Matt: With that, it is Raishan's turn. Raishan gets her breath back.
Travis: (singing) Girl, get your breath back.
Matt: Raishan rears back, (hissing roar) releases the same poisonous torrent toward Thordak.
Travis: Halitosis is a bitch.
Sam: We have exactly one ally dragon in this fight right now.
Travis: I will fucking-- I will pop all your knuckles.
Sam: We do! She's great.
Liam: The last thing we'll do in this fight is all turn on you.
Marisha: The last thing we do is die as we see a bronze dragon show up.
Laura: Yeah, we're all dead on the ground, and Scanlan's like, yay!
Matt: He takes half damage as the poison cloud billows up, (cough, sinister growl).
Sam: Aw, he's still crazy.
Matt: "You're still around us? That's okay. There's still time... to eat." Raishan is going to fly past and land on the top of the roof, which nearly crumbles. Nearly crumbles above you, Keyleth, you feel stones (crash) around you, and you see Raishan landing on the ceiling of this damaged building as parts of it begin to collapse.
Laura: Look how little she is.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Go, girl.
Marisha: So she's on top of me, more or less? I'm going to turn around and Tidal Wave this elemental behind me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to say, if I'm caught in the corner of this, will this extinguish me?
Marisha: Extinguishes all flames.
Matt: It does. Wait, so what spell are you doing? You're doing--
Travis: Tidal Wave.
Laura: Is that one, like, still up or something? Is it like a concentration that just lasts?
Marisha: No, the other one was Tsunami. That one is like the big daddy version of this one. Yeah.
Matt: So, Percy, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Can I autofail if I just want to be-- Oh, that's right, for half damage.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: All right. Dex saving throw. That's an 11.
Matt: So roll 4d8 bludgeoning damage. Percy takes, and Percy is knocked prone, but is no longer on fire.
Taliesin: I just fall on the ground, I assume.
Marisha: Sorry, Percy. I'm saving your life, man!
Matt: However, the unscathed fire elemental is turned to mist. Water pushing past and doing way too much damage for him to--
Marisha: Is this damage for Percy? 21.
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. (laughter)
Liam: Legitimately though!
Matt: But a full health fire elemental is turned to mist and is immediately destroyed. Actually, the force of it blows out the rocks from this side of the wall. And the wall, the wall here actually gets knocked open to that side as the tidal wave pushes out. Keyleth, do you want to move or stay where you are?
Marisha: I'll pop myself out of the door a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's that other thing that you've been doing to him? That he has to save on every once in a while?
Laura: Oh, Contagion?
Marisha: Contagion, he has to do that at the end of his turn. Did he do it at the last...?
Matt: He did, yes. It was a 13 plus...
Marisha: So he's saved against two or one?
Matt: He's only done two, so far, since you cast it.
Marisha: He's only done-- I know about one.
Matt: No, because you didn't do it your first turn, you did it your second turn, so yeah, twice.
Laura: Yeah, he's definitely done it twice.
Marisha: And he's saved against both? Are you sure?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: But are you sure?
Matt: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Do I see Gilmore?
Matt: You, from your current perspective, you do not.
Marisha: Then, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Jarett, who is currently scared out of his wits.
Travis: Get your shit together, man.
Sam: Jarett, do you need some suude?
Travis: Spice?
Matt: Ha, He's like, "What? No, why would you..."
Sam: Well, you look crazy right now.
Matt: "Look at that!"
Sam: It's like a Thursday.
Matt: And he goes and takes two more shots, with disadvantage against. That's a miss. Second shot, disadvantage. Is a miss. Both shots firing off.
Travis: We'll remember this. Your annual review's coming up.
Sam: Needs improvement.
Matt: Gilmore, who's now conscious, doesn't have a whole lot else as far as attack spells go, is going to attempt to stand up. "All right, that was--" (groaning)
Liam: Matt, why would you!
Sam: He flew 30 feet.
Matt: I can count that.
Travis: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: Then stop giving me shit.
Liam: Why would you!
Matt: As he gets up, he leans back and backs out of the rubble, takes in his surroundings, sees the magma receding from the crack in the ground. "This is... You guys bring me to the greatest places. Oh, he's not looking too good." And releases a Lightning Bolt.
Marisha: He's not looking too good?
Matt: He's not looking too good. And he's going to release a Lightning Bolt at fifth level. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak makes his save. And that will be, come on, dice. 49. Half that will be 24 points of lightning damage against Thordak. That ends Gilmore's turn. Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Oh God. I'm going first.
Matt: All right, what are you doing?
Travis: Because it's so insignificant. I'm going to attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and throw it at his foot.
Taliesin: You could go in the hole, just saying.
Travis: I thought we didn't care about the hole?
Taliesin: I care about the hole.
Travis: Grog loves going in holes.
Laura: Just do what you're going to do.
Travis: All right, I throw the Bloodaxe.
Sam: You can also hold your attack until he's closer or something?
Travis: Reckless! Yeah, that's not going to happen. 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: It's not Great Weapon Master. That's a 12. That's good. Two points of necrotic for 27 and I'm enlarged! And that's another one.
Sam: Hey, 28 is great!
Travis: Hey, matzoh ball in your face.
Matt: That's awesome.
Travis: And then I've got to pull it back.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Travis: Seven plus 14, woo! Got it.
Matt: Yeah. You pull the axe back.
Sam: You got a bonus action or something?
Laura: You could attack again?
Travis: No I can't, I can only throw it once.
Matt: Thordak is going to swoop in.
Sam: You could heal or something? You've got potions and shit, don't you?
Laura: Can't you hold your other attack until he moves?
Travis: I don't have another attack.
Matt: Let's see here.
Liam: He's hesitating.
Travis: It takes my whole action. I get two attacks in an action.
Sam: He's hovering. God, he's going to his other Dungeons & Dragons game! (laughter)
Laura: He's like, welp, I'm over this.
Sam: Oh God! That's dangerously close.
Matt: I know.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: Right there, Gilmore just behind.
Laura: Gilmore is up his butt.
Matt: Raishan right there. Lands right up next to Pike.
Laura: No!
Matt: Everyone else in that vicinity.
Laura: Oh no, that's Pike and Scanlan isn't it?
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: Yup. And (inhales).
Laura: What? Why would you do that to Pike?!
Matt: Rolled a five on that. Because Pike keeps healing everybody. That'll be towards Jarett, Scanlan and Pike. I need you guys to make dex saves.
Sam: I'll Cutting Words this.
Matt: How many more bardic inspiration dice do you have by the way?
Sam: I have used only three. That means I have three left.
Matt: You've inspired one and you've Cutting Words twice? Correct, all right, cool. This is your fourth?
Sam: Yep. So I will Cutting Words that up with a poem I will make up on the spot. Roses are red, Violets are blue, I'm a gnome, and you're an asshole. (laughter)
Matt: Roll a d12. What was Pike's dexterity save again?
Liam: Oh no, it's this die.
Sam: Oh, you can reduce that by one point, Matt Mercer.
Matt: (laughing) Oh no. What did you get? Nah, roll your dexterity saving throw.
Sam: My dexterity saving throw. Terrible, 15.
Matt: Jarett does not make it either.
Liam: Big eight, big eight.
Matt: All right, well.
Laura: One of our Jaeger controllers did worse than our other--
Liam: You shut your pie hole! Hear me, half-elf?
Matt: Well, with the damage reduction from Scanlan that's only 100 points of fire damage.
Taliesin: Cut in half.
Matt: Cut in half, so that's 50 to each of you. Jarett is practically immolated. His unconscious body hits the ground, crisp, smoking. He's currently going into shock and is in a really bad place right now.
Sam: Where's Pike? What's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is-- Wait, minus 50. She's at 50 minus--she's at 34 points right now.
Taliesin: In combat range of a dragon.
Travis: I never finished my turn, so can I use my movement now? Since we're on the same, can I chase him back to where he landed? 50 feet and how far does that get me?
Matt: Yeah, you can get right up behind him right there.
Laura: Can you attack him now?
Travis: Nah. Nah. Actually, my bonus action is still there and I am frenzied.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Travis: Can I attack?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: I'll do it Reckless.
Matt: I'll let you do it. It all happened at once.
Travis: 29?
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Yeah, not Great Weapon Master. Nine plus two, 26, 29. 29.
Matt: 29? All righty. That ends your turn.
Travis: That does.
Sam: Matt, in the interest of honor, should I roll a concentration saving throw?
Matt: Oh yes, you should. Sorry, thank you.
Sam: I rolled a-- what do I add to it?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw, so you add your constitution save.
Sam: Constitution? So 18.
Matt: With that, Bigby's Hand fades, the spell knocked asunder. Thank you for reminding me of that. So that comes to end that turn.
Marisha: He has to roll a save.
Matt: Yes, he does. And that is a seven plus 16.
Marisha: Does he still have disadvantage on these?
Matt: No, he doesn't have disadvantage on every save, just the one. He was Cutting Words'd, you're right.
Marisha: Yeah. He has to roll under a five.
Matt: Same thing. So with that, the third save is made, Contagion.
Sam: At least it won't eat up my Cutting Words any more.
Marisha: It's resting in peace with my 8th-level spell and her dragon-slaying arrow. They're in a puddle somewhere.
Matt: It's a rough couple rounds.
Laura: Did I see where that dragon-slaying arrow sailed off to?
Matt: With the sheer amount of clouds of ash and blackness in the air, you have no idea where it went, I'm afraid. At the end of Thordak's turn, the wyvern that had seen you, it did spot you. Your stealth was not very good. It leaps down into the back of the building and (growls) coming towards you. The wyvern's going to make a multi-attack. The first is a bite attack against you. That's a natural one. Does not hit you. The stinger, however, is a natural 20. Wow! So that is for 12 points of piercing damage to you and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Poison immunity.
Taliesin: Poison immunity.
Matt: That's right. So no effect.
Laura: 12 points of damage.
Matt: The rider is going to swing at you with a heavy club and then a javelin. That is a 16. What's your AC?
Laura: 21.
Matt: Nope. And no. Misses you with both. You're just too quick for him. The giant sees Percy lying on the ground and goes (yells). With its giant two-handed sword, it's going to make two attacks against Percy with advantage. 19, so that's 30 for the first one.
Taliesin: Oh, that just hits.
Matt: And a 22 with the second.
Taliesin: That also just hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 28 points of slashing damage from each hit.
Taliesin: So that's 28 times two.
Laura: 56.
Taliesin: 56. All right, that's fine. I blame you for all of this.
Sam: We're getting in flute range soon.
Taliesin: I'll be hearing about it from the kitchen. It'll be great. I'll be working on my new character.
Matt: All right. That brings us to--
Sam: Raishan?
Matt: No. That brings us to Vex's turn.
Laura: I can't see anything about where I am.
Matt: You're back here right now.
Laura: Yeah, I can't see that on the screen, so I don't know.
Liam: Other side of that building.
Laura: Can I use disengage to get away from the wyvern?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to do that and I'll run out somewhere. Where's the laser pointer?
Liam: I can't see where Vex is at all.
Laura: I just have no clue where I am.
Matt: Well, I have you right here because you actually fell and your base came off and I glued it together when you were talking.
Laura: No way! Oh, I thought you said the face.
Sam: He has crazy glue on his person?
Matt: Like any good dungeon master should. So you're inside this building right now.
Laura: If I'm hasted, does that affect my broom?
Matt: No.
Laura: So I just run out.
Matt: So you just run out this way. You have a lot of movement speed, so you're still out here at half movement.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to run through the building and under Raishan and shoot up at Thordak from through the building.
Liam: Ditch the broom.
Matt: Go for it. Make your shots.
Laura: Okay. Oh no, that one doesn't hit. Okay, second one. Okay, that hits. That's 29.
Matt: 29. All right.
Laura: Can I do that with a poison arrow? I should have said that before.
Matt: You should have said that before.
Laura: Never mind. 18, that's with four lightning. I do get sneak attack right now. 15 more.
Matt: Okay. That was the first roll. Second attack?
Laura: Yeah. Should I do the second dragon attack? I'm so scared to use the dragon arrow.
Travis: There is no tomorrow. There's a giant fucking dragon and a fire giant.
Liam: Pop his head off in one shot. Go.
Laura: I'm going to use my dragon arrow. My last one. Oh, good! That was so close but it definitely hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh God. Okay. 17 with one lightning.
Matt: One lightning damage. All right.
Laura: So three more. And how many do I add for the dragon arrow?
Matt: I'm looking it up right now, actually.
Sam: Ooh!
Laura: I think it's 10d6. I think.
Sam: Is it really?
Laura: Or 6d10. It's one of those two.
Sam: 10d20.
Laura: 10d20. 12d12.
Travis: 100d100s. And the universe implodes.
Matt: DC 17 constitution saving throw.
Laura: He gets to save?
Matt: Yes, he does. Which he makes. So he takes half damage. So it's 6d10.
Laura: Oh! Whoa. That's okay, I'll just roll this, 'cause this is easier.
Liam: 6d10.
Laura: Oh, that was just 6d10. 32 halved.
Matt: 32 halved. All right.
Sam: Worth it.
Matt: You release the first arrow, which goes and strikes Thordak in the upper shoulder wing area. (growls) He turns around and goes to face you, the arms and wings open angrily. As you release the dragon-slaying arrow, it goes and hits the side where the chest is currently disintegrated and exposed. As the arrow, using the power of Fenthras behind it, slams into the crystal, the crystal shatters. As it breaks, you watch as Thordak goes (crazed laughter) and the form begins to slowly shrink.
Travis: Oh shit!
Matt: (growling) He seems to be grinning and laughing through the pain as the swollen, primordial dragon form of Thordak begins to slowly wither and wither.
Sam: You have another model?
Laura: What?!
Sam: And it's even bigger.
Laura: Look at the puny little fuck.
Sam: He's a little puny baby.
Matt: That's still a pretty fucking huge dragon. (laughter)
Sam: He's so sad.
Matt: Now there are hanging folds of dragon hide skin. The form shrunk, but portions still are sagging off of it.
Laura: Can I duck around the side so I'm in the building? So I'm not in the opening. Yeah.
Marisha: Are we going to try and take Raishan out as well?
Matt: At the end of your turn, he's going to use two legendary actions to wing attack. Trying to whip the wings much faster now due to the somewhat dire circumstances. I need Pike, and currently just Pike, to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Come on, Pike. For all the marbles.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Nope. Pike takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage and eight points of fire damage reduced to four.
Laura: So she's got ten points left.
Sam: She's a perfect ten. Always was.
Matt: He's going to fly up--
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Travis: I do!
Laura: And Pike does!
Matt: There we go. You both do.
Travis: Has his AC changed with his different size? You don't know? Reckless, Great Weapon Master. Natural 20.
Matt: Really?
Travis: Yeah, on the first roll.
Laura: And Pike rolled a 32.
Sam: Jesus. What is she attacking with?
Laura: Her Mace of Disruption.
Sam: Yes, she is.
Matt: So go ahead and roll damage for both of them.
Travis: I also have brutal critical which at thirteenth level, you roll two additional damage dice.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: Which you then double, don't you?
Matt: No. You add those two. So roll the damage first, and then double the dice.
Laura: And then she gets Divine Strike, right? On her attack.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: 28. So I double that?
Matt: You double the dice. Including the d4 and d6 from your weapon and your enlarged status.
Travis: Right. So that's 16 doubled, 32. So then, that's an 11. So 47.
Matt: Nice, and Pike's?
Laura: Pike rolled-- fuck. 18. 19! It was 19.
Matt: Okay. Perfect. You both strike, as the now-diminished form of Thordak begins to pull backward, eyes looking around. The piercing star-like white light of the eyes seems to have slowly recoiled into a glowing reddish-orange. And you can now see where the crystal once was in the chest, there is just a gaping hole where bits of flesh and dragon muscle are hanging out, occasionally slopping out of the wound. He's pulling back. All right.
Liam: I'm up.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm going to arc up and land on his head. I'm just going to unload all three: action, action, bonus action, into his head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First attack probably misses, that's 17?
Matt: Misses.
Liam: Second attack hits. That's 24.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third attack with the dragon sword is a 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: So, with Whisper. (counting) That's 45 with Whisper. And then with the dragonslayer sword. Eight plus six plus 3d6. So 21. What did I say before that?
Laura: 45.
Travis: 45.
Liam: So 21 plus 45 is-- So 66.
Laura: It's 45 for the first attack, 21 for the second.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Liam: And I will stay there.
Matt: You're going to stay there? All right. So you are currently up here, in Thordak's face.
Laura: This is going to be bad if we have to take Raishan out.
Matt: Cool, so that ends Vax's turn. Kima--
Sam: Oh yeah, the wyvern.
Matt: That wyvern just can't seem to keep itself standing.
Sam: That was really good handwork, I didn't catch any of it. That I got.
Matt: She's just going to move towards Raishan. She's going to move over to this wall.
Liam: Sorry. Also, four for Hunter's Mark on the second attack as well.
Matt: Okay. That's ends Kima's turn, going over there. Pike's turn. Pike is knocked prone from the spell earlier.
Laura: She's still alive. She gets up.
Liam: Girl.
Laura: (singing) She's going to Guiding Bolt up the butt! At what level do we have left?
Liam: So many levels. All the levels. Pike cheat sheet. Five!
Laura: She's going to cast it at a five.
Liam: Plus 1d6 every level above second level. So 3d6.
Laura: 4d6. Plus 4d6. So 8d6. She has to roll the attack first, or just straight-up?
Matt: Well, she has to roll to attack with her spell bonus, her spell attack bonus.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: All right. So 8d6.
Liam: You can do it, Pike. All the way from New York City.
Laura: Five. Seven. Eight. Ten. 16. 18. Another two. 26.
Matt: 26? Nice. As the guiding bolt slams into the side of Thordak's side, you can see this glimmering beacon of light. The next attack against Thordak has advantage.
Laura: Oh good. And then she's going to Healing Word again? Yeah, she's pretty fucked, so she'll Healing Word at second level, that's her last 2nd-level...
Matt: So 2d4 plus five. To herself?
Laura: And that's just to one person? Yeah, so she'll... so she's going to do that to Jarett.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: She would heal Jarett over herself?
Laura: It's Pike. I'm being honest, she would heal Jarett.
Travis: I don't know why we're wasting that on Jarett.
Matt: Jarett went and got you illicit drugs, Scanlan!
Travis: I mean, he had a great accent, but fuck. You remember the cryptkeeper? Jarett's going to those auditions tomorrow.
Laura: So that's eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay, so Jarett is healed up eight points.
Liam: He is Groot.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Where the terrible burns are, most of them seem to heal, or at least scar to a point where he comes to consciousness. He's like, "What happened?"
Laura: "Jarett, you need to get up and fight."
Matt: "Right." Grabs the crossbow to the side, leans up. So was that Pike's turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, was that Pike's turn? Scanlan, you're up.
Taliesin: Like slap the charred skin off his face. Get back in there!
Liam: The whole face comes off.
Sam: Shit. I will use my action to pour my superior healing potion into Pike's mouth.
Liam: That's love.
Laura: "Scanlan, I can do that myself."
Sam: Oh wait. First, I aerate it. (laughter)
Laura: So that's 8d4?
Sam: I don't know. What is it?
Laura: That is 8d4. Do you do that or do I?
Sam: Do I roll it, or does she?
Matt: You roll it, that's fine.
Sam: It's just a bunch of d4s? 8d4s? Oh my god. This is so many. Six. 13. 16. 20, plus something. Plus six, 26.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Sam: Who else can I see? Nobody. Jarett's alive, right?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Now as my bonus action...
Travis: Whether he wants to be when he sees a mirror...
Sam: Well shit, I have an action, I can do anything. I can do anything!
Travis: Yeah, you could play the fucking flute.
Sam: What? What flute?
Liam: What are you saving it for?
Sam: I play a shawm.
Laura: We're going to have to fight Raishan in a second.
Marisha: This is far from over.
Taliesin: And whatever's in that pit. And whatever's in that pit.
Sam: What? How's she doing? Is she okay?
Laura: She's at 36.
Sam: It's not great. All right, I will attack the dragon. Bigby's Hand at level six. Why not?
Matt: So you recast Bigby's Hand?
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Give the people what they want.
Sam: That is not what they want.
Laura: Hey, he's got a hole in the middle of his chest.
Sam: I'll poke it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope. Did Pike help me out?
Laura: Yes! She casts her last War God's Blessing. Add a ten to that.
Matt: So plus ten to that.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23 hits. So that would be?
Sam: 6d8. Gimme.
Liam: Here comes the gnome.
Taliesin: Here's 4d8. 5d8. 6d8.
Sam: 27.
Matt: 27? Nice.
Laura: Every time!
Matt: All right. Percival. Unless you want to move, Scanlan.
Sam: I moved to Pike to pour stuff in her. That's all. I did not mean that in any weird way.
Matt: Percival. Your turn.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to, for my bonus action, I'm going to down a greater, which is 4d4, I believe?
Matt: 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Laura: Did you add four to your 26 when you healed her? Or did you just roll--
Taliesin: I'm dying less. I'm going to stand up. I'm technically engaged with this bloody thing, aren't I?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm just going to-- There's little I can do other than just say, please, somebody fix this, and I'm going to take two shots at the red dragon. First shot with Bad News. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to just throw-- forget it, I'll throw four charges of Cabal's Ruin there. Let's just do it.
Matt: That's an additional 4d6 damage.
Liam: Am I electrified, sitting on his head?
Taliesin: Technically speaking, no, the way that this works-- it's like a Tesla arc, so it wouldn't technically-- you'll feel tingly.
Matt: Your hair sticks up a little bit. Your nipples get a little pointy. (laughter)
Matt: Start shaking in the leather armor.
Liam: Do it again, Percy. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bloody fanart. Okay. And let's see what kind of damage we do with this. Eh. That sucks. Stop it! Stop it! I can't count when-- that's (counting) 21 points of damage. Stop saying that, it's 21! You don't know, it's 21.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Second shot. Can I reroll that, 'cause he? Yeah, it misses. And now I'm going to die. You're like everything I hate about Overwatch.
Sam: You're not going to die.
Matt: One of the fingered claws of Thordak gets blasted off from the impact from Bad News, the energy arcing through the rest of his arm from Cabal's Ruin. The second shot, however, having to aim, manages to just barely miss Vax. He gets in the way of the shot, and you have to shoot wide and it misses entirely. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah. That's my turn.
Matt: At the end of Percy's turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his third legendary action.
Sam: To do what?
Matt: To do a tail attack against Vax. That is a 22 to hit?
Liam: No. Nope. Nope. Hasted, 23, fuck you. Not you.
Sam: 23? Jesus! Where'd you go?
Matt: All right. So that brings us to-- we're going to say this will be... all right. The ground shakes.
Sam: Oh, shit, I forgot about that. Lair actions.
Matt: A 60-foot radius around the dragon, as just the presence of Thordak, the ground just begins quaking beneath. You watch as fissures of small volcanic energy begin to break from underneath. Pretty much everybody--
Sam: Is Jarett in there?
Matt: Yep. Except for you, who's in the air. Need to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Nope, rerolling that.
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling, because that was awful. Oh, never mind.
Sam: Yeah, if he doesn't like it, he gets to reroll.
Matt: It's a fighter ability.
Taliesin: Nine.
Laura: 30 for me.
Matt: Pike?
Laura: Eight for Pike.
Travis: 11.
Liam: Not like this.
Matt: Grog, Keyleth, Percy, Pike, Gilmore, all get knocked prone from the ground quaking as you all fall on your back. You manage to brace yourself against the wall real fast, Vex.
Sam: Does Jarett get knocked to his feet?
Matt: (laughs) No. He just gets shaken on the ground.
Marisha: Popcorn on a trampoline.
Matt: Raishan does not get her breath back. She is, however, going to utilize Chain Lightning.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see how this works.
Laura: She's going to hit us. No, she decides where it hits.
Sam: She's still on our side, right?
Taliesin: For another round or two.
Matt: All right. Chain Lightning. Dexterity saving throw. That's a success for Thordak. Sorry, I'm trying to get through this. Okay, so that is halved. Halved, that is 18 points of lightning damage. Vax, make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. Yeah. Good time to use Luck. 26.
Matt: 26, okay. You suffer 18 points of lightning damage as the bolt of energy that strikes Thordak then arcs into you because you're right next to it.
Liam: Would this be a new round for me to use Evasion? I've lost track.
Laura: No, 'cause Thordak's already gone.
Matt: No, you've already used it. So yeah. That ends that. Going to take off and land right there next to that guy.
Laura: Who is that guy?
Matt: That's the lizardman that fell from the wyvern. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Dragon just landed on him, basically.
Sam: I think he's got a shot.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh boy. Okay. I'm going to stand up. Question. Is Thordak within 30 feet of fire giant dude?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. That answers my question, then. I'm going to reach up and do Blight on Thordak, 'cause I think I can, this time.
Matt: What's the range on Blight?
Marisha: 30 feet.
Matt: Nope. Thordak is 50 feet in the air.
Marisha: Fucking shit fuck balls. Okay. Then--
Laura: Maybe you can jump and then cast it.
Matt: You could climb up and cast it, if you wanted to try that.
Marisha: No. I'm in a skirt situation. It's not good.
Sam: I'm not even paying attention, so if that's your concern.
Marisha: No, it's just clumsy. Okay, I'm going to do-- everything's not ideal right now!
Laura: Climb it, climb it, Keyleth! Just do it!
Liam: It's fucking end of the world!
Taliesin: They don't know.
Marisha: You don't know! I'm not good at that. I'm bad at that thing. So I'm not a dextrous person, so instead I'm going to use my Spire of Conflux.
Sam: Oh yeah, that Vestige thing!
Marisha: Look, I haven't forgotten about it, all right?
Travis: Who are you talking to right now?
Marisha: My ancestors. And I'm going to do Chain Lightning on Thordak.
Sam: Oh! Another chain.
Matt: All righty. Thordak's save is 19.
Marisha: Fail, motherfucker!
Matt: Thordak's going to use his second legendary resistance to make it. So go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Fine, that's fine. It's how many damage? Like 8d10?
Matt: 8d10.
Taliesin: Want some d10s?
Marisha: Yeah, I do.
Taliesin: Here's three more. How many are you at?
Marisha: I need one more. Oh, and I get to reroll ones, right? That's actually really--
Taliesin: Whoa! Holy fuck.
Sam: Is that a one?
Marisha: No, that's a seven. So that's 29, 34, plus-- that's a seven. And then 34 plus 14 is 48.
Matt: So half that is 24 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: And there's no one else within 30 feet of him, other than Raishan?
Matt: Raishan's not even in that range.
Marisha: No one else? Well. Okay. I do that, and then I turn around and I'm going to cast a Grasping Vine as a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you.
Marisha: Right next to me. And then I'm going to use it to whip around and grab Percy and--
Matt: You do not have visual range on Percy right now.
Marisha: I haven't used any movement. Can I shift into that house a little bit?
Matt: Sure, you move into the house?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And once again cast Grasping Vine from out of that corner and drag Percy to me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Around the ankles.
Matt: Still prone, but better.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Hi. That was really good. Ow.
Matt: That end your turn? All right. Jarett's turn. Jarett gets up. Jarett still only has a view of the dragon and is like, "What happened to-- that's weird." Missed the whole exchange. But gets the gist of it. Disadvantage. Misses. Natural 20, disadvantage. 15, still hits. Not a critical, unfortunately. But a ten on damage, that's 13 piercing damage.
Laura: It didn't drop fear when he died?
Matt: No, I think that would instill more fear.
Laura: Okay, just checking. (laughter)
Laura: Just checking.
Matt: Logistically.
Laura: I didn't know if it was a reset when you wake up.
Matt: Right. Gilmore gets up from the ground.
Taliesin: I'm so distracted right now. There's too much happening.
Matt: So he's going to cast another 4th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak fails his save. Is going to use his last resistance to get that, 'cause he's doing real rough.
Laura: You've got big-level spells, don't you, still?
Sam: Yeah, one.
Matt: He's rolling shit tonight. 14 points of lightning damage. No, 16. Okay. All righty. That's Gilmore's turn. It's Grog and Thordak's turn.
Travis: Oh, yes? I would like to stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: How high is Thordak?
Matt: Thordak is 40 feet up.
Travis: Son of a bitch on a stick. Could I just attach the bloodaxe and throw it at his much smaller foot, now?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, but I can only jump 20 feet in the air. 15 feet in the air.
Liam: That'll do it, won't it?
Travis: He's 40 feet in the air.
Sam: You don't know numbers. Maybe it'll work.
Travis: These hieroglyphs seem to indicate that he's too high. Yeah, 'cause I'm only like 14 feet high, right?
Matt: Right now? Yeah.
Travis: I'm reckless throwing the bushwhacker.
Laura: (gasps) He got another natural 20!
Sam: Holy shit!
Matt: You have advantage. Roll again.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: That's a really pretty die that he's got, too. Sparkly.
Marisha: She's getting ideas.
Travis: (counting) 34, 37, 38. 38 points of damage.
Matt: 38 points of damage.
Taliesin: That with your bonus? I just said that randomly, I don't actually know any of your bonuses, I just thought maybe it would jog something.
Travis: With my movement, can I run nuts towards where the fire giant is?
Matt: Sure. You can get right there.
Travis: That'll work. I need a new plaything that'll actually stay.
Matt: Thordak, who is physically falling apart at this point, sections just sloughing off, and just the whole experience has been sending his physical-- his whole physical form is wrecked right now. The word escapes me that I was looking for. He's going to go ahead and turn and go into a full flight.
Liam: I'm riding him.
Matt: You're riding him?
Liam: Yeah. Shit yeah, I'm riding him.
Marisha: Oh, no. No, Vax, no.
Taliesin: Vax is good.
Laura: No!
Matt: Dash into the dark hole within.
Taliesin: This is good.
Laura: Why is this good?
Sam: A dark hole?
Laura: Vax, be careful!
Travis: We don't care about the tunnel, huh? (laughter)
Matt: You need to go ahead and roll a strength saving throw to try and maintain grip as the dragon goes into a full dive.
Liam: I'll use my last Luck. So it's a 15.
Matt: 15. You do manage to make it inside the tunnel, but you lose your grip and then go into a full tumble, hitting the ground. It's a decline, it's a 45-degree angle downward.
Liam: So I'm in there with him.
Matt: Yes. Roll an acrobatics check to stop yourself.
Liam: That is a 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you do tumble and come to a stop. You don't take any damage from the fall, and you stop yourself from doing a tumble, but it is still a decline into darkness below, and you just watch as the back end of Thordak's barely flying form slams into the side of the tunnel and continues swooping away.
Liam: Do I still see him with darkvision at this point?
Matt: He just begins to leave outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Are we still in the same chain of initiative?
Matt: As of right now, we are, yes. So. Finishing, that is Thordak's go. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I run after him and dive after him, because I saw that. And at the edge of my movement, I want to hop out on my broom and get ready to fly down the hole after.
Matt: Okay. So you are hasted, so you get down and you basically have just enough movement to catch up to your brother. And you get the broom out. You're both down there in the darkness by yourselves. You guys watch as the rest of them dive into the hole. Vax, you're up.
Liam: How far away from me is he?
Matt: How far does your darkvision go for?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: He's outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Then I am going to use my movement and go 120 feet, or until I see him.
Laura: Can I cast-- 'cause I didn't do an attack, right?
Matt: This is happening after your turn. So you begin to dart forward?
Liam: This is just my movement. 120 feet or until I'm on him.
Matt: Well, your movement is not 120 feet. You're still flying through there?
Liam: Yes, I'm flying.
Matt: Right, so your wings are still out there. Okay. Okay. So yeah, you begin to come in, you see him just begin to come into your visual range.
Liam: Still away from me?
Matt: Still away from you.
Liam: Then I'm going to use a bonus action to dash and hit his back, and land on his back.
Matt: Okay. You land on his back.
Liam: Attack, attack. First attack is a-- scheisse. 24.
Matt: I would say you have disadvantage on these strikes, as you're currently gripping onto a flying dragon underneath a cavern ripping through. You have advantage on them automatically, which means you don't have disadvantage on these strikes, but you do not get the automatic sneak attack.
Liam: I don't remember-- oh, I don't get the automatic sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: But I got advantage?
Matt: No. Essentially, you would have advantage, and then trying to grip onto him and through the middle of this tunnel and slamming into him, you would have disadvantage, and so they both cancel to just a regular attack.
Liam: All right, so 24 for the first.
Matt: What was the first one?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20.
Matt: Second one was a natural 20? All right.
Liam: So the first one's the dragon-slaying. Three, eight, 14, 19, plus Hunter's Mark. So there's no sneak attack on this, right, you said?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: 21 with the dragon-slayer.
Matt: 21, nice.
Liam: And then Whisper, which is a natural 20, is one plus that is nine, plus the-- six is 15, plus Hunter's Mark. 17.
Laura: Times two?
Liam: Oh. 15 times two is 30.
Laura: It's all times two, 'cause that's all-- well, 15 times two is 30.
Liam: 30 plus eight. 38.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this? (yelling)
Laura: In the dark. Alone.
Sam: In a dark pit.
Liam: With Whisper, I'm going to shove it in so that my hand disappears from view, so I'm up to my forearm, and stab as far in as I can reach. I hear the voice of my mother in the morning. Fuck you.
Matt: As the blade plunges into Thordak's now-sloughing and soft flesh, exposed through a series of wounds and gashes left behind by your allies, and his form just slowly shriveling into its diminutive space, the dagger cuts cleanly through, and with that force you go all the way up to the shoulder as you reach inside. As you finish saying your phrase, your eyes narrow and you clench your teeth, and as you pull back and yank, there's this strange series of low whispers that come into your ears, and as you pull back, you watch as these bits of greyish energy begin to pour out of the air, coalescing around the blade, fitting into the body where you're currently plunged within. As you yank outward, you watch as the blade almost has an extended edge about ten, 15 feet beyond Whisper's actual-- and this blade edge just leaves a giant wound on the side of Thordak's body. You don't even hear an exclamation of pain as Thordak just slowly slams into the ground of this low, barely glowing tunnel. Roll an acrobatics check with disadvantage.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: So with the speed and impact of tumbling, you manage to reduce the damage by half, so you--
Liam: Which is also halved by the potion.
Matt: Right. That is 17 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Is that the quarter?
Matt: No, that's halved. So that would bring it to 8. As you watch Thordak's form sputter, roll, and then tumble, grinding to a halt, gathering a bunch of stone, broken rock, and part of the cavern that's on the verge of collapsing from the impact of Thordak's body, now lifeless, still in the darkness, subterranean tunnel. And we're going to take a break. (yelling)
Travis: We don't even know it's happened, though, yet! It's all underground!
Taliesin: She would know.
Laura: I do know. Can I fly forward before we take the break?
Matt: You want to?
Laura: I just want to fly forward and hug my brother as he's just covered in dragon guts.
Taliesin: He's way down in there. That's a long flight.
Matt: And now we'll take a break. So we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Sam: Don't forget, Backblaze is hosting a Critical Role giveaway. Anyone who signs up for a free trial with Backblaze at backblaze.com/criticalrole through January 8th will be eligible to win items signed by the Critical Role team that killed a dragon.
Matt: Check out the video here during the break, and we'll be back in a few minutes, guys. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody. First and foremost, we have our winner in the chat for the Wyrmwood dice tray. It is DetectiveKane! (cheering)
Matt: You'll receive this awesome dice tray signed by us. Half of us at the break, and the other half will sign before the night is out. But it's coming your way real soon. Congratulations, DetectiveKane! Get this out of my fucking face!
Laura: Nobody's there.
Matt: Somebody take it from me!
Sam: I don't even know that guy!
Taliesin: I think I see half a dozen people on their phones behind us.
Matt: It feels so good to be able to do that, but it feels better when it's immediate. Otherwise, it feels, like, kinda good. All right, so. Picking up where we left off. The rest of you watch as Thordak swooped into the hole that he emerged from, quickly followed by Vex and Vax. There is still on the field-- Raishan just tore into this lizard man. We have a fire giant that is unscathed currently, bearing down on the rest of the party, and a wyvern rider back around this wall section here. That being the case, they end that turn there. First up is Lady Kima. Who is pissed that she hasn't had a chance to really do anything tonight against flying dragons.
Travis: There's a big fire giant.
Matt: That's what she's going to do. Paladins that don't fly and have haste have a hard time getting around. Just so you know.
Laura: Vestige!
Matt: Watching this giant whale upon Percy pisses her off, and she cracks her neck. "You're first." And she leaps down.
Travis: Open him up!
Matt: And she's going to multi-attack against him. That is-- that hits. And the other also hits. Even with a minus five on each for her Great Weapon Master. She's also going to Divine Smite on that at a level three.
Travis: Yeah, get it!
Matt: First strike is a 14, plus ten, 24. Plus 11, 35. 42 points of damage on her first strike against the giant.
Travis: Boom!
Matt: And the second strike is 24 points of damage. So that fire giant's already had a big chunk taken out of its-- Kima rushes up and double strikes with her Holy Avenger, one cleaving off a piece of its armor, the second one cuts through, leaving a giant flash of divine energy as it bursts out the side. She looks up in the eyes and says, "Bahamut says hi." That ends Kima's turn. Pike is up now.
Sam: Oh, how's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike-- oh, Pike's turn! Jesus.
Liam: She's doing great.
Travis: Head out of ass.
Laura: I'm sorry! Okay.
Liam: She's in Manhattan.
Laura: She stands up.
Matt: Technically-- I was going to say, the giant was going on Thordak's turn order. So I technically skipped the giant's turn. That's fine. I'll do the giant's turn now.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The giant, who has watched Percy get pulled away, steps in to get into melee range with both Kima and Grog.
Travis: That's such a mistake.
Matt: And is going to take a strike on each. Takes an attack on Kima and rolls-- that's a 20, that hits. And then roll Grog-- that is a 29.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That's 28 points of damage to Kima and-- it's fun to roll against the players. 33 points of slashing damage against you, Grog.
Travis: So halved to, math?
Matt: 16.
Travis: Thank you. I will use my Retaliation. The old chin turned back. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. That's better. 21.
Matt: 21. That hits.
Travis: Nice. 21, that was crap. And 22. Both ones. 22 plus ten is 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage, nice. The giant already in that round of attacks and your retaliation is-- it has its giant greatsword on the ground, it's rearing up for its next round of arcing attacks. That brings us to Pike. What's Pike doing now?
Laura: Okay, Pike stands up. She's going to run forward and say, "You can't have all the fun, Grog!" And she's going to Guiding Bolt, level four, at the fire giant.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Okay, okay. Okay, that's 18.
Matt: 18 just hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, wait. 17.
Matt: Nope.
Liam: 17 sounds like 18.
Matt: It does, but it's not the same. The giant sees the flash of light as the bolt comes towards it, out the corner of its eye. As it has its blade down, it instead ducks underneath, using Grog for cover briefly as it arcs past its shoulder and shoots off through the cloud, out of sight.
Marisha: What if it was 17.99? That's basically like 18.
Matt: It's not.
Liam: Crazy Eddie prices?
Travis: Taco Bell logic right there.
Laura: She says, "So, sorry! I guess you do have all the fun. How are you on hit points, Grog? You okay?"
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to Healing Word herself at first level.
Matt: Okay. d4 plus five.
Laura: Okay, that's six points.
Matt: There you go. Six points to Pike. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: We're fighting this fucking giant thing?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Sam: Jesus. I'm going to move out from my hidey hole. Oh god, there's a giant there. I think my Bigby's is still on the field, yeah. So I'll Bigby's Punch. Bigby Punch!
Matt: Yeah, Bigby could just get into range melee there for it.
Sam: A 24?
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll your 6d8.
Sam: 6d8, oh man. I only have one d8. I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: Do you want some d8s?
Sam: I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: No, that's-- oh, he's already committed.
Travis: Mad d8's. Oh, he's stroking out.
Marisha: Should we do what he does to us? 15!
Sam: That was four.
Travis: Flirted with the edge.
Laura: 15. 15.
Taliesin: 23.
Marisha: 15.
Sam: You fuckers!
Taliesin: This doesn't feel good on the other end, does it?
Sam: Oh, shit, that was a lot! It's either 33 or 34, they fucked me up. But it was a lot! It was mostly sevens and eights!
Matt: We'll go with 34 on that. Cool. So, as the giant ducks out of the way of the Guiding Bolt streaking past, it snickers and grins, says something in Giant which you hear, which is--
Travis: (gasps)
Matt: You didn't even hear what he said yet!
Travis: Oh. I will hold my reaction.
Matt: "Insolents, bow to your king!"
Travis: No.
Matt: And then, as it brings the sword up, while it saw the glimmer of the Guiding Bolt, it didn't see the purple glimmer of the shining fist as it comes up and whack right across the jaw, dislocating it briefly as the fist comes back up and is ready for another round. Still standing, but looking pretty rough. That brings us to--
Sam: That was my bonus action. As my action, I will swig a Greater Healing Potion.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What is that, four?
Matt: Greater Healing Potion is 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, 4d4 plus six!
Sam: Yeah, the potion doesn't do that for me, does it? Plus four? Four, three, two, one is ten, right?
Matt: Yes. So 14 hit points you heal.
Laura: When you were healing Pike with the superior, did you add--
Sam: You're right, it's two less than I thought.
Laura: Oh, okay. So she's at 40 healed points now, not 42.
Sam: I get a plus six when I cast it, because of my awesomeness.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: But not when I use a potion.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: All righty. Scanlan, that finish your turn?
Sam: Yeah, I think I'm done.
Matt: Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to put Bad News away, pull out Animus and take three shots at this asshole.
Matt: Okay. So are you getting up?
Taliesin: I'm getting up. Pulling out the gun, putting three sharpshooter shots in this guy.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a 26. That hits. I'm going to roll that one until he drops, so that I can-- 1d8 plus 1d6. 1d10 plus 1d6. That's 18, 19, 20, 21. 21 points of damage plus four points of psychic damage, so 25 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Second shot. That's 21 to hit.
Matt: Hits.
Sam: Right? Plus three plus two plus one...
Taliesin: That's... Not right now, you bastard! I hate you! That's 27 plus... 27 points of damage plus one point of psychic damage to me because I can't think!
Marisha: He needs horse blinders! Horse blinders!
Taliesin: So 27 points of damage plus one... I'm so sorry.
Sam: What goes around comes around!
Matt: So as the fist clocks him across the face, dislocating the jaw, it stands up and grabs the jaw and snaps it back into place. Looks up just in time for you to come up out of the shadow and (gunshots), turning the barrels, you fire, and the first shot hits in the side of the throat and blows open the neck. And you see as the blood begins to gout out, reaches up with a hand and it (gasps) but it's to no use as the other shot takes out the right eye, blowing out the back of the giant's head as it falls backward.
Sam: Violence, violence! Who would've thought a fire giant would be so easy?
Taliesin: I am now going to start making my way to the-- I'm going to start running my way to the pit. With what little movement I have because I got up.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Top of the round, the lair actions do not function. However, you watch as the skyship Deera, still rotating around, there's still wyverns attacking. You hear the distant sounds of lightning cracks as well. And you hear very, very distantly what sounds like a-- sorry, internet-- a cacophony of voices. Because there's no other word to describe it. Hundreds and hundreds of voices, all shouting combat war cries simultaneously. You have no idea how far away it is, it's very, very faint, you just pick it up. You hear the sound of impacts, of crumbling stone in the distance. There is a battle happening all throughout the city that is slowly making its way towards your current location. Deera's turned around and is going to take two shots at Raishan, because it's going to fire at whatever dragons are there. Damon was not notified of anything otherwise.
Laura: You know what, if Raishan gets hit, she gets hit.
Matt: Rolled an eight, and an eight. No, it does not hit. Oh, she gets three attacks, because the--
Travis: What?
Matt: Three eights in a row. That's ridiculous. Yeah! That's not a three, that's an eight. Absurd. So yeah, (boom, boom, boom) all on the ground, and Raishan spins in place (growls), "Call off your dogs! We still have a deal!"
Travis: We literally have no power over them.
Taliesin: I'll respond. To the pit! Now!
Matt: Which, Raishan at this point is now leaping (whoosh) and disappears into the portal-- or down into the hole in the ground.
Taliesin: She was already going that way, she doesn't get into shit with that.
Laura: I want her to get hit.
Taliesin: She's not going to get-- She's going in the tunnel.
Matt: All right. At this point, full speed, that is-- 60 feet, yeah. You guys, as you're having this moment hugging each other--
Laura: Hugs!
Matt: You hear (wings flapping) (smash) The ground shakes nearby as you turn and see, you watch as Raishan skids to a halt right next to you and the currently smashed corpse of Thordak within the tunnel.
Marisha: Can I say over like a headpiece thing-- Be like, twins, if you're still alive, I think Raishan's coming in your direction.
Liam: Thanks for that.
Matt: Raishan is watching both of you as she begins to walk towards Thordak's corpse and goes, "You've done well."
Liam: Yeah, what now?
Taliesin: Every six seconds, we get to move.
Marisha: Yeah, we're heading ass-- Hauling ass that way!
Taliesin: Booking with my spider walk.
Laura: I'm heading ass-wherever!
Taliesin: Running down the ceiling upside-down.
Travis: Not me, I'm putting out that last fire on the map.
Laura: Stomp, stomp, stomp!
Sam: He's volunteer fire department, yeah.
Matt: 80 foot flying, this wyvern swoops in.
Sam: Ah, there's a fucking wyvern?
Liam: Keyleth.
Matt: The one that was left earlier, that was after you, is going to swoop in and attempt to make two strikes at Kima. Miss. And a three. Miss. And the rider's going to go ahead and make two strikes at her as well. Miss with a 17. And a two! Kima's like deflecting, getting against the wall as the spear shoots by and as the blade comes down from the rider, she strikes it with the sword and stops it mid-air, and she starts laughing in his face. That ends its go.
Travis: Trinity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Sam: Keyleth! There's a wyvern on the field. Or you can ignore and go into the hole.
Marisha: Fuck that wyvern. I say, everyone in the hole! And I head towards the hole.
Taliesin: We're going to need light down here.
Sam: (singing) Head to the hole!
Matt: Are you doing a double move?
Marisha: (singing) Black as your soul! What?
Matt: Double move? Are you doing a dash action?
Sam: You've got nothing else to do.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll dash.
Matt: Okay. So you begin to make it into the hole. That brings us to Jarett's turn. Jarett is going to turn the corner, he's like, "So it's gone? Okay, good." Loads the crossbow, sees the wyvern, and goes, "Are you-- no, are you-- seriously?" and takes his shots. Nice, 19. Yeah, two shots against the wyvern.
Laura: Nice. This is his level, this is what Jarett needs at a time.
Liam: This is the Jarett we know.
Matt: 14 points of damage. He's not the heroic individual you guys are necessarily.
Marisha: Look, he's a great security guard.
Laura: He is bad-ass.
Matt: He is, in his own field.
Liam: He caught my sister's attention, anyone that does that has got to have a lot of spunk.
Matt: All righty. So that ends his turn there, those two shots. Both sink into the wyvern, both bolt stuns (snarling). That will end his go. Gilmore, recognizing the circumstance here and everyone's rushing in there, he's going to go ahead and... okay, he'll go, "Actually, me first." And he Dimension Doors to the edge, and begins to charge in after you guys. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I want to kill all the things that are alive.
Matt: Okay. So you move into melee with the wyvern and the rider.
Travis: Yeah. Great Weapon Master, Reckless. Eight, 15, 19.
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Kill it real hard.
Travis: 16. 22. Ooh! 26. 36. For the first hit.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you're going to wipe out the wyvern.
Travis: Yay!
Matt: Because you're giant Grog.
Travis: Is the lizard man left?
Matt: The lizard man is left, yes.
Travis: Can I give him the option to run?
Matt: If you want to.
Travis: Nah, fuck that. I kill him, too.
Matt: Well, all three of your attacks would be what it would take to take out the wyvern.
Travis: Hey! Oh, cool.
Matt: So as you finish cleaving the wyvern down, it falls over and the lizard man's like (snarls).
Travis: Yeah, I do this.
Matt: (reptilian whimper) It looks conflicted.
Travis: You're at a crossroads, bro. Crossroads.
Matt: Vex. It's your go.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You have Raishan like (booming footsteps) stepping over to Thordak's body, watching you closely.
Laura: What are you doing?
Matt: "Exactly what we talked about. Learning his secret."
Laura: I'm going to keep my hand ready to attack and hold my action until anything gets aggressive with Raishan.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: What do you see down there? What's happening, what's in the room?
Laura: Thordak is dead.
Taliesin: What's in the room?
Laura: Oh, what do I see around me?
Matt: The tunnel that you're in, it's been a steady decline. It's rounded off a little bit and it begins to open up maybe 70 feet ahead of you. Actually, with your darkvision, you would just barely start to see it begin to open, it looks like there's an actual chamber ahead of all of you guys, but you haven't reached it yet.
Travis: The shitter.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my movement to back away from Raishan towards the chamber. But I'm going to hold my attack until I think it's aggressive.
Matt: Okay. So as you move in, you can see there's a very, very faint glow of orange and red in the room, and the whole tunnel here has a very, very, very concentrated natural burning chemical smell to it. A lot of sulfur-type, very putrid, pungent smells. And the glow you can now see, there is a lava flow that is coalescing in the center of this room, or at least is pouring through, and it looks like it's bisecting this room. You don't make out much more detail than that at this distance, but you do see this chamber does have an actual flow of liquid rock.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Keyleth? You tell me.
Marisha: What's going on? Whatcha doing?
Liam: You tell me.
Marisha: Just describe the scene.
Liam: Hit or wait?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there! Wait till I'm there!
Liam: What?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there!
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Keyleth acts.
Matt: Okay. Pike, Scanlan, you guys all follow suit?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, at a full run you guys can get, at your tiny feet you can get up towards the edge there.
Taliesin: I'm at a full run on the roof.
Matt: Right, Percival. Yeah, you do, you get up there and inside. Raishan comes up to the body of Thordak and you see that she reaches up under one of her scales and pulls out a small leather case.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: Pops open the case.
Marisha: Don't let her touch him.
Matt: And sits back and pulls open a somewhat weathered scroll. And starts reading off of it. (magical language)
Laura: Oh, no, what is this?
Marisha: No no no! Don't go, don't go--
Liam: Attack. I'm attacking her. She acted, she said don't touch, I said I'll base it off of Keyleth, so I'm attacking. I'm going to interrupt that.
Travis: Don't you want to see what happens?
Liam: No.
Matt: Okay. Hold on. You say attack based on-- Because you don't see this yet.
Marisha: I said don't let her touch him.
Travis: She's reading that scroll, man.
Matt: She hasn't touched him yet. But you're attacking on your own instinct.
Liam: If I've heard don't let her touch him, and she's doing that, those two things mean the same thing to me. She's doing something. Yes.
Matt: All right. I will say, for this, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Liam: Dexterity check? All right. And I'll use my last Luck of the day.
Sam: I thought you did that already.
Liam: I had two. So that's a 28.
Matt: 28, okay. So you can make your attack. This with the dagger?
Liam: This is everything. How far away is she from me?
Matt: She's maybe like 20 feet, so you can--
Liam: All three attacks.
Matt: Well, you held your action, which means you can only take your action, you can't move as well.
Liam: Okay. Move? I don't need to move. How far away is she, you said--
Matt: 20 feet.
Liam: 20 feet. So I can throw daggers at her, right?
Laura: Yeah, but you can't throw your sword
Liam: No, but I have lots of daggers. I still have the Flametongue Dagger, which is not attuned, it's just a lame old dagger.
Matt: That's true, you can do that, yeah. So yeah, you can do that.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Liam: First one is a 23.
Matt: A 23?
Liam: Second one is a 19. Third one is a 29.
Matt: Okay. So it was-- 29 hits. The first one...
Liam: God. I don't remember.
Laura: A 23.
Liam: 23 sounds familiar.
Matt: Right. The 19 was the one that didn't hit.
Liam: So two of the three hit? So it was hit-miss-hit, right? I think so. All right, so the first one is Whisper. Four plus eight is 12, plus psychic damage is 15, but there's no sneak attack, because there's nobody near her, and the Hunter's Mark-- Oh! Can I move Hunter's Mark to her at this point? I have no idea.
Matt: No, because you've used all your attacks.
Liam: It's a bonus? Okay. Got it. Okay. So 15 for the first and the second one. Oh, I don't need that. Is nine.
Matt: Okay, so what was the first attack? It was--
Liam: 15 plus nine.
Matt: 15? 15 plus nine. So the first attack was 15. Okay, maintains concentration. Maintains concentration.
Liam: And I'll use my movement to move between my sister and Raishan.
Laura: You can't do movement, because you were holding your action.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So as both daggers come, you watch as it's muttering from the scroll, not both of her eyes, but one of the eyes turns to face you.
Laura: Like a chameleon.
Matt: Yeah. And narrows. The scroll finishes and (poof) turns to ash. And similar to something you've seen before, you watch as Thordak's corpse, which is currently buried into the rock with the face to the side, the breath filters into the mouth. The body still motionless, you recognize this similar or adjacent magic to the Speak With Dead--
Liam: We've seen Pike do it.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's just trying to ask a question, Vax. I mean, Jesus.
Liam: You're not here.
Matt: So as soon as that finishes, Raishan-- the other eye flickers over. Now both eyes are on you. And says, "Know what you're doing."
Liam: You're not walking away from this field. You're going to die. Maybe I will too, but you are going to die.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: We're men of our word. We're men of honor.
Matt: Raishan is going to...
Laura: She did attack our home.
Sam: I'm not saying she's great.
Matt: Hmm. Let me check one thing real fast.
Sam: Hmm. Oh boy. You stumped the chump.
Matt: Well, I'm trying to see what her reaction's going to be. Oh, okay. She feels comfortable with that. She goes, "Well, then. Come claim me!" And just steps away from Thordak. And with one big push of the wings, turns around and coasts into the chamber beyond you.
Liam: Out of sight?
Matt: Beyond, you can see her form disappear into the darkness. There's a little bit of an orange glow in there, but given that circumstance, yeah, she disappears into the shadows of the room.
Laura: Should I have taken my shots when things got aggressive?
Marisha: So she's coming towards us.
Matt: No, she's going the opposite direction.
Laura: I mean, did that look aggressive?
Matt: She flew away from your brother. But your brother did throw three daggers into her, and then said she was going to die.
Travis: Did she ask her questions of Thordak?
Laura: It might not have been the same fucking spell. It could have been something like it.
Travis: He said it looked very similar.
Laura: Yeah, adjacent.
Liam: I'm sure she was just going to ask about cooking recipes. It's fine.
Matt: So what are you going to do, attack or not? You watched your brother throw three daggers into Raishan, and tell her that she's going to die, and then Raishan basically abandoned Thordak's body and fled.
Laura: Said, "Come and claim me," and flew toward me?
Matt: Flew over you, and past, into the chamber.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to attack.
Matt: Go for it. Roll your attacks!
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Do it, Tiny Toon!
Liam: Go for it.
Sam: You got this, Bailes.
Marisha: I mean, she kind of released Thordak. She's totally Little Finger.
Laura: This isn't about vengeance, though, you guys.
Sam: What is it about?
Matt: Roll your attacks.
Liam: Five, four, three, two...
Laura: I don't know. (sad noise) That one doesn't hit. Probably. 18.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: That one probably hits. 27?
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Saddest attack ever.
Laura: And a natural fucking one. Fenthras can sense my trepidation.
Matt: Hah, apparently! So roll damage on one arrow strike. And it is, your hand's shaking at this moment, you're trying to figure out what to do. When she flies overhead, you release one arrow, pull back and pull another, and the second one is right as she's over and above, sinks in. And the third one, you fire after, and it hits the rock ceiling.
Laura: Just 15 damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage. All righty. Raishan just swoops into the darkness of the chamber beyond. Keyleth. You just manage to catch up at this point now, at a full run, this will be your full turn, catching up to Vex and Vax. Or Vax specifically, Vex is a little beyond, aggressive stance, Raishan nowhere to be seen, Thordak's corpse ground into the dirt.
Marisha: Where is she?
Liam: Forward.
Marisha: Are we going after her? I mean--
Taliesin: I'm not there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: I run deeper into the hole.
Matt: Okay. Jarett and Gilmore, at this point, manage to catch up to you guys, as well. It'll take a while for Grog and Kima to catch up to you guys.
Travis: Oh, I didn't say I was leaving.
Sam: Looting the giant's body?
Travis: No, there's a lizardfolk right there.
Matt: It's true, actually, yeah.
Travis: I want to see how many licks it takes to get to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop.
Sam: One. It takes one lick.
Matt: Well, Grog, it's staring at you, going like (growl).
Travis: I reach out and go like (head crushing sound).
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: I have advantage on those. (laughter)
Travis: 18. 18 plus seven. 25.
Matt: 25? There's this moment where you're grabbing its head, and it reaches up and (frantic snarl).
Travis: Can't hear you, can't hear you. (laughter)
Matt: A very Riki-oh type moment. The head just pops outward in a smear of purple gore.
Travis: Oh, no. That's the show, folks. All right. Well. Anybody see that? Who's here?
Sam: My hand is near you.
Travis: Kima's there, right?
Matt: (chuckles) Bigby's Hand claps the wall, applause. (laughter)
Travis: Ha, fuck Bigby's Hand.
Matt: You look over at Kima, and Kima's kind of spattered with it, and she goes, "Well done!"
Travis: Smooth, right? Let's join everybody else.
Matt: "All right, all right." You're going your movement, about there, full speed. Kima's a little slower behind. She'll catch up at a full double-dash speed, there. Jarett and everybody else has kind of moved in. We'll say at this point, the rest of you--
Laura: (laughs) Jarett is just like--
Matt: He can't do anything, he's having a bad day, man.
Marisha: Poor Jarett.
Matt: So you guys all charge in after?
Taliesin: I'm doing the best I can, I can't see a damn thing.
Matt: No, you guys are far behind. So it's currently you three in the lead.
Travis: Should anybody stay out here in case she wants to come back out? You want me to stay out?
Matt: Do you want to move Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Yeah, for the rest of the one minute it works for. Which is not very long?
Matt: Nah.
Taliesin: If she makes her way out, that means we're all dead. Come on in. It'll be fun. Let's all die together.
Marisha: We'll go to the spa afterwards.
Matt: So you guys kind of rush into this chamber now, and the heat in here is more immense than anything you felt on the surface. This is kind of the core of the volcanic surge that Thordak's presence was pulling upward. You see within, there's this flow of lava. I want the three of you to roll perception checks, if you can.
Sam: Who's the three, Vax, Vex, and--
Liam: 31. 31.
Laura: This is at advantage because it's a dragon-related thing?
Matt: Well, are you looking for Raishan, or are you inspecting the room for details?
Laura: I don't know, what am I rolling for?
Matt: I was rolling to see just the general vicinity of the room.
Laura: Okay, 27.
Liam: 31.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: You guys, the first thing you notice as you glance around, is there are some kind of alcoves inside this chamber where the rock formations pull inward. You see kind of set into the stone and various bits of fallen rock and earth, a handful, somewhat spread out throughout the room, a handful of large nine-foot-tall dark, deep crimson red with crystalline elements to the outside, ovoid structures. These are what appear to be larger than normal, elementally altered dragon eggs. Five of them in the chamber.
Laura: Five bebes?!
Sam: (singing) Muppet Babies...
Laura: Can I look back at Thordak? What does it look like-- I know Raishan, like, (gasps) made him do that. Does it look like there's anything around him, or is he just dead-dead still?
Matt: He's a ways back. If you want to try and move back to him, you can. But, with your high perception, you glance up and see in the ceiling portion of this chamber where there are a number of these small caverns that are pressed up to the side, you see out of the top just the slight peeking of Raishan's face, kind of looking down into the chamber above you. And you watch as the teeth, something muttering in the mouth, the teeth grin as the ceiling of the room, you watch distortion in the air above you. Almost like these small portals kind of (multiple fwooshes) open, and coming flying out of them, you see four large, flaming rocks. Rocks. These are massive, fiery, meteorite-like boulders, that come firing out of the ceiling of the room (crashing sounds). Slamming into the ground around you, exploding in a massive explosions, rocking you. All you see is white, and ringing in your ears as your bodies are thrown from explosion to explosion. I need the three of you to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: 25.
Marisha: I rolled a natural 19, so 22.
Laura: 29.
Sam: Wow, guys! That's really good rolling!
Matt: You guys take half damage. Well, here, let's do the first part. So, there's the fire damage. Which is 20d6.
Liam: What did we have to beat?
Matt: You had to beat 22.
Liam: Zero.
Matt: Right, so you take zero damage from this. Both of you take 63 points of fire damage. Halved, to 31. And then you each take 70 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: 70?
Travis: That's 130-something total points.
Matt: As these flaming arcane meteors crash into the ground, detonating and destroying a portion of the cavern floor, lava spatters everywhere, and you watch as you duck out of the way as, Keyleth, what are your hit points at?
Marisha: I'm actually still up at-- What's 101 minus 119? 18 points.
Matt: 18 points. Set your hit points to that. You watch as your sister is thrown, her body unconscious, flung in the air like a ragdoll as it scatters to one end of the cavern. You can see the volcanic activity billowing up from the recent shaking of the room, as bits of the molten rock are flung across, as the green dragon face kind of withdraws in the cave. And I think that's where we're going to pick up next year. (yelling)
Matt: It's 11 22, guys! We gotta get home!
Sam: Next year?! We have to wait a year?!
Laura: I have to find out if I'm for sure dead.
Liam: I got you, I got you.
Laura: I'm across the fucking room.
Liam: Doesn't matter, I can fly 500 feet, I got you.
Taliesin: You're going to get the conclusion of this before the next season of Westworld.
Liam: Lay on Hands, dude.
Sam: No, she's dead.
Liam: No, shut up. I will kill you in the parking lot.
Matt: We will pick this up in January.
Travis: What was that called, those four flaming rocks?
Matt: That's called Meteor Swarm. That's a 9th-level spell.
Travis: Is that a spell? What level is that?
All: 9th-level.
Liam: She just blew her wad, she's done, we got a dragon and a flute.
Laura: She's not done.
Matt: You're right. She has nothing else up her sleeve. So. On that note.
Sam: Matt Mercer.
Matt: This could possibly be a whole different encounter, I don't want to keep you guys here until 1 AM. I know Laura has to record in the morning.
Laura: I do, I have to film all day.
Sam: I have an 8 AM session.
Matt: Well. Guys. This will be interesting. (groaning)
Matt: Yeah, it's going to take a few rounds for the rest of the party to get here.
Travis: She didn't get to ask any of the questions?
Laura: She might not have even needed to ask questions.
Sam: Of course she did, she cast a big spell to do it!
Marisha: Yeah, maybe she was doing it telepathically.
Sam: What are you talking about? She read a scroll!
Laura: Maybe it was just taking his soul into herself.
Sam: Information!
Matt: Regardless. (laugh) We are out for the evening, thank you all for sticking with us for this longer episode.
Liam: We should have just let her do what she wants, summon the most powerful thing in the universe.
Travis: I like that idea.
Marisha: Team Rowdy Half-Elves, what's up!
Matt: Yeah, the half-elves are down here in this chamber, with the Thordak eggs.
Marisha: Half-elves, running in, recklessly, yeah! Like we do!
Taliesin: I've got nothin'. Yeah.
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, guys. Thank you so much for watching, thank you guys for kicking ass in that battle.
Travis: Talks Machina next week?
Matt: Talks Machina on Tuesday. It's the Critmas episode, check it out.
Laura: Check out Backblaze.
Matt: Indeed, indeed. And I guess have a wonderful New Year to all of you guys, very happy holidays to everyone. All viewers, Critters, Team Hooman, and everyone who decides to spend their Thursdays with us. We really appreciate it. Love you very much, and we'll see you in the new year. Is it 2017 yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
All: Dungeons and Dragons!
Matt: Just like that. Durr and Durr.
Ashley: How der der der der.
Matt: Indeed. So. Before we jump into the story for this evening, let's go ahead and get through our announcements. First and foremost, we have a fantastic sponsor for tonight's episode. Backblaze has returned to us. Good friends to the show, and Sam, you wanted to talk a little bit about this?
Sam: I haven't done this in a while. Little rusty. But Backblaze. Nervous. Backblaze is such an important sponsor, I didn't want to just do a commercial for them, I wanted to do an infomercial. Maestro? [infomercial music]
Sam: Hi, everybody, I'm Sam Riegel and welcome to Late-Night Deals. Guys, online backup systems. Just the sound of it gives me a headache. It's always so complicated, expensive, and frustrating. Am I right? Usually, when you back up your data, you look like this guy.
Taliesin: C drive? USB port? HTTP? Forward slash? Ugh! Speak English! All these wires and cables! I can't take it anymore!
Sam: But now there's Backblaze, a cloud-based backup system that's so easy, you'll look like this gal.
Marisha: And finished. Using Backblaze makes me feel so awesome and cool and hip and young and free and attractive and empowered and invincible. It's so easy, even a total jackass could use it.
Sam: That's right, Marisha, even a total jackass can use it, and I'm living proof. Taliesin, Backblaze backs up photos, documents, fanfic, and all your user data, and here's the best part. How much do you think it costs?
Taliesin: For a system like that? It's got to cost, what? $200, maybe? $300 a month?
Sam: Nope.
Marisha: That sounds too low. I'm going to guess $9,000 a month.
Sam: Nope. Keep guessing.
Taliesin: $100,000 a month!
Sam: Not even close. If you order now, you'll get Backblaze for just five dollars a month for unlimited and unfryable backup.
Taliesin: Five dollars? That's nothing!
Marisha: Five dollars? That's nothing!
Taliesin: I literally burn five-dollar bills to stay warm on chilly nights.
Marisha: Oh, me too. Oh, I'm so convinced. But Sam, how do I sign up?
Sam: Oh, it's simple, Marish. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole and you'll get a two-week free trial.
Taliesin: What was that URL again?
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole!
Marisha: One more time.
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole!
Taliesin: One more time.
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole! There's no end. I didn't write an end to the bit. That's it. It's over. Yay! And scene.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: Thank you, guys.
Taliesin: I'm caught in wires. There we are.
Matt: Thank you very much, Sam. Also, anyone who gives Backblaze a try through May will also be entered to win a contest to win some signed art, signed by all of us. And if you've already tried it, you've also already been entered, so don't worry about that. Anyway, thank you so much, Backblaze. Go check it out. And thank you. All righty. Wow. I don't want to follow that up. Laura, any merch news?
Laura: Oh, just the same merch news as always. We've got these amazing Vox Machina t-shirts in the store.
Sam: Is someone wearing?
Laura: Yev is wearing it, from Backblaze. But nobody here is, but they're so soft and they're amazing. We also have hoodies and hats and patches and nail wraps and stickers.
Matt: Did you guys want to thank the awesome Melissa Kelp for her design, by the way?
Laura: Yes! Who designed Vox Machina, and that was in our original fan contest that we did. We had that awesome design that was so cool that we decided to make that design, as well.
Matt: Thank you, Melissa.
Travis: Thank you, Melissa!
Laura: (sings) Amazing job!
Matt: All right. Wednesday Club, Taliesin.
Taliesin: We don't actually have an official theme yet, but I have a strong sensation that it's probably going to be something about Riverdale. I get the vibe that we might be going to Riverdale. There might be a teenage witch. Maybe a band. I don't know. We'll see. It's not official yet, but I'm working on it.
Matt: Elrond of Riverdale. Thank you very much, Taliesin. Marisha, Signal Boost.
Marisha: It's Brian Compton from over at Nerdist. (gasps) You got your Geek and Sundry in my Nerdist.
Taliesin: You got your Nerdist in my Geek and Sundry.
Marisha: You dick!
Taliesin: That's so disgusting.
Marisha: You fucking dick!
Sam: Jesus, this got dark really fast.
Matt: That and more you can look forward to at MomoCon, as me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be there in a couple weeks in Atlanta, Georgia. So we'll see you guys there May 25th to 28th, and I will be a guest at A-Kon June 8th-11th in Fort Worth, Texas. For all you folks out there in the Texas area, come say hi, that'll be fun.
Travis: (muffled) Fort Worth, Texas?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: (muffled) I went to college there!
Matt: You should come to your college.
Travis: (muffled) No, I'm good.
Matt: Okay. And to finish this off. Talks Machina, of course, we have starting next Tuesday about this episode, hosted by our fantastic Brian Wayne Foster. Make sure you submit your fanart and gif of the week to possibly win some cool prizes. Those will go to talksmachina@gmail.com. So. Without further ado, friends, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. So. Picking up where we left off. After Vox Machina had taken a year of peace and activity to handle their own respective endeavors, or communal endeavors, they discovered apparently some family of Pike Trickfoot coming and knocking at the door of Whitestone. A reunion with some of her family she had not seen since she was a child, coming in to impart her with the knowledge of a terrible family blood-curse that had been haunting them for ages and visions that were guided by her uncle Ogden to the possibility that she carries the same curse, and wanting to free the bloodline, or at least Pike of this, they had to amass some materials and make their way on a moonlit night to the top of the Alabaster Sierras to complete the ritual to exorcise this entity and destroy it. After gathering the materials and traveling to the top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras, the ritual was completed and the large, monstrous black cloud and skull entity is summoned forth from Pike's body, and you all leapt in to do battle. However, partway into this fray, Vex happened to realize that it was seemingly an illusion. There was no ritual, there was no blood curse, and this was a ploy from the family to make a little cash off you guys. After some threats to Uncle Ogden and nearly losing him off the edge of a cliff, you made a deal to offer some money. In exchange, you took your cousin JB under your wing, and they were forced to leave and never return. They accepted and went on their way, and with that, we begin today's episode. So you guys have been traveling down the side of the mountain, of the Alabaster Sierras, returning late-night to the city of Whitestone. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Kill them all before we change our mind. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, can I cast Locate Object and try to find that diamond that he chucked over the side?
Matt: What's the range on Locate Object?
Travis: Was it a thousand-foot cliff?
Taliesin: It was far down there.
Liam: Well, I've probably got about 30 or 40 minutes left on the--
Sam: You could fly down. Some of us own flying brooms.
Laura: Yeah, we can fly down on flying brooms.
Liam: Do that. Yeah? I can go swimming.
Laura: Shit, I don't have my thing.
Liam: Your thing?
Laura: That says what the distance on Locate Object is.
Matt: The distance is 1,000 feet of you.
Laura: Okay, so can I get on my broom and cast it and go try to find it down in the water?
Matt: Sure. It lasts for ten minutes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: I'll say, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm organizing my dice right now! 19!
Matt: 19. Okay. It takes you the better part of the next ten minutes or so to even get a blip on your arcane radar. And you suddenly sense as you're coasting along the very base of the surf where the waters crash against the rocks, the tide has been coming in with the full moon, and you can see now the water itself is rough and just smashing into the side of the cliff base. You get a small glimmer, a small beacon, a draw to you like a small pulling under the waves. And you sense about maybe 65 feet down, there it is.
Laura: 65 feet.
Travis: Under the water.
Matt: Under the water.
Travis: That's three diving tanks for competitive diving.
Laura: So probably couldn't do it unless I have breathing underwater?
Liam: Or your friend Keyleth.
Laura: She's up top. Would I remember the spot in the fucking water if I went up and got her and brought her back down? Do I have enough time to do it?
Matt: You could try and remember it and come back.
Sam: It's 1,000.
Laura: It's 1,500!
Taliesin: Are we within earpiece-shot?
Matt: Not with her right now. You'd have to go back up.
Laura: Okay. I fly straight up from the spot so I don't lose it.
Matt: All right. You're pretty much on the cusp of it. You've been a little flexible on the range of them, but we'll say you get a little ways up.
Laura: And I say, Keyleth! Can you swim?
Marisha: (chuckles) Yes.
Laura: Can you come help me get this diamond back?
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Yeah. (laughter)
Marisha: Am I on the cliff?
Matt: You're on top of the cliff, yeah.
Marisha: Is she down?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I can come-- Oh. Are you really?
Marisha: Can I do it?
Laura: That's a really high drop!
Marisha: Can I do the Pocahontas swan dive?
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Marisha: I run and cliff dive!
Laura: Oh Jesus. Oh no.
Taliesin: (sings) Sail!
Marisha: (sings) Sail! (laughter)
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: 11.
Matt: Okay. You get a few feet past the cliff edge. Not a majestic jump and the cliff is not completely sheer; it does slightly angle outwards. So you gently leap off, and as you're falling you can see you probably have, I'd say about 300 feet or so before you're going to hit rock.
Marisha: I'm going to hit rock?
Matt: The cliff is not perfectly vertical. It's a little bit angled and you're heading down to hit the rock.
Marisha: I go, oops! And can I do a Gust against the cliff wall to push me back a little bit further?
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom check. This is a straight wisdom modifier check.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! Just straight wisdom modifier? 20.
Matt: Okay. Like a gentle fart, you push yourself a little ways from the cliff. I'll say it does just enough of a shove where the trajectory changes slightly. You may or may not be right where the rock hits the surf. You can test it or not. It's up to you.
Travis: Test it!
Taliesin: And this was the end.
Laura: Kiki, don't kill yourself over this rock!
Liam: It was nice being in a couple.
Marisha: At the last minute, I'm going to (panicked squealing). And turn into a goldfish.
Travis: Before you hit the water?
Sam: Or the rock?
Marisha: Well, I'm assuming the goldfish would make it easier to hit water.
Laura: Yeah, but you're going to hit rock!
Sam: Goldfish are not magnetically attracted to water. They still just fall.
Laura: What about flying fish or something, so you can maybe--
Marisha: I don't think flying fish actually fly, though.
Laura: No, but they got big fins.
Travis: They do glide.
Matt: Regardless, as you turn into a goldfish, rocketing towards the base of the water...
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Oh no.
Travis: He's taking a picture of it!
Matt: No, I'm not. This is too many dice for me to roll. (gasping)
Ashley: What?
Marisha: I would just pop back to myself. I wouldn't die.
Matt: And then any additional damage would go over into your--
Marisha: No, I know.
Travis: There's too many dice to roll, Marisha.
Marisha: No, it's fine! We're gods!
Laura: Are we? She says as she dies on the rocks.
Travis: Why would you even tempt that shit?
Taliesin: Why am I drinking your coffee? I'm going to stop right now.
Sam: Oh boy.
Laura: Oh no. What is he doing? No. Seriously, though. What if she just died?
Marisha: That would be kind of amazing.
Matt: You took 363 points of damage.
Marisha: You are lying. You are lying! By hitting rocks?
Matt: By hitting rocks at terminal velocity. It's 1d6 per ten feet falling. Keyleth scatters across the edge of the rock. And just crumples into the surf and is now floating.
Marisha: Wait! What? You are lying!
Matt: No! You just--
Sam: What does that mean? That's below her total hit points!
Travis: That's instant death.
Matt: No, she's dead. Keyleth is dead and floating in the water.
Sam: Unrevivable death?
Matt: Probably revivable. You've just got to retrieve the body.
Laura: Oh my god!
Ashley: Oh my god!
Sam: Wait! Vex! I gave you a coin!
Laura: A Revivify coin!
Marisha: Wait! I thought you were trying to make it out like I'd still hit water!
Matt: I said the distance you jumped and then pushed--
Travis: You jumped from 1,000 feet in the air. Totally logical! You can't even see the water or rocks, but you're like, yep! I've got this, bitch!
Liam: I am having the best conversation with JB right now.
Marisha: This is the best thing that's ever happened!
Laura: Wait, but here's the thing, do I have to roll if I use the coin?
Matt: And now, officially, every member of Vox Machina has died. Most in battle, or some danger.
Travis: That took care of it!
Sam: You broke the seal!
Marisha: Wait! Was I supposed to turn into a flying creature? And be safe from this?
Matt: That's up to you! That's literally your choice!
Liam: Okay. I am starting to sweat! Who sees it? I don't see it!
Matt: The only person that sees it is Vex. Vex, you watch as Keyleth-- (jump, poof, splat). It's a scatter of red mess. And you see her floating in the water.
Ashley: It's only 7 15!
Matt: I know! This was not in my plan!
Ashley: Okay. Go get her!
Laura: I go fly down there! Is she a body, at least?
Sam: Because she hit as the goldfish!
Matt: Yes, and the goldfish which has a hit point.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Which then made the other 324 hit points go over to Marisha.
Sam: Sure.
Travis: So the goldfish turned into orange marmalade?
Liam: It was like a magic trick! It was like a fish turned into a corpse!
Laura: Can I use my coin that Tary gave me? My coin of Revivify on her?
Matt: Because you gave it to her before the battle, right? Yes, you can.
Laura: Okay. I do that. Don't touch my dice in anger!
Liam: I'm not angry!
Laura: I don't know. How do I do it?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a straight wisdom check.
Laura: A wisdom check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: (yells) I'm so nervous!
Ashley: Stop laughing, Travis! Stop it!
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I mean, you can't feel bad about it.
Marisha: I thought I was going to hit water and it would be cool!
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. As you go down and pull her out of the water, her soaked red hair covers her face, and that's probably a good thing. As you're a little scared to see--
Travis: It's like a red-haired The Ring.
Matt: And with that, you instinctively begin to seize up, and you sob, and then you realize: the coin! And you fumble for it in your pocket, and you hear the waves crashing below you. And you pull it out and you hold it in your palm. And you feel it glowing, warm in your hand as you press it against the back of Keyleth's broken body. And you watch as the warmth passes from the coin through her back. And as it does, you watch as her broken limbs all snap back into place. (laughter/gagging)
Matt: And she begins to breathe again. (laughter)
Liam: What the shit is this show?
Matt: I don't know! This was not in the--
Marisha: (screaming) That was higher than I thought!
Matt: Keyleth, by the way, looks wrecked. She's still scratched everywhere, she's covered in blood, but she's alive at one hit point.
Laura: Kiki, that was really, really stupid. I put my hands on both sides of her face and cast Cure Wounds at 4th level. Oh, no! At 3rd level, because I used Grasping Vine last time.
Matt: Yeah, 3rd level. Okay. So 3d8 plus your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Sam: I better go check on them. I'll dive off the cliff. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah. Good. Just a little drop.
Matt: That was a beautiful D&D moment, right there.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Vax is sitting with JB right now, going like, so what was Pike like when she was really little, little for a gnome?
Taliesin: We all were wearing the necklace, so we all got a beep.
Matt: You did, briefly.
Liam: I was really paying attention to JB, though.
Travis: Is yours broken? I think mine's broken!
Taliesin: I felt something.
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: I've been really stressed out here lately, and that might have been very impulsive. And I might have been blowing off some steam. And I'm really sorry! (crying) I thought it was going to be fine! I didn't know there was going to be rocks!
Laura: Maybe next time you're diving off a cliff, turn into a bird.
Marisha: Oh?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It might have been a last-minute panic.
Laura: I'm glad you're back.
Marisha: Thanks, that was--
Laura: You know what? Let's not even worry about that coin there. I mean the diamond. I feel like, maybe--
Marisha: I could go get it now! It's fine. I'm here now.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: I feel really bad, because-- I feel bad about that. I'm sorry.
Laura: I think maybe this is a lesson learned in what is worth risking our lives for.
Travis: Is there a cloud of red in the water?
Matt: There was, but the waves are crashing pretty heavy. Luckily, Vex grabbed her immediately, because otherwise her body would have been thrown under the rocks again by the surf. I just explained the ocean to you before you jumped! That's what would have happened!
Travis: A thousand feet was all you needed.
Taliesin: We have some amazing physics books that we will actually get into at some point.
Laura: How about you just climb onto the broom. Don't worry about flying right now.
Marisha: I can go get the thing.
Laura: We're just going up.
Marisha: I still have a Beast Shape left.
Laura: We're just going to go up.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: We're leaving.
Travis: She's covered in gore, right?
Matt: Okay. Yeah, she's covered in blood.
Laura: Price paid, I think.
Matt: So as you guys are talking to JB, who's still stunned by the whole thing-- all of this happened pretty quickly, so she's not necessarily opening up entirely, but she's like, "Well. You know, we were both troublemakers."
Liam: Yeah! Because she's got a wild streak. Now, does that run in the family, or is that just her and you?
Matt: "Oh, that definitely runs in the family." She looks over to you Pike, again, and is like, "I am so sorry. I didn't--"
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: "I'll try and make it up to you."
Ashley: Just know I don't want you to-- if you don't want to stay here, you don't have to stay here. I'm not holding you here against your will in any way, but I would love for you to stay because I would love to get to know you better.
Matt: "How could I say no? (chuckles) I'll stay until you need me to leave."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: At which point, you watch as Vex and Keyleth and the broom come up and land on the cliffside.
Taliesin: Have you two found that diamond-- oh, sweet Pelor!
Laura: You know what? We're not going to worry about the diamond right now. Yeah, let's just maybe take a moment and recover from that battle which was so hard on everyone.
Ashley: What happened?
Liam: What? You-- What?
Laura: She's fine. She's fine!
Sam: She's more blood than person.
Ashley: Do we need to fix anything?
Laura: Maybe, Pike. If you can do a little--
Ashley: Yes! Cure Wounds!
Laura: (whispers) Tary!
Sam: What?
Laura: (whispers) I used your coin.
Sam: Oh! Oh.
Laura: I know!
Sam: I'm glad I gave it to you, then. Ooh.
Marisha: It's fine. I can go back and get that diamond now. I feel really bad right now!
Taliesin: I think somebody's got a carpet ride down the hill coming to them.
Liam: I'm casting Lay on Hands for my piddly 20 hit points. What did you do?
Marisha: I thought it'd be fun. I haven't had a lot of fun here lately, okay? It felt like the old days of when Vox Machina was back together, because we've been away for a while.
Ashley: You just dove off, Free Willy-nilly?
Laura: You know, those rocks came out of nowhere. I thought you were in the clear, as well. All I saw was Keyleth and then this little tiny fleck of gold and then gone.
Travis: Wait, did you miss? Did you hit?
Liam: Did you die?!
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: She looks like a fucking macabre mess! What happened?!
Ashley: I forgot that that's what that was. I felt a (whirring), you know?
Marisha: It's been a lot of responsibility here lately, and a lot of being an adult and so I was like: Vox! We're reckless!
Liam: That's what alcohol is for! Don't jump off cliffs anymore, please!
Travis: Yeah, you fucked up. That was crazy.
Taliesin: I have to confess, I've been feeling a bit stir-crazy myself. Not jump-off-cliffs stir-crazy, dear god.
Liam: And I turn her bloody face to you and say, let this be a lesson to you, then!
Taliesin: I'm just saying that I understand the impulse. This was not necessarily the best expression of it.
Travis: We should go on a hunt. That's what we need.
Taliesin: I think let's take a nap and then maybe go out--
Liam: I start kissing the gory mess in my hands all over her forehead.
Marisha: That's gross. Don't.
Matt: That's pretty gross. You marked off the 300 gold for the Revivify, right?
Sam: Oh, how many?
Matt: Revivify. It consumes a diamond worth 300 gold.
Sam: 300!
Travis: Keyleth, did that hurt? Did it hurt?
Marisha: It felt like blackness.
Travis: Blackness?
Marisha: It felt like a lot of adrenaline. And it was super exciting and then next thing I knew, everyone was super concerned about my well-being.
Sam: Are you addicted to death now?
Marisha: No.
Sam: Have we healed her up a bit?
Ashley: I'm going to heal her up a little more.
Sam: I can do a healing draught for her.
Ashley: A what?
Sam: Healing draught.
Marisha: Did you guys know  hitting water and rocks from very high feels like hitting rocks!
Taliesin: I literally have books on the subject.
Matt: Keyleth, as you turn around, you watch as Tary is handing you this small glass vial of what looks to be-- what color liquid is it?
Sam: It's colorless and odorless.
Matt: Okay, it's like a thicker water.
Marisha: What's this?
Sam: Just drink it. It'll make you feel better.
Marisha: I just dove off a cliff, so fuck it at this point.
Matt: How much does she heal?
Sam: I rolled on my iPhone. 37. It's 8d8.
Matt: Keyleth, you heal 37 hit points.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, 37?
Laura: Do yours, too!
Ashley: Yeah! I'll do a Cure Wounds. I haven't used any spells. Let's do 5th level.
Travis: 5th level? Yeah!
Marisha: I'm fine! Don't worry about me.
Ashley: Where are you at now?
Marisha: I'm good! 104.
Taliesin: Let's all go home, have a drink, and discuss this over a drink.
Marisha: Why? What? Why?
Taliesin: Because I think this may speak to a larger issue amongst us that maybe you are the canary in the coal mine, here.
Laura: I heard "We're gods!" before she hit.
Taliesin: Was it "I'm a golden god?"
Marisha: I said  I'm a golden god! But you know what? I'm still alive; I wasn't entirely wrong.
Taliesin: You're not still alive, you're alive again!
Liam: We should celebrate because we've broken in the entire group.
Taliesin: Yes, I think everybody has at least been dead for a moment at this point.
Marisha: Was I dead?
Taliesin: Technically, yes.
Travis: Look how much red is all over you!
Matt: Enough to the point where if you die again, your resurrection DC has gone up. Be aware of that.
Taliesin: We could make another Kiki out of what you're wearing right now.
Laura: Have you died died? Tary died died.
Sam: Did I die? I think I died. In the water, I think I died.
Matt: He did.
Taliesin: He died at the palace.
Sam: Think I died.
Laura: Let's go home.
Marisha: Why are you looking at me like that?! Don't look at me like that!
Laura: I'm not looking at you like anything. You need a bath, is what you need.
Travis: Yeah, you're covered in shit.
Laura: It's really a lot right now.
Ashley: I say we go back. I would love to go back and maybe have lots of drinks.
Sam: Let's go home.
Liam: JB. Welcome to the family.
Matt: She's just like, eyes wide open. "Right." She clutches her book a little closer to her chest as you guys begin to make your way down the mountainside. A different path than the other Trickfoots were taking.
Ashley: Good call.
Taliesin: Maybe we need a hobby?
Travis: We'll never beat that death.
Laura: That's like Keyleth-falling-in-lava bad.
Taliesin: That was magical.
Matt: Marisha, how many fail compilation videos have you seen where people jump off the cliff and hit just at the bottom. That was what you did.
Marisha: (laughing) It was totally a fail video!
Travis: We were in a huge fight with a fake thing that did no damage and you killed yourself in four seconds.
Liam: I got this!
Travis: We're gods! (vomit sound) Unreal. Couldn't write it.
Marisha: I thought I could make it!
Matt: I was like, one to 50, she hits the water. 51 to 100, she hits the rock. 94.
Marisha: So I hit the rock.
Matt: Yeah, that's what happens.
Travis: Either way, you were really screwed.
Taliesin: To be fair, a goldfish, even at that velocity-- although the velocity would have lessened it more.
Marisha: I should have bailed out as a bird.
Liam: Make-believe has consequences.
Taliesin: That's so true.
Matt: Over the course of the next day or little over a day, you camp once in the Parchwood and make your way back to Whitestone.
Liam: Is 15 hours of that therapy?
Matt: For you, yeah.
Marisha: I love how out of everything we've seen, what I just did was apparently the most fucked up. Out of everything that's happened to us, and now we need therapy? Now we need therapy?
Taliesin: We were living Tolkien and now we've suddenly shifted into Game of Thrones. It got very dark, very random, very quickly.
Travis: Gods. Dead. Five Seconds. Hard to beat.
Liam: We all stand for something. What do you fall for?
Matt: You find your way back to Whitestone. You check in. The guards are happy to see that you've returned fine. They report to you that the Trickfoot clan have not returned and have not been seen near the city since your return. There are few questions as to where they went.
Taliesin: We're going to have their vehicle searched for anything that doesn't belong to them, and then made ready for them outside the city bounds.
Matt: "Very well, sir." And they search through it and mostly what's found in there are maybe 102 gold pieces.
Taliesin: Do we have anybody with a criminal background search the vehicle?
Matt: I mean, there are a number of people.
Taliesin: I would like someone extremely sketchy to search. Actually, Vax, would you search the vehicle?
Ashley: And JB, if there is anything you need out of there.
Travis: You have chocolate on your face.
Matt: JB wipes it with a thumb.
Taliesin: Including anything that you think would be in more capable hands if they were in your hands.
Matt: She shakes her head and "Wait." She climbs up on the cart and she comes back and has a book. Like a small tattered book and she puts it to her side. "That's all. I don't care about the rest."
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: Vax, quick check to see if there's anything we care about.
Liam: Oh, so good. Investigation, yeah? 18.
Matt: 18? You find the gold. You find a cache of dried jerky meats. You find what looks to be some leftover meat pie crust bits that have been there for a few days. Starting to smell a little bit. And you get the sense that anything of importance was on their persons. They weren't really storing a lot of things in an open cart.
Liam: This has been a bad couple of days.
Taliesin: All right, just wanted to make sure there wasn't anything (sighs) complicated. Leave the gold, obviously, and the food.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Burn the wagon. (laughter)
Matt: As you say that, Doty's like, "Tary."
Sam: No!
Ashley: No!
Sam: You have to learn humor, Doty. Sarcasm.
Matt: All righty, so. What do you want to do?
Sam: Is it night?
Matt: By the time you've returned, it's probably late afternoon. We'll say at this point because it's been about a little over a day and a half at this point, so, yeah. Mid-afternoon.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: What should we do?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: We can go check on the Slayer's Cake?
Laura: Oh yeah, we should probably do that. It's been a couple of days.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: What did we do with it while we were gone?
Sam: Did we have someone running it? Do we have someone?
Matt: (laughs) You do not.
Taliesin: There's a sign that says "Closed for adventuring."
Sam: Okay. We should hire someone.
Laura: We really should.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: To run it if we're not around. (gasps) JB!
Travis: Yeah, the thief. That's a good idea.
Ashley: Oh, that's a great idea!
Laura: Well, do you like baking?
Matt: "I haven't really tried."
Sam: Have you any management experience?
Matt: "I took care of Uncle Ogden."
Ashley: I feel like she would be great at it. Would you even be interested in maybe running a bakery? Or is that something that just sounds like the most dreadful thing in the world?
Matt: (nervous laugh) "I don't know." And she pulls her hair. "I could try."
Laura: How are you at math?
Matt: "I'm quite good at math, actually."
Laura: Fabulous. Let's head there and see how you do.
Sam: Yes. Let's see, but not make any promises, because someone who's never run any--
Laura: Right, Tary, you would know about hiring people far more than--
Sam: We should have a proper interview.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Check references.
Liam: Well, you weren't a proper adventurer until you were. Got to start somewhere.
Sam: True, but I had the advantage of being able to buy my way in.
Laura: That's true, but you were still pretty shitty at it, when we first started.
Taliesin: This is a form of nepotism. It's pretty reasonable.
Sam: I'm open to it.
Matt: All right, is everyone going to the Slayer's Cake?
Laura: Yeah, because we can eat, too!
Matt: Okay. Right, you guys all make your way to the Slayer's Cake, as the afternoon is coming to a close, dusk is starting to change the colors of the sky. Clouds are beginning to move in, as the night's evening air grows colder. As you come to the outside, you see, it's dark and closed, and you see what appears to be a figure sitting on the ground against the wall, back to the wall, knees huddled up.
Sam: Not JB?
Matt: No, JB is walking with you guys.
Sam: In front of the bakery?
Matt: By the door, a little bit adjacent to where the door is closed.
Laura: We don't recognize them. Can we see their face?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Is this the same day, or has it been a day now?
Sam: It's been a day.
Taliesin: Oh, thank god.
Laura: No! 30.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah! You see actually, a woman in her late thirties or so, early forties, platinum-blonde hair, that's pulled up in a ratty bun. She's got strands hanging in the front of her face, that go to about just past her chin. She has a very simple dress, and a somewhat dirty apron, and a small satchel on her side, and she's leaning against the wall, her knees clutched to her, she's looking forward, she hasn't noticed you guys yet; you're a little ways up.
Laura: And I don't recognize her.
Matt: No, you do not recognize her.
Laura: Excuse me?
Matt: "Oh!" And she gets up, and stands up, and (grunting) her back creaks a little bit, and she stretches it, and dusts off the front of her apron, you see little bit of dust (poof). "I'm terribly sorry, I wasn't sure when you were going to be coming back."
Laura: Oh, yeah, no. We were just off on an adventure, but it'll take a little while before the food is ready.
Matt: "Oh, that. (sighs) If you have a moment? Fine sirs and madams, I'm sorry to bother you, you see, my husband Dathen has not returned from sea in about six months. And I'm not certain if he's coming back, and I'm without work and coffers he left me have come empty this month, so could you perhaps use a hand here at the bakery?"
Laura: Timing is quite--
Matt: It was ridiculous timing, yeah.
Sam: Madam, what's your name?
Matt: "Hilda."
Sam: And you would like a job at our bakery?
Matt: "If at all possible."
Ashley: Do you bake?
Matt: "I do!" She reaches into her satchel and you see in the inside she has a bunch of these small things wrapped in paper, and she opens one and pulls it out and shows it to you. You see it's this tiny little cream puff. It's perfectly made, and has a little icing on the top. She's like, "I used to just make these for old Dathen, but--"
Sam: May we try it?
Matt: "Of course!" She goes and pulls a handful out and hands them amongst you and gives them over.
Ashley: This is a beautiful cream puff.
Laura: They're really hard to make.
Sam: Quick sidebar. This is better than anything we've ever made.
Laura: Did you already eat it?
Sam: Yes. It was really good.
Laura: I'm going to wait a few minutes to see if Tary looks like he just falls over or anything.
Sam: Wait. What? You think it's poisoned?
Laura: No. I'm sure it's not.
Sam: I ate it. I ate the whole thing in one bite.
Laura: It was really good?
Sam: Am I going to die?
Travis: Give me all your stuff.
Taliesin: How often do you just eat strangers' cream puffs?
Matt: Her eyes go wide and like (mumbles).
Sam: Am I going to die? Did you just kill me?
Matt: "No!"
Laura: No, she didn't.
Ashley: No. (laughter)
Matt: It's actually very good. It's very, very good.
Taliesin: You're right, that is fun.
Laura: It's really good.
Taliesin: Well, if it's all the same, I may have another prospect for JB anyway.
Laura: Well, come on inside, Hilda. Let's show you around.
Matt: "Oh, all right."
Ashley: This is delicious.
Sam: It's really good.
Ashley: This is better than anything that we make.
Taliesin: It can't possibly be that good.
Ashley: Have you tried any of our baked goods, yet?
Matt: "I haven't. I've seen it from a distance, but I couldn't really afford to. I'd like to."
Laura: Do you live here in Whitestone?
Matt: "I do. I live right behind--" And she points up to the left. Like if the Sun Tree is in the center and you head up straight on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the square, the path that leads up towards Whitestone Castle, she points about two blocks up and on the left. And there's a small hovel that's pushed between two buildings there. And she goes, "That's where I stay."
Ashley: Can I insight check her? Because I don't trust anybody.
Laura: I don't trust anybody!
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: It just makes us seem like assholes, because we're like (grumbles). I want to go in a little bit and ask around and see what people think of her.
Travis: What? A background check?
Laura: A little background check.
Ashley: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay.
Sam: The whispers.
Ashley: I get a whisper?!
Sam: Have you never had a whisper?
Ashley: I don't think on the show I've had a whisper.
Sam: Oh my god, everybody's firsts tonight. Backblaze, ladies and gentlemen. backblaze.com/criticalrole to get two weeks free or something.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Sam: Yeah, two weeks. Oh, you want to do the infomercial bit again?
Laura: I really do, but you guys did such an amazing job, though.
Taliesin: This is why we're the cool table.
Ashley: Well, I think that she should die. I'm just kidding. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bake her into the pies.
Ashley: Do you have references?
Matt: "References?"
Sam: Have you worked anywhere else?
Matt: "No, I've mostly just been a housewife, until recently."
Sam: Do you have anyone in the community who could vouch for your character and trustworthiness?
Matt: "Perhaps. Norma Kell wakes up in the morning. There's also Keeper Yennen."
Sam: Oh, Keeper Yennen! We know him! I think, right? We know him?
Laura: Yeah, we know Keeper Yennen.
Matt: "Yeah, aye. That's all I can think of at the moment."
Ashley: How long has your husband been missing?
Matt: "About six months."
Ashley: About six months.
Laura: What was he doing?
Matt: "He's a merchant sailor, coming in and out, but he'd be back within the month usually. Some trips took longer, but six months seems extraordinarily long for him."
Sam: Where did he go, again?
Matt: "Last I know, he does a circle around the southern tip of Tal'Dorei and he usually hits Emon by ship. Occasionally heads over to the-- where is it? The shama?"
Travis: Shambala?
Matt: "Maybe something like that. I don't really know for sure. It's a long ways away."
Laura: Keyleth? I whisper to her. Keyleth, can you scry on people we don't know?
Marisha: If I have a piece of one of their belongings. Yeah, that definitely helps, yeah.
Laura: Hilda? Would you like us to check and see if we can potentially find him?
Matt: "You can do that?"
Laura: Well, if you have something of his that we can look at, we might be able to help.
Matt: "Oh, aye! Just a moment." And she goes and she goes rushing up the street real fast, this renewed excitement in her face.
Laura: How do we feel about her?
Sam: Pike, if you were dead set on JB taking over the business--
Ashley: No, I'm not. JB, don't feel pressured if you don't want to do this. She's a fantastic baker.
Laura: I mean, she's a really good baker. But maybe JB can handle the books, and she can handle the baking.
Taliesin: Well, there is another option. Which is that we have a giant pile of histories and library and novels in our collected library, and we are searching for information about the thing underneath the castle, and we need readers. We need lots and lots of people to read lots and lots of books.
Matt: JB, you watch, like the excitement you just saw on Hilda's face now hits JB's face. "I'm a good reader. I can--"
Laura: Well, okay.
Ashley: Yeah, that seems like a little more fun.
Matt: "Okay, yeah. I can also help with this if you want. I'm more than happy to do both. I have a lot of free time now."
Laura: That's true. You could run the bakery during the day.
Sam: Why don't while we're gone you could help Hilda. Hilda?
Ashley: Hilda.
Sam: Hilda. You could just help out, but maybe leave her in charge? She seems like a--
Taliesin: Or you could sit in the castle and read diaries and ancient tomes of Whitestone.
Marisha: Do I notice Grog looking uncomfortable?
Taliesin: I definitely notice. I don't care.
Liam: (cell phone ringing) Oh dear.
Laura: Timer's done!
Matt: Grog, does she notice you feeling uncomfortable?
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Marisha: I don't know, do I?
Matt: Grog, are you uncomfortable?
Travis: With this talk of reading? A little bit.
Ashley: (whispering) But Grog, you can read some of those books a little bit.
Travis: Yeah, let's not get ahead of ourselves, all right?
Ashley: Well, okay. I think this is a great idea.
Laura: I'm watching where Hilda is running.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I had a quick thought. If her husband's dead, are we just going to tell her that right now? Just you know, husband's dead. He's being eaten by fish.
Laura: No!
Liam: No, you didn't get a read.
Laura: Yeah, so Keyleth, if you like do read it and you see it's super bad, don't--
Liam: Oh, it's too hazy. I can't see him.
Travis: That doesn't seem right at all
Ashley: No, but I think she should plan for her life if he's not coming back.
Travis: Yep. Pike and I are in agreement.
Laura: But right now?
Sam: What if he's alive and in peril, do we tell her that? We're going to lose our only employee.
Laura: Well, then we go try to help him, maybe.
Sam: Really? We have to go help someone? We just met this person!
Laura: That's what we do, Tary!
Taliesin: We haven't done that in quite a while to be fair.
Travis: Plus, he was in somewhere like shambalam.
Sam: Do we know what she was talking about, by the way?
Matt: You get the sense she probably was meaning Shamel, which is the port where you guys had your vacation. The Bay of Gifts.
Sam: We could go on vacation again!
Matt: About ten minutes or so pass and then Hilda comes back, and you see she's clutching what looks to be a small, gold chain. And she takes it and goes, "This belonged to my husband. I don't know if this'll help."
Laura: Sure. Keyleth?
Sam: Ignore the blood all over her body.
Laura: She's fine.
Matt: You probably cleaned up over the past day or so travel. Unless you didn't, in which case you are just a sticky Carrie.
Marisha: No, I look awesome.
Liam: It's dried in the hair, though, and caked in.
Marisha: I'm a little spacey, maybe? For a little bit.
Matt: Yeah, understandably. You know, like you do.
Marisha: It's hard to say.
Matt: But anyway, she hands you the gold chain.
Taliesin: Just checking, do you want to know no matter what? Good or ill?
Matt: "Oh, I just want to know something."
Taliesin: Fair enough.
Marisha: What was his name?
Sam: Athen?
Matt: Yeah, it was Dathen. D-A-T-H-E-N. Dathen.
Marisha: Can you tell me anything else about him that would maybe help? What does he look like?
Matt: "He's got dusty brown hair, usually about shoulder length. Well, he doesn't really grow facial hair but he's pretty scruffy, lower the way. It's been many months, so I don't know. Medium build? Maybe about this high?" And she gives a couple of inches off her own height. "He's got a right scar across his neck and his chest right there he got when he was a kid."
Marisha: All right. Should be enough. I'll do an actual scrying spell.
Matt: All righty. So looking at the scrying spell here. All right. You sit there and focus and concentrate-- and darkness. Nothing. No link. She's looking expectantly.
Marisha: What's that?
Matt: She's looking at you expectantly.
Marisha: Hilda? If he is on this plane of existence, I don't know if it's a good sign. But it doesn't mean that he couldn't be lost somewhere else. My spell only extends to this plane of existence but there are many planes. I can try again.
Matt: "No. That's all right. That's all I needed to know. Thank you." At this point, as the sun is setting, starting to go into the evening, you can see the light causing her to blear a little bit. Here in the shade she's like, "Can we perhaps talk in the morning?"
Laura: Of course. Take the evening.
Matt: "Where can I find you? Up?" As she points over to the castle.
Laura: Sure, yeah. One of us will be back here tomorrow as well.
Matt: "All right. Thank you." And she quietly walks back to the corner of the city where she was from.
Laura: Well, shit.
Marisha: Well, that's not good.
Liam: Give the woman a job. Keep her busy.
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: I'm just throwing this out there. If that was a ploy to get a higher salary, I'm not biting.
Laura: Tary.
Sam: I'm just saying, she could be very cunning.
Travis: Yep, she might have killed her husband.
Marisha: I don't think so.
Travis: Pretty sure she did it.
Marisha: Do I have any further inkling?
Matt: No. Just did not find a source. Did not find a source. Nothing. Nothing for the spell to grab onto.
Laura: Maybe you and I can take a stroll up by her abode.
Liam: All right.
Laura: And just see.
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Make sure she's all right and--
Liam: Right, best of intentions, yeah. I feel you.
Travis: We are background checking a fucking bakery employee in our Dungeons and Dragons game!
Liam: Matt has burned us too many times.
Ashley: The stupid box that we buried still haunts me to this day.
Liam: We just got swindled yesterday.
Laura: Come on! We don't trust anyone
Sam: She didn't give us a social security, we don't have an I-9. There's nothing.
Laura: There's no way to know. She could just be in here trying to get close to Vox Machina before she takes us all down like Raishan.
Sam: She could be Raishan.
Laura: She could!
Taliesin: Speaking of deeply distrustful persons. JB, do you want to come see the library? Does anybody else want to come?
Ashley: I would love to come!
Matt: "Yes! Please!"
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: Are you insinuating that JB isn't trustful?
Taliesin: Oh! Absolutely, in the best possible way. I'm highly excited, and I think you're going to do very well.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: See?
Marisha: We like untrustworthy people. None of us are trustworthy; it's good.
Matt: "I know, I've read." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, that made me happy.
Laura: We go by her hovel.
Matt: Okay. As you guys make your way back to the castle you stop and go over there. You can see it's one of three small homes that are jammed in the alley areas between these larger buildings. Almost like there's businesses on this one corner and they have smaller people that are living more meager means. Each one of them appears to be occupied. The one that she pointed to, you go to it and it seems... there. There's like a very low light through one of the windows.
Liam: I'm going to be real shitty and stealth up and peek in and see what she's up to.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Laura: She's changing. Crying, naked.
Liam: We'll find out won't we. 33 for stealth.
Matt: All righty, and then make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and over the side and from the low candlelit interior, which you watch as there's a small candle that's lit on a little wick there. And there's almost no furniture in this house whatsoever. There's a stool and you just see her sitting on the stool, motionless.
Liam: I want to insight check and just get as good a read on her emotional state as I can, even though she's got a thousand-yard stare. This is insight?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I'll use Luck. Better.
Travis: Luck?
Liam: Sure, why not? What am I saving it for? 18.
Matt: 18. I mean she's faced away from you. It's hard to pick up-- away but to the side, and you just see her just there. And you see her rummage through her satchel on the side. Pull out a cream puff and eat it.
Laura: There's not even a bed in there? Just a stool?
Matt: Just a stool.
Liam: Into the earring I say  We are terrible, terrible assholes. She seems fine. She seems worthy of a baking job. You know, work with her for a day, but I'm not seeing anything hinky here. Yeah? You need anything else?
Laura: No, I'm going to go talk to Keeper Yennen.
Liam: Because I'm staring at a woman crying into her satchel.
Sam: Still going to talk to Yennen?
Laura: It's our fucking business, you know?
Sam: Yeah, of course.
Taliesin: This is more work than we put in hiring our first castle guards.
Laura: Yeah. Come on, at least we aren't trying to like ambush her and attack her like we attacked you, Tary.
Liam: My significant other just mangled herself. I need to keep busy. Let's go see Yennen. And so I lead her off.
Matt: Ha okay. You guys go ahead and make your way towards Yennen's small temple in town. It's past the evening sun, so you see Yennen's one younger boy who helps him keep the establishment. He's in the process of sweeping some of the fallen leaves and various dust that has found its way into the half-open dome place of worship. As you approach he says, "Hi."
Laura: Can I ask you a question, Keeper?
Matt: "Oh are you looking for Yennen?"
Laura: Oh shit, yeah, sorry.
Matt: This is the younger boy.
Laura: Keeper-in-training, is Keeper Yennen here?
Matt: "Let me get him." Puts the broom away. Leaves for a second. The door opens to the side, and you see Yennen come out, half awake. Looks like he's in his evening attire, sleeping attire.
Laura: Oh shit.
Liam: Sorry.
Laura: It's really that late? Oh, he's very old.
Liam: Sorry.
Laura: I'm so sorry to wake you.
Matt: "That's all right."
Laura: Oh, I feel like a dick.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: I just wanted to ask you about someone you might know.
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Hilda?
Matt: "Hilda? Yes, yes."
Laura: What do you know about her?
Matt: "Not too much. She seems nice and keeps to herself. She lives that way."
Laura: How long have you known her?
Matt: "15 years?"
Laura: 15 years? She's been here 15 years?
Matt: "Her and her husband."
Laura: Yeah. All right. What was he like? What is he like?
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: "A bit of a rambunctious young lad, until he grew up. Don't see him very often. He comes in and out."
Laura: He's a sailor. Well, that was helpful. Anything remarkable? Any sort of untrustworthiness? Do you think she's fine? She's cool?
Matt: "I assume. Is everything all right?"
Laura: Everything's fine. You know, we're just weird people right now. It's great.
Liam: You don't know anything about Orcus, do you?
Matt: "I know of."
Liam: Didn't think so. We should leave.
Laura: Thank you so much. Get some rest. I'm so sorry to bother you.
Liam: Come on.
Matt: "All right. Goodnight."
Laura: We're making assholes of ourselves.
Liam: Surprise.
Laura: Fine. We'll go meet up with everyone else.
Sam: What did you find out?
Laura: So much.
Liam: So much.
Laura: She's a loner.
Ashley: She's a loner?
Laura: She's lived here for 15 years, but nobody really knows anything.
Sam: And you say she sits in a room by herself eating pastries?
Liam: That's what she's doing tonight. I don't think that's what she does every day.
Laura: Who knows? She doesn't have a bed.
Ashley: Why is there no furniture in her apartment?
Sam: Let's watch her work for a day. See how it goes.
Liam: Did I see more than one room, or was it a single-room home?
Matt: From what you can tell, it's a single room. There's a pile of linens in a corner. There was a stool. It looked like there was a small area for cooking.
Laura: It's like Skyrim, y'all. There's a stool and a cheese wheel.
Taliesin: And a pot, and if you break it, there's five coins.
Marisha: And steal their plants from outside.
Taliesin: And throw them at chickens.
Ashley: Mountain flowers.
Marisha: Nightshade.
Laura: Well, this was productive.
Taliesin: At least we know, and there's no harm in being careful. It's not like it's never happened before.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: It's not the first time that we've been trusting and been betrayed. Or the second or the third. It's reasonable to be a bit cautious and we were a bit cautious.
Liam: Of cakes?
Taliesin: Of cakes. To be fair, we are going to be eating them.
Travis: Are we reading right now?
Taliesin: I assume we've gotten to the library. I don't know.
Matt: They've traveled for a bit, you've had time to hit the library and begin showing JB around.
Ashley: Are there children's books in here?
Travis: I found one! Look! Bus-ee-ness. Buseness.
Marisha: He's learning.
Travis: Bus-ee-what?
Laura: Business?
Ashley: Business?
Marisha: Business?
Travis: Sound it out. Bus-eye-ness
Marisha: Did you find a ledger? Is that what you found?
Taliesin: There are books I read as a child.
Ashley: (whispers) Where are they?
Taliesin: Everywhere.
Ashley: Can I see if I can find a kid's book?
Liam: That's pronounced boysness.
Travis: Boysness. Can you use it in a sentence, please?
Liam: Grog got down to boysness and ended a fool's life.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13? You find what amounts to a children's book for Percival.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Sam: High school biology.
Taliesin: The Game of Logic by Lewis Carroll.
Matt: Yeah. Most of the books here are of relatively advanced reading level. You gather it's a trait of the De Rolo family.
Taliesin: Gives me the sense that this kid's going to be fine.
Travis: Or-chid.
Laura: Grog you can do the "ch?"
Travis: Or-chide.
Laura: Orchid.
Ashley: Orchid.
Travis: No, it's not kid.
Ashley: Sometimes when those letters are together, it sounds like a K.
Laura: What book are you reading that's about boysness and orchids?
Travis: It's an orchid business.
Laura: Boysness.
Travis: Boysness. Which is a location in Marquet.
Matt: All right. Are you guys doing anything else for the evening?
Taliesin: Just showing her what we would like to pay her to do. Which is: all of these books, there's this huge section that are mostly histories, diaries, folk tales, or otherwise. Take one of these slips of paper when you read a book. You write your name on it and you leave it in the book. Then anytime you find anything peculiar-- a ghost story or a strange occurrence in any of these books. Anything at all that might be fanciful or unexplained, you mark with a piece of gold thread and put it back on the shelf and then one of the other librarians will come and find that book and bring it down for further study. You just have to find the most interesting of these books and make sure that they're well marked.
Matt: "I can do that."
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling.
Marisha: What makes them interesting?
Taliesin: What makes a book interesting? I genuinely don't know how to answer that.
Laura: Sexy pictures.
Taliesin: There's not a lot of that in this library.
Marisha: Are you giving someone parameters by which they don't really have rules to follow?
Taliesin: Well that's the trouble with looking for something that if you don't know what it is.
Marisha: Right.
Taliesin: But if in one of these diaries someone remarks upon a strange murder or a ghost story, or honestly, anything interesting that's a bit peculiar, you just mark it and then we take a look. That way we thin out the amount that we have to read down to a manageable amount.
Marisha: So, it takes a peculiar person to know what's peculiar?
Taliesin: That does help, yes.
Matt: "Okay, I can do that."
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Is there a place-- just ask Percy privately. She can stay with me.
Taliesin: I assumed.
Ashley: Do I have an extra bedroom? Or how does this work?
Taliesin: Where is Pike?
Laura: Is she staying in the castle, right?
Matt: She has a room in the castle, one that used to be one of the guest rooms when you had people you were entertaining.
Ashley: Maybe there's a Murphy bed or something extra in the room.
Matt: It's easy enough to put a second bed in there. The doorways are wide.
Taliesin: If she would like her own room, that can absolutely be arranged.
Ashley: JB? Do you-- I don't know how--
Matt: She's in the process of looking and she's like writing down, taking notes of the different sections, talking to herself. She's not even looking at you.
Ashley: You are more than welcome to stay with me. I do have night terrors, so sometimes not fun, but you can stay with me or you could have your own room.
Matt: "No, that's fine."
Ashley: Okay. Wait, which one?
Matt: "Staying with you. Is there something I should do if you're having a night terror?"
Ashley: Just wait it out.
Matt: "Okay, don't wake you up?"
Ashley: Nah.
Matt: "Okay."
Ashley: Okay. This will be fun. It'll be like sleepovers. Maybe we can make a fort!
Matt: "We can make forts? Out of what?"
Ashley: Just all the blankets. Tapestries.
Matt: You watch all of a sudden her eyes-- in this library, there are a number of old tapestries and you know carpet elements around. You watch as she scans the entire room for materials and goes, "Oh, we can do this."
Ashley: I have a feeling you are a great fort builder.
Matt: "I haven't tried, but I have some theories."
Taliesin: I pull two engineering books off the shelf and hide them.
Matt: Perfect. All right.
Taliesin: I feel like this has been taken care of. You know the system.
Ashley: Percy, thank you.
Taliesin: Would you like an extra bed sent?
Ashley: Yes, please.
Taliesin: That can be arranged.
Matt: Okay, so you have a second bed installed in Pike's room. You guys have your dinner for the evening, anything else?
Taliesin: Take another look at the thing downstairs.
Laura: Well, I go with you.
Matt: Okay. You guys head down into the tunnels, make your way to the ziggurat beneath Whitestone and as you enter the inside of the chamber, you can see there's a few torches set up in there. There is that secondary platform where you guys met a year ago, where you had the small council with Raishan as well to decide what was to become of the Chroma Conclave. Up there, you can see there's a whole research bench set up with a couple of desks and pretty much all the information that's been gathered, and various things that have been studied over the past year or so about it. What has been figured out, and there were theories thrown around before of it being a siphon. An artifact that is related to something that was referred to as a Sphere of Annihilation. Not directly, but an offshoot of that type of enchantment. As opposed to completely destroying anything it comes into contact with, it's attuned in the siphoning of things from one location to another. It's a translocation type of magic. There have been a number of things that have been placed within this sphere and did not return, including one volunteer, a member of the Pale Guard, who during the year's research volunteered to step through and was not heard from again. And that stopped any future volunteers from rising to the occasion. But since the research that's been taken up about what the siphon's existence, during the Age of Arcanum they were one, used as a defensive measure against powerful mages, but that was more of a secondary use during the actual war that ended the Age of Arcanum. Their initial creation was supposed to be able to harness and shift ley line energy. The idea was wherever there was a large source of magical energy but it was inconvenient, its placement, its natural placement in the world, they could use these siphons to basically triangulate and shift where that energy would go.
Taliesin: It's been here an awful long time now. We don't even know if they created it or if they found it.
Matt: You don't know, like the information about them is I would say almost mythological, in the sense that there are stories that talk about them and a lot of the information was destroyed during the Divergence regarding to the older Age of Arcanum magics.
Taliesin: The castle's always had strange stories.
Matt: Yeah, and this is information that was brought together by Eskil Ryndarien when he was down here researching with Allura even during the Conclave. A lot of people have gone off because the research hit a wall, it was like, "Well, we find out pretty much everything about this, we just don't know where the siphon is going, and anything we've tried to put through doesn't come back." So the theory is to find the other half of the siphon because it's a connecting point. There's two sides to it, so if it this is correct, then the theory is there would be another side to it. Or if not it might just be a Sphere of Annihilation or something adjacent to it and is essentially a null and void circumstance. Those are where the theories stand.
Laura: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: The crystal that Lillith gave you. Does that work across planes?
Matt: You have to be on the same plane of existence
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: I've thought about it. I definitely think there's something on the other side of this, and this thing is how I think I know that our work is not yet done. I dream about it sometimes. Do you ever come down and just look at it?
Laura: To be honest, it intimidates me quite a bit.
Taliesin: What do you see?
Laura: What do I see? Can I use my oracle arrow and shoot it into it?
Matt: You can certainly give it a try. You can certainly try.
Sam: (whispers) What's an oracle arrow?
Travis: She can shoot her arrow--
Laura: And see through the arrow. Okay. What do I do?
Matt: All right, well, go ahead and roll an attack.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's back up a bit of a distance.
Laura: Yeah. We'll back up as far as we can so I can still hit the thing. It is a magical arrow, and this thing cuts out all the magic but maybe once it goes through the siphon, maybe I'll still be able to use it?
Taliesin: Well, we can actually get to the edge where magic starts again and then it might reconnect once it goes through.
Laura: Yeah, we'll stand outside of the door.
Sam: So you only have one of these?
Laura: I have two per short rest.
Sam: Oh, you're fine.
Matt: As part of your newly-exalted bow. Okay, this is going to be-- hold on to that roll whatever that was. So to get out of the radius, because it basically cuts right into the hallway that leads inside of it, you have to back out of the chamber into the hallway a few feet and basically get on the ground and aim upwards towards, and you're going to have to arc over the top of the ziggurat to get in. So this is a shot with a disadvantage.
Liam: Sharpshooter?
Laura: With disadvantage. I am sharpshooter.
Liam: Wouldn't that nullify that? Three-quarter cover means nothing. It's just full cover.
Matt: Well, what I was going to say it would have a really high AC with disadvantage. I'm not going to consider it with having a super high AC. It's still a very hard shot.
Laura: So disadvantage?
Matt: So disadvantage on the shot.
Laura: 30.
Sam: Whoa!
Liam: Yeah, both were high teens.
Ashley: It's Critical Role's dice.
Laura: It is the Critical Role dice.
Taliesin: What?! I'm so proud of you!
Sam: It shouldn't work.
Taliesin: It shouldn't work, but it did!
Ashley: T-shirts!
Sam: Weirdly, the arrow hits and kills Keyleth.
Marisha: (death rattle) Not like this.
Sam: Don't do that! This is a long whisper.
Liam: He's telling her real stuff, man.
Sam: Oh man, this is not what we normally get.
Taliesin: No, this is a whole chunk of stuff.
Ashley: Backblaze!
Sam: By the way, just a little insight, what we normally get on the whispers is, "From what you can tell, it seems totally normal." And then that's about it.
Marisha: That's actually really accurate.
Taliesin: Briefly, back in the old days, they were experimenting with texting us whispers.
Sam: As far as you can tell he thinks he's telling the truth.
Ashley: I want to know.
Taliesin: I'm glad we stopped trying to text each other whispers.
Sam: Whoa, her mind is blown.
Laura: Can I have a pencil! I got to write this shit down. Pencil!
Taliesin: Her eyes go white and it's just (scribbling). Yay.
Ashley: It was so much!
Sam: She's drawing a weird alien creature.
Laura: I got to write it down or else I'll forget!
Sam: Big head, big eyes, small body.
Taliesin: Three syllables. We're being invaded by dingbats.
Marisha: What does a smiley emoji mean? I don't understand.
Sam: She speaks Arrival language now.
Laura: Oh my god. Percy! I saw something!
Taliesin: You didn't. Really?
Laura: I did! I think it was another plane.
Liam: Vex dies.
Taliesin: We have to figure out how to-- is there a way to make sure we get every detail? I'm finding pen and paper; we're writing everything you can remember down. Is there a way to recall someone's memory in perfect detail, is there any sort of magic that can actually--
Matt: There are, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. This shit's happening!
Laura: Otherwise, I could just tell you what I sort of saw, but I heard a lot of "Backblaze!" in the background.
Taliesin: It was the Backblaze dimension?
Matt: They're not siphons. They're storage units!
Marisha: You saw the cloud? What did it look like?
Matt: Just Pelor backing up his hard drive. All right. It's pretty vivid for you, and so as you recount. What she saw is the arrow, it was darkness when she fired it, as it passed through the sphere of anti-magic, there was nothing. And then suddenly, imagery blinked through the arrow. From the perspective of it as it coasted away, she looked behind and could see the twin to this orb. Apparently not under the same anti-magic shell on the other side. Whereas this side steals magic, the other side emits it. As the arrow landed and clattered to the stonework maybe 20 feet below the orb, looking around, she saw a landscape of blackened, broken stone and ground. Distant mountainscapes of jagged crags, like teeth across the horizon. The sky itself was black and shadowed, like it was perpetually amidst a distant forest fire, and where you can see the grey in the sky you can see roiling thunder clouds with flashes of lightning. And roughly a mile or so from what you could tell from where this was you could see what appeared to be a large obsidian tower of twisted black stone that went up for what appeared to be a dozen or more stories.
Laura: Don't we know something about obsidian--
Marisha: The same tower we saw in the Nine Hells?
Laura: No.
Matt: No, different tower.
Laura: This is way bigger.
Matt: No, the tower in the Nine Hells was the biggest thing you've ever seen tower-wise. This is big, but imagine a 12-story obsidian tower that's pretty thin and tall.
Laura: Okay. I'm glad I remembered that correctly because I was remembering it as a citadel and it's just a tower.
Taliesin: This is spectacular! This is great! We have to let everybody know! Oh god, we have to let everybody know. And I grab her and we bolt out.
Laura: Does it sound like anything you know?
Taliesin: No? Yes? Maybe? I don't know! I'm not sure. This is a breakthrough. We have a breakthrough! We have a breakthrough! I am running to Cassandra, who I'm sure is asleep.
Matt: Yeah, most everyone's-- you guys have all gone to bed at this point I imagine; you guys were down there pretty late.
Liam: Well first I drag Keyleth off to the cozy little bathtubs that they have here in the castle and took the opportunity-- they're quite small, actually. And washed all of the caked-in, the last of the caked-in blood and everything.
Travis: Because they say it, it's true.
Taliesin: We have a full Roman sauna underneath, but that's fine, whatever you need.
Ashley: I took JB back and we built a fort in the room.
Matt: And you've gone to bed?
Sam: Oh yeah, I'm asleep.
Travis: I look for a book on werewolves.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Natural 20, Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It's that night.
Matt: Against all odds.
Taliesin: The trick is it requires human sacrifice.
Marisha: It is a full moon tonight, isn't it? Or was it last night? When was the full moon?
Matt: You surprise yourself, Grog, going "w-w-werewolves." There's a book that talks about the disease of lycanthropy and were-creatures and entities, and it's there before you and you find it's like your own little birthday party.
Travis: I take it with me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm calling a meeting of the council. I'm sending out the word. I'm telling everyone that we have new information.
Sam: At night?!
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm starting it now so that people who are not here can figure out their way here.
Marisha: Are you getting it over our earpieces?
Taliesin: Not them. To the studying council, anybody who's been studying the object. I'm letting everybody know as quickly as possible. There's new information.
Matt: All right, so that being the case, you let Cassandra know. Cassandra goes, "My god, all right. Well, let me-- I think I-- hold on." She goes and rushes back to her room and she comes back with a small, looks like a river stone, but has what looks to be a small rune carved into it. She takes it and holds it and goes "Sorry to bother you, my dear, but apparently Percival has a breakthrough in regards to the ziggurat and the orb. As soon as you can, please." Then takes it and puts it into a small pouch. "Hopefully, Allura received that and should be arriving soon. As to Eskil, I don't know how to get in touch with him; he's probably well into his sleep and he gets cranky."
Taliesin: He'll find out in the morning. This is good. We'll start looking with the new data as soon as everyone gets here. This is excellent. Excellent! Good night. Go to sleep. Why are you awake? No! And I'm out the door. I run to Vex's house. We're done.
Matt: All right, so you guys just go to bed?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: I guess so. Yeah. But, wait. Actually, Percy? Off-subject, but, when I saw Keyleth, I mean, she was destroyed right? I mean, fucking destroyed. Arms everywhere, limbs broken, just terrible.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: We put her back together like we always do, but I can't get Scanlan out of my mind. It's so random, I know, but what if that happened to him and we're not with him? No one's there to cast Revivify.
Taliesin: If he wanted to be found, he'd be found. His daughter's there, and maybe he is possibly smart enough to explain to her how that stone works.
Laura: Have you scryed on him again?
Taliesin: Not successfully. Not since I briefly found him and then I lost him. But I always have people looking.
Laura: All right. I don't know why he's on my mind. Obviously, we have much bigger things.
Taliesin: I think maybe bigger things will help. It's been too quiet.
Laura: Not good at quiet
Taliesin: No. I mean, I've enjoyed it. This has been great, everything, everything has been great. This is wonderful, but I will admit I miss-- I don't know what I miss. I miss it, though. I feel like I'm tempting fate and I'm going to regret everything I say right now, one day.
Laura: I think we are, who knows what this will lead to.
Taliesin: Maybe we can shut it down for good.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Maybe we're going to go find a small black tower somewhere filled with death and despair.
Laura: I don't know if I'm going to be able to sleep tonight!
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So as you find your rest for the evening, the morning comes. Bright, warm. The clouds that came in for the evening, it's still a cloudy sky and as you wake up the mist that usually takes up the bottom of the valley and the forest floor is beginning to burn off as the sun begins to peek through the clouds and show little bursts of blue above. You guys head back to the castle, where all of you are, everyone but Keyleth. We'll say Keyleth's still sleeping and Taryon's still sleeping.
Taliesin: Keyleth had a bit of day.
Matt: However, Allura is there waiting. She's there and as you approach she goes, "Well, isn't this a pleasant surprise?" She rushes up and gives Vex a big hug. She comes and takes your hand as well, Percival, and pulls you in. "So, Cassandra told me that there was some sort of a--"
Taliesin: Well, Vex had a brilliant idea. Recently, you came to a very interesting power.
Laura: Yes, from the exalted weapon that I got from Saundor.
Matt: "Oh, your Vestige. Yes."
Laura: Yes, and it has the ability to shoot arrows that see.
Matt: "I recall you telling me this, yes."
Laura: Right, so I shot it into the orb. And I saw through it.
Matt: "Oh." At which point you watch her whole demeanor change and she leans in, "What did you see?"
Laura: Fucking everything. A sky and an orb and a tower. An obsidian tower like twelve stories tall.
Matt: Keyleth comes down for breakfast.
Laura: Hey, Kiki. Good morning.
Marisha: Hi, sorry. I had weird dreams.
Travis: That you died?
Liam: No, that really happened. That actually happened yesterday.
Laura: Destroyed landscape, whole other plane. Very dark, very scary.
Matt: "Another plane?"
Laura: I think. I assume.
Taliesin: This is everything as she described it. This is everything I could write down.
Matt: As you describe down the location she goes, "This is certainly not a place that I know of on this plane."
Marisha: My dreams are on this plane?
Laura: Keyleth! We had a breakthrough.
Matt: "This sounds like a location that resides somewhere in the Shadowfell."
Laura: The Shadowfell?
Travis: Wait, Shadowfell?
Matt: "The Shadowfell, yes. You know how you went to the Feywild, which is more of an overgrown fey-based nature parallel to this world, yes? The Shadowfell is the dark shadow reflection of this same place. It's a plane of negative energy and darkness. A tower, you said? I have to go research this some more. This is good to know, but I get the sense that perhaps this ritual was not as foiled as we had initially anticipated."
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Have you been to this Shadowfell before?
Matt: "I have not been."
Laura: Does Vecna reside there?
Matt: "I may go do some research."
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: You watch her get a little thousand-yard stare for a second, thinking. Her eyes are darting around a little bit and her brain is just running and running. "All right. Well, unfortunately, I can't leave until tomorrow, I can only really transport myself once a day, but I'll immediately make my way to Vasselheim. That would hopefully be able to clarify some of these questions."
Laura: Do you need company?
Matt: "No, I can travel faster on my own."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "Besides, I can always go ahead and bring a friend."
Laura: How is Kima?
Matt: Make a perception check, actually.
Sam: She's in the room.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? Interesting. One thing you do catch, though subtle, is as she has her hands folded on one side you do see a small gold band across one of her fingers.
Sam: She's hitched!
Laura: Wait a minute! Did you guys get married?
Matt: "It was very small, very private, but anyway--"
Liam: Congratulations!
Matt: "Thank you. Sorry, this is conflicting emotions in this moment right now. Thank you."
Laura: When did it happen?! (laughter)
Matt: "Naught but four months ago. It was on a whim. We thought and discussed a lot about all the dangers we'd faced over the years together, and with you and the reality of not knowing how long either of us have on this planet. I figured at the very least, why not?"
Laura: I think it's brilliant. Brilliant.
Matt: "Thank you. We were going to tell you. There's been a lot to do in Emon. It's looking great, by the way. We've nearly completed. Thanks to the help of the Lyceum and many of the mages, reconstruction has been rapid."
Laura: We really should have gone there in the last year. We need to visit Emon.
Taliesin: We've been very busy.
Laura: True.
Matt: Then she covers the hand and is embarrassed.
Taliesin: We can get you back there today, if you think time is of the essence.
Marisha: I was in Emon not that long ago.
Taliesin: Why did you go to Emon?
Marisha: I had to talk to them about constructing the crisis orbs.
Laura: Oh! That's true.
Marisha: It was a lot of meetings. So many damn meetings.
Matt: "If you could actually send me to the Lyceum instead, and from there I can go to Vasselheim, but I can do my research there."
Marisha: You want to go to the Lyceum?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Right now?
Matt: "Well, it's whenever you wish."
Marisha: You want me to send you?
Travis: I'm going to reset Keyleth's brain.
Marisha: Oh yeah. Through the tree?
Travis: I'm going to jog her memory.
Marisha: Is there anyone else that needs to go while I'm doing this? Because this is it for the day. Anyone else need to go to Emon?
Taliesin: I think we're good.
Travis: Literally nobody needs to go there but her.
Marisha: No Kima?
Matt: Kima's not with her.
Marisha: I just didn't know if she wanted to go get her.
Laura: Oh my god, Keyleth.
Liam: You got a little bit of sleep stuff still in your eye.
Laura: Eye bogeys, for sure.
Liam: Yeah, that's better.
Marisha: I was just asking. Okay, let's go.
Matt: All right, so as you open the gate and Allura steps through, she around with a smile. "Thank you, Keyleth. And--"
Marisha: I say, (whispering) 'sup, Sun Tree? And then send her through.
Matt: (laughing) As she's trying to talk to you, she's like, (stutters). And you just push her through. She's like, "Whoa!"
Marisha: Okay, bye.
Matt: (thud) And it closes.
Taliesin: Why are you awake? Nothing. Never mind.
Matt: All right. So. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Well, shit! Well, what do we do now that we know? I guess we just research?
Taliesin: This changes everything. I'm changing the research focus in the library specifically to things on this subject so that we can more focus.
Matt: Okay. JB comes down with you and starts helping catalog and pulling out books and information.
Travis: I'll help you go read, too. And I start reading my book.
Laura: Oh shit. Hilda. Did anybody go down to the bakery?
Sam: She was going to come see us.
Matt: Yeah, you haven't. It's around noon now, as all this has happened and talking with her.
Taliesin: She was going to come to the castle.
Laura: Yeah, but-- okay.
Matt: Tary still hasn't woken up, by the way.
Sam: I'm currently-- Doty is brushing my teeth.
Travis: Brushing your teeth?
Matt: That's not true. Because eventually when you go to check on his room, Taryon isn't there.
Laura: What?
Marisha: What?
Liam: Sam...
Marisha: He's not going to Sam Riegel us again, is he? Because I can't handle that right now.
Laura: Where is Tary? Did he leave a note?
Matt: As you enter the room-- SAM (whispers) Hilda ate me.
Laura: Oh my god, did Hilda do something?
Matt: You can see the sheet is missing. Most of his personal belongings are gone. Doty is still there. And Doty appears to be shut down, nonfunctional.
Laura: Doty? Doty! Shit!
Matt: The eyes are cold.
Taliesin: Check the book!
Laura: What book?
Taliesin: Doty's book.
Laura: Oh! I go look at Doty's book!
Matt: It's within his chest compartment.
Taliesin: I know. I helped build this thing. Can I figure out how to get the book to eject?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm searching around the room, looking for any sign of Tary.
Taliesin: That's so cocked. That's a natural 20.
Matt: Okay. Not only do you find the latch, but you look underneath where one of the arms is. There appears to be a small glass bead, affixed with a piece of clay. And the bead has this pulsing blue light on it. And you notice it there, and it looks like it's the only thing with any sort of life on Doty's exterior.
Taliesin: Does that look like part of Doty?
Matt: It doesn't. It looks like something that was pressed onto him.
Laura: Should we take it off?
Taliesin: Is it magical?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: That's a 21.
Matt: It does appear to be magical. It is giving some sort of consistent pulse of energy.
Laura: Maybe don't touch it.
Matt: It looks fragile, whatever it is. The essence of the magic that you get from it, the nature of the effect, at least, is abjuration.
Laura: Abjuration?
Taliesin: I genuinely don't actually know what this word means.
Laura: I have no idea what that word means, either.
Sam: I've seen it in the Player's Handbook.
Laura: Yeah, what is it?
Taliesin: I normally have some clue about a word.
Matt: Abjuration is one of the schools of arcane magic.
Laura: What kind of school is it?
Matt: (laughs) It's the alteration and harnessing of raw arcane energy. Usually in some sort of-- there are a number of spells that fall into the category.
Laura: Shit. Shit, we just sent Allura away. Fuck. Balls.
Taliesin: Should we call everyone? Let's not call everyone. Who should we call?
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: Let's call everyone. Has anybody seen Tary?
Liam: He's sleeping in, isn't he?
Taliesin: He's not.
Ashley: Is he at the bakery?
Laura: Wait, go check the bakery. Will someone go check the bakery?
Ashley: I'll check the bakery.
Liam: Where are you?
Laura: Do I see any trace of him?
Matt: Make an investigation check again.
Marisha: Castle?
Liam: No, they're at Vex's house.
Laura: 15.
Taliesin: Can you have some coffee and come down here, quickly?
Marisha: Oh my god! Coffee sounds amazing to me.
Laura: Keyleth!
Marisha: Yeah?
Taliesin: Yes, what?
Laura: Focus.
Taliesin: Three coffees.
Marisha: Three coffees coming right up. I'll be right over. I get three coffees and I head over.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to pick up a lot of details. It looks like there was no struggle whatsoever. It looks like somebody entered and picked the lock to the room from the inside. That's all you're able to make out. From the inside of the castle.
Sam: Oh, from the inside of the castle.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Somebody that was in the castle did this? In my house?
Liam: Sam, why don't you just tell us where you are?
Sam: Sure. Doty is brushing my teeth.
Laura: Did you end up opening the thing? Can you see Doty's book?
Taliesin: I popped the book out, right?
Matt: You found the compartment where you (click, creak). It opens up and the tome is there.
Taliesin: I have my things upstairs. One second. I'm going to get all of my tools. I have everything on me including the cloak, because I want to be able to absorb any magic that comes off of what looks like possibly a bomb? Just going to be careful. I'm going to very gently remove the book.
Matt: You pull it out of the compartment.
Taliesin: Flip to the last written page.
Matt: The last written page spoke of, "An evening of curious bakery purveyors signed on to see to the future of goods, and to create in the name of the great Taryon Darrington and associates. And as a sudden slumber comes over me, I will find myself an evening's rest. Goodnight, Doty." And that was the final entry.
Taliesin: I'm waiting for Keyleth. I'm putting the book back.
Laura: The top sheet is gone from the bed.
Travis: Yeah, because they took him away in it.
Laura: Is it an eyelash? Do I get a wish?
Ashley: (whispers) Yeah.
Laura: Wait, get it so that I can make a wish.
Taliesin: Thankfully, we have a scry spell or two.
Matt: Keyleth, you arrive with three coffees.
Liam: I tag along.
Marisha: Okay, I have two regular, one decaf no foam--
Laura: Keyleth, scry on Tary. Pike, did you find anything at the bakery?
Matt: As you hurry down to the bakery, the bakery is still closed. Nobody was there to open it.
Ashley: Is Hilda there?
Matt: Hilda is not there, no.
Ashley: I don't see anything here, Hilda's not here.
Laura: The bakery looks normal?
Ashley: The bakery looks normal.
Matt: Locked and closed, untouched since you left it the evening before.
Marisha: Wait, you think Doty's been boobytrapped?
Taliesin: Look at that. That doesn't look normal.
Liam: I want to a take a look at that and see if it looks like a trap, and I don't understand magic, but if it is similar to any trigger mechanisms that I've seen.
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Laura: Keyleth, come out of the room with me.
Liam: 31.
Matt: Okay, it does not appear to be a trap, necessarily. It looks like whatever it's meant to be triggered to do has already been triggered.
Laura: (gasps) Somebody boobytrapped Doty. Can you scry on Taryon? Scry on Taryon.
Marisha: Yeah, what-- I'm sorry.
Laura: He's missing.
Marisha: What?
Laura: He's missing. Somebody broke in and took him. I go around and start asking-- no, I'm going to stay right here. Will you scry on him? I need to find out what happened.
Marisha: Okay, last time I tried to scry on Scanlan, everyone gave me a lot of grief about it.
Laura: Okay, Scanlan left on his own. Tary didn't. He left Doty here. There is no way this was not foul play.
Liam: Do you think this thing is looking at us? This little bead?
Taliesin: Once everyone clears out of the room, I will try and remove it.
Marisha: Who is all in the room? Is it the four of us?
Laura: No, me and you, we went outside.
Matt: It is just Vax and Percy.
Taliesin: I am going to try and remove it.
Liam: Yeah, I don't think it's trapped or anything. You probably can do that.
Taliesin: Let's see what happens. I'm going to use the cloak to pull it off so that I'm shielded from it if anything happens.
Matt: Okay, you grab it, and as you pull it off, it's fixed and as you pull it off, the bead shatters in your hand and the blue spark fizzles out and you watch Doty go, "Tary."
Liam: Looks like the bead shut him down.
Matt: You get the sense that the basis of this magic was a one-use Dispel.
Laura: We're not in the room. You're scrying. Will you scry?
Matt: You watch as Doty immediately starts going "Tary?" and lifts the bed. "Tary?"
Marisha: It'd be better if I had something of Tary's.
Matt: Doty leaves and charges through the room and (footsteps) into the hallway.
Laura: Doty? Doty, come here.
Marisha: Hey, Doty.
Laura: Doty belonged to him. Scry with Doty.
Marisha: What's up, bud?
Matt: Doty stops and looks. "Tary?"
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to Professor Xavier this shit and put my hands on Doty's little head. Come here, bend down. Down, Doty. Doty, down. Doty, kneel! Doty, take a knee. Doty, down.
Laura: Doty? Will you kneel down, please? Fuck.
Marisha: You know what? It's fine. And I'm going to do the scry.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Do you know what is happening right now?
Sam: I'm getting my rogue character ready.
Matt: Keyleth. Your vision pulls back up into the sky above the clouds. For a second, you feel a rush of wind; you're not sure of the direction. You feel a flash of speed and then with a blink, all of a sudden your vision is above what appears to be a small village along a road. And the vision blinks once again and you're within a hallway, a wooden low-lit hallway, and then the flash. You're inside of a room. A wood paneling wall. You see Taryon, unconscious and wrapped in a sheet, still in his armor, propped against the shaded side of the wall, while a figure stands just out of the peripheral. A familiar voice from just out of your range says, "It's okay, dear. We just had a bit to drink. Appreciate your concern." And you hear the door close (click). Then a few footsteps, and you watch as in the peripheral, Hilda steps in next to Taryon, pulling the sheet from his body, revealing him tied up from head to toe. Hilda's image shimmers slightly and dissipates, revealing a woman of ink-blue skin, long white hair tied into almost a topknot ponytail. Pale silver eyes that inspect her handiwork. Under her dark green cloak that you see her hood fall back, you see dark burgundy leather armor. She seems to check Taryon's vitals, under his neck, feel for breathing. Very methodically, and begins to loosen some of his bindings in some places. And you hear her voice say, "Can't have you losing too much circulation, boy. I've got a reputation to keep." She quickly tosses the blanket back over him after fixing the straps and goes, "Sleep soundly, boy. You'll be home soon enough." She stands up and walks across the room, almost out of sight, and sits in the chair facing him. You watch her rummage through her satchel, pull out a cream puff, and throw it to the side of the corner. Pulls out a small box and begins making something.
Marisha: I don't know what she is making?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Sam: She probably bought those cream puffs and didn't even bake them herself!
Travis: It was Ralph's cream puffs.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, okay. Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: You've seen Vex do this before. It is a fletching kit. She is in the process of making arrows.
Marisha: She's making arrows?
Matt: She's making arrows in a casual passing-her-time way. And then the vision pulls you back (whoosh) and you're within yourself once more.
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: What did you see?
Marisha: (shouting) Bitch! Fucking bitch! God!
Laura: Where is he? Who has him?
Marisha: (shouting) People wonder why we have trust issues!
Laura: Who, what--
Marisha: (shouting) It's fucking Hilda! She's a vampire or a werewolf or a lich or something. I don't know. Don't quote me on any of this. She was just like, I don't want your vitals going down and why do people take everything away from us?
Laura: Slap her across the face.
Marisha: (yelps)
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Ow!
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can you fucking calm down and tell me what you saw?
Liam: Did you see Tary-town?
Marisha: I saw Tary.
Laura: Is he in trouble? Is he in danger?
Marisha: Yeah, he looked unconscious, and it was Hilda, and she had ink-blue, sparkly skin.
Matt: Not sparkly, necessarily. Ink-blue skin, silver eyes.
Marisha: Ink-blue skin and long silvery hair that was in a top long ponytail thing. Long green-- and she had burgundy armor. He was in a wooden room, somewhere.
Laura: Is it close by?
Matt: Her ears were pointed.
Marisha: In a hallway. Her ears were pointy. I know a lot of people have pointy ears, including myself, so I'm not judging anyone who has pointy ears.
Liam: Was she a drow?
Matt: You, Keyleth, who have not actually seen a drow elf in person, really, over an extended period of time to know much about their culture, but through this conversation, she does appear to be, yes.
Marisha: She sounds like those things you have said before. Yes.
Laura: The drow?
Marisha: The drow, yeah. Like us but blue skin, white hair. And she said she doesn't want him losing too much of his vitality, and that she was going to take him back to where he came from and that he was special.
Laura: (gasps) She was bringing him home?
Marisha: Yeah, she was bringing him home.
Laura: To his piece of shit family?
Marisha: To his piece of shit family!
Laura: We have to get him. We have to help him.
Marisha: But why is Tary special?
Laura: He's very rich. I'm sure his family is just looking for him.
Liam: Yeah, he is daddy's boy.
Marisha: I don't know. This seems like she was interested in something other than his money.
Liam: Well. It's irrelevant, though. We've got to go get him.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: It just means we knock her unconscious as opposed to killing her when we get there. It will be fun. Let's do this.
Marisha: Do I have any idea of the hallway and the room, of how far away it was?
Matt: It felt like some sort of roadside inn. That's you have no idea where.
Taliesin: Well, this we can deal with. A roadside inn. We know were Tary comes from.
Marisha: He could be literally anywhere within a hundred-mile radius.
Taliesin: We know which roads one would take to get there from Whitestone, conveniently?
Matt: From what you know, the town of Deastok that he comes from, which is in Wildmount. There are no roads that go there from Whitestone because it is across the Shearing Channel to the other continent. Which means you have to either go by boat-- and even then, it's probably a few hundred miles away from Whitestone on that side of the continent.
Taliesin: We could do a Locate Object.
Laura: Yeah, on his dangling earring.
Matt: It's a hundred-foot range.
Laura: I thought it was a thousand feet range.
Matt: Sorry, a thousand-foot range.
Laura: Which is still very, very close.
Marisha: Or very far, when jumping off a cliff.
Ashley: What if he's still here?
Laura: Okay wait, what if I use primeval awareness-- I can't search out a drow. No, fuck. Can I look around to see if there's any tracks or any hint of anything that she may have dropped in the room or anything that he might have dropped?
Taliesin: Go check Hilda's house, as well, for clues.
Matt: Searching the room... you searched it once before. Looking over it with a second glance, there doesn't appear to be any sign of anything that she dropped. The best you can tell, especially being a tracker, there doesn't appear to be any sign that either of them left the room. There was nowhere they could have gone. There is no window that exits, then the door was picked, and nobody saw anybody leave the room.
Laura: She bamfed out. She's got magic. She could be anywhere.
Taliesin: Then why is she at an inn?
Laura: Are we sure she was at an inn?
Taliesin: Well, if she is at what sounds like a waypoint, and if you can travel as far as you want, why would you need a waypoint?
Marisha: Actually, who is good at math? Oh, Percy! You're good at math.
Taliesin: I am good at math, why? What sort of math?
Marisha: Well, when was the last time we saw Tary?
Taliesin: Last night.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Train traveling...
Marisha: Exactly. A train traveling by foot.
Liam: A Tree Stride spell traveling. Yeah.
Taliesin: It wasn't necessary a bamf. It might have just been, in and out, get on a horse and head towards--
Liam: That's a lot of ifs, though.
Laura: But she didn't leave the room.
Marisha: She was making arrows.
Ashley: I've made my way upstairs?
Matt: Yeah, you've come back at this point now.
Ashley: Well, Hilda never showed up for her interview! (laughter)
Ashley: I don't think we should hire her, for one. Where is he? Did you find him? Anything? Nothing?
Taliesin: How far could they have gotten on horseback? Within the reasonable--
Matt: Well, I mean. The last you saw him, it's been probably 12 hours. On horseback, could have gotten, I'd say, probably a little over 100 miles or so.
Taliesin: 100 miles. There's only so many roads that lead out of the city. I'm pulling out a map and I'm marking any roadside tavern that's within 100 miles of the city.
Laura: Doty? Do you know how to find Tary?
Matt: "Doty. Taryon."
Laura: Yes. Can you find him? Are you drawn to him?
Ashley: Doty?
Matt: I know, it's one phrase.
Taliesin: I can't make Doty do things, can I?
Sam: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: Doty, look at me.
Matt: "Tary?"
Taliesin: Never mind.
Ashley: Doty? Do you know where Taryon went?
Matt: "Tary."
Ashley: I feel like-- could you give him the book?
Taliesin: Oh. Yeah. I gave him the book back. Yes.
Ashley: Could you draw something for me again?
Matt: "Tary?"
Laura: Try it. Give him the book. Give him some paper and a pencil.
Ashley: Do you know where Taryon went? Can you draw it? Shit, I thought he listened to me.
Sam: He does.
Ashley: He does listen to me.
Matt: Well. The old Doty did.
Sam: Oh fuck.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Travis: And you had to lose that one.
Ashley: Oh, that's right, Doty. You're new. You're new Doty.
Taliesin: Doty, don't do that.
Ashley: Doty, don't do that. Doty, don't play that.
Taliesin: I've got a plan. I need to borrow the scrying orb. I'm going to make a list. On a map, I'm going to mark every roadside inn within about 200 miles.
Matt: Okay. There's a number of inns in the Turst Fields. There's a couple at the Jorenn Village, which you are familiar with. They might be just outside of the range, but you put them on there as well. Westruun, and along the road of the Silver Cut.
Marisha: What was that thing you said? Turns field?
Matt: There's the Turst Fields.
Marisha: And what was the other one?
Matt: Jorenn Village. That's where you found Percy in prison.
Taliesin: Okay. Where's the sun?
Matt: Right now? It's close to noon.
Taliesin: We'll finish this and I'll give it a few hours for the sun to go down so that I can actually figure out what direction the inn is facing.
Marisha: And I couldn't try and do a nature check to try and figure out what direction the wind was coming from when it hit me during the scry?
Matt: The wind was less of a natural wind and more of just your vision being shifted. It would not have an impact whatsoever.
Taliesin: Save the sphere. I've got a plan. In the meantime, let's search Hilda's house.
Laura: Yeah. Okay. We go and search Hilda's house.
Matt: Okay. As you get to Hilda's home, you look inside. It's dark on the interior. You knock. There's no response.
Laura: Does Trinket smell-- We go in-- Wait! Sorry. Check for traps. Right.
Liam: 22. No, 24.
Matt: 24. It is locked, but it does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: All right. It's not locked anymore. 32.
Matt: Okay, yeah. It's a simple lock. As you walk inside, you see the candle that was lit the other night has melted entirely and the wax is dripping off the side of the small bench where it was laid on.
Liam: One more in here. Is there any bullshit hiding around in here? 29.
Matt: 29. There's no bullshit, necessarily, but there is that pile of linens in the corner. You see it shifting slightly, and as you pull off the side you see there, bound, Hilda. She's like, (muffled noises).
Liam: All right, Whisper out, and I cut her free.
Matt: "Oh!"
Liam: You all right?
Matt: "I'm all right."
Liam: What happened?
Matt: (stuttering) "Naught but a few days ago, this blue-skinned woman came, and she seemed nice enough, and she asked me questions. She didn't hurt me or nothing, she just asked a lot of questions."
Liam: And you've met us before? No?
Matt: "No. I've seen you around town. People talk about you, saying what you've done for the people..."
Ashley: Do you bake cream puffs?
Matt: "I have before, yeah."
Laura: Do you want to work in a bakery? Just kidding. We were in the middle of something; we'll talk to you later! (laughter)
Laura: Wait, does Trinket smell anything having to do with-- can he smell a different smell? Can he smell the evil Hilda?
Matt: Make a perception check with advantage for Trinket.
Liam: That's good. That's also pretty good.
Laura: Perception? That is 24!
Matt: Okay, Trinket goes, (sniffing, grunting) and picks up what appears to be some sort of a scent.
Laura: Yeah! Where did it go?
Matt: Not really a bloodhound-style scent, but a decent scent. Guiding him around over the next hour or so, and trying to go in the areas you know he might have been, the last strong scent is in Taryon's room, and there's no trail from there.
Laura: Motherfucker. This is terrible. I feel like we did this to him.
Taliesin: We're going to get him back. Now.
Laura: He's just so vulnerable.
Taliesin: Right. Do I have enough of an angle on the sun now, where this should be doable?
Matt: To?
Taliesin: Figure out which way is north, south, east, and west if I try and scry on Tary?
Matt: Sure. Yeah, you gauge the sun in the sky.
Taliesin: All right. Kiki, let's do this.
Marisha: Am I helping you? Are we doing this together?
Taliesin: Well, you're giving me the orb, since you have the orb.
Marisha: I'm giving you the orb.
Taliesin: And I'm going to give it back to you when I'm done.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel like you did this before.
Taliesin: I did.
Marisha: Successfully.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I underestimated you. Do you need my help?
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and glean as much information about the nature of the landscape around the person that I'm focusing on as humanly possible.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm going to try and figure out a discerned direction?
Taliesin: Help with type of plants, whether or not it's getting south, east, west. Not north. Most probably south.
Matt: Okay. So, before you do that. You take the orb and sit down and concentrate, and Keyleth aids you in setting up this small ritual. As you close your eyes and focus on Taryon once more, your vision shifts and seem to be jettisoned across hundreds of miles within a second. No direction at the moment; it's too much of a blur of color and light and movement until it comes to a halt, and there you see Taryon, somewhat jostled by the spell kicking in and the momentum, you see him thrown over what appears to be the back of a horse, just (hoofbeats).
Taliesin: Which way is the shadow of the horse?
Matt: Taryon, you come to consciousness ever so slightly, and looking down, you see hooves clattering on the ground behind you. You glance around. Percival, I want you to go ahead and make a nature check.
Laura: Come on! They're going to Wildmount.
Taliesin: This is not my strong suit. That'll do, though! 22.
Matt: 22. The skies here grow gray with clouds as the mountain spire-peppered landscape is broken up by far-reaching forests and river-traced glades. The air appears cold, as the winter here seems to cling to the countryside for a majority of the year, a mixture of gloom and beauty as unique as it is impressive. That's about as much as you can glean from this standpoint. It's very blurred on the outskirts. It seems similar to a harsher Whitestone landscape. This is definitely further east. Looking at placement of the sun in the sky, it's further to the west.
Taliesin: They've gone east. They're still on the northern end of the continent, if they're on the continent at all.
Matt: No, any further north from here and they'd be in the water. For the time they've traveled, they're east on Wildmount somewhere, you can gather.
Taliesin: East on Wildmount. Is there any other sign? Can I see a tree?
Matt: Unfortunately, the scrying location, the actual orb that you see from is very limited in scope. The fact that you're able to even make out the details that I told you are because you're seeing color and images and shapes in the distance. You get a vague idea of landscape, but it's all very blurred.
Taliesin: Is it giving me any sense of anywhere I've been before?
Matt: You have not really traveled length and breadth of anywhere outside of Tal'Dorei, so no. What you do see, though, is on the front of the horse, you see the same cloaked figure riding the horse. Glances back over the shoulder and you can see what appears to be a pale-skinned human woman, looks in her twenties or so, but same outfit. And looks back and checks on him. He's stirring a little bit, and she glances back and goes, "Be patient. We're almost there." (hoofbeats)
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: Am I with him in the vision?
Matt: No, you're watching him as his eyes glaze over for a moment.
Taliesin: Well, that'll do.
Laura: Where is he?
Taliesin: They're taking him home.
Laura: Well, yes, we knew that!
Taliesin: They're on horseback. They're already quite far... I don't know precisely where they are, but if we can make our way to--
Laura: Wildmount.
Liam: Yeah. What's our fastest method there?
Taliesin: They're going by horse. They'll probably be there sooner rather than later, would be my guess.
Laura: You don't know where any trees are in Wildmount?
Marisha: The closest tree that we've ever been to was the one we used to get to Draconia, but I don't know how close Draconia is to him. I can try and scry on where they are and look and see for the biggest tree myself and pop out right there.
Taliesin: Well, the city that Tary's from--
Matt: Deastok.
Taliesin: It would be best to go there and cut them off. We know that they're coming from the west. There's got to be a way to get there.
Marisha: Can I scry on Deastok?
Matt: You can only scry on locations that you've seen or been to.
Marisha: And people that I have connections to.
Matt: People you can scry on with certain levels of knowing them or hearing about them and such.
Taliesin: How far is it?
Matt: I'll double-check real fast because I don't want to get a lot of anger on the internet. Instead of targeting a creature, you can choose a location you have seen before as the target of the spell.
Marisha: Instead of choosing a creature. But I could try and scry on Tary again and get a nearby tree?
Matt: It's only a ten-foot radius to see anything clearly around the center, so you'd have to be pretty close to a tree for you to make it out enough.
Marisha: Do we have any images or any books here on Deastok that I can look at and then try and scry on, and then after I have the knowledge?
Laura: Doty's book? He might have written some things about it.
Liam: Gilmore's been many places. He might have something from there.
Taliesin: How far away is it? How far away is the city from us? How many days on horseback?
Matt: Let's see. From Whitestone directly, it would be probably about-- you can't cross the channel on horseback, but if you were to start at the other side of the Shearing Channel on horseback and ride, let's say 12 hours a day, you could probably get there in about four days. Three to four days.
Taliesin: So if we misted...
Marisha: It still wouldn't be enough time.
Laura: No, just bamf there.
Marisha: We have to bamf there.
Liam: Two days. Go to Emon, talk to Shaun. He's been everywhere.
Laura: Scry on her again!
Taliesin: Draconia. How close would Draconia be to this?
Marisha: Yeah, do we know how close Draconia is?
Matt: The Dremoth Ravine, with the remains of Draconia, would probably be about 150, 200 miles from it.
Taliesin: That's not bad. We could misty from Draconia.
Marisha: Yes, we could.
Laura: Sure.
Taliesin: But you can't Tree Stride today, can you?
Laura: Oh, you already used it on Allura.
Marisha: Is that the same day? I thought we slept.
Taliesin: No, that was the same day.
Matt: Well, you used it once today. You had a full night's sleep, got all your spells back, and then you sent Allura off once today.
Laura: So we have two.
Marisha: So that was today. I could do it again, and then I can Misty Step us, and then I would be out of my 6th, 7th, and 8th-level spells. I would be burning higher spell slots to get us there, but I could do it.
Taliesin: We could be there-- We could be there in hours, if need be.
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: You have no books here on Deastok? None in Whitestone?
Laura: Let's look in the Doty book real fast.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. There's a lot of writing in here.
Laura: Towards the beginning.
Matt: Towards the beginning, it talks about Deastok. It talks about the frustrations of the small-town life and the open world around and all the adventures they're seeking there. It's not written to show any detail or interest about the city where he grew up.
Marisha: (groans) All right, to Draconia! Let's go!
Taliesin: Gear up, everyone.
Marisha: Everyone, the Uber will be here in five minutes.
Matt: All right, you guys gather your materials, make your way to the Sun Tree, and Keyleth, you open Transport Via Plants to the exterior of the Dremoth Ravine in the ruins of Draconia. And that's where we'll take a break!
Laura: Why can't anybody be nice?
Taliesin: She was nice! She was tied up by a bad person! She was tied up by some elfy Boba Fett. She was fine.
Matt: Well, if you're really frustrated with how untrustworthy this NPC is, you can thank chat for it!
Ashley: Thank the chat?
Laura: The chat did this to us?
Sam: Fuck you, chat!
Laura: You turned our own bakery against us! You!
Ashley: They know.
Taliesin: To be fair, carbs are never really your friend, are they?
Travis: They are in workouts!
Matt: All right. We're going to take a quick break. Before we go, guys, we have the giveaway for this. This looks to be a Katalox dice tray here, which is pretty awesome, with a leather interior from our good friends at Wyrmwood. We're going to go ahead and, because I feel like I have to, the code for this contest in the Twitch chat is Samsshirt, one word, with two mid-s's. S-A-M-S-S-H-I-R-T. Sam's shirt.
Taliesin: Sam's shirt.
Matt: So find your way over to the Twitch chat, put that in there for the chance to win this awesome giveaway! All right, guys. We'll see you in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back to Critical Role. We have our winner in the chat. Tonight's winner is FormaldehydeG. You win. Denova will contact you via a whisper to get your contact and shipping information, and you will get your awesome prize of your Wyrmwood box.
Laura: (mocking) Prize.
Matt: (Christopher Walken voice) Prize.
Liam: Don't do it.
Matt: Oh god, I did it. I'm sorry. It's my fault. Right. So, jumping back into the game. You guys have learned of the current whereabouts of Taryon Darrington. Proceeding in the direction of which he is getting transported. Which, let's go ahead and take a moment here, actually. Taryon, as you've come to consciousness on the back of this horse and you hear this woman, cloaked and riding in front of you, tell you, "We're almost there," and then (hoofbeats). You're hopping around on the back, bound. You try and move your arms and legs, and they're tied tightly.
Sam: Doty! Doty. I'm having a dream again. Doty? Oh boy. Ugh. Hello? You there, driver person! Hello?
Matt: The head looks back over. "Oh! You've awakened. Isn't that very interesting?"
Sam: What's going on? Where are you taking me? Have I won a lottery of some sort?
Matt: "You could say that, perhaps. Yes. I have a contract to bring you back to Deastok, and I am fulfilling that contract."
Sam: Oh no. Did my father pay you to do this?
Matt: "Howaardt Darrington? Because if so, yes."
Sam: He is.
Matt: "Then that is where you are going."
Sam: I will pay you whatever he has promised you, double, if you let me go right now.
Matt: She shakes her head for a second. "I've looked through your belongings. You do not have the money you speak of."
Sam: I will write you a check and I will guarantee it with the name Taryon Darrington.
Matt: She laughs and turns back and focuses more on the horse riding.
Sam: Damn it. (sighs) Money is so good. Not when you don't have it. I have armor. I have jewels that are worth a lot. Please, you don't want to do this. Please. Just let it go and no one will get hurt.
Matt: She turns back over her shoulder. "The money is one thing. But another is one's reputation. When I take a contract, I fulfill it. I have not failed. I will not fail. So you are going home. My apologies." (hoofbeats) And goes right back.
Sam: I respect her so much. (sighs)
Travis: (mouthing) What's her name?
Sam: I don't ask people names, friend. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So what are the rest of you guys doing?
Laura: Running around like crazy people.
Marisha: We bamfed through the tree, right?
Matt: Right. Yep. So you gathered your elements and you transport through one of the trees that you created on the outside of the Dremoth Ravine.
Marisha: That's right. We grew them a forest.
Matt: You did.
Marisha: Oh my god. That's right.
Liam: The last time we came here, we came flying out of a tree on an angle.
Matt: On an angle, yeah. You do not come through that same tree.
Marisha: Off the edge of a cliff. (laughs nervously) It's a theme.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: All right, so which way is Wildmount?
Taliesin: Northeast?
Matt: From this area, it would be northeast, yes.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: So I say we head north first. Find the main road.
Matt: You're on Wildmount the continent, but you're heading more towards the city of Deastok, which is on the outskirts of the Dwendalian Empire.
Taliesin: We did know that they were on a road headed west. Heading east. Which means if we head north and then the minute that we hit that main road start heading in that direction, we might even pass them on the way and be able to identify a horse.
Laura: Especially if we're in like fart form.
Matt: All right, so you guys are going into your Wind Walk form?
Liam: Before we do. Percy, do you know anything about this country we're in? Anything?
Matt: Make a history check.
Taliesin: Not really my area of expertise, but 22. History check, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: This area of Wildmount known as Wynandir is divided into two different kingdoms, essentially. This one you're going towards is called the Dwendalian Empire. This is the strongest and the most functional empire this side of Exandria. It is a tyranny. There is a king, and the law is ruled absolutely through this king. It is a functional economy. Its people aren't mistreated, from what you've read, though it is-- I want to say, it's very Prussian. People work, people live, people die.
Laura: Harsh?
Matt: It's a harsh environment. It's a colder environment. Whereas the center of Tal'Dorei is a lot of fields and rolling hills across the midsection framed by mountains, across Wildmount, it is a smattering of mountain ranges and spires throughout, and chunks of forest. It is a much harsher environment, as far as the topography and the biomes than Tal'Dorei, and as such, the pockets where people do live, they live as well as they can amongst a very oppressive environment.
Taliesin: What's the name of the city, one more time?
Matt: Deastok.
Marisha: Oh, this is Deastok. Okay.
Taliesin: Deastok. So it's a bit Prussian?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. That will do. So don't expect a lot of hospitality, and let's just have our business, get it done, and get out.
Liam: Also, we can't talk when we're farts, so when we get there, what's the plan, plan man?
Taliesin: We're going to fly up until we see the main road. We see the main road, we're going to take it towards the city. We're going to stay a bit high. If anyone spots a lone horse and a rider with a human-sized package on the back, we're going to do a little spin-around, spin-around, spin-around, and we're all going to park ourselves maybe a quarter of a mile up the road.
Ashley: I like that idea.
Liam: What happens if we don't see the person on the horse? What happens? We just land right outside the gates and ring the bell?
Taliesin: We land inside the gates.
Liam: Okay, but that seems a little dicey if we want to work out what we're going to do. We're just going to appear and say howdy?
Taliesin: From what I know of this city, it's not a locked city, is it?
Matt: It's not a locked city. There are perimeter walls and there are gates that can close in case of times of war. You do know that there is a strong military presence in most cities and there are patrols that often make sure that peace is kept.
Taliesin: So we can walk in if we need to, but let's not make any waves unless we need to.
Matt: It's a somewhat militaristic nation. It's to the point where you don't know, or at least have not heard, of any widespread abuses of power. At least, not on the outskirt cities. You don't know that much about the political structure there, other than the fact that it is a tyranny. But it has a strong standing military and they do exercise it in times of peace as a form of law enforcement.
Liam: You and Tary are thick as thieves, now. How plugged in is his dad?
Laura: Super. Right? I mean, he's not the most powerful guy, but he does well for himself. He runs an area.
Matt: The way Taryon talks about his father is he is a land baron in Deastok. He owns a number of plots and homes and farms and collects taxes on them. His family has been doing this for at least a generation or two and has made quite a fortune off of it.
Laura: And his sister's name is?
Matt: His sister's name is Maryanne.
Laura: Maryanne. That's creative. Okay. All right.
Liam: Yes, Maryanne Darrington.
Laura: And his mom is Mariya. (laughs) All right.
Travis: Mariya and Howaardt?
Laura: Mariya and Howaardt Darrington.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: All right.
Laura: See, I know his mother's name!
Matt: All right. Do you go ahead and accept Keyleth's Wind Walk? All right. With a moment of concentration, you all convert yourselves into plumes of smoke, mist. By the way, did you leave Doty behind or take Doty with you?
Marisha: We can't take him with us.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, then. Doty is back in Whitestone.
Laura: I mean, yeah, he doesn't respond to us.
Marisha: I mean, we would have had to have had--
Travis: Just say no.
Marisha: No, we didn't.
Matt: I was just reconfirming. All right, then. So, you guys convert to your--
Laura: I can't put him in the necklace! He won't go in the necklace! I tried before. He doesn't go.
Liam: Who are you talking to?
Matt: You all coast in the shapes of mist into the moist, freezing air over the Dremoth Ravine and head northward. You guys move as a cluster of small plumes of moisture. As you look forward over the next-- 300 feet a round, at double speed--
Laura: Carry the three.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Doing air math; it's great. Nothing quite like air math.
Matt: Once again, this is twice in an episode where it's magical-fantasy-realm physics. Somewhere in the middle, you find a fun narrative. I'd say within probably an hour and a half to two hours of travel, because you guys are going pretty fast, you eventually come upon a very well-ridden and apparent pathway that goes from east to west. The topography does seem at least to be somewhat in line with what you saw the brief time that you scryed upon Taryon.
Taliesin: I'm just heading the direction--
Laura: That smoke plume definitely--
Ashley: That smoke plume knows where it's going.
Taliesin: I can't hear you.
Matt: So you guys all continue heading east.
Laura: Do we have normal mental thoughts when we're smoke plumes? Or do we just think in terms of (wind noises)?
Matt: No, you think normally. You're still mentally you. You just can't talk. If you do talk, it comes out as (blows raspberry).
Liam: (blows raspberry)
Matt: There you go.
Laura: What does it sound like if you laugh?
Liam: (airy laughter)
Taliesin: (airy laughter)
Laura: Sorry. We're going.
Matt: As you guys continue pushing east...
Taliesin: I'm going to be keeping an eye out for anybody on the road.
Laura: Ditto.
Matt: Perception check from the two of you guys.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. You see what looks to be one small caravan, a series of carts that are heading west along the path. That's the only thing that you see at the moment. You, Vex, after a couple more hours of travel in an eastern direction you see what looks to be a big, thick forest. The forest itself is pretty dense in this area, and there are pockets where it's open and you get a little more of a green field. You've been traveling over a larger green field area, so you start hitting where the forest gets thicker and thicker. The pathway carves through this forest. Then a ways ahead, you see what appears to be a large hill that rises up, and then around the hill, the forest has been cleared and you can see what amounts to acres and acres and acres of farmland that circles almost like a disk around this large central hill. The top of the hill is cleared off, and there you can see what appears to be a metropolitan city. A large town, if you will. You can see what appear to be-- actually, no. You're not quite close enough. So that's what you see. You see this village on top of this cleared hill surrounded by farmland and then surrounded by forest and what appear to be some broken mountain ranges maybe a few miles out each direction.
Taliesin: I keep skirting around, looking for a lone horseman.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I fly down and see if I see any signs along the road? Any markers saying what city it is?
Matt: Okay. You cruise down and begin riding a little closer to the surface. With your general, even passive perception, you do catch what appears to be-- there are a few splinter trails that seem to be the perimeter on the outside of where the forest leads inward and heads along the outskirts of the tree line. There you do see a sign. The arrow leads forward towards what is called the Siren Green Forest, and then eastward towards Deastok. You gather that the large town on this carved hilltop seems to be the town in question.
Laura: But nobody on horseback?
Matt: You don't see anybody on horseback at the moment, no.
Taliesin: (hiccups)
Travis: (laughing) Is that the cloud hiccups?
Taliesin: I'm going to scout around a little closer to the ground and see if there's anybody. Maybe any of the paths off the main road where someone might be hiding and just run through the trees looking for anything. I'm searching around a little bit. I know we're close to the city, and I'm keeping an aerial view because we should be able to see an awful lot from high up.
Matt: You do. You see hundreds of acres of farmland that surround this large hill. It's built all across the top of the hill then built along the front side of it. You can see a number of paths that zigzag down. Elements of it sprawl a bit into the farm, but the majority of the metropolis is on top of the hill itself, and then the farmland around it. You do see, as you get closer and skirt the sides, there are patrols. You see men on horseback with crossbows slung over the side that do perimeters. Some of them are weaving independently through the fields, keeping an eye on people who are in the process of harvesting.
Taliesin: No interest of getting anywhere near that.
Matt: The rest of you guys continue heading east towards the town, or are you following?
Taliesin: I'm popping back on the road.
Matt: Okay. Percival catches up to you guys.
Laura: At this point, I feel like our option is only to go towards the house, if we can find his family's keep.
Travis: Did we beat him here?
Laura: I don't know. There's no way to know.
Taliesin: We can land and have a conversation.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys (whoosh) make your way to the-- where do you want to land?
Laura: Maybe the edge of town, into the Siren Gate Forest.
Matt: Okay. So you find the edge of the tree line before it opens up into the farmland surrounding the city. As you all take a moment to concentrate, your forms congeal once more into your physical selves and you are able to discuss as you prefer.
Laura: Well! Anybody see anything?
Ashley: Is it possible she could've put some kind of covering over them?
Laura: Like we did with Whitestone or something?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Many things are possible, though.
Marisha: Can we still see their tracks if we went back and looked? That would be a ranger question.
Laura: I mean, it's just horse tracks, but I can look. Horse tracks on a main road. Unless Tary is thinking and he's leaving something behind so that we can track him.
Taliesin: Tary, can you hear us?
Laura: Tary? Good idea, Percy!
Matt: Nothing at the moment.
Liam: Have to be within 500 feet.
Marisha: I could try Commune With Nature, but it only extends for a few miles.
Laura: I'm going to cast Locate-- oh, should I do that? Should I waste it right now?
Marisha: How long does it last?
Laura: Ten minutes. I'm going to try. Wait, a thousand feet. That's not very far, compared to where the city is.
Travis: A few miles is better.
Marisha: Plus, that's a concentration spell. The mist form is my concentration spell, so we should be able to do both at once, correct? If we move quickly while she has her Locate Object on?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. Let's do that.
Taliesin: All right!
Laura: I'm going to try to locate his dangly earring.
Ashley: Dangly bits.
Taliesin: His dangly bit.
Laura: His penis!
Ashley: Penis!
Travis: Penis!
Marisha: Penis!
Taliesin: His Tary.
Marisha: (giggling) His Tary!
Liam: Going down to Tary-town.
Sam: Matt's doing something.
Laura: I know, it's something.
Matt: Okay. I was making sure the Wind Walk wouldn't affect any concentrations.
Travis: He's doing trigonometry.
Taliesin: Squaring his hypotenuse.
Matt: And you're attempting Locate Object on Taryon's earring, you said?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: His dangly bit.
Matt: You focus and concentrate. It does not pick up within a thousand feet of you.
Laura: Okay. So we're going to misty form towards the city and see if we can...
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) You all head back up into the sky, and you can see now the clouds in this vicinity are growing darker. It looks like it's probably going to rain in the next few hours or so.
Laura: Okay. So we're less noticeable?
Matt: The temperature right now means it might even sleet; you're not sure. You make your way, coasting over the farmland. Looking down, you can see it's all segmented and all marked off with various colored fences. Everything is really well-organized here, and all the land has been divided. You eventually make your way towards the base of the hill and cruise up to the outskirts of the city, where you see the large stone walls that encircle elements of the outskirts, and you see where each one of these walls opens up to some sort of a pathway. There is a large metallic gate that is currently separated and lifted up in the back that can be slammed and closed and shut in case you need to keep anybody in or out.
Laura: Ping!
Matt: You're getting no ping yet.
Laura: No pings? Okay.
Matt: You guys are now over the wall now, these six plumes of mist coasting above. What do you do?
Marisha: Do we backtrack?
Laura: We're over his family's keep?
Matt: You don't know what his family's keep looks like.
Marisha: But we're over the city.
Matt: You're over the city right now, yeah.
Marisha: So we theoretically haven't intercepted them yet.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and motion everyone to follow me in a circle around the city and then back out the front gate.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Okay. You move pretty fast. It's a big radius to go around the entire wall perimeter of the city. At your full speed, I'd say you can do a full pass in about 15 minutes or so. That's a careful cruising through. Nothing seems to ping.
Laura: I think we beat him. Maybe we beat him.
Sam: Oh Matt, I forgot to tell you. When I left home, I left a large eternal flame burning on my keep's roof. Is that okay?
Matt: Oh, right! Good to clarify! No. All right. So.
Taliesin: I don't know. Maybe we beat her. I'm going to try and motion everyone--
Laura: Back out to the fucking woods?
Taliesin: Just a little. Not far.
Matt: Back out to the woods? Okay.
Taliesin: Back onto the road. And off the road so that we're not super visible.
Matt: So you're heading back over the farmland, back to the outskirts of the Siren Gate Forest into the tree line?
Taliesin: About an hour's walk to the city is where I want to put us.
Liam: To where we can see the city and see the road coming to it.
Matt: All right, cool. So you guys find your way there. You wait for a moment to make sure the patrols aren't anywhere nearby, and you turn back into your physical selves.
Taliesin: Well, we've either beat them here or she's really clever.
Laura: Or she took off all of his clothing and he's riding around naked.
Marisha: But she would still theoretically have his clothing. It would still exist.
Laura: Yeah, hopefully.
Liam: What do you think, you think we should camp out here for a while and keep an eye on the road for a day or two? See if we can intercept? And if they never show up, then we need to figure out going into the city.
Taliesin: Do we have a way of scrying one more time before the day is up?
Marisha: I do!
Laura: Okay, then let's scry one more time and see if we beat them.
Marisha: I can do one of two things. I can either scry on them, or I can do a Commune With Nature spell.
Laura: Scry!
Marisha: All right. Scry!
Matt: All right. Your vision shifts once more to Taryon, who uncomfortably, like "Ow, ow, ow" on the back of this horse a little bit, and as you start audibly making a pained sound, a hand grabs the back of where the ropes are entwined and shifts you in the back of the seat to be a little more comfortable.
Sam: Oh, thank you!
Matt: No response from her. Still riding on the back of the horse. It's getting darker now, and you can see the clouds are still a little pushing towards that stormy look that you saw when you were in the city. So they're still on the road. They're still traveling.
Taliesin: But it's the road that we've...
Matt: Seems familiar.
Marisha: Is the sun in the same direction that we're heading?
Matt: Yes. The sun's more westward at this point.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: So we could, in theory, mist low to the ground on this road in that direction, and in theory catch up with them.
Marisha: And he's conscious. Which is good. He's still alive.
Laura: And he has his clothing on.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Good. That's good.
Marisha: We won't see his dangling bits.
Taliesin: Just the one.
Marisha: Just the one.
Ashley: Should we mist that way?
Taliesin: I say we mist that way.
Liam: And intercept him.
Ashley: I like that idea.
Laura: Yeah, let's intercept them.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go back into mist form (whoosh) and begin coasting westward along the path. You travel for about ten minutes before Vex and Vax, you pick up what looks to be a small dark shape on the road.
Liam: (whoosh)
Laura: (whoosh)
Matt: Okay, so what do you do?
Laura: We're trying to signal everyone!
Liam: Is there forest on the sides of the road from where we are?
Matt: No, you traveled away from the forest now. You're in open fields.
Liam: So open fields and roads. Shite. Okay.
Laura: Oh! But wait! Turn back into-- wait--
Matt: You can't talk.
Laura: I turn back into a thing!
Matt: So you go and land. Vex lands and takes a minute to concentrate and go back to her physical form.
Laura: They're up ahead! Maybe we should just bamf here, be solid. I can disguise the landscape and we can ambush her!
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: So I do that.
Travis: Should we set a fallback?
Marisha: You guys, does this make us highway bandits? Are we highway bandits?
Laura: As she's saying that, I start using--
Matt: You have about a minute until she gets to you right now, by the way. You're able to see the horse traveling a little above the road, so they're almost upon you.
Laura: Oh god. What do we do? She knows all of us.
Taliesin: I'm going to start making my way a decent distance and running a little bit off the road, I'm going to try and find some cover and get ready to injure a horse.
Laura: Who wants to stand in the middle of the road?
Liam: And what's on the sides of the road? Is it tall grass, bald?
Matt: It's maybe knee-high grass with sections of bald. The landscape here, outside of the farmland and the forest that you can see, looks a little hard and badlands-ish. Scrubland.
Travis: I'm going to go 200, 300 yards back towards the city, just in case they manage to get through.
Matt: Okay. So you're getting down, you're doing that...
Liam: I'm going to get into some grass, as close to the road as I can.
Laura: I bamf Trinket out! And we get in the grass and stealth.
Matt: Okay. Roll a stealth check. Disadvantage for Trinket.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace!
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Nice. And for Trinket, with disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Liam: Oh that's a good one.
Laura: Oh, he got a 19, which is a crit for him! That sucks. 19!
Matt: Well, it's not a crit. That's only on attacks.
Laura: Oh. Well, still.
Ashley: It's a critical stealth!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Plus ten!
Marisha: Oh wait, did you want someone in the middle of the road?
Ashley: I'll stand in the middle of the road.
Travis: Unassuming.
Marisha: Unassuming, okay. I'm going to go into crow form. (caws)
Ashley: Maybe I can act like I'm an old woman trying to cross the road.
Matt: So you go into crow form.
Marisha: I'm going to aid to her bird lady aesthetic.
Matt: Stealth roll, Percy?
Taliesin: Stealth roll?
Matt: And stealth roll for you, too, Vax.
Liam: 37.
Travis: Do drows have magic sight or anything?
Laura: I don't know!
Liam: It's a reliable talent, in fact.
Taliesin: Stealth roll is-- oh that's not bad. 21.
Laura: Plus ten!
Taliesin: Plus ten. 31!
Matt: Okay. Grog's a ways back.
Travis: Not stealthing.
Taliesin: And I'm getting down. I'm preparing for the shot.
Laura: Ditto!
Ashley: I'm going to pull up my cloak and slowly start crossing.
Taliesin: I'm also going to activate the secondary mechanism in the Diplomacy glove.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I follow Pike and peck at her bread crumbs as she crosses the road.
Matt: Okay! All right, so as this is happening, and this is a really fast rush over, rush over, get into places, and you watch as the horse has galloped (hoofbeats). You have Pike in the middle of the road, dressed the same in memory.
Travis: I have to pee. It's like hide and go seek. The waiting.
Matt: And you watch as the horse (hoofbeats) goes off the path and begins to make a wide circle.
Laura: Motherfucker! She's going around us?
Matt: Seemingly, yeah.
Ashley: Excuse me! Ma'am?
Matt: Full gallop burst.
Marisha: I take off in crow form.
Taliesin: I was actually going to-- the second she started to leave the road, I take a shot.
Matt: At?
Taliesin: At the horse's legs.
Matt: All right.
Laura: We'll heal it!
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack with disadvantage.
Taliesin: Disadvantage?
Matt: Because you're aiming specifically for the legs.
Taliesin: Can I burn a grit for it?
Matt: Oh, you do technically have an actual-- yeah, so you will not have disadvantage on this.
Taliesin: I'll burn a grit for this. This is worth a grit.
Liam: Horse killing is a feat you took, right?
Marisha: We're gods, remember?
Travis: Yeah. Remember that?
Taliesin: That's not great, but it's not bad. 20.
Matt: 20 will hit. So what's the effect on that one, again?
Taliesin: That's a strength saving throw or prone.
Matt: What's the DC?
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: So you watch. No gunshot. Complete silence as you all begin to maneuver. You watch as the horse suddenly (neighs) and goes ass over tea kettle forward, jettisoning both Taryon and the rider from the horse into a neat roll. Since you have not moved, Tary, you make a full spill, skittering across the ground.
Sam: (screams)
Matt: You suffer ten points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: What about the horse. Does he fall off?
Matt: No, the horse is prone and still takes damage from the shot, so roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh, and also takes damage.
Matt: Because you shot it with...
Taliesin: I did. I really shot it. It didn't have a good day. Do I have enough...
Laura: We'll heal it so good!
Travis: I'm going to eat it.
Taliesin: There's no horse left. Yeah, oh boy. That's 30 points of damage.
Matt: 30 points of damage!
Laura: Is that a lot for a horse?
Taliesin: That's my maximum damage with a single unaffected shot.
Matt: Yeah, as the horse skids over and hits the ground, it falls onto its side, and you watch its heavy breathing become still.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Travis: Dinner!
Taliesin: I'm keeping a second shot. The second I see her head, I am taking a head shot on this girl.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check because you were down in the grass.
Taliesin: Nope.
Sam: I lift my head up. What's going on?
Matt: You can't, because you are tied.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: No, you see nothing. What were you doing?
Liam: (whoosh)
Matt: Okay, so you (whoosh) up in the air. Okay.
Laura: I'm brooming.
Matt: You're brooming towards. All right, so she comes to a tumble. For this purpose, I'm going to have you two, since you're both pretty quick, roll initiative checks, please.
Laura: 26.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Jesus. Okay. So. You both rush over and you watch as she tumbles and catches herself, skidding into the dirt. You can see bits where she's rubbed and gashed in the face. Pale skin, blonde hair, nowhere near the description that you were given by those who were trying to scry earlier, but catches herself and lands, reaches over and sees Taryon about three feet behind and immediately darts over, grabbing something from the satchel--
Laura: Can I shoot her with an arrow?
Matt: It would've taken your movement to get to her, but you can move half as quickly and go for a shot if you want to.
Laura: I want to try to go for a shot.
Liam: How close are we, right in this second?
Matt: Well, you're going to close the distance because you're apparently a bullet. Learn to balance your magical items, people!
Liam: Or not.
Matt: Or not.
Laura: Or let your players spread them out and not keep them all for themselves.
Matt: Exactly, yeah.
Liam: Salt, salt.
Matt: It's all good. So you'll be able to get your shots off about the time that you get there.
Laura: Salty. Oh no.
Liam: You got a four because of all that salt.
Laura: Yeah, I know. That was 19.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: The first, and then more than that on the second.
Matt: Okay, so both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Oh, is it too late to say I want one to be a bramble shot?
Matt: You can bramble shot, sure.
Laura: Yeah! Okay!
Matt: You decide a bramble shot as you hit.
Laura: Oh, sweet! DC of 17.
Matt: DC of 17? Not with an eight.
Laura: She's restrained!
Matt: She's restrained.
Travis: Nice. That's huge.
Laura: 12, 13.
Sam: Pretty calm fight music, Matt.
Matt: The volume is really low on that speaker. My apologies.
Laura: 13 plus eight is 21.
Matt: There we go.
Laura: 21 plus eight is 29, plus 1d6 lightning damage. 29 plus six is 35! 35 on the first shot.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then 16. 24 on the second, and I was wrong, add two more to the first shot because I forgot I was using my bracers.
Matt: Okay, so 37, got it. So you (flying arrows) and fire both off as your broom is coasting inward from an arc and the first arrow catches her in the knee and she (yelps) and is still reaching for Taryon. However, as the arrow smashes into her, it bursts into a series of thorny vines that (whoosh) wrap around and ensnare her and she falls over, now bound like Taryon is for the moment. Falls on the ground. Whatever was in her hand stumbles forward.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: And she's like (grunts) reaching out just as the second arrow hits her in the back and (groans) gives out a yelp in pain. Vax.
Liam: What distance am I right now, would you say?
Matt: You almost closed the distance with your movement.
Travis: Get in there, Barry Allen.
Liam: Okay, but am I within 50 feet? 60 feet?
Matt: You're within 60 feet.
Liam: 60 feet? All right, so I'm going to throw Whisper at her, and she's brambled.
Matt: She's restrained; you have advantage.
Liam: Right. Yeah, that hits. That's a 32. I'm going to bamf there on this one, right up to her. That is four plus eight is 12, plus this guy makes it 19, plus these guys. Now we do some more math. 20, 26, 27, 31, 34, 39, 42. With Whisper, right into her back, and then click the Boots of Haste and then I'm going to scuttle to Tary and cut ropes. He's probably within ten feet, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's like five feet from her.
Liam: All right, so I'm cutting him totally loose and I'm going to lift him away. Whatever you'll let me do. Action, action, bonus action, right, and movement to get there.
Matt: Well, no. Your movement was to get there, your action was to attack her, and so you have your bonus action, still.
Liam: Then I'll use it to cut him loose.
Matt: Okay, you begin to cut him loose. Because there's a lot of ropes around him, there's not a single binding.
Liam: Okay. Good enough.
Matt: All right, so now it's her turn. She's bound on the ground. Coughs up blood as she's suffered a severe amount of damage in just a few moments. As she's lying there on the ground, the vines twisting around her, she goes, "Wait. Wait. (sighs) Stop." And she's going to... what's the DC?
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. She does manage to break free from the restraints. She breaks free from the vines, and then she puts her hands up. That's her turn.
Laura: Can I land?
Matt: Yeah. If anyone else wants to take any of their actions right now, we're technically not in initiative order. She's put her hands up.
Taliesin: I'm slowly making my way a little closer to the action, but I'm going to find a place where I can watch both sides of the road and also what's happening off the road right now.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I'm writing my name in the path with a stick.
Laura: I'm grabbing the thing that she was trying to grab.
Marisha: Same as Percy, but as a crow.
Taliesin: Actually, if you come-- well, that would be interesting, actually.
Marisha: (caws)
Matt: What you find on the ground is a small marble, similar in size to the one that you saw attached to the side of Doty earlier, but it's a different color. The one that you saw earlier was a bluish tint, a light blue tint. This one appears clear.
Laura: Can I pick it up? I'll pocket that shit.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I stand up yet? Am I still tied up?
Matt: At the moment, as all of you begin to converge and close in on her, she just has her hands up at this point. I'd say for the next minute or so, you get cut free, yeah. You still have your armor on, you still have all your equipment that was on you. Yeah, she took everything with you. You're not robbed. You were just bound and taken.
Liam: You all right, T?
Sam: I will, yeah. (panting) What took you people so long? I was on a horse for what felt like days!
Liam: Well, initially we thought you could handle it.
Sam: No! You know me better than that!
Laura: We're here, aren't we?
Matt: You do have a massive headache, by the way. It's pounding.
Sam: Please tell me that someone brought my toothbrush.
Laura: Your breath smells disgusting right now.
Sam: Please don't smell it. I'm very embarrassed. I went to sleep. I don't know what this is! I mean. She's taking me. She's paid by my father, probably.
Ashley: What's your name?
Matt: "K'ryyn."
All: K'ryyn?
Sam: And what, you work for my father? On a regular basis?
Matt: "I was contracted by your father. This is the first time."
Laura: Just to find him? And bring him back?
Matt: "That's what I do."
Laura: How much were you being paid? I want to know how much he's worth.
Liam: You're not really in a position of power here, darling.
Matt: "Upon delivery, I was to be paid 5,000 gold pieces."
Sam: Oh, that's nearly nothing. I'm worth far more than that.
Laura: You know his father has way more money than that.
Liam: You are rose gold.
Sam: I am.
Laura: How long ago did he send you?
Matt: "He sent me out on this job about two months back."
Laura: It took that long to find him? Does anyone in this town, Deastok, know about Whitestone? Know where you found him?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge. I don't care about people in this town. I was called here to pick up the contract, and I left."
Laura: What guild do you work for?
Matt: "I work for no guild. I am a solo agent."
Sam: So cool.
Laura: Can I insight check her?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: She's so cool. 17.
Matt: 17? She's hard to read. By nature and by business, you get the sense, and at this point as you're looking at her, she sees you glaring and looking over her intensely, she (sighs) takes one hand up under her hood and presses her thumb to the side of what looks like a small circlet, and her image shimmers and you now see before you the drow elf that was described to you, wincing as the sun is still in the sky and you can see, while the illusion did not seem to give off that, she's physically not enjoying being under direct sunlight.
Liam: Bet you're glad for that cloud cover today, aren't you?
Matt: "It's been helpful. That's why I prefer to do most of my work in Wildmount."
Liam: What should we do here?
Sam: Well, we should bind her and search her. Make sure she's not holding any weapons or anything.
Travis: You were just supposed to bring Tary back to his dad?
Matt: "That is all. Unharmed. I took great care to make sure he was not harmed. I have a business I run based purely on reputation."
Sam: I respect that, but I did get a bruise right here from the horse falling over, so I'm not totally okay.
Matt: "That is, apparently, an issue for you to take up with your friends."
Travis: Tary, I thought you left your home. Or were you kicked out?
Sam: I left.
Travis: Yeah?
Sam: Yes. I left of my own accord.
Laura: Did you leave suddenly, without any word, or did they know you were leaving?
Sam: They knew I was leaving.
Liam: And how do you want to play this? Because your pops wants you back, obviously.
Sam: Well, this is just some paid shithead, so I don't think we should kill her or anything like that.
Laura: What happens if you don't deliver your quarry?
Matt: "Then my contract is broken, I do not get paid, and it is a blight on future business."
Travis: Are you armed? Somebody remove her weapons so she can put her arms down.
Matt: You pat her down? Yeah, she has two daggers, one placed in each boot, stealthily hidden. She has a shortbow that is over her chest and shoulder, and a side quiver of about 40 arrows.
Laura: Oh shit! These are good arrows.
Matt: She goes, "Thank you."
Laura: Just noticed the good work, that's all.
Matt: "I make them myself."
Laura: I show her one of my owlbear arrows.
Matt: "Owlbear?"
Laura: I know. (laughter)
Liam: What do you want to do?
Sam: I want to take her belongings and send her on her way.
Travis: You don't want to see her dead?
Sam: That's a separate question, isn't it?
Travis: Yep.
Sam: We're very close-- proximity, I mean. Seems foolish not to at least go have it out with him. This is unacceptable behavior, I think, in any relationship. This is not cool, right?
Laura: No, he should have offered way more money for you.
Sam: Well, yes, there's that, too.
Travis: She did surrender. I'm just thinking, maybe we go in, she gets paid, she keeps her reputation, and then you can--
Sam: You want her to get paid? She kidnapped me!
Ashley: You should still make your dad pay, though!
Sam: What?!
Ashley: You could say, I would've come here--
Sam: She committed a crime against me. I don't want her to get money!
Matt: As you're having this conversation, she slowly puts her hands down.
Liam: I'm still watching.
Travis: And she surrendered, right?
Sam: I'm sorry. I guess I was raised with a different appreciation for money, but Pike, your family came in and robbed us and you gave them a bunch of gold. Then this person kidnapped me, and you want to give her 5,000 gold.
Laura: Well, we don't want to give her 5,000 gold. We want your dad to have to give her 5,000 gold.
Ashley: And if you show up with all of us and her, say you could've just called, I would've shown up, but you still have to pay her.
Sam: You think he'll be guilted?
Ashley: Well, I don't know. I don't know him.
Taliesin: I think it might be an easy way into the city.
Sam: I live in the city. I'll just walk in!
Travis: Maybe she owes us one after this.
Sam: It's my house!
Laura: Should we all be in disguise?
Liam: Are you sure you're cool to walk in right now?
Sam: Yes! I'm Taryon fucking Darrington. People shake when they see me walking down the street here.
Ashley: You know, she was able to find you. Maybe she could also find somebody else for us.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Who?
Ashley: A very good friend.
Laura: I think that's a wonderful idea.
Travis: Yeah. Maybe she owes us one. K'ryyn, would you like to owe us a favor if we let you live, and get you paid, and you keep your reputation all on the same day?
Matt: "To be perfectly honest, this is an offer I very well cannot refuse, given the circumstances. If you are serious."
Laura: We are. We want you to find someone.
Matt: "Then find them, I will."
Sam: I abstain! With an attitude!
Travis: Noted. All in favor of getting her paid, letting her live, and earning a favor?
Ashley: Well, hold on, Tary. If you had it your way, what would you want?
Travis: What are you doing?
Ashley: Majority rules, but let's hear what you have to say.
Sam: I would like an apology.
Taliesin: I think that's fair.
Laura: That's fair.
Ashley: That's fair.
Matt: Her eyes become these narrow slits and the jaw clenches. "I apologize for any discomfort or embarrassment my retrieval of you may have caused."
Laura: That's a good apology.
Sam: And as to the amount that was promised, do you think that was a fair amount?
Travis: Oh, this is a bit much.
Matt: "It was my standard rate."
Sam: I accept your apology. And as I said, I admire your diligence and faith to your contract. You don't get any of your belongings back! Is that all right?
All: (negative noises)
Laura: She might need it.
Sam: You don't get any of your magical belongings back! I want it.
Laura: Well, I want you to look at them. I want to know what it is.
Sam: Yeah. But we'll, I guess, walk in together and you can present me to my father. This seems so stupid, but sure, I'll go along with it.
Laura: And then you'll help us out.
Matt: "Very well. It seems we are at an accord."
Liam: I'm going to yank Vex aside, actually.
Laura: Well, I'm going to shake her hand before-- shit.
Liam: Are you talking about what I think you are talking about?
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: You want to send her after your friend?
Laura: Our friend.
Liam: You think he wants a mercenary showing up in his life, looking for him? Think about it.
Laura: He could be dead.
Liam: He's doing what he wants to do.
Ashley: Did I overhear them?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: How quiet were you guys being?
Taliesin: Pretty quiet.
Matt: You glean elements of the conversation.
Liam: I wasn't trying to hide it.
Matt: Yeah, you get the gist of what they were talking about.
Ashley: Okay. She doesn't have to bring him or anything, it could be just looking, bring us information if she sees him.
Travis: Like a two-day report.
Ashley: We don't have to! We don't have to do it, but I do like the idea of this woman-- this woman had a job to do. It's not her fault. I'm sorry, Tary, but I do feel like we need to let her complete her mission.
Taliesin: It's a bit her fault.
Sam: Fine. And then we can send her to look after that little creep that you're always talking about.
Liam: When you were in Vasselheim--
Laura: It was a cube, Tary. Like a cube.
Sam: That's gross. That's disgusting.
Liam: How would you feel if you learned that we'd sent someone to watch you? He left. He wanted to go. He wanted to be away from us.
Ashley: I know.
Liam: If he wants to come back, I want him back.
Ashley: I know, but I feel like he should've come back already.
Laura: What if he's dead?
Ashley: What if he's dead?
Liam: What if he's being a father to his child? What if he's enjoying his life?
Travis: Boring.
Ashley: If that's the case, then maybe she can tell us that and then we'll leave it alone. But what if he's dead?
Taliesin: Why doesn't she just owe us one favor to be claimed later?
Ashley: Yes, I like that idea.
Marisha: I fly down to Pike's shoulder and I go, (caws).
Laura: Yeah, I know, right?
Ashley: See, she thinks-- I like that idea. She owes us a favor at some point.
Travis: But I want to find Scanlan!
Ashley: Maybe we should table it.
Sam: Yeah, let's go talk to my dad and get this settled, and then we'll figure out your next assignment or whatever.
Laura: You'll hang out, though? You're not going to disappear?
Matt: "I have business still to make, and you have been merciful, so I will remain."
Marisha: I fly over to Percy's shoulder and I go, (caws).
Taliesin: I am Groot.
Matt: "Very well. Into the city, then?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: She looks back at her horse. "I assume we'll be walking. Very well." And her image shimmers once more to the pale-skinned blonde woman in the same outfit, and you all walk along with her through the forest, down the path, through the farm fields, making your way to the outskirts of Deastok. As you are making your way up the hillside path, one of the patrol guards comes down on horseback, crossbow slung over his shoulder and his hand on the side of his sword as he glances down and goes, "Hail, you there!" And as soon as he glances over the group of you. "Mister Darrington, welcome home."
Sam: Thank you. These are my friends. They should be treated with respect.
Matt: "Of course. Good day."
Travis: Bidet.
Taliesin: Bidet.
Matt: He continues clomping by, (hoofbeats), making his way down the rest of his patrol.
Taliesin: It's going to be a dark window, isn't it? This entire trip.
Sam: No, the town was never the problem. It's a fine place to grow up.
Taliesin: I'm very curious. Let's see this place.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and drop form so I'm not a bird.
Taliesin: Ow! Oh god!
Marisha: Oh, I always forget that. I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: That's all right, it's not my shooting arm.
Marisha: I'm learning, still.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: Sorry!
Taliesin: It's okay.
Marisha: Here, let me just--
Taliesin: Yeah, ow. Yeah.
Marisha: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll need a bit more later. Thanks.
Laura: Tary?
Sam: Yeah, oi?
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: For what?
Laura: Well, you know.
Sam: No, you're right. We can't punish people who are just hired to do a job. It's fine.
Laura: It's how we all started out, really.
Sam: Yes, I hired you.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: He's got a point.
Sam: And now, we're so close! Here, let's go to my dad's house, but... I need to make an entrance. I'll be on broom.
Laura: Can I be on broom, too, though?
Sam: Yes. Behind me. And I should be front and center. You guys can flank--
Laura: Flying V behind you.
Sam: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: I catch up to Tary a little bit and I go, hey! Are you special in some way? Is there something about you that's magical and special?
Sam: Is this a trick question? There's everything. Most things are special about me.
Marisha: That's true. Is there a reason a vampire would want you?
Sam: What? There's vampires here?
Marisha: Do you have special blood?
Sam: No? Wait, what?
Marisha: Can I look at your eyes?
Sam: I mean, sure? They're the bluest of blue.
Marisha: That's true! Do you know anything about your bloodline? Is there something about you? I feel like I have an essence about you now.
Travis: How much of her brains were left in the rocks?
Laura: I know, she got rattled.
Matt: Yeah, she's gone full Phoebe from Friends.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: I'm off to the side with Grog going one, two, three, shoot!
Sam: My town here, it doesn't have very many high hills, but still, stay on the ground, will you?
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: As you guys make your way into the actual city of Deastok, the architecture here is very tall and as intricate as it is old. The stonework is edged and almost sharp in places, the shape and design of most roofs and windows leaning towards the gothic. You can see similar roots here to some of Whitestone's older buildings and architecture, common space where the original de Rolos traveled once from Wildmount. The architecture here, as opposed to the more built-for-function that a lot of you are used to in Tal'Dorei, anywhere from huts to, I want to push almost Tudor to colonial, this definitely has tall stone archways, tall stained-glass windows, in places. A lot of the buildings, edges, and roofs will come to tiny metal spires where points or occasionally flags or tapestries would hang from in the wind. Very different visual feel than anything you've seen over in Tal'Dorei. As you guys make your way through the streets, in the presentational mode of which Taryon has requested, people do stop and stare. You can hear whispers, some folks pointing, some of the patrols gather to keep a close eye as you pass. No excitement, no parade, no cursing or aggression, just acknowledgement of the arrival of these strangers and a very flashy lord. Eventually, you lead them to the Darrington estate. This is a large, three-story building surrounded by tall, iron pike-topped gates that surround the somewhat octagonal shape of the grounds. The main gate is watched by a single man in a simple leather outfit and a metallic helmet. Who, as he sees you approach goes, "Have you-- sir! Welcome home!"
Sam: Thank you. Tell the master of the house that we've arrived.
Matt: "Yes. Right away, sir!" Opens the gate and rushes off to the front door and disappears inside for a moment. The door opens again, and you see emerging from it a very tall, thin, brass-scaled dragonborn with very fine clothing. His lack of tail speaks of his Ravinite lineage. You recognize this individual as Berthold; he is the servant of the house and quarters. As he approaches he goes, "Oh, Master Taryon, it has been some time! Good to see you in good health!"
Sam: Yes, excellent to see you, too. You've been keeping the grounds quite nice.
Matt: "We've been doing our best. I take it you--" and he looks over to the woman K'ryyn, goes, "You--" "Yes, I would like to complete my contract." "Very well. Please, follow me inside. This way." The dragonborn turns around. He almost towers over you; he's this spindling tree of a dragonborn. As he leads you into the home, you watch him; he has to dip down to enter the interior of the house. As you step inside the estate, you're immediately hit with the smell of musty carpets, wood oil stain, and some since turned-to-smoke-and-embers burning wood in a fireplace. You see immediately in the darkly lit interior fine tables and well-crafted furniture that clutter hallways, holding vases and dried flowers that probably have been in long need of a change. It's eerily silent. It seems, at least on this floor, empty of pretty much all life except for Berthold. He begins to walk up the stairs. "Right this way. You know." And he heads up the second flight of stairs to the very top of the interior of the estate, and there is the very heavy oak door that marks the study quarters of your father. He knocks lightly on the door. "Master Howard, you have some unexpected guests, including the one you hired to bring your son home. And is here with your son." There's a pause. You hear a voice on the other side say, "Let them enter." The door creaks open. (creak) Berthold steps back. "I'll wait here." He bows and gestures for you all to step into the room. As you guys step into this study you see, standing right across from you, looking into the fireplace, you occasionally hear the crack and the snap of what looks to be a halfway burned fire. A human man in his late forties. His short blond hair is receding to the top of his head. You can see the firelight glistening across his somewhat oily forehead, and two heavy sideburns that are an uncombed mass that frame the sides of his very hardened square jaw. He is dressed in a nobleman's coat and breeches, though his shoes are nowhere to be seen. Just barefoot on the ground. He looks over and sees you enter and looks towards Taryon and his hardened face turns to a softened smile. "My son."
Sam: Papa.
Matt: He looks over to the woman, K'ryyn. "What I've heard is true, and I thank you for your time. Berthold will see that you are paid." She nods. There is a nod to you.
Sam: You'll wait for us outside the grounds, and we'll give you your next assignment soon.
Matt: "That is the arrangement." She leaves the room and you hear Berthold walking alongside her and chatting with her about payment as she leaves. As soon as they walk down the stairs he turns and goes, "I am glad to see you are well."
Sam: Are you? You sent that woman to kidnap me.
Matt: "I sent that woman to bring you home. To see that you were safe."
Sam: She bound and gagged me and threw me on the back of a horse. That's how you brought me home?
Matt: "You're a hard man to find when you want to be."
Sam: I am literally the least hard man to find. I tell everyone my name, I wear a gold helmet, and I walk around talking about myself.
Matt: His smile fades for a moment. "And yet you were very far from these lands."
Sam: Yes, I was. I was living a new life, as I told you I would. I was finding myself and becoming someone.
Matt: "That is good. Just know that I was worried. You fill your head with these fantasies and ideals and step out into the unknown. Do you know how many men and women are found gutted in the streets and left and abandoned to rot away in forests by some bandits on the roadside? Not to mention the various beasts of the wild out there. I was worried about you."
Sam: Well, I was in danger for much of my time away, but that's not a bad thing, sometimes. Becoming an adventurer or whatever I am now, it wasn't supposed to be easy. It was supposed to be hard, and it was, and it had risks. But along the way, I did much, and I stand before you now as a different man than who left. One who has been through a lot and knows the dangers of the world, but is also a survivor. You know, when I left, I told you I was going to prove myself to you. That I would bring you back stories of my exploits and show you what kind of a man I really was. And I wrote a lot of them down in a book, but I don't think I want to show it to you, because I don't think you deserve to see it. You never supported me as a child, and you don't now. Financially, yes, but not as a father. And the things I did while I was away-- well, the book is a diary now. It's for me, not for you.
Matt: "Taryon... while my parenting may have been strict or distant at times, I didn't reflect on my care for you. We have a legacy in this family to maintain."
Sam: Yes, I know. That's all you seem to care about.
Matt: "That's all that matters."
Sam: It's not all that matters. I know that I carry your blood and that means a lot to you.
Matt: "This money that you seem to relish in, that you took without asking, the last of our coffers. Your grandfather started this, and I've done everything to maintain it. And your interests, your attention, could not be brought to learn and maintain this business after me, so I've had to turn to Maryanne. It's not that I don't love you, but you have another purpose in this family. And that is why I've brought you here."
Sam: And what is that?
Matt: And you watch as his hands are shaking and he's fidgeting and scratching his chin and running his fingers through his sideburns. "We're impoverished. I haven't been able to pay our staff in nearly two months. Everything that I had to do to maintain this legacy has come back to bear fruit, and the debt that we owe is vast."
Sam: I don't believe you. Where's the money? Where's the family money?
Matt: He looks around at the rest of you, and you can see now there is trepidation with having this conversation in front of strangers.
Sam: It's all right. They're with me.
Matt: He reaches over and grabs off his desk an already opened bottle of some sort of wine. Takes a quick swig and sets it down. Slumps into his chair in front of the fire and rests his face on his hand. "Everything your grandfather Oberon built, it's on the verge of fading away. All the taxes we claim on our lands now go straight to a syndicate that we owe a lot of money to. Unless we find a way to pay off the debts of your father and his father before him, we will all be thrown into the cold or worse. Now, I've seen this storm coming for a while, Taryon. I've spent years trying to coax a family union with the Truscans; you know this. After much toil and diplomacy, they have agreed to wed you to their daughter Lydia. This union will bring our family a renewed avenue to wealth and protection within the empire! We can stave off this terrible end, and you will be a hero within the family."
Sam: I don't understand. The way we lived, the way you talked, made it seem like there was endless money, forever.
Matt: "This stems to your lack of respect."
Sam: My lack of respect? What happened? How did you ruin us like this?
Laura: What is this syndicate you speak of?
Matt: His eyes dart to you with a fiery hatred, like how dare you speak up right now. "When your grandfather passed, when you were still but a baby, our lands were nearly taken from us by a rival barony from within the Dwendalian court. Lord Jaipher found loopholes to revoking our ownership and titles set by Oberon and in my panic and necessity, I found an ally in the Myriad."
Sam: In the Myriad?
Matt: "Through a whispered hint, I met a man named Korshad, who ensured our surviving ownership in trade for a partnership with him. I signed, not wanting to toss, at the time, my only child onto the street. But as the decades passed, I did not realize in my haste, the depths of the deal that I had made. And with many harvests failing in recent years, the agreement now devours our livelihood from within. They now demand our accrued debt paid in full or they take full ownership of everything."
Sam: I'm having trouble wrapping my head around this. You're saying everything I've lived has all been built on this deal with this shady group? You're a criminal? You're just a criminal.
Matt: "No. No, it is built on what we built as a family."
Sam: We didn't build anything as a family!
Matt: "We did, and nearly had it taken away. I did this to maintain it. And I let you live as you all deserved to live."
Sam: But Papa, you never told me any of this. You were cold to us, and you told us a bare minimum of what you did and how you ran things.
Matt: "I hoped to find a way to fix this before I needed to, yet here I am, prostrate before my own child. Broken." And he starts, like, tears just pour down his cheeks. "I was just trying to make it right."
Sam: I didn't know any of this. How would I? And now I have to fix it for you by marrying some girl?
Matt: "It's a marriage of convenience."
Sam: That's still a marriage.
Matt: "It means nothing more than political gain. Your life is still yours to live."
Sam: No, it's not! I have to be here, I have to be with her. I have to live in her castle or she in mine. (sighs) Listen, I've learned a lot from these people over the last year or so. And one thing I've learned is that you are who you are whether you have a lot of money or not. And I don't have that much anymore and I'm still okay with that. And it's not because of the things I own, it's because of the deeds that I do. You've done some bad deeds in your life, and it sounds like you've done them to preserve our family and preserve our legacy, but that's not a reason to do them.
Matt: He leans forward to you and looks to you with an honest, more honest than you've seen him, very vulnerable expression. "Every man and woman who has money has done bad things."
Sam: Yes, I'm sure that's true. And I assume I'm somehow complicit in this.
Matt: "You are not. I tried to keep you, your sister, and your mother as innocent as I could. My back is to a wall now."
Sam: I'll have to think about this.
Matt: "Think on it. The choice is still yours; I would not force you into this, but it is a chance I wish you to contemplate."
Sam: What have you done to our name? Do people know of this?
Matt: "No."
Sam: And if I marry this girl, it will just all go away?
Matt: "If you marry this girl, we will have the influence and the wealth to pay this debt and cut ties with the Myriad entirely. We would be a free family once more."
Laura: How much debt are we talking?
Matt: "The last amount we were given  230,000 gold."
Laura: Well. That's a lot.
Ashley: Is there any other way than marriage that you can think of?
Matt: "I've exhausted the options I have at my disposal."
Laura: What if we just wipe out the Myriad?
Matt: He laughs.
Sam: They're far too big.
Matt: "You underestimate the sheer size and how ingrained they are in the society here. This is no guild. Wildmount is the Myriad in many ways."
Sam: And if I say no and they take all of our possessions and our estate, everything, what then? We're ruined.
Matt: "We're on the street. We are but beggars within our own city, at the mercy of those we've been taxing."
Sam: How could you do this to us?
Matt: "Because I loved you. I loved you all, and I did what was necessary."
Sam: You never told us that. You always talked about bloodlines and legacies and the Darrington name. But you never told us you were proud. You never comforted us. You never cared what I wanted to do or who I wanted to be. I'm cursed with this name now, Darrington. You've sullied our name by enforcing these taxes and just being an asshole to everyone around our whole city, and now I have to live with it or marry this girl to save it. Listen, I'm sorry I left, and I'm sorry I took all of that gold. I did not know it was everything. But what you're asking me is-- I'll need to think. I'm sorry.
Matt: "I owe you that, at least. I never claimed to be a good man. I never claimed to be a good father, good husband, but I can try to be better, can't I?"
Sam: Yes, you can. I'm going to go see Mother and Sister. Might my friends stay here the night?
Matt: "Of course, and enjoy the grounds while you can."
Laura: This Korshad, and the Myriad, where do you meet with him?
Matt: "It's been some time, but if you wish to seek him out, ask for who you can speak with the Many, in the Grumpy Lily."
Sam: Grumpy Lillian?
Matt: The Grumpy Lily. You know this to be one of the seedier bars in town.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Laura: And I'm asking to speak with the Many?
Matt: You're wishing to speak with the Many.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Well, good to see you. Have a good afternoon.
Matt: "I'm glad you're safe."
Sam: Thank you. It's good to see you again.
Matt: "You too. More than you know, my son."
Laura: Do we leave the room?
Sam: Yes, let's leave the room.
Liam: We could have cut that air with a knife.
Laura: So here's the thing, though. You said he like hated you, and he didn't seem like he hated you at all!
Sam: He's acting differently than I recall. It's been a while. I'm not used to seeing him like this, and honestly, I don't know how to take it.
Laura: Well, you can't marry that bitch.
Ashley: You can't marry her.
Sam: It seems like I have to.
Laura: No, you don't.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: Got to do it.
Sam: Grog says I do.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Simplest. The shortest distance between two--
Ashley: Two points.
Travis: Yep. Is--
Sam: Marriage.
Travis: Marriage. Yep.
Laura: You're getting so smart, Grog! So smart.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Liam: I know some about the Myriad, correct?
Matt: You've encountered them once. Back in Stillben, back at the very beginning of your adventures. The very beginning.
Taliesin: Not me.
Matt: Percy, this is the first you've heard.
Marisha: Wait, you?
Laura: He wasn't with us yet. We had that other guy he was playing. (laughter)
Liam: Rusty. Rusty Trombone?
Taliesin: Rusty Trombone.
Sam: He was a weird character choice.
Matt: That's a good name for an artificer. (laughter)
Matt: As you exit the study and close the door behind you, left in the cold, quiet silence of the house, you continue your conversation.
Taliesin: Where is your sister?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: How much money did you take when you left?
Sam: I thought a meager amount. 50,000 gold.
Marisha: That's a lot.
Laura: But, I mean, considering the debt that they're in.
Marisha: That's literally more than my entire tribe owns.
Laura: Well, we have a lot more than that in our party fund.
Marisha: I know. We own more than my tribe owns.
Taliesin: I own more than your tribe owns.
Marisha: I know. I will say, Tary, I think you are special. You have very large dangling bits. Along with your earring. Very large other bits.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: We were working on that particular compliment, and I feel like we have a little way to go.
Marisha: Is it all right? No? I thought that was a compliment.
Sam: Tell her she did good.
Travis: Are you cool with your sister?
Sam: No. I'm not cool with my sister. She's not that great.
Travis: Is she married?
Taliesin: Do you think she knows about this?
Sam: I guess. I suppose she knows about this.
Marisha: And the last time you spoke with her was when you left, I'm assuming?
Sam: Yes, that's right. She was being groomed as the heir to the family, and I was being shut out. My mother is here somewhere, too. She's pretty quiet.
Taliesin: What do you want to do?
Sam: I guess talk to them, but we can't go after the Myriad; they're powerful and dark.
Travis: What if we offer services, and they excuse part of the debt?
Sam: No, he offered services, and look where it got him.
Ashley: Do you know Lydia?
Matt: You've never met Lydia in your life. You don't even know what she looks like.
Taliesin: I'm not even sure if that's something that should be entertained.
Sam: We could go talk to them, but I don't see how that's going to change anything.
Laura: Maybe she's a really cool girl that won't be into you and you can just hang out and be besties?
Sam: Gross.
Laura: Hey!
Sam: No. I like being besties with you. I don't want some rando.
Taliesin: It's not fair to her, either.
Marisha: It's not. Honestly, maybe we should just go talk to her first.
Sam: Lydia?
Laura: No, she's in a whole other town.
Ashley: Here's the thing, you're not going to marry her. Okay?
Sam: Why not?
Ashley: Because if he wants to be a better father to you, then he's going to let this go and not let you do this. If that means him being out on the street, that's my opinion.
Travis: That's harsh.
Sam: Everything he is, is his status, though. This place, where he lives, his servants. If he's got nothing, then he's just... he'll die.
Ashley: Sometimes, when you let that go, only then are you able to truly live.
Travis: Whoa.
Laura: Deep.
Sam: That is maybe true, but listen. I've been working on this for a year, and I'm starting to get really nervous. I'm down to my last few bits of gold, and I don't know how that would feel to run out.
Ashley: I don't even have any money.
Laura: Because you gave it all away.
Travis: Technically, I've got a lot of money.
Ashley: Money gives you everything you want.
Laura: It's the best thing.
Marisha: Hey, but you're thrifty. You're good.
Sam: No, I'm not thrifty.
Marisha: Yes, you are! Taryon, I've seen make amazing things. You can survive. You've been to the depths of the watery abyss. And you've lived, kind of.
Taliesin: That's a bad example.
Laura: I'm really wishing we had taken a lot more money from Thordak. If we had taken more money, everything would be fine right now.
Marisha: No! That's not the lesson of the story, you guys!
Sam: Yes, money would have solved this.
Marisha: No! Not the lesson, not the lesson we're supposed to take away!
Taliesin: No, I mean he's right that money would have solved this. But that's not the lesson. Keyleth is right.
Marisha: I don't have an alternative for the lesson. It's just not the lesson.
Taliesin: We're here. We can figure out a way out of this. We're smart, we're clever, we're powerful. And what's one more cliff?
Marisha: Yeah, we're gods!
Taliesin: Not again.
Travis: Not going to say that ever again.
Ashley: I say we go talk to the Many.
Laura: Yes, let's go talk to the Many.
Liam: I understand this is very complicated. Are we really looking for a solution to fix several generations of your family's misdeeds? It sounds like your father, your grandfather have been navigating murky waters for some time.
Taliesin: I want to find out what your sister knows.
Liam: I don't know what the right decision is, either. Do you marry this woman to fix decades of terrible decisions?
Taliesin: I don't necessarily see how two wrongs right anything here. It's just really kicking the ball down the road while you make another random human being you have not met miserable.
Laura: That's right.
Sam: I assume I would be a fine husband.
Laura: You'd be amazing.
Sam: I feel like I'd be okay.
Liam: You make really good blondies, and many things besides blondies, as well.
Taliesin: Oh, this is so depressing. I'm not going to even pretend that this is true. Absolutely not. No. You'll be miserable, and that will make her miserable.
Sam: Yes, it's true.
Liam: So if we know that that's not happening, then we deal with the problem that is left behind. Which is: do we worry about your family's life, their safety? Are they safe here, or are they gonna be eaten alive?
Sam: I'd assume they are not safe here. We'd have to convince them to leave, or protect them somehow, or make a deal to at least protect them in poverty.
Laura: Maybe we just talk to the Myriad, talk to Korshad and see what we can do. Maybe he needs something, and we can provide it.
Taliesin: We are bad news for anybody like that. I'm sure it would be worth their time to get us out of town, possibly get you out of town. You can't be good for business.
Sam: All right. Well, a quick stop to talk to my sister, possibly, and then let's go at least investigate this contact.
Liam: God, this sucks.
Sam: I appreciate you all being here for me. I'm sorry. I didn't realize that this was going to happen and I don't want-- if you fellows want to go back and just continue on, I can solve this.
Liam: Nah, man! You're one of us now!
Laura: Just next time you get abducted by a bounty hunter, give us some warning, would you?
Sam: I'll try. Maybe I should sleep with bells on.
Laura: That would be a good idea.
Liam: You're halfway there.
Sam: Percy, can you make me some?
Taliesin: Some bells? Absolutely. I'm going to regret this, but yes.
Travis: Don't do it, man. They tried to make me wear bells. Don't let them hold you down.
Laura: I thought you liked that hat.
Taliesin: I like that you approve of the arranged marriage, but it's the bells that really--
Travis: Yeah, you don't get to keep eyes on me all hours of the day.
Sam: All right, I'll walk through the place and look for sis.
Matt: Okay, and we'll pick up there next week, as it is 11:00, we'll pick this up.
Laura: Your dad is not what I expected!
Ashley: No!
Sam: (singing) Me, neither!
Laura: Ugh!
Sam: Mercer!
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: What?
Laura: You have a way of taking our backstories that we think we've created and then just flipping it on us.
Taliesin: Nothing happened.
Sam: No, Grog jumped off a roof and died.
Marisha: Was it 1,000 feet? Yeah, all right.
Liam: He actually can take that much damage, though.
Marisha: 360 points?
Travis: Yeah, raging, reduced to half. Yep.
Marisha: Technically, I don't think falling damage counts as weapon damage. I don't know if you can take half damage.
Matt: Well, bludgeoning, it would.
Taliesin: Bludgeoning.
Laura: Damn it! (laughs)
Marisha: Oh, half damage.
Laura: How many hit points do you have?
Travis: A lot.
Taliesin: He doesn't like to brag.
Matt: Awesome, guys. We'll see how this goes.
Travis: There's not a lot of real sound family structures in this campaign.
Ashley: We all have such terrible families.
Laura: We all have shitty families.
Travis: Let this be a lesson.
Liam: Mom was great.
Laura: Yeah, Mom was real great.
Liam: She was the best.
Taliesin: Every fucking moment of my backstory, man. I'm so excited for this shit.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Bonus backstory.
Matt: You guys keep creating-- you act like you didn't hand me backstories with traumatic relationships with your parents already.
Travis: You're so dark, man. Why do you make this shit up?
Liam: It was years ago!
Taliesin: One fucking page.
Matt: I take what I'm given, and I extrapolate.
Sam: Yeah, you do.
Taliesin: You came up with most of that shit off on your own. You didn't even write it down.
Sam: Yeah, for some of it I had.
Matt: Yeah, he had a lot of it, and then a few things from this.
Taliesin: Maryanne was off the cuff?
Sam: No, I think I had their names written down.
Matt: Yeah, you did.
Marisha: Well, for anyone who has been asking  I am okay. I did not leap off the cliff out of some weird parallel allegory.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Taliesin: I thought it was because your Logan's Run crystal started flashing.
Marisha: This was not a cry for help. Not a cry for help. I thought it was going to be dope. That's it. I just thought it was going to be cool as shit, and then it wasn't.
Matt: No, and then it was absolutely was cool as shit. What are you talking about? That's the kind of shit that makes D&D. Are you kidding me?
Marisha: Yeah, you'd know if it's a cry for help.
Travis: Yeah, great take-off, action was amazing. The finish, though, the landing--
Laura: Should have stuck the landing.
Matt: Everyone would have remembered a goldfish's entry into the ocean for five minutes. Everyone is going to remember Keyleth splattering across the rocks forever.
Taliesin: That goldfish wouldn't have remembered it very long either.
Liam: I've got this great trick, but I can only do it once.
Marisha: In my head, I was an awesome cartoon, and it worked.
Matt: And it would have, but it got down to the dice. As always, if I rolled lower than 50%, it would have been fine.
Marisha: 100d6 dice, yeah.
Matt: Percentage dice is what I meant, but anyway. All right, guys. Have a good night, a good weekend, rest well, and we'll see you guys next week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Close. Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons, rolling dice and shit. So welcome! Always awkward. Anyway, before we get into the game, we're going to do some quick announcements for the evening. First off, we had our recent 100th episode, and I think we have some merch in there. Laura, any updates?
Laura: Oh my gosh, all that crazy merch that we have! We have those posters, you guys, those amazing David Mack posters that look so pretty. The signed versions are going to be in the store for one more week, and the non-signed version is going to be in the store for two more weeks! And that's it, and then they're gone forever. So tell your friends, tell your buddies, tell everyone you know.
Travis: Hide your neighbors, hide your wife.
Laura: That's right. And we also have our Scanlan concert tees and our Slayer's Cake aprons. Our hats are out of stock, but everything else should be in there if you guys want to go check it out.
Matt: Fantastic.
Laura: In the shop at Geekandsundry.com.
Liam: Sold.
Marisha: Word.
Matt: Thank you, Laura.
Laura: Hey, you're welcome.
Matt: That's so sweet. All right, that is that. Let's see, here else. Just a reminder, the Tal'Dorei campaign guide pre-orders go on sale mid-July. You can go to the Green Ronin website for info on that, and it will be released physically bound at Gen Con first, and then it will be coming out weeks after that on the interwebs. Check out Green Ronin's site for all that information! And we're excited about Gen Con insanity, so see you guys there. Let's see. Wednesday Club? Mr. Taliesin Jaffe?
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got something special planned, but I don't know if it's official yet, but I think that we are going to be celebrating Pride Month, and we may have a special guest. I can't say for sure, but we're going to be talking.
Sam: It's Stan Lee.
Taliesin: It's Stan Lee. He's coming out on our show.
Liam: You heard it here first.
Taliesin: He and his pansexual adventures throughout comicdom. Excelsior. It's going to be fun. It'll be a thing.
Matt: Go watch it, true believers!
Taliesin: Possible special guest.
Matt: I love it. Check it out, special guest for Wednesday Club next week. Awesome. Thank you, Taliesin.
Liam: Why limit myself to just one?
Sam: That's Gilbert Gottfried?
Matt: All right. Also, we have Talks Machina Tuesdays at seven PM Pacific time here, on Twitch and Alpha, to discuss what you'll watch tonight on this episode.
Travis: Getting turnt.
Matt: Yes, that. Thank you, Sam. That's okay. Well done.
Taliesin: It's really pleasing in the hand, isn't it?
Marisha: That's what she said.
Matt: And I think that's it. Quick announcements this evening. Nice and quick. I like it. That means we get to dive back into the story here, guys!
Taliesin: Should we mention that we had to reprint some character sheets, or are we not mentioning that? I've now said it online.
Matt: Yeah! A few characters levelled. We have a few folks at 18 now, so that's fun.
Taliesin: Old enough to get in trouble for drinking.
Laura: Do you want to make a special announcement?
Ashley: So, special announcement about my hair. No. There's a time jump in Blindspot, so I'm here.
Sam: Spoiler!
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Do they just assume your character doesn't go to the salon and cut your hair? Is that not a thing?
Laura: But they're so pretty!
Ashley: I love them. So much hair!
Liam: Did your character in the time jump go to the Feywild, or go sailing on the sea?
Matt: I'm pretty sure she makes her own bakery cake store. It's going to be great. It's called the Slayer's Bake. Anyway, guys, I think that's it, and that being the case, let's go ahead and hop into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back. So last we left off--
Laura: Wait, do I put that on my saving throws, too?
Travis: Are you serious?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: We need to share it with the world. Laura just leveled up, and her attack bonus went down.
Laura: Because I was doing it wrong this whole time. Yep.
Matt: Oh boy. Anyway. Last we left off, Vox Machina had discovered the existence of a second ziggurat-like structure on the continent of Marquet, and apparently a cult of the Whispered One there gathering magical artifacts to toss into a second darkened black orb, similar to the one beneath Whitestone, all this time. You ran into Scanlan once more, and leading you guys to where this cavern was found in the mountains of Smouldercrown on the continent of Marquet, you did battle with the cultists there, and seemed to reveal one of the leaders in that group was none other than the not-dead Delilah Briarwood. She fended you off, completed their ritual, and some of their surviving cultists fled into the orb apparently to the other side. You then gathered yourselves, gathered some supplies, your information, and then proceeded to travel through the orb in Whitestone into the Shadowfell, the shadow plane, dark mirror to the Prime Material, where you stumbled upon a partially ruined city that had undergone some sort of ancient siege, and much of it still lies in ruins and disrepair, where you discovered what seemed to be two other siphon orbs existing around the outskirts of this forgotten city, leaving threads of magical energy being siphoned and transferred to a singular black obsidian tower, for whatever purpose the Whispered One, the Undying King, has for this energy. You began to make your way deeper into the city, masquerading as some undead. In the process you killed a few cultists wandering the street, and intimidated one-- Or, I should say, you didn't intimidate. You killed him, and then asked his corpse. I guess that's a form of intimidation. Probably one of the most extreme forms of intimidation, really. Discovering that this city is under the title Thar Amphala. Thar Amphala, you don't know too much about it, other than it seems to be where an ancient battle took place. Much of the undead that wanders this realm carries armaments, weapons, and symbols that seem to be of Pelor, the Dawn Father. You also discovered that there's this tower in the center titled Entropis, where all the magic is being funneled at the moment. Thus, having found this information, gathered your resolve, you continue your trek deeper and deeper into the city surrounding the tower Entropis, to discover what your purpose is here in Thar Amphala. So, Vox Machina, what do you do?
Liam: Figuring it all out.
Sam: Taking five.
Laura: Time out, time out, time out.
Ashley: Just hanging out.
Sam: So we found out that there's a ritual happening soon.
Laura: Yeah, like super stat.
Sam: And there's no day or night here, so who cares, right?
Laura: Right? It's all just night, all the time.
Matt: It's kind of a sunless gray sky. There's some low light, like a very heavy-- Like a very dark, thunderous Seattle.
Ashley: (singing) Hello Seattle! It's a song.
Travis: What song?
Ashley: I think it is.
Matt: It is now. So.
Sam: We have to make our way to the big tower, right? Super fast, and invisibly. Oh, we're also vampire creatures!
Laura: Oh, we look like the gloom stalkers! No, those are the flying ones.
Sam: We look like miscellaneous vampirey things, right?
Liam: Yeah, shambling zombies.
Laura: Scary ghouly creatures.
Taliesin: Extras from a bad zombie video.
Travis: Is Pass Without a Trace still kicking?
Sam: What?
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: I would say probably because you haven't cast a spell yet that would've interrupted it, it would be...
Laura: I cast it when we landed here.
Matt: But I don't think you've done anything that altered that concentration yet.
Laura: I don't think so. So it's still going?
Matt: I think so. For maybe another 30 minutes or so.
Laura: Yeah, I didn't Hunter's Mark either of the guys that I attacked.
Travis: And we've got the smoking thing, right? What's it called, the censer?
Laura: Yeah, that thing.
Travis: What is it?
Laura: The smoky thing.
Sam: The censer.
Travis: Is it called a censer?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: First try!
Liam: And we learned that it does something, too.
Sam: It protects you from ghouley deads.
Liam: From ghouley deads, specifically.
Ashley: Will it protect all of us?
Taliesin: I think it's got a range.
Laura: If we stay in this... tight.
Ashley: If we stay tight?
Taliesin: Stay tight.
Sam: So why don't we just walk through the center of town, in the middle of the road, with the censer, and walk into the tower? No? Maybe?
Laura: No. I see nothing wrong with this plan.
Sam: Fly up to the top of the tower?
Travis: Oh, no.
Taliesin: Stay on the ground.
Sam: Teleport somewhere?
Laura: Do you have that ability?
Sam: She does.
Laura: There's no trees on the top of the tower.
Sam: Or we can be smoky mist.
Laura: Then it'll take us a minute to not be mist anymore, and by then they'll realize we're there on the top of the tower.
Travis: Should we take off the robes that they had and pop it on some of us?
Laura: Sure, why not? I mean, we're undead. We look like we're undead.
Taliesin: I think they probably know we're here. I think they probably know we're coming. I think let's just trepidatiously make our way a little closer, see what else is in this town, see if maybe there's anything useful.
Liam: And stay low-key. We don't need to go marching.
Laura: Blend in.
Taliesin: Let's not blow anything up yet.
Sam: But we're making our way to the tower.
Taliesin: Making our way towards the tower, in a towerly direction.
Laura: Are we at full health?
Taliesin: No. I'm not.
Laura: I'm not either.
Ashley: I can help with that.
Laura: Should we take a 30-minute rest and roll some hit points?
Marisha: Did we fight? Oh, no, that's right, we went down going through.
Matt: Yeah, going through the actual portal, the spinning ball of death caused some damage.
Laura: I don't know if there's actually time for that, though, to take.
Taliesin: I'm all right with mine. I'm 20 points down. I don't mind being 20 points down.
Sam: Let's be all full, though. We can be full.
Laura: We're going to fucking potentially fight Delilah Briarwood.
Sam: Yeah, let's be full.
Marisha: I'm assuming it's going to take us some time just to even get there, though, right?
Laura: Is it considered healing as we walk there, though?
Matt: No, you have to take a rest.
Taliesin: Let's get a little closer, then, and survey the situation, and then take a break. I feel like we're a bit far.
Laura: I just don't know if there's time. If she's already started a ritual.
Taliesin: If we run into something on the way there, though, I don't want to be at peak performance yet.
Laura: Yeah. All right.
Travis: Let's move.
Sam: Oh, God.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: This is going to be fun.
Marisha: Do we still have Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: You do. For the next 30 minutes or so.
Taliesin: So let's take advantage of this.
Marisha: Yeah, let's at least move for 30 more minutes.
Travis: Who's got the censer in the front? Because we've got to stay together.
Sam: Someone in a robe.
Laura: Oh. Who's in a robe? We're all undead.
Marisha: Are me and you in robes?
Taliesin: We can do robes. I'm all right with robes.
Travis: There's only three of them.
Taliesin: I'll take a robe.
Laura: I'll take a robe.
Marisha: You lead with the censer.
Taliesin: I'll take a robe with the censer.
Matt: Okay, Percy and Vex?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You both throw robes on over your Seeming-altered undead bodies. Percy, you're carrying the censer?
Taliesin: Yes, I'm carrying the censer.
Matt: And you're all slowly clustered behind them?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (chanting)
Travis: (chanting)
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: All right. So you guys continue moving, what's very plainly towards the center of the city as the tower stands as this giant beacon of shadow in the center of the horizon. The streets are scattered and broken. You can see there was, what may have seemed almost like a hint of cobblestone at one point, really just looks like largely broken and shattered badlands and dried stone that seems to have been pummeled by impacts of some kind, cracked into small pieces. This is a city by function and function alone. There was very little considered in the beauty of its construction, at least this far out. As you continue to press towards the center of the city--
Laura: I want to keep an eye out, just to see if anybody's noticing. If it seems like people are paying attention to us in a way that they shouldn't be.
Matt: Okay. Well, as you're keeping an eye out, I would like all of you guys to make a deception roll, with advantage.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Come on, Gil.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Sam: 33.
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 17.
Liam: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: 22.
Travis: Eight.
Liam: Too big.
Travis: I'm sorry.
Matt: As you guys make your way further down one of the, not major thoroughfares, but one of the general streets that snakes around towards the central area of the city, some of you gently moaning and gurgling as you walk, behind you, you have Grog Frankensteining his way down the street. (laughing)
Travis: Oh man.
Matt: The sound of your rendition, that song. As you're walking, a shadow seems to cross, a large hulking shadow crosses past one of the roads and turns and begins walking your direction. And you see ahead what looks to be about a ten foot tall, thick, burly figure of brownish red flesh, torn, and chains and hooks hanging from it. It looks to be almost like an amalgam of large hobgoblin body parts that have been sewn and stitched together with spikes and iron plates, jutting through, keeping it together at the seams. Where there would be a face, you see instead a giant metal mass that looks like a cage of some kind, and behind it these two glowing beads of yellow eyes poking through, and you watch as it just walks in a straight line (impacts).
Laura: Coming right for us?
Matt: Walking in your direction. Its arms are curled in front of it like a gorilla, its fingers dragging in the dust below it.
Liam: Does it look like it's just happening in our direction, or is it coming toward us?
Matt: It's hard to tell. It's about 60 feet up.
Laura: Is there a road we can turn directions?
Taliesin: Is there a nonchalant way of maintaining direction but getting out of its way?
Matt: There would be enough space to give about a ten foot berth to it as you put your back against the side of one of the nearest buildings and let it pass.
Marisha: Like parting for the queen at the Ren Faire?
Matt: A little bit, yeah.
Liam: Or Taliesin Jaffe.
Marisha: Or Taliesin Jaffe at any party.
Ashley: I move to the side and put my head down.
Sam: What's our ploy if this thing tries to kill us?
Laura: Kill it.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Same old same old.
Matt: (heavy footsteps) You guys all make your way to the side and you watch. It's autonomous, it's not being brought along with anybody. It's running a path down the road. You all move off to the side, and as you maneuver to the side of it, it gets close to the censer you're carrying, and it (groaning) puts its fingers out of the way, actually crushing some of the stonework on one of the nearby buildings to pull itself aside, trying to avoid the billowing of the smoke from the censer. It gives a dull, deep resonant (huff) in your direction as it passes, and then eventually passes by the cluster of you that have all moved to the side, after its head shifts and scans back in the path that it's walking and it moves past you, following the direction you just came from.
Taliesin: Way to be Fonzies.
Laura: Nice. Very nice. So cool.
Sam: Wow. This thing works.
Taliesin: Lot of Fonzies. Smells terrible.
Matt: You continue further into the city. You still hear the distant, low shrieks of the gloom stalkers (shriek) overhead, swooping past in clusters, circling around. Occasionally you watch one or two swoop down and land on a distant rooftop, and you hear the crunching of heavy stone and whatever materials were still remaining on the roof of that structure as it lands and surveys a bit, and then (whoosh) takes off and joins the rest of its kin.
Taliesin: Do any of the buildings look remarkable or interesting? I'm trying to keep an eye out for any building that may have anything inside it of vague importance. Either the building itself is slightly more interesting, or it looks like maybe someone has boarded something up to try and maintain some kind of vigil against the darkness? I'm not entirely sure. Out of the ordinary.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: I knew you were going to say that. I'm not good at this. Nope. Nope, nope. That's a four. That's a natural one.
Matt: A lot of these buildings are hard to tell apart when they're all just in this state of disrepair and destruction.
Taliesin: Some of them have doors.
Matt: Some of them do. Some of them have windows, kind of.
Taliesin: Holes where windows might be.
Matt: Possibly. Some, you can't tell if it's a hole, or a window. Or a door? As you press forward.
Taliesin: I felt Orthax take over again.
Liam: So this is Osgiliath, right? It's wrecked ruin, no complete buildings, or are any of them?
Matt: You see some further in. The exterior appears to have been the most heavily sacked. There's been little intent to reconstruct from this point. Like I said, you're still probably a good mile and a half out from the center of the city, and as you walk further in, you can see more clusters of skeletons traveling in groups of 12 to 15, somewhat erratically. You've seen some creatures that seem to walk with an intent pattern, like they have some sort of a sentinel path that they follow to keep watch on the perimeter or the roads of the city. The skeletons that wander, the undead that you see clattering about across the dusty, cracked grounds between the buildings, are erratic, uncontrolled. Mostly it seems to be less intentionally created undead, and more just risen by the nature of the plane you walk, and haven't bothered anyone yet, or at least those who live here. As you begin walking forward, you watch as a cluster of them spills into this T intersection a little ways up, a few of them falling and tumbling and getting back up (cracking). As they cluster together, some of them bang into each other. You hear the clattering of metal from the bits of armor that still cling to their long-rotted forms. Broken bones, some of them are missing arms, or sections of a skull is exposed and cracked open on the side, where you can see what looks to be some sort of long-dried and rotted away gray matter was left to slowly collapse like a flan in a cupboard. As you begin to approach that area, they separate a bit and scatter to fill, almost diffusing in the center of this intersection, and then they contract, almost like there's a strange hive mind magic that seems to draw them back together. They're just moving in these autonomous clusters of chaos. You see on them still, similar to the ones you noticed earlier, some of the armor that they're wearing appears to be reminiscent to the armor that the black guard that you battled at the ziggurat earlier had, or similar dark metal, and others have long-destroyed, ruined, scraped and scarred bits of silver and gold armor that are emblazoned with long-ruined and defaced symbols of the Dawn Father, Pelor.
Laura: Does it seem like both of those factions are still-- are they clustered in the same groups?
Matt: They are. And you get the sense that whatever battle took place here long ago was probably between these two factions, and those that were lost in that fray have been risen over time and wander aimlessly through the streets.
Taliesin: Free range undead.
Liam: We've seen long-dead people. This is fucking creepy in the upside-down. (airplane noise)
Sam: What's going on?
Matt: I called the airport to try and coordinate this time with you guys. Cost me 17,000 dollars for that one five-second bit, so enjoy it, guys.
Liam: Worth it.
Matt: Totally worth it.
Liam: These bodies, compared to the ex-champion of the Raven Queen, do these bodies seem even older? More decayed? Do we have any sense for how old these fuckers are?
Matt: You would have to get up close and that would be a medicine check. Would you want to try and make your way close enough to one of these bodies to inspect it enough?
Liam: How far off are they?
Matt: If you guys continue moving forward, you'll be at that intersection in about 30 seconds.
Liam: I'm not going to go. I'll wait.
Ashley: I could go up close with somebody and do a medicine check.
Laura: Keep up near the thing. Everybody get close to the censer.
Taliesin: I'll guide us towards something.
Liam: Yeah, no one poking out ahead for this.
Laura: Hopefully they'll be affected by the censer.
Travis: Let's just stop by.
Matt: So who's moving forward?
Laura: The whole group. So we can all be with the wispy smoke.
Matt: Okay. So you guys make your way towards this intersection.
Laura: We're normal people in robes.
Matt: You also watch as you begin to walk further in that elements of the ground are growing more jagged and craggy. You can see bits of stone and earth are jutting out in large stone spikes, either through some upheaval or elements of the tumultuous landscape long ago that just caused elements of rock to spike outward up five, ten feet in sections. You watch as you grow close to this intersection, about half of the group all at once (groan) turns and looks in your direction and begin to (footsteps).
Laura: Can I just waft some of the smoke towards them?
Matt: Shamble in your direction. The rest of the group noticing-- You begin blowing the censer smoke that way. You watch as three of the closest skeletons make their way into the fume and seem to vaguely lose interest for a brief moment.
Ashley: Since we're close, can I do a medicine check? Are we close enough to?
Matt: Yes, but with disadvantage because of the smoke.
Ashley: Oh, shit. Okay.
Laura: You got this, Pike.
Taliesin: Roll like it's a stealth roll.
Ashley: 13?
Matt: With the brief glances you have, it's hard to really tell. Plus, you're not too familiar with the overall weather of the Shadowfell. You don't know if there's enough weather to manifest as general decay, or if they've been beaten by the ravages of time, if it rains here or not. It's hard to tell. You gather it probably doesn't rain often. They're definitely hundreds of years old. That's the most you can really tell. They aren't fresh dead. These are long dead.
Liam: I'm feeling Foresighty. Can I creep up behind and do the same?
Matt: I will say you can do that, however you still have disadvantage, because she's already taken the roll and you're supplementing her roll in a very short period of time.
Liam: Would that be an even roll, then, since I have advantage on everything?
Matt: You have advantage on everything. I'm giving you a chance to do this when normally you would have none, so the Foresight's allowing you to have a roll with disadvantage. Go for it.
Liam: Oh, that's going to fail. Ooh! 18.
Matt: Or not. Getting a glance at the one nearest to you, the bodies seem to be fairly well preserved for as long as they've been here, so you get the sense that there isn't a lot of heavy weather here at all. And given that fact, the decay that's there, it is reminiscent, maybe not quite as old as the corpse of Purvon when you discovered the tomb originally, but comparatively ancient. At least over 500 years.
Travis: Old Purvon.
Matt: Good old Purvon.
Laura: These skeletons are almost as old as you, Scanlan.
Sam: Good one.
Matt: As you continue to walk forward, and the skeletons part around the cloud of the censer, you push deeper into the city, and they coalesce behind you and follow. They're keeping a perimeter cluster now. They're still being held at bay by the wafting of this thick blackish-green smoke that's billowing off of it, but they're staying just outside of it and slowly shambling at your speed, waiting for an opening.
Laura: I have an idea. What if, right when we get close to the tower, all of these trailing skeletons that we have on us, you just Turn Undead? And then you control them all?
Sam: You can do that?
Matt: Destroy them, yeah.
Laura: Oh, you can't control them? I thought you could.
Ashley: I could turn them.
Matt: Turn them means they just run away screaming.
Ashley: I can make them run away.
Matt: You're at a level where you can just make them explode if they roll low. Up to you.
Travis: We've got a little nuke in our pocket.
Ashley: I want us to be quiet. I don't want to make a big spectacle. Because I can make them go boom boom, but let's just wait.
Laura: She can make them poop.
Taliesin: And they don't even have bowels.
Travis: Is anything stalking us from above while we're moving?
Matt: How astute of you, I was just about to get to that.
Travis: Did you hear that? Astute.
Sam: You put the ass in astute.
Laura: Hey, did you guys know that Travis is the smartest guy at the table?
Marisha: I could tell by his Cheers shirt. (laughing)
Matt: So. In the billowing smoke that's coming around, Grog, because you brought it up, as well as the twins who have relatively high passive perceptions, and Keyleth as well, actually, you glance up and notice that the erratic patterns that a lot of the gloom stalkers take in the sky, there's two that seem to be circling, and circling.
Ashley: I don't like it, I don't like it.
Matt: One of them (shrieks), and you watch as it goes into a dive in your direction.
Sam: Oh, God! In our direction?
Laura: Is there a building we can duck into?
Matt: Make a quick perception check.
Sam: But quick!
Laura: 33.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. Both of you, really quick, you see in two different directions, past the intersection on the right, and on the left, you see two buildings that are mostly still intact. They've sustained some level of damage, but they still have two solid floors, maybe a partial roof missing, but they appear to be structurally sound enough to at least jump into. They both have doors that are partially ajar and a darkened interior.
Laura: And a roof.
Matt: And a roof.
Liam: (grunting)
Laura: (grunting) Why am I? I can talk. Go in that building.
Travis: Yeah, we go in there.
Laura: That way they can't dive bomb us, at least.
Taliesin: I go in last. Censer.
Matt: All right. So you guys all rush into the building on the right or the left?
Taliesin: Yours.
Laura: The right.
Matt: All right, so the one that Vex found. You guys all rush into that building with Percival the last one in there. As you--
Laura: Weapons drawn in case there's something in there.
Sam: But also moving like zombies.
Matt: Okay. Perfect. So as you guys all rush into the building, weapons ready, who's first in the building?
Laura: Me, maybe, because we saw it.
Matt: The two of you guys. Both of you roll perception as you enter the interior of the building. The undead that are clustering behind you are beginning to gather in a semicircle as soon as you hit the inside of the building, and they're clustering at the door as you close it behind you.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. As you enter the inside, you look around and you can see what appears to be the remnants of a few tables, very simple tables, that have been shattered and destroyed, broken into ruin around the area. You see what appear to be blades, two left in the wall, one broken off, in the center, that have long rusted over time. You see what appear to be the signs of bodies, blood, dark, dark dried blood circles on the ground, but no corpses, no bodies.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the broken tables and swords to barricade the front windows or holes, I'm not sure which they are, but I'm going to barricade them. And the door, use the sword to jam the door shut.
Laura: Are there dark corners that anybody could be hiding in, or another room?
Matt: The room itself is pretty damn dark. The little bit of light that comes in through the distant, broken elements of the wall, there's enough light where you can kind of-- it's very dim light for you, Percy. Everyone else with Darkvision is all right to make out the interior.
Liam: Cursory trap check, even though it seems unlikely.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: 19.
Matt: No traps from what you can gather at this juncture. But you do hear, as you close the door and begin barricading it with Percival, you hear the multitudes of bony claws, hands, and bits of armor slamming and brushing up against the outer wall that you just came through. The doors (bang) as the undead have now clustered and are trying to push their way in. They seem to have a scent.
Laura: We'll keep the censer near the door.
Marisha: Yeah, I do a little Gust cantrip and put a little of the censer smoke under the door. I'm like an oscillating fan.
Matt: Druids get pretty cool at 18, guys. Just saying. Timeless body, oscillating fan. Best wild shape ability ever.
Liam: Wait till you see the sprinkler system.
Matt: So as you're blowing the smoke from the censer beneath the doorway, it lessens the impacts, but the undead, more than a dozen or so of these, probably about 15 or 16 of them, have spread out, and they're all clustered at that side. The little bit of the fumes that you can push beneath the doorway are only reaching a handful, and it's keeping them from the main door at the moment.
Sam: Can we see outside at all? Is there a peephole or anything?
Matt: There are no windows at the front of this building. You see a sliver where it looks like a portion of the wall suffered some sort of an axe or hatchet impact a long time ago and someone tried to pull their way through. It's maybe about that wide, and that's where the one source of light is coming through.
Sam: I'm going to go over there.
Laura: Wait.
Sam: Oh. Don't do anything?
Laura: I was going to say, what if we turned ourselves into something else and snuck out, and they would think that we're still in this building? Anything that was tracking us.
Sam: I was going to try to make a little diversion to draw them away from the door.
Matt: (boom) You guys hear a heavy impact on the roof above.
Sam: I'll do that. I'll do my thing.
Matt: You hear (boom) what sounds like really heavy footfalls along the roof of the building.
Sam: I'm going to look through the little sliver and I'm going to cast--
Taliesin: Do you want to see what they're burning in the censer?
Marisha: Yes, I do. That's exactly what I was going to do.
Taliesin: I'm going to open up the censer.
Matt: Hold on, just a second.
Sam: I'm going to cast Major Image and make a small little human girl in the middle of the street, crying, bleeding from the arm. She looks disoriented and she's walking towards the other building that we spotted, very sad and (whimpering).
Matt: Okay. As you glance through and create this image, this image appears of this tiny, saucer-eyed French poppet of a girl with a little dress. Her curls are mussed up.
Travis: Dragging her dolly by one arm.
Matt: It's missing one button eye.
Liam: You summoned Cosette.
Matt: Yes, basically. And she goes running off, screaming and crying. You guys immediately hear the shift of the undead beyond the door (rumbling) and begin getting fainter and fainter. As that happens, you also hear (whoosh). Scanlan, you glance out and you watch the shadow of one of the gloom stalkers flying overhead swoop down and attack for the little girl.
Sam: Okay, she's going to run. She's going to book it into that other building to try to get away as fast as she can. And she can move super fast since she's not real.
Matt: This is true. This is actually very true.
Sam: She's like the fucking Flash.
Liam: (singing) There is a lady all in white...
Sam: 120 feet is all I can move her.
Laura: She's sweeping as she's running towards the door.
Matt: Yeah. You can make her move with an action 120 feet. So the little girl goes from (whimper) to (fast running) and goes into a full sprint in a really creepy, Ring-style way. That was for you, Travis. Across the way, and you watch as the gloom stalker swoops up and (impact) slams into the side of the stone building, causing part of it to crush inward and break. The roof partially (rumbling) has to settle and it falls into itself as the creature rights itself (shriek). You now have a much closer look at this entity, and it is billowing black shadow like smoke off of it. You can see glimpses of some sort of physical form in there, but it's so blurry, it's almost like it's phasing between physical matter and dream. You're not sure what it's made from, but you can see what looks to be an elongated neck, some sort of snapping jaw at the end, and two bright, greenish-yellow glowing beacons like eyes at the front of its face. Its wings don't have skin or flesh, it's just dark smoke, and as it flaps, it leaves these trails, these curling bits like black, black, black smoke.
Liam: Are we talking dragon size?
Matt: It's wyvern sized. It's maybe 20 feet from wingtip to wingtip.
Marisha: Is it anything like we've ever heard about?
Matt: No, you have not encountered a creature like this before. But you watch as it glances, and at this proximity, Scanlan, you're the one who's getting the view of this, you watch wherever it looks, its eyes seem to emanate these tiny cones of light, like little flashlights, and as it scans past, the little girl, where the beam goes past, her body is nothing there.
Laura: Is there another door in this building?
Matt: There is on the back side, yes. It's partially covered by what looks to be debris, and it looks like somebody else barricaded the other side, but did not seem to cover both ends before they fell within this building.
Sam: Let's get out of here.
Laura: We should go out the other door as fast as possible.
Travis: I'll take care of that barricade.
Laura: But quietly. We don't want them to know that we're getting out the other side.
Travis: I don't know if I can guarantee that.
Matt: What are you doing, Grog?
Travis: Moving shit out of the way of the door, in a...
Taliesin: Medium pace?
Travis: Let's call it a medium well.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: You are a terrible stage mom, by the way.
Sam: Well, she died.
Matt: She's still there.
Sam: She got her equity card.
Matt: And that's what matters. She's still there, and you watch, the creature seems confused. The eye beams move past it, and the little girl's still there crying and still darting around the area, and the creature's like (snarling), lands on the ground, and comes up and swipes and bites at her, and it goes through her form. You get the sense these creatures aren't super intelligent, but they are effective at seeing through certain glamors.
Laura: They're going to know that we're not. They know we're not zombies.
Liam: Is it still after her, or has it given up on that ghost?
Matt: It's in the process of giving up on that ghost right now.
Liam: Still a cat and a flashlight.
Laura: We've got to go.
Travis: 21.
Matt: At this point, you watch as Grog goes over with his giant mitts and single-handedly shifts the entire pile over with one shove, exposing the door there before you.
Laura: Out the door, out the door.
Matt: You open the doorway.
Sam: Can we leave anything behind, like a dead body or something for them to eat?
Laura: What dead body?
Sam: He's got a ton of them in there.
Laura: Actually, yes. Throw a dead body in the room.
Travis: Who's laughing now, bitches? Dead body!
Matt: And like the world's most macabre flower girl, you produce one of the...
Travis: I birth from the Bag of Holding a dead body.
Laura: And use Dust of Tracelessness as we run out the door, so they don't follow us.
Travis: Who's giving the orders around here?
Laura: Me. Please?
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So as you throw the body behind you, the door's now being slammed a bit. It seems some of the undead wandered towards that illusion, some are still on the other side, and now that you've pulled the censer back from it, the other door's kind of (bangs) coming pushed in. You can see light peeking through. You guys rush out, still with your Seeming illusion on, and you hear, very loudly, almost omnipresent, the screech, the (shriek) of the gloom stalker, right around the corner from you, as it begins to take off just on the other side of the building.
Laura: Should we look for another building we can duck into? To lose their-- So they can't find us?
Liam: Yeah, we can just go hopping from building to building.
Matt: I want everyone to roll a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Do we still have...
Matt: You do. You're getting close to the tail end of it. You have about five minutes left.
Laura: Natural 20.
Sam: Me too.
Matt: Shit.
Taliesin: Thank God we still have a thing.
Matt: So natural 20.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: Did you add ten?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: 36.
Liam: 39.
Taliesin: 22, I mean.
Laura: Natural 20.
Ashley: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: We did not roll well. But we're fine.
Matt: So you all got above a 20. That's good.
Sam: We needed above a 40.
Matt: So you guys rush past and, quick glance around, you find one of the nearby buildings. It's a little more dilapidated, but it seems to have at least enough cover where you can all dive into the shadows and seemingly vanish. You all stand there for a second, and you're super quiet, all breathing heavily (panting), the censer still billowing this awful, awful fume. It's filling your nose, your eyes are watering instinctually from the presence. It stings just to get into your sinuses, but you're all enduring it and trying to be as quiet as possible.
Laura: Is there another door in this building that we can exit out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'm showing Keyleth what's inside the censer.
Matt: Okay, we'll get to that.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. It's hard to tell. It looks like where there may have been a door, a portion of the roof in here that has also collapsed, it looks like a giant siege stone, about that big, from a catapult was launched and tore through the roof and shattered that side of the building. The only way out is the same way you came in.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Unless you climb up and out. But as you open the censer and look inside, it looks like there is this ember, this cluster of burning, dried herbs. You're not quite sure what it is or where it came from, but it's currently glowing red in places.
Taliesin: I'm going to give some of the herbs to Keyleth to examine. It's like on a charcoal?
Matt: It has what looks to be charcoal stones in the bottom clustered around, and these herbs are placed over it, and it's burning and smoldering over time.
Marisha: Sure. Can I tell what the herbs are?
Matt: Make a medicine check. No, this would be a nature check, sorry.
Marisha: Thank you. Is this something that I would get advantage on for my herb book?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Marisha: 28.
Matt: Okay. I get to look this up.
Sam: Oh, look it up. It's a real thing. Wow.
Matt: It's called Wild's Guide. It's a tobacco-like leaf that was used... It was briefly used for recreational smoking and treatment of small wounds, but it tended to have a very quick diseased, sickening sense to it. Those that smoked a lot tended to get sick very quickly, and it went into disuse from there. It's largely considered to be a relatively useless plant. There isn't a lot of medicinal quality to it. It's just something that exists in herbalism books, as things to avoid.
Taliesin: Comes in green and red, available in the Resident Evil universe.
Matt: You get the sense that them using it for the censer is probably not a widely known use for this type of plant.
Laura: You found a new use!
Marisha: I did! I write it down and I press a flower, or I save some of it. And then can I Druidcraft some more, now that I know what it is?
Matt: From that cluster, I'd say yeah, you can create a little bit more, but very little bit.
Marisha: Okay, I'll go ahead and make as much as I can.
Matt: Okay, so you spend some time there to focus on it, and from the remnants there you can make about twice the amount than what was in the censer, so you have probably a good, solid softball-sized cluster.
Taliesin: The resin's the best part.
Marisha: Okay. I take half, put half back in the censer, and give half to Percy. Does anybody else want some? Actually, should we dab ourselves with it? No, is that weird?
Laura: Maybe just give it to Percy.
Matt: Really? After all that, no dab joke? Anyway.
Sam: Too classy for us.
Matt: I guess so.
Taliesin: Whatever the opposite of standards are, I know we have them.
Marisha: Give some to Percy, anybody else want some?
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I don't have any way to make fire, but I'll take it. Definitely in my shirt now.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you hear the (snarling), and you hear the (flapping wings). It's hunting from building to building. (impacts) Closer. (flapping wings) (snarling) A little further away. (flapping wings)
Laura: It's gone? Did it fly away?
Matt: Sounds like it, at least.
Laura: Should we leave, and go to another building?
Sam: Let's keep going.
Liam: Building to building toward the tower?
Laura: I feel like it's not really gone.
Liam: Well, we'll find out. Let's make a break for it.
Matt: Okay, who's going first? Okay. Vax, as you dart along the side, glancing up in the air, you can still see. And it looks like there is some communication, because where once there was maybe two, you can now see a lot of them have clustered closer in your direction. There seems to be some sort of an overhead hunt.
Laura: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace on us again? Are we running out of time on it?
Matt: You're getting pretty close, yeah.
Laura: I'm going to cast it again, just so we don't.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Pass Without a Trace again.
Liam: And are we, Without a Trace and Dust of Tracelessness? That's just a one time...
Laura: Dust of Tracelessness is just so they can't track us.
Matt: So the second thing you've gathered, these creatures are not very intelligent, but they do have some sort of communication between them, and there apparently is a rush on their end to search for whatever was recently spotted. So as you guys make your way, following Vax's lead, down some of the alleyways, and begin slithering through the back ways and the small side streets, avoiding your first attempt to walk straight through the center of the town.
Laura: It's crazy how that didn't work, though. I mean, because it was a really smart plan.
Matt: It worked for a bit. Not every plan is going to hold you to the very end. There was some cleverness to it. So you begin to move through these buildings before-- It would be Keyleth, Vex and Vax. You guys come around one small alley and it opens up into another main road, and this road's hard to avoid. It seems to be almost a circular central road that marks the outer and inner rings of Thar Amphala. But you see there, marking right across this road, a 15 foot tall wall that seems to lock in the inner cloister of the town.
Marisha: How thick does it appear to be?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Maybe we can go under it.
Marisha: Or through it. 17.
Matt: It's hard to tell from this perspective. You have to get a better glance. You have to find if there was a break in the wall anywhere. You do see what looks to be some variation in texture a little ways to the right. It could be a gate, it could be a door, it could be an opening, or it could be some change in its rather solid, not very varied exterior.
Marisha: Go to the gate?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Why don't the half-elves go real quick, just to stay small and quiet. No clanking, no crushing. You take a look at the wall, and then we just call everybody up. Just two seconds if it's the way to go.
Laura: Is it far away? It's like 15 feet from us you said? Is it farther than that?
Matt: Probably about 60 feet down to the right of you guys.
Liam: So the change in the wall's about 60 feet, but the wall from our hiding spot is how far away from us?
Matt: Across the way it's about 30 feet from you. it's only about 15 feet tall, it's not crazy big.
Marisha: I'll see if I can discern something here a little bit better. You go. Go check it out.
Laura: Sure.
Matt: So the two of you dart off to the side, following Keyleth's impression of where she saw this shift, and as you make your way along the edge, you glance over and you see two things. One, there does indeed appear to be a small, cut doorway in the wall, maybe about six feet up, three feet wide, that's designed for a single file passage of any creature that wishes to move through. It's open. There's no closed door there. Above it, just above it, about eight feet up, you see what appears to be a deep cerulean blue gemstone, about two feet across, that's embedded within the wall.
Liam: I think it's fine.
Sam: Just go through the hole.
Liam: We're good. We found it.
Matt: It's a big blue stone, about that big around. It's embedded into the wall above the door.
Marisha: I ask them, how thick does the wall appear to be around that side?
Liam: Looking through the door, can we tell how deep?
Matt: Yeah, actually, you can. It's about three feet wide, four feet wide.
Laura: The depth of the wall?
Matt: The depth of the wall, yeah. It's a big, heavy wall.
Travis: Vex, I bet if you go real fast, you can totally make it.
Laura: Good idea, Grog. I'll definitely try it.
Marisha: I can try and Stone Shape through it.
Matt: You two... recognize, at least, there's something very familiar about that stone embedded in the wall.
Travis: It's blue.
Matt: It's definitely blue. It's very similar in size, installation, and functional placement as the threshold crests that adorn the exterior of Syngorn.
Laura: Which are definitely used... Wait. To teleport things?
Matt: The ones that are used to transport Syngorn to the Feywild and back.
Marisha: Oh, weird. Oh no.
Laura: Oh my god, if the ritual finishes, they can teleport this whole fucking city. Shit. We have to stop this.
Marisha: What if we dismantle the gems?
Taliesin: We would probably have to dismantle a bunch of them.
Travis: We're out in the open. Dismantling that's pretty tough.
Taliesin: I feel like it would be easier to wreck the operator than try to break the machine.
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: I mean, we've got a guy who crushes rocks all the time.
Laura: Yeah, but I don't think it's safe to touch those things.
Liam: And the moment he makes a ruckus, the air squad is coming down on our location immediately.
Marisha: Didn't we take some of that crystal? Didn't we take some of that?
Taliesin: Which crystal?
Marisha: Didn't we take shards of it from the thresholds in Syngorn?
Laura: I don't remember. I don't have any in my bag.
Marisha: One of them shattered, and I feel like we took some.
Travis: Yeah, I did.
Laura: You did?
Travis: Yeah, shards of blue crystal.
Laura: Matt's like, uh...
Marisha: I don't know, maybe it's useful in this case?
Travis: It's not pretty, it's all broken.
Liam: One question is, if these stones are used to pull this tower into the main realms, is there another purpose to them here, or is that doorway safe, is what I'm wondering?
Laura: No, that doorway is in no way safe.
Marisha: Where was the gem embedded in the doorway?
Matt: About eight feet up. About two feet above the doorway.
Liam: I feel like we should go through the wall or over it, just on principle.
Taliesin: We can go over it. We do have a magic carpet.
Laura: Yeah, and all the flying creatures are going to see us immediately. We either go under the wall... How far from the wall to the tower is it? Does it seem?
Matt: Probably...
Laura: Can we see the tower through the doorway?
Matt: You can see across, and it's not a straight shot, but you can get low and you can see where it breaks. Since you have a good sense of direction, being the ranger, I'd say you know it's at least under a mile.
Laura: A mile to the tower? So it's probably two miles wide, this whole...?
Matt: Probably less. It's hard to pinpoint directly from what little you can see, but it's definitely within a mile to a half mile of that door, that wall.
Liam: Kiki, would you be able to Great Escape us underneath this wall?
Laura: Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. What if we go under the ground all the way to the tower?
Marisha: Is it unworked stone? What's the ground like?
Matt: The ground is unworked stone. It is broken dirt and earth and stone. From what you gather, at the very least. A heavy layer of dust.
Marisha: I could attempt to tunnel us there. Percy, I'm sure you would know more than anyone. What's the likelihood that we might encounter, that I might bust through a dungeon or something, though, over there?
Taliesin: That would be the question. It's A, where do we come up? B, how do we tunnel without collapsing a building on us? And C, what if there's buried dead that haven't been able to break?
Marisha: I can get us under the wall for sure. I can do both, it's just figuring out what we want to do.
Taliesin: If we can tunnel under the wall and then come up in a building.
Liam: I think so. We're not trying to get all the way there, just past this.
Marisha: Okay. Can I Stone Shape--
Laura: From within a building.
Marisha: -- a crawlspace through the wall?
Matt: Yeah, you can probably do that. Let me look at the Stone Shape spell here real fast.
Marisha: Big enough for at least Grog to marine belly through?
Travis: We're all undead, so I'm a little smaller right now, actually.
Matt: Well, you look smaller.
Taliesin: You look smaller than you are.
Matt: You're still your same height.
Taliesin: You would be a little zombie, floating, stuck.
Laura: Can we be zombie cows?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous, and it's a section no more than five feet in any dimension, so Stone Shape would be just a one-hit boom. You could not create a long tunnel.
Marisha: But I can't carve a shape through the wall to just crawl through, five feet?
Matt: Oh, through the actual wall itself?
Marisha: Yeah, through the wall, not under the ground. I want to bust a crawl space through the bottom of the wall.
Laura: Don't you think the flying guys will notice that?
Matt: Yeah, that could work. So do you want to do that?
Marisha: It's not a dynamite blast, it's like a (rumble).
Sam: Yeah, it's just a hole in the wall.
Taliesin: It's like butter.
Marisha: Yeah, it's like butter. So...
Matt: Okay. So you dart across the open road to the other side, where the wall is.
Marisha: Cover for me.
Travis: How would we do that?
Taliesin: We are stealthed.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I-- Shit, well, you already rolled. Can I have been keeping an eye on the sky and give her a go ahead when it looks like they're not going to see her?
Matt: You begin to do so as she runs across the road.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Just go. Just fucking go.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You hear the distant shrieks, communication between the various gloom stalkers that (snarling) echoing in the sky. You make it all the way across to the wall, and get low, focus, close your eyes, press your hand against the cold, dark wall, and feel it (whoosh) as immediately, you carve a circular tunnel through that goes completely to the other side. Seemingly to no negative effect.
Marisha: Seemingly to no negative effect, I've made a tunnel.
Sam: You sound different. Why are you using weird words?
Marisha: I'm whispering! I'm just trying to be more pragmatic.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Hey, guys, we didn't eat a Heroes' Feast yet, either.
Sam: We didn't heal ourselves.
Marisha: No, we didn't.
Taliesin: We've got to get through the wall.
Sam: Let's get through the wall, and then we'll heal.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: He is looking at each one of us and rolling.
Taliesin: He's making eye contact and rolling a die, like it means something.
Laura: I'm not going to look at him.
Marisha: Keeping track. Why is he keeping track?
Liam: If I don't look, he can't kill me.
Ashley: If you don't make eye contact.
Laura: It's like in school, if you don't make eye contact, maybe they won't call on you.
Matt: Yeah, it's the old Warner Brothers rule. So as you guys all, one by one, dart across and leap beneath the tunnel that Keyleth had created, Keyleth, have you gone through the tunnel, or are you seeing everyone else through?
Marisha: I'll wait and see everyone else through, just in case.
Travis: Oh, how generous of you.
Laura: We all are dead.
Matt: You all begin darting through, one after another.
Marisha: I'm going to try and keep a lookout.
Matt: Keyleth, you glance up as, at the very tail end of it, you have Scanlan and Pike at the very end, ready to rush through the tunnel.
Sam: We're slow.
Matt: Because of the gnomish feet. They both get there as you glance up and watch as one of the gloom stalkers (shriek) and goes into a full screeching dive towards you outside of the wall. What are you guys doing?
Sam: Hurrying.
Ashley: Jumping through as fast as our little gnome feet can take us.
Matt: Okay, so Pike, you dart through, Scanlan, you dart through. With the size of the tunnel, it's easy enough for the both of you to just run through while crouching as opposed to having to get on your hands and knees, so you guys start making your way through to the side. Pike, you make it out the other side. Scanlan, you're halfway through. Keyleth, you're still there, ready to go in after as it's about to bear down on you.
Marisha: It's not coming up?
Matt: Oh, no, it's going for a straight dive. It's going right for you.
Marisha: Oh, god, am I trying to do anything but get through?
Liam: You're running! Come on!
Laura: She has to duck down.
Marisha: I don't know, I've got to crawl through!
Laura: Yeah. So do you have protection? Do you have something you could turn into?
Marisha: Yeah! Thank you! Thank you! I'm going to see it and immediately Beast Shape into a little mouse and (crawling sounds) through.
Matt: I want you to roll an initiative roll to see whether or not it gets to you in time.
Sam: Am I rolling, too, since I'm half-out?
Matt: You're halfway in the tunnel. It couldn't fit in the tunnel if it wanted to.
Sam: But, I mean, am I watching this?
Matt: You're watching this.
Sam: I'm going to roll. Okay.
Liam: I'm going to say that I didn't leave the other side of the wall when I realized that she wasn't coming through. So, waiting right in front of Scanlan.
Marisha: 18.
Sam: Two for me.
Matt: Okay. Natural 19 plus three. So, as you shift down into the tiny mouse-like form, its claws immediately slam into and sink into the mouse body. Yeah, that's a 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah. Immediately poof.
Matt: How much hit points does your mouse form have? Like one?
Marisha: I'm assuming no more than a kitten's worth.
Matt: Right, so yeah. So, we'll say for the purposes, one. So that would be 16 points of piercing damage, so your form immediately reverts, its claws now fill with your regular Keyleth form. You take 15 points of piercing damage, Keyleth, and you are grappled.
Marisha: Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool story. Cool.
Matt: As soon as it grabs you, it begins to pull you out of the tunnel and lift with you in its claws.
Ashley: Can I grab her arms?
Matt: You're on the other side of the wall. Scanlan's on the other side right now.
Liam: I'm three feet away from you.
Laura: Yeah, but he's in front of you.
Matt: Everyone else on the other side of the wall, Scanlan in the middle, Keyleth in the front. You saw it shriek and dive down, you don't know what happened from that point. You can glance down and you watch as Keyleth is being pulled up. You see that happening. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I'll yell to the rest  it's got Keyleth. I'll cast Dominate Monster on it, I guess.
Matt: Okay. So, what's the spell DC on that?
Sam: Well, I was probably not fast enough to pull up my horn, so 20.
Matt: That's a natural four plus three. So, as you say that and turn around, you bring your hand up and begin muttering the incantation and finish it with a flourish!
Sam: I could have just done that this whole time?!
Matt: As you finish the incantation, you watch as a small ring of glowing purple-pink glyphs appear like a crown around the outside, floating about three inches from the gloom stalker's "head." Its shriek goes (intense to calm croaking) and it's just there, hovering in the air, about ten feet up, clutching Keyleth.
Sam: All right. Please deposit her on the other side. Over the wall.
Matt: You guys watch as the gloom stalker (wings flapping) over the wall. Lands on the ground, slamming Keyleth. It slams you into the ground as it lands. You take five points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: (wheezing) You could have told it gently!
Sam: I don't speak Gloom!
Marisha: Five points?
Matt: Yes. You (wham) and almost knocks the wind out of you, and you slam into the hard ground, but the claws unfurl and leave you.
Marisha: (wheezing) I made it, guys! I'm glad you made it!
Sam: Only 59 more minutes.
Ashley: Maybe he can tell the others to leave us alone!
Marisha: Yeah, call them off!
Taliesin: Or maybe there are birds on the other side of the wall.
Sam: Does he keep rerolling for breaking, or is that it?
Marisha: Tell them it's handled, we're dead.
Taliesin: And then we can ride him!
Laura: Ask him if he has any money, and ask him if he can make a good dinner because I'm hungry.
Marisha: Where's the nearest 7-11?
Matt: Each time the target takes damage. It has to take damage to get the save. So, it's under your control for an hour or until it takes damage.
Sam: All right. First things first, please go tell your fellow gloomy friends that the hunt is off. No more flesh down here. And come back!
Matt: (croaking) You can see that it's landed, its giant wings have folded under into these folded knuckle-like claws that hit the ground as it (croaks) and he gets really close and snarls at you. As it gets close, the air gets colder in its presence, it's almost like it brings this drop. It's already pretty cold here in the Shadowfell, but it becomes pretty much freezing as soon as it gets within five feet of you. It seems to suck heat out of the air. As it's glaring at you, (wings flapping) begins to take up. You can see three other gloom stalkers who saw it dive earlier are all arriving towards your location. As it rides up towards them, you hear (gloom stalker speech) and the other ones (gloom stalker speech) snap at it, circle it and they all have what looks like an argument, if there was. And then, eventually, they break and they begin shouting off (gloom stalker speech). You watch as the heavy clusters that had been swarming this area of the town begin to respond in kind. You hear the echoes, the cacophony of various screeches and screams and they all begin to slowly dissipate and diffuse amongst the entire city of Thar Amphala.
Taliesin: Well, that went well.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan.
Liam: Welcome back, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: Thanks, Scanlan!
Sam: It's good to be back. Okay, we'll need a name for him, obviously.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: So, anybody got any ideas?
Laura: Benjamin is what I'm thinking.
Sam: Benjamin is great.
Marisha: Mr. Mistoffelees!
Sam: That's way better. (laughing)
Taliesin: Can we ride him to the tower?
Sam: Well, some of us can, right? By looking at him, how much can he carry? Or she!
Matt: You're not certain, based on its size, it could maybe carry three medium to small people.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: (whispered) What's around us right now? (regular volume) Sorry, what's around us right now?
Matt: So, as you glance around the other side of the wall, the city is denser within this inner cloister, and the buildings all seem to be newer. Or repaired. It seems like this inner sanctum of Thar Amphala has garnished most of the attention of those that currently reside within its space. As you are glancing up, too, you see the flicker, the faint flicker of the conjoining strands of magical energy that are rising up to the pinnacle of the tower of Entropis where you see these three heavy claw-like fingers that jut out of the top of the tower all curve inward. The flash is in the center of it, it's just glowing brighter and brighter. That pulsing is (pulsing). It's almost like seeing this heartbeat of pure energy that's swelling and swelling.
Laura: I don't think we have time to stop.
Sam: Well, so no more healing. But we could fly right up there and break that thing.
Marisha: Do we really not want to do any other healing?
Laura: Pike can heal us, but we can't rest. There's no time for a rest. No time for a Heroes' Feast. I bought those fucking chalices.
Taliesin: Next time.
Marisha: Might still be useful.
Ashley: How long does Heroes' Feast take?
Sam: Like an hour or something.
Taliesin: It will hardly matter.
Ashley: We can't just take an hour?
Laura: I think that thing is like, going to go.
Matt: It's up to you guys. It's a gradual. It's not like all of a sudden, right now, you watched it pulse. As you've been getting towards, you've been watching it slowly swell. So, who knows.
Sam: Some of us could get on Mr. Mistoffelees and fly around the tower and see if there's a window that we could bust in or something.
Laura: I wonder if Delilah's on the top of the tower.
Sam: Yeah, but we'll be on a thing, so maybe we won't be very conspicuous.
Taliesin: Actually, maybe if we ask Mr. Mistoffelees-- I'm going to never get tired of saying that!-- to go up to the tower, greet whoever's up there, and throw them off.
Sam: It's just a pulsing orb of doom, isn't it?
Taliesin: Just go up there and cause havoc.
Sam: One of us needs to see what's up there.
Taliesin: No, we can just send him up there, and then we can head in through the tower. He can just be a problem.
Sam: He's dumb! What if comes back and he's like 'I don't know!'?
Taliesin: Just say, go up there and if there's anything living up there, throw it off.
Sam: Can't one of us go up there with him to scout it out? Yeah, if someone's invisible. Can't you all be invisible?
Taliesin: Yes, all of us.
Sam: Just me.
Taliesin: Yes, it's just you.
Laura: Can't you make all of us invisible?
Sam: Not while I'm concentrating on Mr. Mistoffelees! (laughter)
Taliesin: I say we head in closer on foot. If you want to ride Mr. Mistoffelees up to the top of the tower, that's one thing. But I think just sending him up there, or sending him to be an agent of chaos.
Liam: I could probably ride him, and if shit goes south, I could get away.
Taliesin: You could always get swallowed.
Liam: By Mr. Mistoffelees?
Laura: By anything.
Taliesin: I get the distinct impression we're going to have options before this day is over.
Marisha: I feel like we're going to have to do a lot of things to stop this.
Sam: We need to get into the tower! We don't even know how to do that!
Liam: We don't know what we're talking about, which is why I think the idea to go scope it out is a good one.
Laura: Does it look like there's any windows on the tower, or is just a big old Rapunzel tower?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Nope!
Laura: Well, hold on. 19.
Matt: 19, still pretty good. Not a single window. It's a solid tower.
Ashley: Are there any doors? No windows?
Matt: You can't tell from your perspective right now. The base is currently obscured by the very, very dense buildings.
Laura: Ultimate challenge for Vox Machina.
Travis: Should we check one of the buildings, and then we can figure out who wants to go check it out, so we can get out of the open?
Laura: Yeah, let's get in a building and hide!
Travis: Because he's a cleaner!
Liam: The tower, is it obscured by all this shit happening on top of it? Vex can see there's no windows; can we see if there's a rooftop to it at all?
Matt: There is a top to the tower.
Liam: Is it this, is it this, or can we not see?
Matt: The tower gently tapers and then comes to an end. There is a top. You see there's three giant, curled finger-like black spires that curl inward on the outside, inward. And then there's the platform where the tower stops, where it seems like there would be somewhere to stand.
Laura: The thing that's glowing is off of the ground of the tower?
Matt: It's filling up the entirety of that space between the fingers on the actual roof of the tower.
Marisha: What if it has to keep expanding all the way to the crystals?
Travis: What's the nearest building? Is there one building that's closest to where we came through the tunnel?
Matt: Yeah, you guys are about ten feet from the nearest building.
Travis: Can I walk over? Are there any windows?
Matt: This building does not have any windows.
Travis: Does it have a door?
Matt: It does.
Travis: Can I knock?
Matt: (knocking) You watch as an older gentleman with a very thin gray goatee, looks a little sallow, missing his left eye, he currently has a small sack over his shoulder, he opens the door. "Can I--"
Travis: Hey, come here! And I grab his face.
Matt: (muffled yelling)
Laura: Inside! Inside!
Travis: We just go in. Push in.
Taliesin: Well, we're going in now, aren't we?
Liam: And we're walking, and we're walking.
Sam: I'll tell Mr. Mistoffelees to do a 90-second loop and come back down and check in on us because he can't fit in the door, right?
Matt: No!
Sam: Fly around 90 seconds and swoop back down.
Matt: He does a small circle as you guys all rush into the building. You enter the inside. You see what looks to be a lot of building materials. It looks like some of the outer buildings here were used as the storage facilities for what a lot of the city was rebuilt as. There's nobody else inside right now. This gentleman looks like he was on his way out of the building as you interrupted him. As now most of his head is just clasped by your giant goliath Titanstone Knuckle-adorned hand, you see a little bit of his eye peeking over Grog's, and he's like (muffled yelling).
Travis: Shh.
Matt: You see he's got the heavy male pattern-- looks like the old D&D Dungeon Master from the cartoon. He's bald on top, has long gray hair that goes past his shoulders. Very thin, missing the left eye, and he's just limp. He's not even going to fight it.
Laura: Oh hey! We were sent here by Delilah Briarwood. You may know her.
Matt: (muffled yelling)
Laura: Right. The ritual that's happening on top of the tower. How long until that thing's done?
Matt: (muffled noises)
Laura: Blink once for 15 minutes. Blink twice for an hour or more.
Liam: Three times for a bunch of days.
Sam: Maybe he doesn't know.
Laura: Yeah, do you know? Blink once for yes, blink twice for no.
Matt: (muffling noises)
Sam: 15 minutes! No, that was once for 15 minutes!
Laura: No, that was an hour, at least!
Marisha: I thought he blinked before. Are we at an hour and 15 minutes?
Taliesin: I don't think you can call it a blink if you've got one eye. I think it's just a wink.
Marisha: A wink? Man, semantics!
Matt: You get the sense that, as you say that, it does hurt him a little. His demeanor, while already pretty shattered, just even further (sad noise).
Travis: Does he have any pouches on him, or anything in his hands?
Matt: He had a small sack over his shoulder that he was leaving with. He's just adorned in regular--
Travis: Is the sack on the ground now or is it still over his shoulder?
Matt: No, it's currently on the ground. He dropped it as soon as you rushed and pushed him.
Travis: I take the satchel, and I give it to Pike and say: look in here.
Matt: You glance inside. As soon as you grab it, you hear the clanging of metal. You look inside and you can see what appear to be a handful of dark metal shortswords, daggers, simple dried rations, and, in fact, as you glance inside the room now, you can see a lot of the supplies here, aside from construction supplies, you see a handful of weapons that are well-made, recent-made, not seen battle yet.
Sam: They're about to invade.
Laura: What if we burn the fucking city down?
Sam: I mean, sure! What?
Laura: I mean, if they're planning on transporting this whole fucking city, and setting an army loose on our world, why don't we just burn the whole fucking city down? Destroy their rations. Destroy their weapons!
Taliesin: I am excited by this plan.
Sam: Wait, what? No! That's terrible!
Liam: Let's burn down Manhattan. How do you do that?!
Travis: Shall we ask this gentleman some questions? All right. I'm going to remove my hand. Obviously, you're like really cool with the purpose-- perspective of dying, and I'll quicken that if you make a loud noise. Right, like, if you've ever seen, like, Jello mixed with, like apple pudding. That's what I'll do to your head.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Laura: You did your hand signal for Arnold Palmer.
Travis: I did!
Matt: Universal.
Laura: Arnold Palmer?
Travis: 22!
Matt: 22. He doesn't make a sound, more than the gentle trickle out of his pant leg does. (laughs)
Taliesin: I think that's a yes.
Travis: Grab the scruff of his collar.
Matt: Okay, as you release, he (gasps). His teeth are broken and yellow, his one gaping socket is twitching a little bit from the recovery of the sudden, rapid series of events that he was not expecting today. As he gathers his breath, and scratches the side of his leg, "So. What do you wish to do to me?"
Sam: Nothing! We've got to hurry!
Laura: No, really, do you know anything about the ritual?
Matt: "I mean, not the specifics."
Laura: Do you know if it's going to be over soon?
Matt: "I know that some of the acolytes were rushing through, expediting things recently."
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "I don't know!"
Sam: Did they tell you to gather weapons?
Matt: "They just told us to be ready."
Liam: For what? What's the plan here, man? You're really far away from anything fucking nice.
Matt: You watch him close off as you start saying that. He catches himself saying too much information. His demeanor goes cold.
Laura: Please, we know you're going to transport to another plane.
Marisha: You're trying to bail, aren't you? Were you trying to run?
Sam: No, he's joining the fight.
Laura: Oh my god, he was going to leave.
Travis: Well, he's clearly clamming up. I put my hand back over the front of his face, I take the other one, put it on the back of his face, and I start making my fingers touch.
Matt: (muffled groaning) He reaches up and grabs the small symbol, familiar loop with the fork above it. He clasps it in his hand and doesn't resist.
Travis: Do you want it?
Ashley: Yeah! Put him a little lower, Grog. I rip off the necklace.
Matt: He's like clasping it in his hand. Make a strength check.
Taliesin: Drop it! Drop it!
Ashley: Oh my god, we're so terrible!
Travis: Are we?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Matt: He's clasping it, and you can see his one eye rolls back to hold onto it and he's muttering a prayer beneath your fingers and he's (muffled muttering) and you tear it from his grasp. (muffled panic)
Ashley: We'll give it back! You've got to answer some questions for us.
Travis: No, he won't. Look away if you want to preserve anything, and I just squish his head.
Matt: As you're saying that, you watch as one eye opens and his hands go limp and then (face exploding) and it just (splattering).
Ashley: Grog!
Matt: Spray on Pike.
Travis: I thought you were me giving the signal like, end it!
Ashley: No! I was going to-- whatever.
Travis: All right. We'll work on it.
Ashley: We'll find another one. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, I'm really sorry. Sorry.
Ashley: Brains!
Liam: Pike got Dragon Aged.
Matt: Yeah!
Marisha: Is there a water bucket around?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: So, but, set fire to the house, right? Burn the whole city down?
Sam: No!
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: The city is mostly stone; I don't know if we can burn it down.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you do find a small basin that's filled up with water. The people that live in this city still need to live. It looks like there are the means of feeding and drinking, though you get the sense that they may or may not-- most of the supplies do come from outside the Shadowfell.
Laura: Let's poison the water supply!
Marisha: I take a little bit of the water and control it and let Pike wash off a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I think I got a little in my mouth (gagging).
Liam: Wait, there's a little bit of skull right there. All right.
Taliesin: That's the little chunk where the joint is. It's just this little bit, it just breaks naturally if you put pressure on that side.
Matt: There's this slumped pile of dark cloth, thin body, and Riki-Oh mess on the ground.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow! Way to bring that back!
Matt: So, what's the plan, guys?
Taliesin: We've got a little shadow creature coming back around in a moment.
Sam: Want to jump on and do a scouting pass?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: You guys do the scout, we'll heal?
Ashley: You guys, are we not going to do a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: It's an hour. It takes an hour, right?
Sam: We can't risk it.
Liam: What do you think's going to happen in an hour? Everything's going to kick off in an hour?
Sam: Wouldn't you hate to miss it by 15 minutes?
Laura: The pulse has gotten stronger since we've been here. I don't know if that pulse means it's about to go, or if the pulse means that it's five minutes in.
Sam: This guy was about to leave his house to go walk over there for the final part of the ritual.
Marisha: Or he was trying to bail before the final part of the ritual.
Liam: Where's your pet? Let's go find some shit out.
Marisha: He had rations! No one takes rations!
Laura: He was handing out weapons.
Taliesin: It was like Carpentry of the Damned sort of thing.
Marisha: What if the giant orb has to reach the crystals?
Taliesin: It might, but it might just do the (buzzing, exploding).
Laura: Technical terms.
Marisha: Yeah, the (buzzing, exploding).
Taliesin: It's magic, it's the best I've got.
Travis: Who's going up?
Sam: Me and Vax.
Travis: Just you two, okay.
Ashley: How's everybody doing right now?
Taliesin: I'm a little rough.
Marisha: I'm a little rough.
Taliesin: I could use 20 points.
Laura: Yeah, I could use 20 points.
Ashley: Let's do a little Mass Cure Wounds situation.
Marisha: Nice.
Travis: Do it!
Sam: But do it with a flair! (laughter)
Ashley: Oh, fudge.
Laura: What? Oh that's a one, not seven, isn't it?
Ashley: 13.
Laura: That's fine, that's fine!
Taliesin: We're taking a short rest; I can add my--
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest?
Laura: Well, while they fly up, is it enough time for the people staying in the house to heal a bit?
Matt: You guys could take a short rest during that time, if you want to do a full scoping. By the time you come back, that spell's about to fade.
Sam: I mean, yeah, we're going to go as fast as we can.
Matt: So those that are traveling can't take a short rest.
Travis: And if that fades, he's fully aware that he was dominated, right?
Matt: Well. You don't know.
Travis: Okay. Especially me.
Matt: Yeah, you especially don't know.
Liam: Time's a-wasting, Scanlan, let's go.
Sam: Let's go. Mr. Mistoffelees!
Matt: As you open the door, there, just landing (landing) (gloom stalker croaking). You guys climb onto its back?
Sam: Yes, we do!
Matt: You climb onto its back. Touching this creature is like touching the inside of a freezer. Even with gauntleted hands, you have to wrap some of your cloth around to not give yourself frostbite over a period of time. Even resting on it, especially with your leather armors, it chills you to the bone. As you take up, and even just ten, 15 minutes into (wings flapping) up into the air, gathering as to whether you'll be noticed or spotted by this, you can feel it beginning to chill you, your teeth are beginning to chatter from being in that proximity of the freezing cold creature. It's strange, as you touch it, it feels less like fur and flesh and more like you're grabbing onto a very, very thick sackcloth. Like, it tugs and pulls and it feels almost like the scruff of a cat or dog's neck, but it has a clothy texture, and as you grab it, you can feel the cold wisps of shadow and darkness obscure your hands. You feel like you're plunging your arms into it, but you find purchase within that shadow and hold on.
Sam: We'll need to spoon for warmth.
Liam: I nestle in behind Scanlan.
Sam: I gladly accept.
Liam: Let's ride.
Travis: Let's ride?! (laughing)
Matt: All right, so, as you guys take up into the sky, and you guys are taking your short rest, we're going to take a quick break on our end as well. Use the restroom, get a snack.
Marisha: We're taking a break?
Matt: We're taking a break here because it is 8:30. We are going to do another giveaway at the break here, a Wyrmwood giveaway. A fantastic flamebox elder hero vault, which is some of the prettiest wood that they make.
Liam: Maybe the prettiest Wyrmwood box ever.
Laura: How come we didn't ever see those before; is that a new wood?
Matt: I don't know. But it's cool!
Laura: I want it!
Matt: Hero vault for whoever the lucky winner is. To be a part of that drawing, rush over to Twitch chat. Tonight's password is 'secrets,' plural. S-E-C-R-E-T-S. So, when you're prompted, enter the word 'secrets' in Twitch chat to be part of this giveaway and we'll come back and announce who it is after the break. We'll see you guys here in a few minutes. [break] (laughter)
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role.
Ashley: My timing is bad. (laughter)
Matt: We missed you, too, guys.
Travis: Oh my god.
Ashley: I forget, and then I remember to do it, and then we're already on the air.
Matt: Indeed, we are. Welcome back, everybody. First off, our winner of the hero case from our friends at Wyrmwood is Rory1177. Rory1177, you are the winner for tonight. Congratulations. Denobo will contact you and get your information and have that shipped off to you asap, so congratulations. All right, so as the rest of you are taking a short rest, the two of you are making your way, as stealthily as you can, on the back of a gloom stalker as it encircles the exterior of the Castle Entropis. First off, I would like you both to make a stealth check.
Liam: I squeeze the gnome tighter.
Laura: Oh god. I think you're out of range, so you don't get the plus ten anymore.
Liam: That's okayish.
Sam: 21.
Taliesin: You have advantage, though, on everything.
Sam: He's fine.
Liam: 34. A low 34.
Matt: Okay, so you guys begin to circle the exterior of the tower, making a wide spiral along its exterior. You make your way up. It's hard to gauge the full height of this tower, but it's at least six or seven stories tall, if not taller. I want you both to make perception checks, please.
Liam: Now that we're closer, I'm looking for windows that she might not have been close enough to see. Doors, holes, anything.
Matt: Perception check.
Liam: Yes, sir.
Sam: Natural one! I'm under his body.
Matt: He's curled up within Vax.
Liam: Hey!
Matt: Not even a top or bottom circumstance. You're just within.
Liam: It really just depends on the day. 26.
Matt: 26. Okay. No windows. It is a solid tower, completely around as you cycle around. As you get towards the top of it, you notice the three curved fingerlike spires that curl up at the top and the pulsing of the energy. You watch as these very faint tendrils of magical energy that you've tuned in to be able to see better, now that you know what to look for, are all-- from this height, you can see the long strands are undulating and shifting, almost like the very winds of the land are causing them to rotate. You can see the variations in their form, but they're all still merging and entwining at the very top of Entropis. You see nothing. You can see what appear to be a cluster of about 30 or so figures all gathered along the top of this. You can see what appear to be three glowing spheres in a triangular pattern around this that are accepting the tether of the magical energy, and then suffusing what appears to be a small altar of some kind in the very center of the top of this tower.
Liam: Mother bitch.
Matt: You've been circling here for about 15 to 20 minutes or so, and the energy (explosion noise) untethers and unfurls. There's a shockwave of warmth that cascades outward from the top of the tower. Both of you feel it pass through you, and that freezing cold that you've been trying desperately to hold at bay as you're clutching onto the back of this gloom stalker, this heat wave moves past. The gloom stalker (squawks) instinctually pulls back, and you can see for a second it drops, and you feel your stomach bottom out as it loses about 20 feet of elevation before catching itself again. And you watch as any of the others that are currently cycling around the stratosphere over the city of Thar Amphala also are taken off guard by the sudden burst of energy. As you glance over, you can see the tethers that connect have all fallen and faded. (music changes)
Sam: (quietly) How does he do that? How did you do that?
Matt: You also watch as about 25 or so of these figures at the top all collapse at once.
Liam: But some are left.
Matt: There are some left. You watch and very faintly, you can see on that altar in the center, there is a small bead of pure, vibrant, bright white light. You watch as a robed figure that previously was held in the shadows emerge. You're too far away to make any more details than that.
Liam: A lot of motherfuckers just died on the top of that tower. You felt that?
Sam: What do we do? Is that the end of the ritual?
Liam: How much time left on that hour, buddy?
Sam: Enough to get back to our friends, probably.
Liam: We've got to go.
Sam: Should we attack now? Just the two of us?
Liam: No, we should not do that.
Sam: We could.
Liam: We could.
Sam: Between you and me, we're the most powerful ones in the group.
Liam: I just don't feel like freeballing it right now, and I'd really like the group.
Sam: I know, but will you at least confirm that yes, we are the most powerful?
Liam: Clearly. We are the most, as the kids say, OP. Let's get back to the group.
Sam: All right. Hold me tight. Mr. Mistoffeles, back down.
Matt: It goes into a rapid dive, making its way back towards where you left the rest of your party. The rest of you, you can go ahead and regain your short rest. You get your Wild Shape back. You can spend any hit dice to heal up if you'd like. If you haven't already.
Laura: I already did it.
Matt: Okay, good. I also need all of you to roll a wisdom saving throw, please.
Sam: Everybody?
Matt: Everybody who was on a short rest.
Laura: If we had had a Feast, we'd have advantage on this.
Marisha: We would.
Matt: All right, so.
Taliesin: 14.
Marisha: 30.
Laura: 24.
Ashley: Just to make sure  I used Gnome Cunning, because I get advantage on wisdom.
Matt: It's not a "magical" effect.
Ashley: Okay. So then I'll take my first roll, which was two. And then I will add my wisdom saving throw number, which is ten, so I have 12.
Travis: 19.
Sam: I want you to explain every roll.
Matt: In the rest you take, the Shadowfell does not seem to have any adverse effect on your presence.
Taliesin: However...
Matt: There's no "however." You complete your rest fine. You guys all gather your stuff, you take a breath and prepare for the next leg of your venture as the door to your building slams open, Scanlan and Vax arriving, just leaping off the back of the gloom stalker that they had under their control. Who is also about to lose its...
Taliesin: How much longer do they have?
Sam: Fly away!
Taliesin: Attack the tower. Tell it to attack the tower.
Sam: Really? It's going to forget halfway there.
Taliesin: Maybe we can mess one person up.
Sam: Fly away! Just fly away!
Ashley: On the rest, could I have worked a little bit more on enchanting the silver bullets?
Matt: You can spend a little more time on it. It'll take a few days of getting that to happen.
Ashley: I just keep working on it.
Laura: Did we feel that (whoosh) within the building?
Matt: You didn't. You may have heard something strange, but it didn't really catch your attention. You guys spent your time resting on the inside of the building.
Laura: What'd you see?
Liam: Saw a lot of fucking people just die on the top of that tower. I can't guarantee it, but I think it's a safe bet that your girl Delilah is up there.
Laura: That's where I figured she'd be.
Sam: It seems they've completed at least some part of the ritual.
Liam: Yeah, there was some sort of massive pulse of energy, 20-something hooded figures just dropped dead on the spot. A wave of some shit blasted through us.
Laura: Can I run out and look at the tower and see if the orb looks different?
Marisha: I join Vex.
Matt: You guys rush out and peek outside of the doorway towards the top of Entropis. You see that the glowing pulse is gone. The energy tethers from the siphons are gone.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: I look around. Are we still in the Shadowfell?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: That's not great. 18.
Matt: That's enough. Yeah, you're still in the Shadowfell. (sounds of relief)
Travis: Motherfucking Mercer. That intonation.
Taliesin: If you rolled low enough, he'd be like, "You don't know." Seattle! You've taken us to Seattle!
Laura: Well, we should fucking get up there, then, huh?
Sam: Should we go straight up the tower?
Liam: What else are we doing here?
Sam: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the base.
Sam: But we're going to fight an aerial battle against super-magical things.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: We're weighing risk here. What do we think would happen if we spent an hour having that Feast right now?
Travis: Actually, that's true. Nothing's going to change at this point.
Sam: Maybe.
Marisha: I mean, maybe we should return to something like sabotaging the machine, or... burning the city. Oh god, Vex is rubbing off on me.
Laura: Did you see Delilah up there?
Liam: No. There was a ringleader, but we were too far out.
Laura: And the ringleader was still standing?
Liam: Yeah.
Ashley: How many people were still standing?
Matt: That would have been three that you noticed.
Liam: Precisely three. (laughter)
Ashley: Lots of them died in the blast?
Sam: Yeah, so it's not even going to be a tough fight. We'll just take down three people and be done, right?
Laura: So easy.
Taliesin: The less people we're fighting, the worse it is.
Marisha: Agreed.
Ashley: It won't just be three.
Taliesin: It might be four.
Sam: It'll be... less than three?
Laura: Even one with that fucking wall she had last time, we're fucked.
Marisha: How far did the blast go that you saw?
Liam: We were 100 yards out or something?
Matt: Yeah, you were probably about 300 feet out.
Laura: We didn't do any research on that wall, did we? That spell? Did anybody do any research on that spell that we saw her do? Down in the ziggurat?
Taliesin: We kind of figured out what it was. It was a modified version of a spell we've seen before.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. It seemed to be prismatic. You've seen Prismatic Spray. It's a prismatic spell in nature but you didn't really research any means of defeating it or bypassing it.
Travis: Do you still have that Earthquake spell?
Marisha: I believe me and Pike both do, yes.
Travis: We couldn't, like, earthquake the tower to the ground. Could we?
Marisha: Between me, you, and Pike? We can take this tower down.
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: I just don't know about us going to the top, if we could maybe bring it--
Taliesin: Oh, if we could maybe bring the top down here?
Sam: That's a good idea, if you can really do it.
Travis: I just don't know how big around it is. It might be fucking huge.
Taliesin: How big around is the tower?
Matt: At the very base--
Taliesin: He's looking at the tower.
Matt: -- it's about 170, 180 feet in diameter.
Marisha: Hang on, 180 feet in diameter? Hang on. Pike and I check our spellbooks real quick.
Taliesin: Can I do a little engineering? If I were going to punch at it...
Liam: Also, the idea that we're going to sneak into that tower is farfetched.
Sam: No, we either have to fly up to the top or bring it down to us, right?
Laura: I like the idea of bringing it down.
Liam: Even if it fails, the fight will still come to-- Either we bring the fight to them, or we rip down the tower and bring the fight to us.
Marisha: For up to a minute and a hundred foot radius, centered at a point...
Matt: It deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in the area when you cast the spell. If it drops to zero hit points, it collapses and potentially damages nearby creatures. So the question is, do you think that'll be enough to drop a solid obsidian tower?
Laura: It's a tough call. Twice in a row?
Marisha: But, I mean, two Earthquake spells and Grog.
Laura: I have a siege arrow.
Marisha: I will point out this will be burning mine and Pike's 8th-level spell, but it might be worth it.
Sam: It feels like it's a 3.2 earthquake, we need a 6.2 earthquake.
Travis: That's true, we do. Let's be honest. We really do need a massive shake.
Laura: What if we weaken the outside and then hit with the earthquake?
Marisha: I can tunnel out underneath it.
Taliesin: I think whatever was going on up there is gone. I think it's happened.
Laura: Well, Delilah's still up there, so if she falls at least she takes some damage.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Liam: I'm just going to throw my vote in the ring here, that I think we should take the time for the Feast. You know, we're not killing piles of rats in the sewers, here. This is serious.
Sam: When last time we fought Delilah, were any of us scared of her?
Taliesin: She's not what I'm afraid of.
Laura: Wisdom saving throws are major. She could take control of us.
Travis: I'm not against that, but I think one person should stay out of the Feast and keep an eye in case they leave in the hour that we're feasting.
Sam: Well, if someone's going to stay out of the Feast, it should be the guy who already has advantage on everything.
Travis: Oh, that too, yeah. I just can't get afraid, that's all I was going to say.
Laura: Yeah, but you can be taken control of with your brain, Grog.
Travis: That's assuming a lot.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Ashley: Shit.
Travis: Or we just go get it. We just go after it and go get it.
Sam: I'm against the Feast. I think we should just run in.
Laura: I just don't feel like there's time, honestly.
Sam: Also, I'm vegan, I don't know if I could eat everything at the feast.
Liam: It is largely GoFiBePo?
Sam: GoFiBePo? Why didn't you just name it a Poobah Platter?
Laura: Oh, that would have been way easier.
Marisha: How far are we from the tower in this little house?
Matt: In this house, you're a little over a half mile away from it.
Taliesin: It's a ten-minute walk.
Matt: So this house is just outside of the perimeter wall of the inner cloister.
Marisha: You guys could do the Feast and some of us can help tunnel out the ground during that hour.
Taliesin: I don't know. I don't think we're going to bring it down.
Travis: I don't know if we're going to bring it down. It was a cool idea, but I don't know if we're going to do it. We're no white ancient dragon.
Ashley: What's it made of? Obsidian?
Matt: You haven't been close enough to really tell, but it looks to be made of a very thick, dark obsidian or onyx-like material.
Liam: It's also unsettling as fuck, right?
Laura: Oh, it's probably magically protected.
Liam: Probably.
Taliesin: It may just hover there if we knock this.
Laura: That is very true.
Taliesin: It may be keeping the ground up as opposed to being sitting on the ground at that point.
Marisha: So we're going to try to fly up?
Taliesin: Or walk up through the inside.
Travis: Raise your hand if you want a Heroes' Feast.
Liam: For you all, yes.
Travis: Four?
Sam: Is that a raise or not?
Travis: Are you scratching your ear or are you raising your hand?
Taliesin: Yes, damn it.
Sam: Wait, so, are we four?
Ashley: I'm just nervous. I know we don't have time, but what if this is one of those decisions where later we're like "We should have fucking done a Heroes' Feast"?
Travis: Well, let's do it.
Ashley: I don't know, though, I don't know if we have the time. This is hard.
Travis: Well, the transaction upstairs has already happened, whether they get away or not.
Marisha: I have a feeling we're going to be down here a while.
Laura: Maybe we can prepare the Feast, keep an eye out. If we have to ditch out on the Feast early, then we do.
Marisha: Keyleth looks out the window again. Are people panicked, are people running around? Is there a rabble in the street?
Matt: There's no technical window in this building. There's the door.
Travis: She just pushes her head against the wall.
Matt: So you look out the door and glance through. You do notice, there's no panic, but you do see a number of-- and this is interesting-- you glance out, and you don't see any undead wandering the streets of the inner cloister. At least, not like the outer area was. You do see-- make a perception check, actually.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! 30!
Matt: You see, throughout the street, which, the street from here gets about halfway to the tower before it hits a building and curves around. You see maybe 35 or 40 total people in matching or close cultist robes or similar colors, all making their way towards the tower.
Taliesin: They're dressed for an occasion. Fuck it. Just go.
Laura: We got to go. 35 to 40 people? Let's kill 'em all on the way up.
Marisha: Man, you're frosty today. You're just--
Laura: They're trying to come over into our territory. I don't like it. They're all assholes.
Travis: Shall we go in?
Marisha: Well, how are we going to go in, though? Just flying up?
Taliesin: We have one broom, we don't have two brooms anymore. We got a carpet, and we got wings.
Laura: And a couple people with wings. Oh god, the creepy music is starting. We gotta go, y'all.
Liam: Beeline to the tower.
Marisha: And then what? And then what, though? Once we get there? Play it by ear?
Taliesin: Throw everything off the top. Break everything. Smash everything.
Laura: It's Delilah. She's going to destroy us. Do we have any way to neutralize her magic?
Travis: Well, you could turn into a... no.
Marisha: I can't. I gave Vax Foresight. I cannot turn into a beholder today.
Sam: I can.
Taliesin: You can?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Do you have Shapechange?
Sam: Something like it. (gasping)
Taliesin: All right, this is almost a plan. Let's do this.
Travis: It's more than we normally have.
Taliesin: It's far more.
Laura: Are there a lot of gloom stalkers around?
Matt: You can tell with the loss of magical energy that they've been tossed askew a bit. Their patterns of circling and being intent, they're a little more scattered a bit, but there are still maybe a few dozen that look over the inner cloister.
Taliesin: Let's make our way to the tower and maybe head up through the tower. We don't have to necessarily fly up to the top.
Laura: Wait a minute. Did the orb at the top turn the same way that the orbs in the ziggurat turn?
Matt: There were faint orbs that were taking the energy and focusing it towards that center altar, and when everything faded after the shock wave, what you saw looked like the tiniest star. It was just a speck of extremely bright light that to look directly at it hurt.
Travis: I don't know! I don't! Just go get it.
Marisha: I'm honestly still kind of into the earthquake idea. Bringing down the tower. I'm not going to lie.
Sam: That's not going to work!
Marisha: How do you know?
Sam: You said 50 points of damage?
Taliesin: I can take 50 points of damage. I can take two earthquakes, personally.
Sam: I mean, just from a metagaming scenario, that's not even-- that can't even hurt--
Marisha: No, no, no. The tremor deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in your area when you cast the spell, and at the start of each of your turns until the spell ends, and the spell lasts a minute.
Sam: So you get ten 50s.
Marisha: Ten of those. Ten 50s.
Laura: Oh, and then times two.
Marisha: With Pike and I.
Sam: So that's 1000 points. Over a minute. That's better than I thought.
Liam: Is it concentration?
Marisha: It's concentration for up to a minute, and it has a 500-foot range, and a 100-foot radius. So Pike and I could split, half and half of the tower.
Travis: It's pretty fucking Hollywood. I kind of like it.
Taliesin: All right! All right, let's do it.
Marisha: I feel like if we go right up to the top of the tower, it's like walking into the danger.
Taliesin: Let's bring the tower down to us.
Marisha: This is insane!
Liam: And you can still fuck shit up while you got that earthquake going, right?
Marisha: Well, how do you mean?
Laura: Oh, yeah, if you have that spell going, you can do other things in case things attack us?
Liam: Are you just doing Earthquake the whole time, or are you just standing there staring at the ground?
Marisha: It's my concentration, so I can keep it going and do an instant reaction spell.
Matt: Do other things, you can't do another concentration spell.
Liam: But you're not lightning anybody's ass, not doing anything like that. You're focusing on the tower.
Marisha: I mean, I can throw a Fireball and keep it going, yeah.
Liam: That's really big. All right.
Taliesin: I say the movers and shakers get the cloaks. Let's head out.
Laura: Get up as close as we can to support Pike and Keyleth.
Taliesin: And we keep them safe. We are playing defense.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: God, I hope this works.
Taliesin: God, I hope this works, too.
Marisha: I don't know if this is going to work!
Laura: This is stupid as fuck!
Taliesin: We're distance. Anybody gets near them, we take them out.
Marisha: Grog, can you at the right moment just do a big-- see if you can topple it over?
Travis: I can try and do whatever you want. I can run around and punch a bunch of holes in it, whatever.
Taliesin: We're going to focus everything on one side of the tower, we're going to try and bring it down in a direction. Here we go.
Laura: Yes, focus it on one side of the tower. Both on the same side.
Taliesin: Like a tree. Let's do this. This is a terrible plan. All right. LAURA Just trying to gauge Matt.
Marisha: I know! Matt's stone cold!
Taliesin: Matt's thinking about all the other people he could be playing D&D with right now. (laughing)
Taliesin: He's imagining a whole other set of faces here.
Liam: All right, let's teleport inside that dragon. Come on.
Matt: Yeah, what's the plan, guys?
Liam: That's the plan.
Laura: We're going to get close enough so that they can do their 500 feet distance. But keep a distance to the tower.
Marisha: And if we can be hidden while we're doing this, instead of being open. We have a 500-foot range here. We've got a dope-ass range.
Taliesin: Keyleth's got a cloak. Pike's got a cloak.
Travis: I'm huge.
Taliesin: He's huge.
Laura: We're going to try to get in a building that's closer to the tower.
Matt: Okay. Seeming lasts for eight hours, so you're still under the guise of that illusion.
Sam: Although we don't--
Laura: -- need that anymore.
Taliesin: Well, we can look like cultists.
Sam: Keyleth, you said that there's no other undead around here, right? Maybe we shouldn't look like undead, then.
Taliesin: Can you shift what we look like without changing it?
Sam: I don't think I can shift it. No, you can't. That's a one-time thing.
Laura: Maybe just drop it and we'll be cultists.
Marisha: How many robes did we swipe?
Sam: We've got the one from the guy whose head we just crushed.
Matt: You would have four cloaks, because there's two you got from the outside at the ritual, and there's the one from the guy you killed when you got here. Well, technically, there was the two that you killed when you got there, but you didn't say you grabbed those. Oh, you did, you grabbed them off. So that's two, five, six. You have six cloaks.
Laura: Yeah, and then the one, the guy that we just killed in front of the --
Matt: That was included.
Sam: Me and Pike, she could be on my shoulders and we could share one cloak.
Laura: Yeah! That's good!
Travis: I have that Cloak of Smashing that Percy gave me.
Marisha: Totally 'Little Rascals' it! Oh, I love it!
Laura: Yeah, we'll just robe it up.
Matt: You guys all throw on the--
Ashley: I almost feel like it should be the other way around.
Sam: Oh, it absolutely should. (laughter)
Matt: Six cloaks, seven players. You guys are straight-up doing-- I am so proud of everything that has just happened. (laughter)
Sam: To make it look like our arms can reach the ends of the cloak-- are they sleeved cloaks?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to hold a flute and my sword. (laughing)
Liam: Mythcarver! You used Mythcarver to pull a Little Rascals!
Matt: "There will be no survivors!"
Taliesin: "The dread Pirate Roberts is here for your souls!"
Liam: Hey guys, it's the third time Scanlan has used Mythcarver! (laughter)
Marisha: That's a vestige right there!
Taliesin: It's gone from exalted to shamed.
Matt: It retracts into a dagger now.
Taliesin: Never happens. This never happens.
Matt: All right. In a hip montage, you pull out the various cloaks, assemble your materials, getting ready.
Taliesin: We are a bunch of assholes.
Matt: Scanlan hops on top of Pike, the cloak is placed over you. You get your sleeves ready, and you all walk out into the cold air of the Shadowfell, making your way towards the center of the city.
Marisha: Be cool. Be cool.
Liam: I'm also going to say, some time in the last several hours, I don't remember what the armor is set to, to necrotic.
Matt: I think you may have said that before you went in, just in case. I assumed that was the case.
Laura: I think that was already there, yeah.
Taliesin: And remember, if anyone looks at you, close one eye. Just be winking. Always be winking. Left eye.
Laura: Does everybody have their arms, that we've run into so far? Or are they missing an arm, too? An eye and an arm or just an eye?
Matt: It varies. Not everyone seems to be missing a hand, but most of them are missing an eye.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: You all look like my sister.
Marisha: You need to get your eyes checked, then. Your depth perception may be off.
Sam: All right, we go!
Matt: All right. You guys make your way up the street, following behind the few stragglers that you see trying to catch up with the rest of the groups of people that have filtered out of the buildings and made their way towards the center. You make your way through some of the side roads, following around, and you can see now that the closer you get to the city, the more the structures, the buildings here, are built in a spiral. The roads don't intersect at spokes, they all gradually curve in to the tower. If you're looking at it overhead, it looks like this large spiral into the tower, like a pinwheel. You follow the curvature of the road, which prevents you from seeing the end point, and as you begin to get close to some of the clusters of people that are walking with a brisk walk, but still walking towards the tower, you fall back a little bit to not draw any attention. As you're making your way there, you watch as two individuals hurry up that were a little bit behind you, and rush up to the side and are walking in pace. They glance over.
Marisha: Hoods forward.
Matt: One of them, who appears to be a younger man, probably 18, 19 or so, who's got this little patch of reddish brown chin fuzz and looks a little malnourished. He still has both eyes. He rushes up real fast, his hood pulling back a little bit, and he's looking around, excited but also with trepidation. "So it's happening, huh? It's really happening!"
Laura: I guess so.
Liam: It's fucking wild.
Laura: So exciting.
Sam: I'm so excited to be here!
Laura: Oh, don't.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Keep your mouth shut! Just keep your mouth shut!
Marisha: Just nod and smile.
Sam: 24.
Matt: He looks at you and goes, "Oh! I didn't know the Whispered One takes the special ones, too!"
Travis: Yep! Sure does!
Taliesin: What are you going to do after?
Matt: "I don't know."
Taliesin: Surely you've thought.
Matt: "I'm pretty low on the totem pole here. I'm just excited to be on the right side of history."
Laura: Ditto.
Liam: Fuck the normies.
Matt: "All right." And he rushes up past you guys to try and catch up.
Sam: So awkward.
Laura: I think he bought it. I think we played it really cool there, guys.
Marisha: I'm really bad at holding my eye shut for this long.
Taliesin: So are we close enough now that we can start this?
Matt: Not yet. You're about maybe 1,000 feet or so away.
Taliesin: I'm going to see if there's any structures that are within distance so that once they set up and start, I can get to them. Maybe we can perch.
Marisha: We only need to be so far out.
Taliesin: We can cover you from a roof.
Matt: Perception check, Percival.
Liam: Also wondering how we're doing in the gloom stalker department?
Matt: No one's seen you, currently. It seems that whatever piercing vision they have, it does not seem to pierce robes.
Laura: I want to keep an eye out for buildings, too.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay. Then you as well make a perception check.
Taliesin: Please.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. Okay. You glance about, and there are a lot of buildings here with vantage points. They're all similar heights. There are a few that are outliers, but most of them are one and a half to two stories, like a one story with an attic or an attic space, like a half-story. Or two stories. You do check a few that are third-story, and a lot of them are almost in steeple-like spires at the top. You start to notice there is a theme. A lot of the buildings closer to the tower are built in a similar theme as the tower itself. You begin to see the edges of the roofs curve up into their own spikes, and the further in you go, the more dangerous and unwelcoming the deeper inner cloister of Thar Amphala is to witness. You can see now certain people are climbing onto the roofs. They're getting up there, almost like they're preparing for some sort of a festival or a fireworks show.
Marisha: Like the Fourth of fucking July.
Laura: The aliens are coming and we're welcoming them.
Travis: Well, they're not wrong.
Matt: You notice, Vex... There's been no change in daylight or nightlight here. It's been this constant deep, dark gray gloom that hangs over the Shadowfell, unchanging, unshifting. There's a creeping brightness on the horizon that you feel rising.
Laura: We're getting ready to teleport.
Matt: And you watch as that creeping brightness forms a dome over your space, and then comes to a close over the top of the tower, and where once there was this gloomy skyscape, you now see what appears to be a brighter, clouded sky. The temperature grows a little colder, and you begin to see snowfall. Gentle snow begins to fall, and you watch as some of the cultists surrounding start reaching up and catching it in their hands.
Taliesin: Now, now!
Sam: We've still got to attack.
Marisha: It's totally taken us to Whitestone.
Sam: It's okay, we can still kill everybody.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Laura: We're in the north. There's a lot of places that snow. It could be Draconia. There's a lot of places that snow.
Liam: But it's Delilah Briarwood.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You have no direct idea of where you are, but based on the weather that you left Whitestone in not too long ago, this isn't Whitestone or near Whitestone. The weather patterns are a little more classic snow.
Laura: Is it winter in Wildemount right now?
Matt: It's the tail end of winter in a few places.
Liam: Tower still needs to come down.
Sam: Let's go. Let's move. Let's attack. Are we within 500 feet?
Matt: You guys are about now within 500 feet.
Laura: Fucking get into the building that we can, and then start it.
Marisha: Pike and I huddle together and try and join forces.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Matt: As you guys are holding hands, a voice begins to ring out. Omnipresent. Directionless, like it's being positioned directly into the minds of each of you from wherever it stands. It's an unfamiliar voice. The words creep and curl in, like they've always been resting, and now is the moment is for them to reveal themselves. "I would ask you to listen before you make a fool of yourselves. I've watched you since you stepped into my domain, and I'm not going to lie, it's been entertaining. I admire your gumption. It reminds me of others who have tried what you are trying. But they're dead now, so I leave the choice to you. You can either walk away, or you can join me, or you will die, and join me anyway."
Laura: Eff that shit. Just do it.
Liam: No one walks away.
Marisha: People don't tell us to stop if they're not afraid of what we're doing.
Taliesin: To the end.
Laura: To the end.
Sam: To the end.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just pretend that's not really happening.
Laura: Do it.
Marisha: I love you all. We do it, above the screaming, howling Horror Nights sound effects.
Taliesin: I pull Silence.
Matt: All right. As you guys clasp hands, and begin the intricate incantation for the Earthquake spell, you can hear the cheers of people on the rooftops. They're standing up now, and they're all shouting, "Yes! Yes, I hear you!" You get the sense that perhaps you weren't the only ones that have been spoken to, although the conversations may differ from individual to individual. As you guys complete your incantation, you watch as the dust begins to rise around the base. You see Entropis begin to quiver back and forth, and you watch as everyone begins to rush to the edge of the rooftops, then rush into the streets to look up, their hands raised to the sky, not sure what this means, but basking in whatever glory this next sign or omen is to be. You watch as a loud, shattering crack sound hits, and you watch as one large, snaking, carving line begins to work its way up one side of the tower. Up another. And the collective gasp of hundreds of voices across the city seem to echo, (gasps). You watch as one side buckles, and the tower begins to slowly (rumble) to the ground.
Sam: Is it falling towards us?
Matt: It's falling not towards you.
Ashley: We thought of that.
Matt: But not the entire tower.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: You glance up and watch as the very apex, the three-clawed top of the tower, is just there, in the sky, held aloft, unmoving, as the rest of the tower seems to have (rumble) broken away, and as it falls, this slow, terrifying collapse, you hear the rumbling of broken stone slamming into earth as clouds of smoke, dust, and dead earth are kicked up from the impact of this falling tower, completely enswirling the center of the city with debris and darkness. You watch as cultists go running now, their faces filled with fear and confusion at what this suddenly means, what's happening. As the dust washes past you, it gives this haze over the sky, and slowly comes to fade. You all, taking in what's happening, watch as that one apex of the spire slowly makes its way down to the surface of wherever you are on top of the rubble that once stood as Entropis.
Marisha: It kind of worked.
Sam: I mean, it wasn't bad.
Marisha: It brought it down. Did anyone of significance die in the process?
Matt: You can only assume.
Laura: Can we see who it is?
Matt: You're too far away. You're 500 feet away from this.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: Broom.
Travis: We're going up to it or waiting till it comes down all the way?
Sam: Oh, I mean, it's landing, right?
Matt: It's landed. It settled itself. It's kind of cocked to one side. For it to land in the rubble, it's not a perfect platform, it (rumble) and comes to rest at a very faint angle among the ruined, broken, jagged obsidian pile. It's a thousand million flecked arrowheads all jumbled in this broken glass-like landscape of destroyed tower, and there, the very zenith of this once-grand structure sits resting, waiting.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Sam: Do we have an escape plan?
Travis: Kill everything.
Marisha: I can Plane Shift us if things get really bad, but I kind of think we're already on our plane.
Laura: This sounds like we're all going to die!
Sam: Sure does.
Ashley: All right, guys, we're going to do this. We're going to do this.
Liam: Start walking.
Taliesin: The minute I grab onto your broom, you can't hear anything, so I'm just going to ride it down to the ground and then let go.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Well, I'm done playing, so I'm going to take the Titan Stone Knuckles and smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself.
Matt: Your cloak tears around your body, Incredible Hulk style as your form ruins what remains of the black, sheared fabric that once, even by the stretch of the imagination, pseudo-hid you, now...
Travis: A bib remains.
Matt: Exactly. It's almost like one of those Chippendale neckpieces. What you see is a number of cultists that were running away from the tower stop and see this, and then, almost instinctually, go to defend. Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Should've raged. That's not terrible. 24.
Matt: And go scattering in other directions. You see some are rushing towards the tower to see what happened, to see if anyone's okay. There are a lot of cultists that were crushed, you imagine, on that side of the city, especially since they were clustering at the base for whatever this was. But many more are still out in the streets as you guys walk (footsteps), making your way towards the central tower.
Laura: I take off the robes. Get ready. Slow motion walk towards the tower.
Matt: You make your way down the ruined city streets of Thar Amphala. Amongst the snowfall that's now beginning to gather on the tops of your heads and your shoulders and your wings, and along the sides of the street that hadn't seen snowfall, probably ever. You make your way past the final boundary buildings, the cultists just letting you pass, looks of fear, looks of excitement, looks of knowing, looks of understanding that you probably walk to your deaths and I want to watch this happen. You begin to step over the rubble, your footfalls finding the grinding, high-pitched cracks of broken glass-like obsidian beneath your feet. There you look up, and can see about 25 or 30 feet of the tower top is resting at an angle. You can't see what's up on top of it. No windows. How do you wish to proceed?
Liam: We're not sneaking up on shit.
Laura: Well, no. They know we're here.
Travis: Circle? Flank? All together? Which one?
Taliesin: Powerhouses together. Distance fighters keep their distance. I'll take the carpet if it's available.
Laura: Surround the tower, climb up each side?
Travis: I would.
Taliesin: I'm going to grab the carpet. Anybody who wants a lift up, feel free.
Travis: I will take that ride.
Laura: I'll broom it.
Ashley: I'll hop up on the carpet.
Taliesin: Carpet's full.
Matt: As you guys are getting yourselves prepared, that voice returns to you, echoing through your minds once again. "I am genuinely impressed. I'm excited. And I would like for you to remain to watch my ascension, but far be it for me to rob anyone of a fine death, so come. Come, and be the next sacrifice for the new age."
Laura: You're a dipshit!
Travis: Eloquence personified.
Matt: So, via broom...
Sam: We have to fly to get up to it?
Laura: It's 35 feet up, so.
Marisha: To the top of the tower?
Travis: Platform, whatever you want to call it.
Liam: I'm going to shoot up and past by quite a bit.
Marisha: Can I hop on a carpet or broom?
Laura: You can hop on my broom.
Taliesin: I was about to say, carpet's a bit full.
Marisha: I'll hop on the broom with Vex.
Sam: I need a ride as well.
Taliesin: Once I'm up, I'm going to scatter.
Sam: Do you want me to be a beholder? Or a dragon?
Marisha: Beholder has the anti-magic cone eye situation. Just wait and see.
Sam: Wait and see? Figured I should do it now.
Taliesin: How long can you maintain a beholder?
Marisha: How long does it last to cast?
Sam: It's instantaneous.
Taliesin: Oh, then wait until the moment that it's necessary.
Sam: But he could Counterspell it unless I do it now.
Laura: I don't know if he's actually here yet.
Matt: Help me put this down right... There.
Ashley: That's awesome.
Laura: I feel like whenever we come across a map, I feel like we walked into his hand, exactly where he wanted us.
Travis: Let's also talk about the fact that it's been years since we've been this close to a map.
Matt: This is also true.
Taliesin: That is true.
Matt: Please. Indulge me where you're coming in from. And these resemble the three curved spires.
Travis: Those ideally go like that above it, right?
Matt: Yeah, they curve upward and stop about there.
Taliesin: So they're not platform-y.
Matt: No. They come to a point.
Taliesin: I'm hiding behind this glowing spire. I'm going to take some cover behind.
Matt: You rush. We're looking for landing placement, here. This'll come into play, here. Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'll go right there.
Matt: Right there.
Laura: Me and Keyleth-- do you want to land over here?
Marisha: That's fine. Yeah, I follow your lead.
Laura: As soon as I land, I bamf Trinket out.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I'm going to say that I'm about 80 feet in the air, just off-center. Towards Vex and Keyleth, but just off-center.
Laura: Keep a distance, don't be in a line with us.
Liam: I'm going to say I'm there, straight up.
Matt: There you are, Vax, right there.
Travis: The minis look so cool!
Taliesin: I haven't seen them in so long.
Travis: I know, we've been so far away!
Taliesin: Who's left? Pike?
Matt: Pike and Scanlan. Because you took the carpet, you're going to have to be near Grog for where you guys land. Going to be the circumstance there. Percy, you just run up the side to get there?
Taliesin: No, I was on the carpet and hopped and left them because they had to go pick up.
Matt: If that's the case, then I'll say that you're landing.
Taliesin: No, they had to go get Scanlan--
Matt: Oh, you had to go get Scanlan?
Taliesin: It's 35 feet.
Matt: If you guys had leave Scanlan behind, that's a whole different thing.
Sam: No, I think I'm going to just go ahead and be a beholder and fly in there myself.
Taliesin: Okay, that'll work.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Wow! Okay! All right! YOLO, why the fuck not?
Taliesin: If you'd be so kind, throw me here, then.
Liam: Someday, we could have a game with two beholders on our side.
Marisha: It's true! But not today.
Matt: That's Scanlan. (laughter)
Taliesin: I like that you found a goofy-looking beholder. (goofy voice) Hi!
Ashley: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: Hey, you guys!
Matt: As you guys arrive, the floor is just surrounded in bodies. Cultists of very ornate robes. Mostly you've seen peon-based: black splatters of sackcloth, what was available.
Laura: They've been peed on?!
Matt: No. these are well-adorned and appear to have been very well-regarded within the Remnants. You also see, on this side, what appears to be-- sorry, on this side would be Delilah Briarwood.
Laura: Bitchface Briarwood.
Marisha: Bitchface Briarwood!
Matt: On this side, you see what appears to be a black, armored, massive, not quite goliath-sized, but a thick, dark black knight of jagged dark metal armor, what appears to be a longsword that emanates this dark energy, and floating above--
Taliesin: Oh, balls.
Laura: Oh no, what's flying?
Ashley: Put it away.
Laura: No, I don't need it!
Liam: Those are my platforms, I can take them back anytime I want!
Laura: Oh no! What is that?
Matt: You see a man, though the flesh is pulled tight against a skeletal frame. You see long, red and purple and black robes that are tattered and drift below the breeze and cold gently blowing by. You see a field of crackling energy just bursting around the outskirts of his form. You see one hand is out, in a welcoming position, while the empty wrist that once contained a hand is now open on the other side. You see the bald, hairless head, which is covered in spots and tugged open, bits of flesh that have curled away from rotten decay. You see the cheeks sunken in where the skeletal teeth are now emblazoned in a terrible grin. You see the right eye, and the gaping hole where a bright green, bursting, flaming vacuous void where an eye once was now drifts off a trail behind it. You see there, reborn before you, the Whispered One, the Undying King. Vecna himself.
Travis: Oh god, we're in it!
Taliesin: I don't like it being this close.
Sam: We'll probably all die.
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative. (screaming)
Travis: No!
Sam: Matthew Mercer, may I borrow your Monster Manual so I know what I am?
Matt: Marisha actually has a page for it, if you want that.
Marisha: I do have a page. Do you want my beholder page?
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: That's terrible.
Marisha: That's terrible for me, too.
Laura: My teeth hurt.
Matt: My teeth hurt?!
Taliesin: That's terrible. I'm not okay with that roll.
Marisha: Oh, give me that back page. Sorry.
Taliesin: Back page.
Sam: It doesn't say what his initiative is.
Taliesin: You have to roll. It's a dex modifier plus a d20 if you don't have initiative?
Matt: What's that?
Taliesin: Your initiative is normal.
Matt: Your initiative is whatever the creature's initiative is, which is its dex modifier.
Sam: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: Plus a d20.
Sam: 11.
Liam: When was the last time we went to bed?
Laura: I mean, it's a normal amount of time.
Liam: No, I mean, like, right before coming? I can't remember the last time we had a full rest.
Matt: A full rest would have been maybe four or five hours ago.
Liam: Okay. I think I have all my Lucks. That's why I'm asking.
Taliesin: I don't think you've burned since we've come through.
Liam: Not 100% sure.
Marisha: I also gave you advantage on everything.
Liam: I know it! Girl!
Marisha: I think you didn't use anything.
Matt: Initiative order. 25 to 20?
Travis: 20. Shit.
Matt: Fuck, guys. Guys.
Travis: Me?! Okay.
Laura: I have no plan!
Ashley: We're fully Leeroy Jenkins-ing.
Laura: Fully. Leeroy Jenkins!
Matt: Grog, what's your dex?
Travis: My dexterity? 15.
Matt: Okay. Technically, you rolled the same initiative as the death knight, so he'll go right after you.
Travis: Okay. The death knight, by the way, is what Colonel Arnold Fuck is.
Matt: 20 to 15.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 18.
Ashley: 17.
Laura: Ooh, nice!
Matt: You had 18, 17.
Liam: 16. Sylas, broomstick-up-his-ass, death knight Briarwood.
Sam: 11.
Taliesin: 13.
Laura: This first round is definitely a surprise attack on them, right?
Matt: Oh yeah! Totally!
Marisha: Seven.
Taliesin: They did not see this shit coming. At all.
Matt: All righty. So.
Marisha: I had so much hope when we took down their tower. It went away very quickly.
Taliesin: It did, but I think that probably made a lot of cultists go away.
Liam: Guys, we've got to start the new campaign sometime.
Matt: Okay. Beginning of the round.
Marisha: We all die.
Taliesin: I cast Game Over. 20th-level spell.
Matt: So many options. (groaning)
Taliesin: Fuck you.
Liam: We're going to die. Yep!
Travis: Obviously, we're not at the top of the round.
Matt: Okay, so. Vecna, as he stands there, seeing the beholder arrive over the edge, seeing the paladin in the sky, seeing the rest of these individuals cluster in, goes, "Very well. I wanted to talk more. Please, sit." I need Scanlan, Vax, Grog, Keyleth, and Vex to all make wisdom saving throws, please.
Travis: Fuck!
Marisha: Ugh, should have done that fucking Feast!
Laura: We knew we were going to say it.
Sam: Shit, I'm gonna lose my fucking 9th-level spell.
Ashley: Not necessarily!
Marisha: 13.
Travis: Oh fuck, yeah. A natural 19.
Laura: I have a feeling I have to roll really high against fucking Vecna!
Taliesin: Do you have a Luck?
Laura: Oh yeah, Tary had Luck, not Scanlan.
Sam: Neither have Luck. I'm a beholder.
Taliesin: No, you have all of your other stuff.
Sam: Are you sure about that?
Marisha: Is it like Shapechange?
Sam: This is True Polymorph. I am this creature.
Marisha: Oh, it's True Polymorph.
Matt: He is that creature.
Liam: That's hot.
Sam: Except it's not, because I'm about to not be anymore.
Laura: Because he's going to cancel it.
Matt: So.
Sam: 18.
Liam: God damn it.
Travis: Oh, Jesus.
Marisha: 27.
Matt: You resist.
Liam: 18.
Laura: Oh god, you have to roll so high in order to resist.
Sam: Even with advantage? Oh, fuck.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: They roll disadvantage against you, too.
Taliesin: Oh, you didn't say me.
Laura: You skipped me. And I rolled a 20.
Marisha: You rolled a 20?
Matt: You feel the force of his magical prowess coalesce like a cold vise on your brain, and your body seizes, holding taut. And you're all held. You fall straight down 80 feet.
Marisha: Oh, no.
Travis: (nervous laughter) Oh, fuck! Oh man!
Marisha: None of us can do anything to help him?
Laura: We slow-motion walked into our own death.
Travis: Oh, shit!
Sam: Is Pike out?
Matt: Take 32 points of bludgeoning damage, Vax. And you are-- Oh god!
Laura: Walls brought down.
Matt: Prone, there.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: The rest of you are also held.
Travis: Is this charmed or frightened?
Matt: No.
Travis: Okay, it's not.
Laura: What does being held mean?
Liam: It's paralysis.
Taliesin: Until we save, or until his concentration is broken, I assume.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: And rage would have no effect on this?
Matt: Nope!
Travis: Fucking shit.
Matt: And he's going to go ahead and shift up about 20 more feet and kind of glance over the battlefield a bit.
Sam: He's a god! He's a golden god!
Travis: He actually is one. And he won't jump off a 1000-foot cliff.
Matt: (chuckles) Apparently. All right.
Laura: T minus ten minutes until he turns into a goldfish.
Marisha: We can only be so hopeful.
Laura: That's plenty of time for us to die.
Matt: That ends his turn. Delilah's now going to go.
Travis: Oh, good!
Laura: Oh, good!
Travis: Wow, what a way to lead off the round!
Sam: My anti-magic cone is not in effect, I assume?
Taliesin: Actually, isn't it just naturally wherever they're looking?
Matt: It's wherever you're facing, but he hasn't had a turn to go yet, he basically just arrived.
Taliesin: Oh, okay.
Matt: So it would be kind of in this path here, wherever you would have come in in this regard. So it would be this direction.
Liam: It's a big fuckin' headlamp.
Sam: (laughs) Just frozen there. I really want to swallow and I can't close--
Taliesin: I was under the impression that the eyeball was passive.
Matt: I'm checking right now, actually.
Sam: Well, you have to choose. At the start of each turn--
Matt: At the start of its turn, which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active.
Sam: I haven't had a turn.
Marisha: And if it's active?
Taliesin: You're holding your action for being able to move.
Matt: Anyway.
Travis: Hey, so... (laughs)
Sam: We got this, guys. How many of us are still able to move?
Matt: Three of you.
Sam: Hey! Okay!
Travis: Looking up! Things are looking up. He has 12 hit points, by the way.
Marisha: Being held. What's the deal with that?
Matt: You're paralyzed. Which means you are incapacitated, you automatically fail strength and dexterity saving throws, attack rolls against you have advantage, and any creature that hits you within five feet, it's a critical hit.
Travis: Basically worst scenario possible. That's all you had to say: worst scenario possible.
Taliesin: It could be worse, but it would take math. This is bad.
Sam: Pike's going to solve everything.
Ashley: Oh, yeah.
Sam: Yeah, she can get us out of this.
Liam: Flipping those pages.
Travis: Remember this look, boys and girls. On Matt's face. As the chef carefully picks the menu of our-- Yes.
Laura: Of our destruction? Of our doom?
Taliesin: He has been grooming us and fattening us up for two years.
Matt: Delilah is going to move.
Sam: Oh no, lair action, she explodes. (laughter)
Matt: And is going to step over Vax's body on the ground.
Marisha: Oh, bitch! You better back off, bitch!
Laura: Hope you're wearing underwear, bitch, because he just looked up your skirt!
Matt: And looks at you.
Laura: (small voice) Me?
Matt: It's been a while, my dear. (yelling)
Laura: No! Why would you do this?! How you do dis Matt?!
Matt: Yep, so make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: No!
Matt: You're held, but you still make a constitution roll.
Marisha: Come on...
Ashley: Matt, how do you do this?!
Travis: Come on.
Marisha: Not again.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: No way!
Liam: And I said, biiiiitch.
Matt: So you take half as much damage, which is good.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Laura: Oh, I'm really glad we healed.
Liam: Vax on the ground just starts going (unintelligible yells).
Matt: All right, so instead of 61 points of necrotic damage, you take 30 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: I'm shaking, guys.
Taliesin: Leroy!
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: Got to squeeze my spiky dice to wake up.
Laura: Ow, ow.
Matt: You okay?
Laura: (whimpering) I'm good.
Travis: Blood pressure's a thing right now.
Matt: That'll end her turn. Grog.
Liam: Holy shit, Grog.
Matt: Your turn happens at the same time the lair action happens.
Travis: And the Death Knight, right?
Matt: And the Death Knight. He's going to go directly after you. You guys going on the same turn, I gave you a little bit.
Taliesin: Oh man, I am not-- This does not feel good.
Travis: Oh, shit! Oh!
Matt: You watch as the bodies on the ground quiver (sound of bones cracking) And begin to rise up around you.
Sam: No, forget them! Fix us! Forget them, they're nothing. Fix us.
Laura: They could just attack us until we die.
Sam: Fix. Us. They're tiny.
Taliesin: I have a plan. I have a plan.
Sam: Fix us.
Travis: What, you're going to pledge your fealty to the fucking--
Sam: Some sort of-- I don't know, can you restore... Restoration?
Laura: Do you have mass Restoration?
Ashley: No!
Marisha: That's not a spell, you guys!
Ashley: I'm useless!
Marisha: I don't know if Pike can fix this!
Laura: I don't think she can fix it.
Ashley: Let's use it! Let's just make it, Matt, you can put that in your new campaign book. Mass Restoration.
Laura: Mass Anti-hold.
Matt: And this will be there. So they all rise up out of the ground, these basic skeletons, and they all get one attack. So against Percy, this one moves in. Rolls a natural one, misses entirely. One of them's going to strike at the beholder that's up in the air; that's going to be a 15, what's your armor class?
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18. Just ricochets off the armor. There's one here that's going to go toward Pike. And you're not held, right? You resisted it. So it's going to go ahead and make a strike on you; that's another 15. Just hits your armor and scrapes off, no effect. This one's going to rush forward, two against Vax on the ground. It has advantage. That's a 19.
Liam: To do what?
Matt: To attack you.
Liam: All right, so I'm at disadvantage, but I have advantage, so it would be one straight roll?
Matt: No, it has advantage against you because you're paralyzed, so yeah, it would be one straight roll. The first roll was 19.
Liam: Oh, so no.
Matt: No. Your armor class is 21 naturally?
Liam: It is 21 when the daggers are out, and my daggers are in my hands. I mean, I don't know, this is kinda loosey-goosey. All right, then I'm at 20.
Matt: Yeah, so it still misses you. The other one, no, misses. Both of them just miss you. The effect of the 9th-level spell is just enough of a vibration that the attacks are being-- You're moving just, (grunts) ever so faintly out of the way.
Liam: Familiar.
Matt: One attacking Keyleth. That is a 24.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you suffer eight points of slashing damage. And then Vex, that is a 12 to hit? And a 20 to hit. Neither hit? So as they're striking you, they're hitting the armor, it's just not cutting through. They can't seem to get through it. So that worked out okay in your favor.
Laura: Thanks, dragon armor!
Matt: Grog? You're paralyzed.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Matt: I believe you make another saving throw at the end of your turn to try and shrug off the effect.
Travis: Can I go into a paralyzed rage?
Matt: Nope. But make a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: God, we've got to roll like a 27 in order to break it!
Travis: 12.
Matt: Nope. You're still locked in place, unable to move.
Sam: I will never be able to break it.
Laura: A 20 didn't break it, so yeah.
Sam: Yeah, there's no way.
Matt: A natural 20 would break it.
Laura: A natural 20.
Marisha: A natural 20 would break it, that's the only thing?
Travis: I have a modifier of zero, so.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Gotta fucking attack that bitch.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: Actually, you know what? No. He's gonna stay back there and move this way to get out of the way.
Liam: Fuck you, Sylas.
Matt: As the Death Knight kinda steps over to the side, you watch as this small sphere of darkness begins to (crackling sound) into his hand, and then throws it with an arc, in a 20-foot radius centered on a point that it chooses.
Sam: That's rough stuff.
Travis: You're a beholder, do you get legendary actions and resistances and shit?
Sam: I don't think-- I don't know.
Matt: It's legendary resistances, not actions.
Sam: What's a legendary resistance?
Matt: You get to reroll-- Unless it doesn't have it.
Sam: This doesn't.
Matt: No, the beholder does not. It's not that powerful. All right, I need Pike, Grog--it's a dexterity saving throw. So Grog and Scanlan automatically fail. Percival and Pike, I need you both to make dexterity saving throws, please.
Ashley: Okay. Oh, fuck.
Taliesin: Yeah. 20.
Ashley: (brightly) Six!
Laura: Wait! Oh, I thought that was ten.
Taliesin: I have advantage also, against--
Matt: Right. You take a total of 35 points of fire and necrotic damage. You take 35 points of necrotic damage, and because you're resistant to fire, you only take 17 points of fire damage. 35 points.
Ashley: Did you say 17, Matt?
Matt: 17, yes.
Matt: Scanlan? And Grog. You both take-- Actually no, since you have resistance to fire-- Which actually, your form is, I should give you the large form.
Sam: I added wrong. Wait, wait! Stop everything.
Matt: Yes? What're you stoppin'?
Sam: I added wrong. My saving throw was a 23.
Matt: Was a 23?
Laura: On being held?
Matt: On being held? Still fails.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Yeah, you did a 24, right?
Marisha: I rolled like a 27.
Laura: She rolled a 27.
Travis: 27, yeah. We gotta go!
Laura: There's nowhere-- We're gonna die.
Sam: So what did I just get hit with? 70 points or something?
Matt: You took 70 points of fire and necrotic damage.
Sam: Awesome.
Taliesin: Do you have resistance to any of that?
Matt: Not as a beholder, no. Okay, that ends the Death Knight's turn.
Travis: I mean, he's just dunking on us.
Taliesin: Well, they're top-loading. They're top-loading.
Matt: Vex. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Crotch in face.
Matt: That's cocked, roll again.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Nope, still locked in place.
Travis: Oh, for the wisdom save?
Matt: Pike.
Ashley: Okay. All right, I'm going to touch Grog and cast Lesser Restoration.
Matt: Okay, which cures...?
Ashley: Paralysis.
Matt: Then, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So I've just got to run around.
Matt: Grog, you are cured of paralysis.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Do that a lot.
Matt: You feel your form freed of the effect of the spell. Do you want to move?
Ashley: How many undead are there?
Matt: There are one, two, three, four, five over there.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You already used your action to cast a spell, so.
Ashley: Yeah. So, as my bonus action, I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Which will just add two to your AC.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you!
Matt: What level is Shield of Faith?
Ashley: First level.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So there you go. Just mark that for yourself.
Taliesin: Oh, it's on!
Matt: All righty. Do you want to move, or are you going to stay where you are, Pike?
Taliesin: You've got a Death Knight, if you're feeling frisky.
Travis: Do you want to move or stay where you are?
Ashley: Okay. Sorry. I'm going to hide behind the beholder.
Matt: Okay, so you move around Grog and get right about there. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to attempt to roll a natural 20.
Marisha: You have advantage on everything.
Liam: I know.
Marisha: That's good. That's okay.
Liam: It's not a natural 20, though, which is what it's going to take. I'm going to use Luck.
Marisha: Oh my god, you rolled a 19.
Liam: 18 and a 19.
Sam: Plus anything?
Liam: Plus two. Gets me to 21. I need a natural 20. Luck. No. Okay.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vax. Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot against the wall towards myself as far as a reasonable amount of movement will take me because I don't like clumping. I'm going to take aim at the asshole in the sky, and let's do a couple of things. I'm going to take Bad News out, and just to keep everything reasonable, I'm going to burn a point for dead-eye, and I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot on him.
Matt: Okay, so minus five to the attack roll.
Taliesin: Minus five to the attack. That's a crit! That's a crit.
Matt: You rolled a 19, yeah, which you have now at level 18.
Taliesin: At level 18, that's a crit.
Matt: This is with which gun?
Taliesin: This is with Bad News, so that's going to be 2d12. That's going to be 4d12 plus six.
Matt: This is Bad News, you said?
Taliesin: Bad News. I don't know if this also doubles-- I don't think it does-- but I'm pouring all of Cabal's Ruin into this shit, too.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the Cabal's Ruin damage. The actual hit from Bad News does nothing.
Taliesin: Oh, really?
Matt: The non-enchanted attack from Bad News hits and dissipates across his form. It's not half damage. Nothing. This is Vecna. Cabal's Ruin is considered magical damage, so that will go through.
Marisha: Was that the one you critted on?
Taliesin: Yeah, I burned a crit.
Matt: You gained the grit back, though.
Taliesin: The grit's not burned, so that's nice. These don't double, do they?
Matt: No. Wait, technically, they would. Technically, they do, because it is a crit. All dice double, yeah.
Ashley: Get him!
Taliesin: Does my other rule also apply to this? Does this add to bleed damage now? Maybe not.
Matt: I don't think so, because it's an outside effect.
Taliesin: It's an outside factor. That's fine. I'm with you.
Matt: No, you know what? It would because just like any other critical effect, yes, it would.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: It would.
Taliesin: (counting) 32. That's 32.
Marisha: Did you count that one?
Taliesin: 36 points of damage, times two.
Laura: 72.
Matt: 72.
Taliesin: 72 points of electrical damage, and then he's also going to get a bleed of 31. No, he's going to get a bleed of 15.
Matt: He will get 15 because he's resistant to lightning, so he takes half of that next time.
Taliesin: But he still has to roll concentration.
Matt: Yeah, for 36.
Taliesin: I'll take it, and goodbye, Cabal. I'll gain more when he hits me with some magic shit.
Sam: Oh boy.
Laura: It's such an anti-climactic fight because none of us can do anything.
Matt: That would be 18 as half that. DC is 18 to maintain concentration. Yeah, he saves.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it!
Matt: Barely. By one.
Travis: By one?
Matt: By one.
Laura: On concentration?
Taliesin: Damn it. I was debating whether or not to hit him with Hex, and now I'm so sad I didn't. Oh, well. That's okay. I'm reloading, and I'm going to take another Bad News shot at Delilah. Where is she?
Matt: She's over here.
Taliesin: What is she doing?
Matt: She just stepped over Vax's paralyzed body and threw a Finger of Death at Vex.
Taliesin: Okay. Let's burn that little bit of Animus again and burn that grit point again for advantage. Let's hit her with Bad News. Actually, I'll cast... Hex on her, as well, just for fun.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And give her constitution disadvantage. Actually, let's give her, just in case she gets grappled-- let's make it constitution disadvantage. Fuck it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And then I've got bonus, and I'm doing sharpshooter again. Thank god I did because that was a terrible shot. That's 14.
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately. As you go to fire--
Ashley: Do we know what would hit?
Taliesin: We don't.
Ashley: War God's Blessing to add ten?
Matt: Gives a plus ten?
Taliesin: Oh, that would definitely hit, I'd imagine.
Matt: You use War God's Blessing as a reaction onto Percy. As you go to fire, you feel the presence of Sarenrae coalesce around the blade, and you hear a little whisper over your shoulder say, "There." And all of a sudden, clarity comes into frame and (gunshot) you fire Bad News towards Delilah. Go ahead and roll damage on that. She's not even going to spend a Shield on that. It's way over her AC.
Taliesin: Not bad. That's (counting) 20 points of piercing damage and five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: (gunshot) It blasts, and you see the robe tear open on one side. She's like (cries out, breathes heavily).
Taliesin: That's my roll.
Matt: You glance over with the scope and see as she turns and looks at you. You can see, what you didn't see earlier, is one normal eye she has and one yellowish-green eye with a cat-slit pupil.
Taliesin: Shit.
Laura: What does that even mean?
Taliesin: Vecna's been busy. Okay. This is going to get interesting.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Percy.
Taliesin: That's all I can do.
Matt: Scanlan, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I can't move my eyes or anything or turn on my anti-magic?
Matt: As far as the ray that you have, the eye perspective, you're hitting right there, so you're just out of range to get rid of the paralysis from Vex and off Vax. If you manage to break from this somehow and you rotate, the spell would have no effect while it's on them.
Marisha: They're broken from it by being in his gaze? Am I in his gaze?
Matt: No, you are not.
Marisha: So I can still cast spells. But if I move into his gaze, I cannot.
Matt: Correct. Or if you shoot something through the cone, it will dissipate.
Marisha: If I shoot up at Vecna, will it go through the cone?
Matt: Yeah, probably. You're just outside of it.
Marisha: I will not go through the cone?
Matt: Probably. You can angle it that way, yeah. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: It is now my turn.
Matt: Also, I need you to make a concentration check.
Sam: Oh, my spell.
Matt: Yeah, transformation.
Sam: I get advantage as a gnome.
Matt: You do. How much damage did you take on that one, total, from the blast? From the blast that you took on that.
Sam: 70 points.
Matt: You have to beat a 35.
Sam: Okay. As a wisdom?
Matt: That would have been concentration. Constitution saving throw.
Sam: Constitution saving throw.
Matt: In theory, Scanlan, before it came to your turn, you dropped your beholder form.
Sam: Oh! I'm no longer paralyzed.
Matt: The spell maintains itself.
Sam: No! But I'm a different guy!
Matt: It's your mind it affects.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: Any spell still carries over the effects on you. You can't wild shape and--
Marisha: He lost concentration?
Matt: He lost concentration on his big spell, yeah.
Sam: Hey, guys.
Laura: Hey, Scanlan!
Matt: I'll let you remake that saving throw with your constitution. Sorry, your wisdom. With Scanlan's wisdom.
Sam: Okay, do I get advantage because of magic?
Matt: Yes, because it is magic.
Sam: And can I inspire myself?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Sam: All right. I will inspire myself. 24.
Matt: 24 is just enough. (relieved laughter)
Matt: You shrug off the paralysis at the end of your turn. You're now free to move.
Sam: Just move. I can't act, right?
Matt: No, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Is he 60 feet away from me? Is he within range?
Matt: Who?
Marisha: Should I handle Delilah, or should I handle him?
Travis: What're you doing? Which one do you want?
Sam: I can move now, or just in general?
Matt: No, next turn you'll be able to move.
Marisha: Is he within 60 feet of me? Vecna.
Matt: You're not sure. You'd have to eyeball it.
Marisha: (counting) He's exactly 60 feet in the air. I have to get directly under his butthole. Can I get directly under his butthole?
Matt: You can move through Trinket. You'll get two attacks of opportunity from two skeletons.
Marisha: Jesus, balls.
Liam: Jesus balls.
Matt: You'd have to leapfrog over Trinket to get there, but you can do it.
Marisha: What about Delilah. Where is she?
Matt: Delilah's over here. She and two skeletons right now are lording over the paralyzed Vax on the ground.
Marisha: If I move at all, I'm going to take opportunity from skeletons.
Matt: Yep. They don't do a whole lot of damage, but damage adds up.
Marisha: Jesus. Okay, I am going to head to Delilah. I can move up to her, correct?
Matt: You're going to move straight up to her?
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: You can, yeah. Both skeletons get attacks of opportunity on you. That's a nine and a 12. They both hit you, but the mantle writhes out in front of you. You watch as various leaves unfurl almost like a cat's fur on the back of its neck, and it deflects the blows from the skeletons as you rush past.
Marisha: I can give her disadvantage on constitution checks, and whenever she takes damage, she's stunned, or should I do the confusion thing?
Taliesin: Either one. They're both good. Go for the first one. Pick one.
Marisha: I'm turning into Ashley Johnson. Okay.
Ashley: Okay!
Marisha: I'm going to go up to Delilah. (pants) Cotton mouth. Oh boy. Yeah. Okay, I'm going to go up to her and be like, experience what you've been putting all of us through. And I'm going to touch her and I'm going to try and cast Contagion on her with Mind Fire?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Mind Fire!
Liam: Sounds good.
Taliesin: Hit her with a mind bullet.
Travis: Mind bullets!
Taliesin: That's telekinesis, Kyle!
Marisha: That's telekinesis, Kyle!
Travis: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Taliesin: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Marisha: (singing) How about the power to move you?
Matt: Make a melee spell attack.
Marisha: I have a bonus to my spell attacks.
Laura: You've got this!
Marisha: It's cocked. That's even worse. Not great. 18?
Matt: 18 is exactly what you needed. That's her armor class.
Liam: (singing) We'll fucking lead as two kings!
Travis: (laughing) Tenacious D for the rest of this fight, please.
Matt: She now is affected by Mind Fire.
Marisha: Her mind becomes feverish, and she has disadvantage on intelligence checks and intelligence saving throws, and she becomes confused.
Sam: What does that mean? What does confused mean?
Marisha: For seven days.
Liam: It sounds like she can't cast spells too well.
Marisha: Hopefully.
Matt: She's now considered confused. She's under the effects of the Confusion spell for as long as it lasts.
Taliesin: That's me under the effects of being confused about the Confusion spell.
Matt: Does that end your turn, Keyleth?
Taliesin: What do you have for a bonus?
Marisha: I don't have a lot for a bonus. I can go into an elemental form.
Travis: If we attack her, is that going to drop the confusion?
Taliesin: Yeah, can we attack her?
Marisha: No, it just lasts for seven days.
Matt: It lasts for seven days if she fails the saves. She has three saves in a row, and if she succeeds, it goes away. If she fails, it lasts for seven days.
Marisha: Okay. She has to make constitution saving throws. But she's under the effects right now, correct? We've been through this before, haven't we?
Laura: Oh, yeah. This is one of the ones we tried a long time ago.
Marisha: It says after failing three of these saving throws, the disease effects last for the duration, so that would make me assume that she has it at least for three rounds.
Matt: We had this discussion before, because in the ability, it has Slimy Doom, which whenever it takes damage, it becomes stunned, which is the most broken--
Marisha: I almost did that.
Matt: I know, but I think the DND ruling, technically, they have to fail three saves before it affects them.
Marisha: But it's a 5th-level fucking spell. That's a lot!
Matt: I know.
Marisha: That's lame. Three rounds for a 5th-level spell?
Matt: Look. I'll say this. I'll let Mind Fire work on her for now.
Marisha: Oh, he doesn't look happy. I feel like I just pissed off the DM.
Matt: No, you didn't piss off the DM. This spell has a lot of contention in the community, but the official DND ruling was it doesn't affect until they fail all three rolls, but as it's written, it doesn't say that. It says they're afflicted on being hit, so I'm letting it go through because you didn't choose the cheesy-ass stun-lock broken spell.
Marisha: It does say that after succeeding on three of these, the creature recovers from the disease, so they were already affected.
Matt: Which is what I'm saying. This is between what's written in the spell and the arguments that people have made with DND on Twitter, and they clarified that's not how it works. It's a mis-type. It wasn't clear. I'm letting it work. Be happy with the book.
Laura: Stop making eye contact. Look down!
Matt: At the end of your turn, Vecna's going to use some legendary actions to cast a spell. (groaning)
Travis: How about you just say he did, and don't?
Ashley: Yeah. Let's not and say we did.
Liam: He could just evil monologue a little bit, tell us his plan?
Laura: He's really good at evil monologuing.
Taliesin: We were talking about how much you wanted a monologue. I really feel like this is the moment.
Matt: He's going to cast a 7th-level Fireball right there.
Travis: 7th-level Fireball?
Taliesin: That's the end of Vax.
Travis: We've got to go.
Matt: I need Keyleth, Vax-- you don't auto-save, yeah.
Liam: Good night.
Travis: Maybe the Raven Queen will use you or something.
Liam: I can't. It's an automatic fail because I'm paralyzed.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's actually good. He'll lose the paralysis because he'll be in a coma. We'll just wake you back up and you'll be fine. It's actually kind of good.
Matt: Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please. The skeletons are obliterated.
Marisha: That's a natural one.
Travis: Are you serious?! Are you serious?
Taliesin: I'm looking at it.
Matt: That's a surprisingly shitty roll. 38 points of fire damage to Vax. 38.
Travis: On a 7th-level Fireball?
Matt: I know. I rolled really shitty.
Marisha: 38?
Matt: 38 to you, as well. 38 to Vex. And 38 to Trinket.
Taliesin: That's a small-- that's a dire armadillo. That's okay.
Laura: 38 to Trinket?
Travis: Did Delilah take all that damage, too?
Matt: Delilah? Yeah, she did. She can't save against his shit. She takes it and (grunts).
Liam: She probably kind of likes it.
Laura: She's like, ooh.
Taliesin: Burn. Sick burn.
Matt: It made sense for the circumstance. She's up for the sacrifice. All righty, that ends Keyleth's turn. Top of the round. Now it's Vecna's go.
Travis: I thought that was Vecna's go.
Laura: That was his legendary.
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: I like that you have an enlarged figure Grog. That's cool.
Travis: I thought you were complimenting the DM. I was like, yeah, keep it up.
Laura: I like that you made an enlarged figure for Grog.
Sam: I'll kill you last.
Laura: Oh my god, this map is so pretty. (laughter)
Sam: What is that thing in the middle of the field?
Matt: This is the altar.
Laura: Whatever it is, it's really cool.
Ashley: Can we see what's in it?
Matt: You'd have to go check it out, if there was anything.
Marisha: Is he moving towards the altar?
Matt: He's shifting in the center and looking down for a bit. He goes, "Well, sleep."
Taliesin: Can he do that with concentration?
Matt: This is not a concentration spell.
Laura: Magic can't put me to sleep.
Matt: He casts Power Word Kill.
Sam: Oh. Well, that's different.
Liam: Where did Sleep go?
Matt: That's just what he said.
Sam: He meant metaphorical. He meant death.
Matt: You utter a word of power that can compel one creature you see within range to die instantly. If the creature you chose has 100 hit points or fewer, it dies. How many hit points do you have?
Laura: I'm dead. Insta-full death?
Matt: Insta-full death.
Marisha: No saving from it?
Matt: No.
Ashley: Wait, what?
Taliesin: What?
Sam: Perma-death?
Matt: No death saving throws. You watch as the life suddenly fades from Vex's eyes, and she falls to the ground.
Liam: Vax is watching, frozen.
Travis: Oh my god.
Laura: Hey, don't compliment the map, you guys. Matt really doesn't like it.
Matt: I'm sorry. It's now Delilah's turn.
Taliesin: This is not going well.
Sam: Maybe we should leave.
Travis: Plane Shift?
Matt: She turns and looks at you, Keyleth, and goes--
Sam: Is this Delilah?
Matt: This is Delilah. "You took him from me. Now I'm going to take him from you." She points down.
Sam: I thought she was confused.
Matt: I have to check what she does now. This may make the change.
Liam: Well, we weren't technically dating when we killed her, so I'm not really sure if she'd know.
Matt: I get to roll a d10.
Marisha: Let's hope he doesn't roll a nine or a ten, y'all.
Matt: A ten.
Marisha: You are fucking lying to me! (groans)
Matt: It's right there.
Travis: Yeah, I see it.
Taliesin: Oh shit. Wow, you really went down.
Matt: I'm sorry. I'm rolling really well. I'm sorry, guys.
Liam: Yeah, but that Fireball was super low.
Matt: All right, so do I have to roll for an attack on this? Creature has to make a dexterity saving throw. Hold on.
Taliesin: I don't know what to do.
Matt: That's 76 points of damage from the Disintegrate spell.
Liam: Halved from the Deathwalker's Ward. It's set to necromantic.
Matt: It's force damage. Disintegrate's force damage.
Liam: Oh. Well, then I'm down.
Marisha: No, that means he's disintegrated.
Matt: You watch as Vax's form (fluttering noise) turns to dust.
Sam: Wait, what?
Matt: Leaving the armor of the Raven Queen empty on the ground, the daggers (clattering).
Laura: No body left?
Marisha: There's no recovering from that, dude.
Laura: Bro. We're gone.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: What's happening?
Laura: I thought this campaign was going to last longer than this.
Liam: I said this was the last episode, and I meant it.
Taliesin: You are a terrible person. Oh no.
Sam: With Foresight? Oh, because you're paralyzed. Oh fuck.
Marisha: She doesn't have to roll against that?
Matt: It's a dexterity saving throw, but he's still paralyzed.
Marisha: He doesn't get advantage?
Matt: You automatically fail dex saving throws when you're paralyzed.
Taliesin: You can't dex out of something if you can't move.
Travis: If I throw you over to her, can you Revivify?
Sam: I'm too far to do anything, right?
Matt: At the moment?
Sam: It has to be within 60 feet.
Matt: From Delilah? She's within 40 feet of you.
Sam: Can I retroactively Counterspell? (laughs)
Matt: Yeah. I'll let you do it. You have your ability back, so I'll let you try for it.
Marisha: Wait, with the Disintegrate? Go, Scanlan, go!
Travis: Do you have to roll for this?
Sam: I think I have to roll for this.
Matt: You roll and add your charisma modifier.
Sam: No. Charisma modifier? It's just an 11.
Matt: Plus two, because you get plus two bonus, so 13.
Sam: I can't add anything else.
Laura: Can you inspire yourself?
Taliesin: Can you inspire yourself?
Marisha: Can you inspire yourself?
Sam: Not on a reaction, I don't think.
Marisha: But you're a war bard, right?
Matt: He's not a war bard. He's a lore bard.
Marisha: War caster.
Taliesin: Oh man, this does not feel good.
Sam: Doesn't feel good.
Taliesin: It does not feel good.
Matt: Peerless skill. When you make an ability check. It's an ability check, technically.
Sam: What's that mean?
Matt: That means you can spend another bardic inspiration to it because you're at a 13.
Sam: (nervous laughter) It's cocked. It would have been 11. Four.
Matt: It's a 17? The spell is a 6th-level spell. The DC is 16.
Taliesin: Oh god!
Laura: You're not disintegrated?
Travis: Are you serious?
Sam: Matt is a gentle god.
Matt: In this flash of vision, Keyleth, you see this happen, and then the bit of inspiration from the Raven Queen that's been trying to push through whatever is keeping her vision at bay here. Your vision flashes back, and then you see Vax on the ground, the extended finger of Delilah as the green energy begins to spiral up from her finger, and Scanlan in the back just says?
Sam: Oh. Hey, you know what the problem is with your face? I can see it! (laughter)
Matt: Delilah goes, "What?" and the spell (fluttering noise) dissipates. (sighs)
Marisha: That was a 6th-level spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Does she have any more of those?
Laura: We don't know.
Marisha: Because I only have two.
Matt: That being the case, Delilah is going to go ahead and go. You do get an attack of opportunity on her, Keyleth.
Marisha: Just straight melee?
Matt: Straight melee.
Taliesin: Hit her with a stick.
Marisha: My dice suck.
Laura: You've rolled shit on that dice every time tonight.
Marisha: It's not good. 13.
Matt: 13? No, that misses, unfortunately.
Marisha: Fuck it.
Matt: Okay. Grog, it's your turn now.
Travis: Sure. Can I use my-- are we doing this?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Can I use my action to pick up my buddy Pike, and I'm going to try and throw her as far as I can towards where Vex's body is laying.
Matt: Okay, so you're going to pick her up and move?
Travis: There's no difference, right?
Matt: You can pick her up and move and then throw her to give her the most distance, but you can only move half your speed as you're carrying her. It's essentially an agreed-upon grapple. You'd be able to move 25 feet with her.
Travis: Versus picking her up and throwing her for an athletics check, or something?
Matt: You can, but I don't know how far you'll throw her that way. It's up to you. You can stay where you are, if you'd like to.
Ashley: I'll make it.
Travis: You think so?
Ashley: Yeah. I can make it to her.
Liam: The initiative is Grog, Pike, Vax right now.
Travis: I should just go unload?
Ashley: Yeah, do your thing.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: You are raging.
Travis: Can I use my full speed to head towards Delilah?
Matt: (counting) That's as far as you can get right there.
Travis: With my bonus action, can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping to leap horizontally 20 feet? I want to get within melee.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Travis: That's a million. 25.
Matt: (impact) You land right in front of her. She watches you as you (footsteps) run around the side, leap, (impact) right in front of her, this giant, hulking form of muscle.
Travis: Yeah. Reckless, great weapon master.
Taliesin: Turn her to fucking paste.
Matt: You have two attacks.
Travis: Yeah, two attacks.
Marisha: Why am I light-headed?
Travis: Everything's going wrong.
Taliesin: Well, that, and those drinks were really inappropriate.
Travis: 28?
Matt: 28? Yeah, that hits.
Travis: 19. 29. 35, and four because I'm enlarged. 35, total on the first one. And the second one, 19. Should have taken that other thing. That would have been a crit. Minus five. 27?
Matt: 27 does hit, yes.
Travis: Boy, she's got a high AC, doesn't she? 10, 24, 34, three points of necrotic for 37. That's a d8. That's the wrong one. 36 points of damage.
Matt: As you rush forward and cleave into her with hit after hit on the axe, you watch as her imposing form is battered around and slashed apart, and as you finish and withdraw the axe from the two strikes, you see her already clutching her stomach. (panting)
Travis: An action surge is a bonus action, right?
Matt: No. Just an action surge.
Taliesin: You can just do it.
Travis: Should we empty the tank?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: I'll use the action surge.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: Is that three more attacks?
Matt: Two more.
Travis: Reckless, great weapon, all the shit. Goddamn, that was two 19s in a row. If I'd picked that other thing, they would have been criticals. 28.
Matt: 28 hits, definitely.
Travis: 17, 27, 29. That's a fucking d8 again. 31.
Matt: 31?
Travis: 31 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. Second attack?
Travis: 27.
Matt: Jesus. Yes, that hits.
Travis: I'm a monstrous thing. That's a 12, 26, 36, 38, 40, including the enlarged and the necrotic.
Matt: You slam her with the two extra attacks, knocking her back. As the two additional axe blows slice across the front of her chest, one gets her on the side of her chin. You can see, you've carved the cheek open and broken teeth, and now when she looks back to you, you can see all of her back molars and teeth now, this horrible Joker grin on one side of her face as the blood leaks out. You can see the one gleaming greenish-yellow glowing eye flares open at you. She (spits).
Travis: Don't stop smiling on my account.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog... All right, so ghostly claws begin to spring up from the ground in a 20-foot radius.
Travis: Did you say claws?
Matt: Claws, yes.
Sam: Ghostly claws.
Matt: Right there. I need-- Vax fails. I need Keyleth and Grog and Trinket to all make dexterity saving throws. Sorry, strength saving throws.
Laura: He can't do anything.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Taliesin: Trinket can.
Laura: Trinket can't still attack if I'm not alive.
Matt: I'll let you. I'll let you, in the purposes of you being dead, Trinket is going to act on his own to defend you.
Laura: He rolled a seven.
Taliesin: He's about to be in a pocket dimension really quick.
Laura: Yeah, he might go into the pocket dimension.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22. You take five points of necrotic damage, and are not grappled. You take ten points of necrotic damage, reduced to half, five, because of your armor, and you are grappled and paralyzed. Keyleth?
Marisha: 22.
Matt: 22. You take five points of necrotic damage.
Laura: And Trinket takes how much necrotic damage?
Matt: Ten, and is grappled. Trinket's speed is zero. All right. Welcome to the God Wars, guys.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Marisha: Why didn't we Heroes' Feast?
Laura: It wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Let's get a god in here. Light or dark meat. I don't care. One or the other. Get one of those ladies in here!
Matt: (heavy footfalls) With these heavy, armored footfalls as it walks, with its fingers forward, it begins carving this sigil in the air. Grabs it and turns it, and as it turns, you watch the same sigil runes appear around Grog and begin to spiral around you. Make a charisma saving throw, please.
Travis: Fuck, balls. Hey, y'all, plus one. Don't worry. Four.
Matt: Grog, you vanish. (groaning)
Matt: Banished from this realm of existence.
Travis: No!
Matt: You appear on the ground in the Shadowfell, in the gaping crater where Thar Amphala once stood. You look around, up to the familiar cloudy, dark sky, and are alone.
Travis: Wait. Y'all aren't in the Shadowfell anymore?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Oh, right. Snow's falling.
Laura: Wildemount, or some shit.
Travis: Without a perception check, is anybody around, or is it just me?
Matt: Nobody's around you, although you do look up and see maybe a dozen or so of the gloom stalkers, swirling up ahead. They haven't noticed you yet.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Sam: You've been banished to another dimension. You can punch your way out of it.
Travis: You know what? I only have one thought.
Marisha: Oh no. He's going to turn to the cards, y'all. He's going to turn to those cards.
Travis: We've got this.
Matt: Keyleth, perception check.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: Ugh! Okay. That's good. 14 plus 13, so 27.
Matt: You do notice, the armored death knight still has a hand out after Grog's banishing.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Okay, that's good!
Matt: This doesn't appear to be Plane Shift.
Marisha: So if I kill him, he'll come back? Or if I kill him, Grog won't ever come back? What does that mean?!
Taliesin: We'll find out. We'll just lay waste to shit until it stops happening. We're going to keep doing terrible shit until terrible shit stops happening.
Liam: Pickle time.
Travis: This is the worst grin you've ever given us. It's so great.
Matt: We are at the end of the death knight's turn. Vecna's going to use two legendary actions to cast another spell.
Ashley: This feels like when we played in Liam's one-shot when we got on the beach.
Liam: I was just about to say, this is revenge for Demogorgon!
Taliesin: This is very much the beach, isn't it?
Matt: Vecna's going to shift further back on the field to there.
Marisha: Is he always going to fucking fly?
Matt: Why wouldn't he?
Taliesin: Feet are passe.
Matt: As he glides over, he looks down and sees the mess that Delilah's currently in. Looks around and sees the options and says, "Well, I hate to see work unfinished."
Sam: Again?
Liam: Disintegrate?
Matt: Disintegrate again.
Sam: This is the same round, right?
Matt: This is the next round.
Sam: Can I try--
Matt: He moved out of your range.
Sam: Great.
Marisha: No!
Matt: Now you see as a green ray fires down from the Whispered One above, and within an instant--
Marisha: Wait, can I bonus action him? Can I use my bonus action?
Matt: Not on your turn.
Taliesin: I've got nothing.
Matt: You turn to dust within the armor. Where once Vax stood, the vision you saw flash you thought might have been a warning, instead it was an omen. You look down and see the raven wings turn to ash, and now there is the empty armor of the Raven Queen, the daggers clattering to the stone.
Travis: Oh man. What the fuck?
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: I can't do what I was going to do. Fuck.
Sam: Laura.
Ashley: Okay. Sorry. Hold on.
Sam: She can't reach you?
Ashley: Nope.
Sam: I can bring you to her.
Matt: You could hold your action and he could bamf you over.
Ashley: When are you up?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: Do whatever you want.
Sam: You have to touch her?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: If you wanted to do something like that, you'd have to begin casting it and hold your action for him to take his turn, and then you could take her there.
Ashley: Wait, who's up?
Matt: It's you, Percy, then Scanlan.
Ashley: Okay, so Percy's next, and then it's Scanlan.
Sam: If we don't die in those two turns, yes.
Ashley: Okay. Oh my god, I'm shaking so bad. I will start casting Revivify, and I will hold my turn until Scanlan bamfs us.
Sam: I'm going to be a total dick and not do that.
Ashley: There's no one in between us?
Sam: No, we're next to each other.
Ashley: I mean, no one in between us, like the bad guys.
Sam: Well, they can go whenever they want.
Matt: Delilah already took her turn. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, it's my turn. Where's Percy?
Matt: Sorry. Percy, you're up next.
Taliesin: I'm going to unload a few rounds of Animus into Delilah, since she's still standing. She's still standing?
Matt: She's still standing.
Taliesin: All right. Let's drop a point of grit, and let's get some advantage on this for Animus shot number one. Come on, crit. Not a crit, but still pretty decent. That's a 28 to hit?
Matt: 28 to hit? That will hit.
Taliesin: That's not the full damage. Let's do this, plus let's do that. That's 12 points of piercing damage, five points of psychic damage, and four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Okay. Necrotic damage doesn't do anything, unfortunately.
Taliesin: I know. I'll keep that off, then, for now.
Matt: Okay. She's looking really hurt.
Taliesin: All right, let's take another shot. Same thing, burning a grit because fuck it. And let's make this one-- these are not the right dice to roll. I'm really nervous. Let's make this one a sharpshooter to see if we can pour a little more pain. Natural 20. That's a crit. Let's get that grit back.
Marisha: Kill her!
Taliesin: I've got to use my pen! Don't shake me! I shake so much on my own! That's 2d10 plus 2d6 psychic, so that's four points of psychic damage. That was a terrible roll. And 24 points of damage.
Marisha: Is that doubled?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's doubled. It was terrible.
Matt: How do you want to do this on Delilah?
Taliesin: (sighs) I take my second shot. I call, Delilah? Even if we die, it's fucking worth it. And I take it right in her good eye. I want me to be the last thing she sees.
Matt: As she turns around, you watch that side of her face explode, and she falls back, the force of it knocking her off her feet. She (impact noise) scatters across the stonework. You glance over, and you can see her looking face-up, and the little green eye in the socket turns and looks towards you.
Sam: Wait, it's still working?
Matt: The eye turned and looked at you from within the socket.
Taliesin: But it's down.
Sam: There's a creature inside of her.
Taliesin: Off. (sighs) For my third shot, Mr. Armor. And I get another grit back because she's dead. Armor. I'm taking-- what's he holding?
Matt: He currently has a longsword in one hand. That's all he's currently holding.
Taliesin: He's holding a longsword? Let's get rid of that longsword. I'm going to hit him and make him drop that longsword.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm burning a grit to make him drop it. I know, this is a lot. I'm taking my third shot with Animus, and this is going to be a sharpshooter shot, and that's not a crit, but that's pretty good. That's 29 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: All right, so this is 1d10 plus 1d6. That's terrible. That's 20 points of damage, two points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or he drops his sword. DC 20.
Matt: He gets a 20 exactly. 15 plus five. But he did take the damage, so he has to make a concentration, which he makes. DC 11, because it's half the damage.
Taliesin: Concentration? Oh, for that. That's fine. Just because we're at that point where I'm panicking, let's burn an action surge. Boom. Three more shots on the asshole.
Marisha: Are you shooting at Vecna?
Taliesin: No, Vecna I'm not shooting because he's laughing off my bullets.
Matt: Most of the impact deflects off the plate.
Marisha: You're shooting at the death knight?
Taliesin: I'm shooting at the death knight, so now I'm going to do a grit shot. I'm going to burn for dead-eye sharpshooter. That's 27?
Matt: 27? Okay, that hits.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh my fucking god! 20 points of damage, plus one point of psychic damage.
Sam: You're fine. You're good.
Taliesin: Burning another--
Sam: It's the last thing.
Taliesin: I've got more. I've got three more. I keep killing things. That's 17 to hit?
Matt: 17. You watch as he's concentrating on that one spell, and as the one shot hits him, the second one, he puts his arm up and seems to deflect it with his hand.
Taliesin: Did he make a constitution save against the last one?
Matt: Yes, he did.
Taliesin: Okay. This is my last shot. I'm burning another grit, and natural 20. Okay, so that's going to be-- come on. That's better!
Matt: I forgot to mention. Vecna took extra damage from your crit earlier.
Taliesin: Yes, he did. He took 15 points of extra damage, halved. 18, 21, 22, 23, 30 points of damage, plus five psychic damage, and he's going to take 15 points of damage, plus three psychic damage next round.
Matt: That was a 16 and a one, so with his constitution bonus, he saves. He maintains concentration.
Taliesin: Oh my fucking god!
Matt: It's hard to break. He was designed for that.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action to reload, and that's my fucking turn.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That was a long turn.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: You did good.
Matt: All right. End of Percy's turn. Scanlan.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Percy, do you want to move on your turn?
Taliesin: No. There's nowhere. I'm as far away from everybody as I can currently be. There's nowhere else.
Matt: I'm letting you know, as it currently stands. Delilah's down.
Taliesin: Delilah's down.
Matt: And two figures that look pretty much untouched. Scanlan?
Marisha: What are you trying to say?
Matt: I'm saying, be mindful of your choices.
Taliesin: You know what? I'm going to start making a beeline straight for Keyleth. Fuck it. I'm going to see if I can get some cover behind--
Marisha: Are we going to bail? What do we do?
Taliesin: I'm fucking bailing.
Matt: That's up to you. You do have one of them down, and you have two--
Travis: If you can bail--
Marisha: But Grog.
Taliesin: We can get Grog back. We've just got to get everybody up.
Travis: You don't even know where I am.
Liam: You can find him.
Marisha: What about you?
Liam: I'm gone. There's no finding me. I'm gone.
Taliesin: We're picking up armor.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: I grab Pikey-poo and Dimension Door straight to Vex's beautiful dead body.
Travis: Like a dead Juliet.
Sam: I will inspire Pike. I don't know if that helps whatever ritual you're about to do, but maybe.
Travis: Revivify.
Taliesin: Revivify.
Ashley: What do you get if you're inspired?
Matt: You get a d12 that you can spend on something. Which, as you release Revivify, you reach down and grab the cold, lifeless hand of Vex. I need you to roll a wisdom check.
Sam: With inspiration.
Matt: Should she need it.
Ashley: And don't I get gnome cunning, so I have advantage on it?
Matt: No. It's not a saving throw. It's just a check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Taliesin: We will grab everything we fucking can.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah. Your breath comes in.
Ashley: Hi.
Laura: Pike. Are they dead?
Ashley: No.
Matt: You look over to your side, and you see Delilah on the ground, her head scattered and exploded on the ground, the one yellowish-green eye still moving around and taking in the scenery. You glance up, and you see Vecna still lording over, a big smile on his face. You see the other armored knight walking around, the plated black helmet guarding any expression except for these glowing red dots, the eyes that peer through.
Sam: I'm using any movement I have to pick up the dust of my fallen friend, if there is any dust.
Matt: There's the dust and his equipment. Those are the two things that are left.
Sam: Pick up whatever I can.
Marisha: Scoop him into a little vial.
Liam: (vacuuming noises) (laughter)
Sam: (fake sneeze) Oh no!
Taliesin: This is no time for allergies. Fuck!
Matt: All right, so you get your hands up in the armor and some dust and you gather it in your hand. There's Scanlan. There's you. There's Vex, Pike.
Marisha: So we're all together?
Matt: Well, Percy's there and Grog is somewhere.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: I got as far as I could.
Sam: I'm done. That's all I can do.
Ashley: So bonus action.
Sam: I don't know if you can do a bonus action.
Ashley: Can I do a bonus action?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: You need healing like a mother. Don't shrug at me.
Sam: She's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Healing Word on Vex.
Matt: Level two?
Ashley: Level four.
Matt: Because you've already cast Revivify.
Ashley: Level two.
Matt: So 2d4 plus your wisdom modifier, I think.
Sam: I'm already rolling Vax.
Laura: You're mixing him with your suude?
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: Ten hit points.
Sam: Tuck it behind my ear for later.
Taliesin: It doesn't matter anymore.
Laura: I haven't seen Vax yet. I haven't seen what happened.
Ashley: Can I move?
Matt: No, because you already took your turn.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: So that ends your turn? Scanlan, you moved up there and you grabbed the stuff. That's your turn. Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh god. Okay. Are we trying to get to me so I can get us all out?
Sam: Yeah, but it's going to take another turn.
Laura: For Percy to get there.
Marisha: But everyone's coming this way, right? Everyone's coming this way? Then I'm going to-- fucking hell. How does Fire Storm work? I know it's ten ten-foot cubes. Does it have to be on the ground, or can I hit him up there? Can I rain-- "justice rains from above!" Can I do that?
Taliesin: I haven't touched that game in so long.
Matt: You can arrange as you wish. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. Yeah, you can. Choose a location you see within range, so I don't see why you couldn't. You can create a lava fall, essentially.
Taliesin: You'd have to pick one of the two of them to hit.
Matt: You pick one, and then you create a bunch of cubes that chain off it.
Taliesin: You can hit them both.
Marisha: But I'm not going to be able to hit the death knight and Vecna?
Matt: Probably not. Not without hitting Scanlan or yourself in the process.
Marisha: What if I got out of the way. Could I?
Matt: We can try it.
Marisha: I'm going to do a bonus action and I'm going to go air elemental. Full-on, wrath of my people and my hometown, and I'm going to levitate in a cool tornado-y thing.
Matt: Are there any material components for Fire Storm? No, there is not. You can cast that in your form. You levitate up. We'll say right there.
Taliesin: There's a lot of dead bodies on the ground, man.
Matt: I know. This is rough, man. We'll say there.
Marisha: That's high, but that's okay.
Matt: How high did you want it?
Marisha: In between, but don't worry about it. I'm going to right onto Vecna and try and swarm it down towards the death knight.
Matt: How many cubes is it?
Marisha: Ten ten-foot cubes.
Matt: That's ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Just barely get him. Just barely.
Taliesin: That will do.
Matt: Hold on.
Marisha: What do you mean, hold on?
Travis: There are some legendary things that I think might be happening.
Taliesin: I get that vibe.
Matt: Not legendary. As you swarm up and begin to formulate the spell, Vecna looks at at you, and you can see with the vacant space where the hand is, there's almost an arcane flash of a hand that goes, (clicks tongue). He's going to attempt to Counterspell you.
Taliesin: Roll a one!
Marisha: What does he have to roll? Under my DC?
Matt: It has to beat your DC. No, sorry. The level of the spell, which would be 17. Which succeeds. He rolled a 14 plus ten, so 24. As you formulate the spell, you watch as the flames sputter out.
Laura: Can you come back down to the ground?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll try and levitate down a bit.
Matt: You were about there, and with your flying speed, you can land back down on the ground if you want. Sorry. Is that your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: I guess so.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What does it look like when you're looking out at all of us and we're so sad?
Matt: It feels awful.
Travis: I love it!
Taliesin: You're a liar. You're a lying liar.
Matt: It legitimately feels awful, but we were building to this for a long time. I've got to play it.
Travis: There's a god floating in the air.
Matt: Not a god yet.
Travis: Not a god yet.
Matt: That you know of.
Laura: He'll be a god in our next damn campaign when we're all dead.
Matt: He's going to use his last legendary action at the end of Keyleth's turn to cast a cantrip at you, Vex, as you just got back to consciousness. He's going to reach out with a Flame Bolt.
Laura: It's because I called him a dipshit when he was talking earlier.
Travis: You did blurt that out.
Matt: You did. You did taunt him.
Laura: He is a dipshit. Before he does his cantrip, I'm going to go, you can go ahead and live forever, but you'll still be fucking ugly the whole damn time! (laughter)
Matt: Disadvantage because you're prone on the ground and it's a ranged attack. That is a two plus 16. That is an 18.
Laura: To my armor class? He doesn't hit.
Matt: I rolled a natural 20 and a two, by the way, so if you weren't prone?
Taliesin: He would have--
Laura: Destroyed me.
Travis: You would be dust.
Matt: As he points down with his still-missing hand, releases this bolt and you see this flare up in the air and rush towards you, and you roll out of the way and it (impact noise) slams into the stone below you. You hear it crack and break the area where your head once was. Now it's Vecna's turn.
Travis: Now. (laughs) Now?
Ashley: That wasn't his turn?
Matt: That was a legendary action.
Ashley: That was a legendary action? That's right. I don't want any of it!
Taliesin: None of us want this.
Travis: I don't want it! I don't like it!
Ashley: I don't even want to play.
Travis: Taryon's back in Whitestone having a fucking ball.
Taliesin: Taryon's sitting with a cup of tea.
Sam: No, Taryon's on the floor, weeping, holding his necklace.
All: Oh!
Ashley: He doesn't know who it is.
Taliesin: We've got one way down. We are all having the thumpa-thumpa right now.
Laura: It's red. All flashing red.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Why did you say okay that way?
Sam: Liam can be Taryon now! (laughs)
Taliesin: You're terrible.
Sam: No! It's an established character we already have artwork for. Why let it go to waste? He's done prissy boys before.
Travis: Look at Matt's face.
Matt: Vecna's going to lean down, seeing that you just brought life back to Vex--
Travis: Don't you do it!
Laura: Matthew, don't do it!
Matt: "Join your friend."
All: No!
Sam: I will 6th-level Counterspell. (cheering)
Travis: We will not go quietly into the night!
Sam: I will sing at him, (singing) Counterspell, baby don't hurt me. Don't hurt me no more. Counterspell!
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20.
Matt: It's a 7th-level Finger of Death.
Laura: Is that a natural 20?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Scanlan! No!
Travis: What is this up and down cardiac arrrest game?
Matt: Natural one?
Taliesin: Stop rolling that die.
Laura: And you're below 100?
Travis: It really is a one?
Taliesin: It really was a one.
Sam: I can add things to it, right?
Taliesin: No, you can't.
Matt: 7d8. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Ashley: I make a constitution saving throw? Okay.
Sam: You're still inspired.
Laura: You're inspired!
Ashley: "You're spired!"
Laura: Inspired. Use it!
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: It's a d10, right?
Sam: d12 on top of that.
Matt: What did you roll?
Ashley: 13.
Liam: Plus the inspiration.
Ashley: No, just the 13. Plus-- 19?
Matt: No. You take 67 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: It wasn't Power Word Kill, it was Finger of Death?
Matt: No, he'd already used his Power Word Kill. Remember, he's not a god yet.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Just the one. Just the one Power Word Kill.
Travis: The fact that he's not a god gives me diarrhea feelings.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, and he's going to move back a bit, frustrated at the--
Sam: At everything.
Matt: At your attempts to Counterspell. Actually, no. He laughed at that. "Nice try."
Sam: It wasn't my best performance.
Matt: All right, that's going to end his turn. Delilah's out. Grog.
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Travis: Cool. Right. Pass Without a Trace is still going, right?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: That's a one.
Taliesin: Hello?
Matt: As you're there, Grog, you hear (screeching). A cloud of screeches, as about nine of these gloom stalkers all start (whoosh) going into a dive towards you.
Sam: Maybe one of them is our friend Mr. Mistoffelees.
Marisha: Mr. Mistoffelees, come back!
Travis: Am I going to do anything? How far away is the nearest structure?
Matt: Nothing. It's a crater. You're where the city used to be. You have at least a mile to each side of nothing but crater.
Taliesin: Fuck!
Ashley: He's all by his lonesome!
Taliesin: One more round.
Sam: He doesn't know.
Marisha: He could be stuck there forever!
Taliesin: There's nothing we can do right now.
Travis: I'm going to go into a frenzied rage, and I'm going to use my second wind to heal 1d10 plus my fighter level. Three, six. Six points, yay.
Taliesin: How close to you do we have to be?
Marisha: We have to be touching.
Sam: And you have to not be wind.
Marisha: I can be wind now.
Travis: I don't have any fighter things, so that's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. Okay. Ending your turn. Dark energy suffuses the landscape in the area. Actually, no. I'm not going to use that one because nobody has necrotic resistance right now. More undead are going to pop up. Let's see how many. That's actually a shitty roll. Four undead pop up.
Taliesin: They're bullshit. We don't care.
Matt: All righty. That's going to be an attack on you. It has advantage because you're prone and it's in melee. That's a 17. Still doesn't hit. High armor. You're ducking out of the way. The skeleton is (tink) hitting the ground. It's also attacking at you, Pike. That's cocked. Natural one. It goes to strike you, and it doesn't even hit you. The holy symbol of Sarenrae flares, and it (raspy cry) pulls away from the blast of vibrant, radiant energy. There's going to be one attacking you, Scanlan. That is a 20 to hit?
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: All right. You take eight points of slashing damage. And attacking you, Percival, that's another 20.
Taliesin: That is my armor class.
Matt: It hits you. You take 11 points of slashing damage as it cuts through you.
Taliesin: I don't even acknowledge its existence. I am definitely not amused.
Marisha: What was the name of that one city, you guys?
Taliesin: Where is your dad from?
Marisha: Syngorn. Is Syngorn still in the Feywild?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Marisha: Where did we go? What city in the Feywild did we go to?
Laura: We can go to the pond.
Travis: The death knight.
Matt: Steps forward, seeing Scanlan attempt to shrug off all these spells, comes rushing forward, and you watch as its blade begins to empower this dark, black shadow, similar to the gloom stalkers you've seen before. As he brings the sword and arcs it down with tremendous might, you hear the crack of thunder as this Staggering Smite slams into you, or tries to, at least.
Sam: That sounds bad.
Taliesin: That's bad. Do you have a reaction?
Sam: I used it already.
Matt: Shitty roll. 16 to hit?
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I think I'm not attuned-- yeah.
Matt: You take ten points of slashing damage, plus 17 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: And as part of the Staggering Smite, you also take 14 points of psychic damage, and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Against magic? That's better. 17.
Matt: 17? His spell DC is 18, unfortunately. On a failed save, you have a disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and you can't take reactions until the end of your next turn, so you can't Counterspell.
Taliesin: Scanlan's getting whaled on.
Sam: Disadvantage on all attack rolls?
Matt: Oh, but that's a concentration spell, so he's not going to maintain the concentration. You take the damage, and he lets it go. You don't have a disadvantage. Otherwise, he would lose other bits of concentration.
Laura: Other bits of concentration.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to Vex. Your turn.
Laura: (laughing) I get to go?
Matt: Yeah. Sorry!
Sam: You're alive.
Matt: Sorry, guys. You walked into the lion's den.
Laura: Oh yeah, we did.
Liam: I never did a single thing in this fight.
Laura: I know. This is the first thing I've done. I stand up.
Taliesin: If we're smart--
Marisha: I can bring you back.
Taliesin: I'm heading towards where you are. I'm heading towards the deceased body of Delilah.
Laura: I'm going to, as a bonus action, down my biggest healing potion, which is one greater healing potion.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: There's also a superior healing potion lying on the ground amongst all my shit.
Laura: No. It's in your armor.
Matt: Greater is 4d4 plus four.
Sam: Okay, it's something.
Laura: 13 plus four is 17 healing points, and I'm going to move closer to Keyleth.
Taliesin: She can move to us. Never mind.
Marisha: We have to all be holding hands, y'all.
Laura: Can I put myself in between Percy and Keyleth so I can reach my hand out?
Taliesin: I'm going to be making a beeline for everybody else. Everybody's in that big clump.
Laura: We're all in a clump, so we can still touch? I don't need to move anywhere in order to be able to touch her?
Taliesin: You'll be able to move before you cast Plane Shift, right?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: So as long as we're all touching, she can get to us. We just need to clump, and I move last, so I'm fine. Is that right? Yeah, I move last.
Matt: Keyleth moves last. Keyleth and Scanlan.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot at the death knight.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: With my 21?
Matt: 21 actually hits.
Laura: With my Blazing Bowstring, and I want to make it a bramble shot.
Travis: Hit him hard.
Laura: Is anybody standing next to him?
Matt: Scanlan and Keyleth.
Laura: Sweet.
Marisha: Feel free to hit me. I don't care. I can't be grappled.
Taliesin: Doesn't matter. She just gets extra points--
Marisha: Oh, he's flanked.
Laura: 23 plus eight is 31, right? 33 plus 1d6 lightning damage. 39, and then 3d6 sneak attack. 11 additional, so that's--
Travis: 50.
Laura: Oh, and the Blazing Bowstring. Six additional from that.
Matt: 56 points of damage from one shot. That is a 23 on his strength save, so as the arrow hits, you see the burst of flame. It pierces the armor, and you see the brambles extend and tear around him. He looks up at you and you watch as flames (fire noises) burn out of the armor. The arrow burns away, and the brambles ignite and fafll to ash around him.
Laura: Not surprising. What about his concentration?
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: That's going to be... half of 56? Oh man, he's going to have to roll really high.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: No!
Matt: Hold on. Half of 56 is--
Sam: 28.
Matt: 28. No, he rolled a 19 plus five. (cheering)
Matt: As the flames ignite and burn around, the impact still causes him to lose the spell, and you watch as a vacuum fills, and Grog, just as you see this barrage of gloom stalkers, ready to grab and tear you apart, you (poof) out and then (whoosh) appear in that space where you once were.
Travis: Huh?
Ashley: Grog! You're back!
Marisha: Grog, we've got to get out!
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: No, I get to attack him again.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: We're in a nice little clump, aren't we?
Laura: That one definitely hits. This is way less damage. 20 damage on the second one.
Matt: All righty. You can sense there's shadow and smoke pouring out from under the armor as the frustration of lost concentration is there. The second arrow hits the shoulder. Staring straight at you, angrily.
Laura: Keyleth, get us out of here?
Marisha: Hold hands.
Taliesin: I think we're all in physical contact, at this point, except for me.
Matt: That ends Vex's turn?
Laura: Where's Vax?
Taliesin: Well...
Marisha: We'll talk later!
Taliesin: Working on it. Do you have all of his stuff?
Sam: As much as I can carry.
Matt: Armor, daggers. Roll an investigation check.
Marisha: Dust?
Liam: Boots, his voice says from beyond the grave.
Sam: 30.
Matt: You rustled through the dust when you went through and spent the turn grabbing what you can. You get most of his important magical items.
Marisha: And dust.
Matt: And a little bit of dust.
Sam: Those boots are gone!
Taliesin: Next time we fight Vecna, he's going to be wearing some very nice boots.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I'm kidding.
Liam: He'll be Finger of Deathing me double-time.
Ashley: Are we trying to get out of here? What are we doing?
Taliesin: We are trying to get out of here.
Ashley: But then what?! We still have to fight him!
Laura: Yeah, but then we'll be able to recover a little bit and figure out what we're doing.
Taliesin: We're going to die here.
Ashley: Okay, I'll run to-- sorry, I'm stuttering. Keyleth's doing it?
Taliesin: As long as we're all touching, it doesn't matter where Keyleth is, but Turn Undead would help, maybe?
Laura: Or heal us.
Taliesin: Healing or Turn Undead.
Ashley: When's your turn up?
Taliesin: I'm coming up, right?
Laura: And you're holding your action, Keyleth?
Matt: Yes, after Pike's turn.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to do Mass Cure Wounds at 6th level. Let's see.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the ring of counting. This is actually proving to be invaluable.
Marisha: It's very handy.
Laura: What? What did you just think of?
Travis: Nothing.
Taliesin: Later. We need a bigger boat.
Ashley: Fuck, this is a bad roll.
Sam: Is this a new round since my last Counterspell?
Matt: What was the last one you countered and failed? That was on Vecna's turn, so when it comes back to your turn, it will be.
Taliesin: Not yet.
Ashley: 26 points. I rolled so badly.
Laura: 26 is great.
Ashley: And then... am I able to also, at this point, see if I can channel divinity?
Matt: It's an action to do that.
Ashley: It's not like she's going to show up. Okay. Sorry. I'm so hot.
Sam: That's what I say to myself every morning.
Liam: Your extensions look good, but I feel like that is...
Ashley: Okay. I'm just hanging out.
Matt: Okay. That's Pike's turn.
Marisha: Are we all holding hands? Are we all in position?
Sam: Wait, did you just cure our wounds?
Taliesin: Yeah, we just got 26 points back.
Ashley: Wait. Can I do a Mass Healing Word as my bonus action?
Matt: What level? No, because you already did a higher-level. You can't do that, unfortunately.
Sam: You can do it to one person.
Ashley: I'll do one person. Who's closest to me?
Taliesin: She's probably at the bottom.
Ashley: Where are you at? Oh yeah, you're nothing. Let me do the Healing Word.
Laura: You're nothing! You're nobody!
Travis: You'll never mean nothing in this world!
Matt: At the end of your turn, Pike, Vecna's going to go ahead and cast-- you hear the voice enter your mind once more, Pike. "Don't worry. If you love her that much, I'll send her to you." Make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh no, dexterity.
Matt: Let me see if it's dexterity or constitution. Let me check real fast.
Laura: What's he doing?
Sam: He's trying to hurt our Pikey.
Matt: That is a dexterity. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Ashley: 16.
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: I knew it was too low.
Matt: All right. You take 78 points of force damage.
Ashley: How much?
Matt: 78.
Ashley: 78. Okay. That is okay. I'm unconscious--
Matt: However, if it brings you to zero, it turns you to dust.
Laura: But her armor!
Matt: But the armor.
Travis: Oh!
Sam: It never got her to zero.
Matt: As soon as you hit zero, the armor flickers in, and the divine--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Which also means that all the fucking skeletons take damage!
Matt: Yep. As the ray hits you and you feel your flesh begin to dissipate, the blessing of Pelor and the guidance of Sarenrae flicker into you, and you watch as light and flames (explosion noise) burst out of her like a Doctor regenerating. As the fire consumes the area, roll your damage for your armor. Thank you for reminding me of that.
Travis: Plate of the Dawnmartyr, you guys.
Taliesin: I was about to say, I know the stats of the Dawnmartyr really well right now, for reasons.
Travis: They take 6d6 fire damage.
Laura: 6d6 fire damage!
Travis: The ones within melee.
Matt: To all hostile creatures, correct?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Not all creatures?
Laura: All hostile.
Matt: That's a very important distinction.
Laura: That was terrible!
Ashley: 14. You know what? It's fine. I'm alive.
Matt: Okay, so as the flames burn out, you watch as the skeletons that catch flame, their bone burning to black, but they're still standing. Okay. That brings us to Percy.
Ashley: Nothing is going well!
Taliesin: Are we a reasonable chain?
Laura: Yeah, we're just waiting on you to make the touch.
Taliesin: There's nobody breaking the chain? I'm going to move six points in the direction of Delilah because I'm going to bring her with me because I don't want that dead body there. Do I make it in six moves? And while I'm running, just for fucking fun, I'm going to take three shots at that armor, and I'm going to push him the fuck back, if that's okay. I'm going to push that knight back. I'm going to try and do a force push.
Laura: And you're saving your action until we're all touching?
Taliesin: Yeah. It's about to be. We're all touching. Let's get rid of that fucker.
Marisha: We are getting out of here, right?
Taliesin: We're getting the fuck out of here.
Laura: Oh, I thought you were saving your action.
Marisha: I rolled a really fucking shitty initiative.
Taliesin: That's a 27 to hit? The knight.
Matt: That hits, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, and that's a torso push. I'm only going to take the one shot. I don't even care anymore; I'm just pushing him away.
Matt: He's pushed ten feet?
Taliesin: He's pushed ten feet back from my position.
Matt: Does he make a save for that?
Taliesin: There's no save for that, and then he takes a disturbingly sad nine points of damage, plus six points psychic damage. But he's ten feet back. We're all touching. I'm going to save the rest of my attack for anybody who tries to get in the way of this shit. If anybody interrupts us, I've got two more shots ready to go. Also burning a heal for fun, as well.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will Lightning Bolt at level four the armor knight guy.
Taliesin: I'm also holding onto Delilah.
Sam: He's behind me, so I'll do it from my ass. (laughter)
Liam: I love you so much.
Sam: I'll lift up my leg a little bit. Squeeze it out.
Liam: Like a dog at a fire hydrant.
Sam: It's 8d6, but at level four it's 9d6, I think?
Matt: Level four, it's 9d6, yeah. He did not make his save. He rolled a nine plus six. 15.
Taliesin: Yay! I'm not quite at full.
Matt: He has advantage on his saves against magical effects and spells. He rolled worse.
Sam: 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage. The bolt (lightning noise) through him at the same time he's blasted back by Percy's hit and skids. You see the smoke rise up. Like the Terminator, he keeps moving forward.
Sam: I'll use my movement to gather whatever bits of Vax I can still see.
Taliesin: Put your hands in it.
Sam: And get into "posish."
Taliesin: We're ready to burn.
Sam: I will bonus action Healing Word Pikey-poo, which is for me-- what is Healing Word? It's 2d4 plus six?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: At the end of Scanlan's turn--
Taliesin: Fuck no!
Travis: Let's just have a conversation about this. We're adults.
Laura: What is this game, Matthew? Don't do it!
Matt: He is going to take a shot at Pike with a Firebolt cantrip.
Taliesin: You have a reaction.
Sam: I do, but I want to save it.
Ashley: Bob and weave. I can bob and weave.
Taliesin: There's no save. This is it.
Sam: Do people have to be alive to get out of here?
Matt: That is a 21. What's your armor class?
Ashley: 23.
Travis: It doesn't even hit!
Liam: Eat a dick!
Ashley: Eat a bag of dicks!
Travis: At level five?
Matt: I rolled a five. It's a cantrip. It fires the bolt towards you; you're barely holding on. As you turn around, the flame hits you, but your armor absorbs it. No impact. Okay.
Laura: I need Taco Bell right now in my life!
Ashley: I know. I want Taco Bell so bad. We might have cheats tonight.
Matt: That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Keyleth?
Marisha: Are we all here?
Taliesin: We're all here.
Marisha: We're all sure about this? We're out? 100%?
Taliesin: We're dying.
Travis: No, let's stay and fight.
Marisha: We're on this plane, right?
Travis: Yeah, we're on the material plane.
Marisha: Then we're going to the Feywild! And we all hold hands--
Matt: Are you turning back to your form, then?
Marisha: Yes, I drop form and I pull out my tuning fork and my flowers, and I think deep about the Gilded Run and the Shademirk Bog and the beautiful pond that we appeared around, that we know there's a portal right near it. That's what I think about strongly, and I say, everyone think about the pretty ponds!
Liam: Feywild Spring Break, motherfuckers!
Marisha: Spring Break 2017, Feywild!
Taliesin: Roll. You're a good man.
Matt: Vecna's going to attempt to Counterspell.
Sam: Yep. 7th-level Counterspell against him. (laughter)
Travis: I knew that's what you were waiting for!
Matt: That was some old-school Magic  The Gathering shit, right there.
Liam: Do it, Scanlan. Do it.
Ashley: You just pulled out the wild Uno card. (laughter)
Taliesin: We're not happy yet.
Matt: So 7th-level Counterspell. Yeah, you don't have to roll. (cheering)
Matt: Yeah. Let me check real fast. I need to confirm this real fast.
Laura: Scanlan's back.
Liam: Shorthalt's back.
Travis: "I'd rather not use it."
Matt: Yeah, no. The only spell he even had left to Counterspell was 7th level. Yeah, (poof).
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: As the glyph of shattering begins to coalesce around his fingers in one hand and the wrist on the other, you strike up a Counterspell of your own.
Sam: Sure. I will say to him, this time-- I've got nothing left. I will sing to him, (singing) I'm beautiful. I'm beautiful, it's true. You saw my face in a crowded place, and you didn't know what to do because I just took a shit on you.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Matt: The last thing you hear as the spell begins to take effect is the whispered voice of Vecna throughout all of your heads say, "What?" (laughter)
Matt: Before (spell noise) you are all yanked through a familiar tunnel of darkness and then thrust out into the center of a clustered, dense forest in the Feywild.
Sam: Oh god. Have I been there? Wait, was that me? Yes. Okay.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I would have taken us home, but we were already there, and I had to go somewhere else.
Laura: Where's Vax?
Matt: And that's where we're going to end. (groaning)
Liam: (fake crying) You sadistic motherfucker! You cut it right there?! I was okay until right then!
Taliesin: That's not nice.
Matt: I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: Nothing feels good.
Liam: I was okay until right then!
Ashley: Let's do one more hour.
Travis: That was amazing. That was brutal. We didn't have a fucking chance.
Taliesin: No, there was not a fucking prayer.
Liam: What else were we going to do? Set up an Orange Julius stand by that tower? Of course we were going to go into that tower.
Travis: Of course! But we didn't know how fucked we were until we got up there. We had to go.
Marisha: I thought that we were pretty badass when we took the tower down, and we were not.
Ashley: No.
Marisha: I can get you back, man. I can get you fucking back!
Sam: Can you? Without a body?
Matt: We're going to have some discussions.
Sam: Without a body?
Marisha: But True Resurrection says I can.
Matt: Marisha. We'll have some discussions. Anyway. Thank you guys so much for watching. Thanks for kicking in for a taste of the final arc. Holy shit.
Taliesin: You know what, I'm grateful that we're not--
Matt: Oh man. There was part of me, where either they were going to end up waiting-- if that didn't break concentration, they were either going to wait for you and probably lose a lot more, possibly Keyleth once she realized what was going on. Or left without you. You would have come back.
Laura: And we would have been gone.
Travis: And I would have to have won the game all by myself.
Sam: Which you've already done.
Travis: Or I would have taken the Deck and been like--
Liam: Number one lesson. The one takeaway tonight. The one takeaway is just how OP Vax'ildan is. (laughter)
Matt: This is true.
Laura: If he can't move, he's fucked.
Travis: Boots no longer.
Marisha: I can't believe I fucking dumped my 9th-level spell in you, and then you got tied down. It made zero fucking difference.
Liam: You did great.
Marisha: We both wasted our fucking 9th-level spells.
Sam: They're hard to use. We've got to learn to use them better.
Liam: You've got one chance to do something fucking amazing.
Laura: Vecna is out and ready to fucking destroy.
Matt: We'll pick up on this next week.
Sam: Wow. I'm shaking.
Matt: Me, too. All right, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night. We'll see you soon, and is it Thursday yet?
Travis: Nope! It's Thursday right now!
Liam: Last Thursday.
Matt: Good night, guys. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]