The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role tonight! We have some interesting adventurous points to go over. We're also coming off International Tabletop Day, which we had a great time. Met a lot of the wonderful fans, one of which had created their own t-shirt of our group and inspired us to do the same! So you'll see a bunch of us wearing our fantastic, full assortment of Critical Role party member t-shirts tonight. Just for fun. In the meantime, let’s go ahead and get this started, as we all have the chance to warm up with character backgrounds and maybe a little surprise. So be back here in a few minutes, guys! (drumming battle music) (drumming battle music continues)
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. (brawling sounds) Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of 7 children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (sound of a gun cocking and firing)
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (dragon roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (ringing weapons SFX) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother, and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - her own stolen Trinket - to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back, everyone! The new intro tonight, which I think we're all pretty damn proud of, was put together by our fantastic overlord, Zac. (all cheering)
Matt: It put him to work for quite some time, also the mixing and sound effects done by the amazing Alex Neat and the music you heard was composed by the amazingly talented Jason Charles Miller. So if you don't know Jason you should look him up. He's done stuff for The Guild and many other web shows. Also a fantastic musician on his own with his own stuff. He is the lead singer of Godhead. He's just a good guy. Also a voice actor, look him up if you have any time. Good people, and he lent his talents to our intro so we really appreciate that, buddy. Also we had a great time at Tabletop Day. Got to meet some of our fans. Got to take some pictures. Bunch of cool folks. Some of us got to go on the stream at certain points in the day. All around a good time! So those of you that got a chance to come, thank you so much! And a fan created, as I mentioned before, this awesome t-shirt with the roster, so we were all really inspired to go ahead and make some of our own. Got the party showing off their Critical Role positive.
Marisha: So one of the things we were actually talking about doing, so we'd like to give a shout out to the person who made this, big shout out to @RuzGofDi. Thank you! For doing this. A lot of people have been asking for shirts. I don't know if you guys maybe would be into that or not. So we thought maybe we would wear these, see what you guys thought. But if you guys are into it, we thought about doing a limited run of these and making this the first of our fan-designed t shirts.
Sam: First of many.
Marisha: First of many. Every once in awhile we'll have fans submit designs and then we'll pick a winner. Each one will be a limited run. So if you guys will like this, let us know, and maybe we'll make it happen.
Sam: I'm wearing one right now in my underpants, which we will be selling next week.
Marisha: Yes, and there might be some stills of that to order.
Orion: I'm going to wear mine next game.
Taliesin: Next game.
Matt: I guess some people are into the idea, let the chat know. People seem to be, and we'll be putting more designs out, getting some shirt possibilities to you guys in the near future.
Marisha: Let us know in the chat guys.
Liam: Wait wait wait, I've got some thing. I just gave everyone in the party rupees, treasure!
Marisha: Rupees!
Liam: These were sent to me by Tim West who has a great new company called Fantasy Coin HQ. If you go to fantasycoinhq.com he makes - Matt's holding up a dwarven coin at the moment - they make gems, they make fantasy coins, nerd coins.
Sam: Are we doing free ads now for people?
Liam: This is just a thank you!
Matt: This is a thank you.
Liam: Check it out. Or if you just hit a really tall tuft of grass with a sword, these will pop out of it so you don't have to order them. Just mow your lawn.
Marisha: They’re hefty, too.
Orion: If these were rupees, this is what they would feel like.
Marisha: I kind of want to throw them at people across the room!
Orion: I want to trade them, put them in a pouch.
Matt: Also guys, as a note, we have, available tonight for the person, for people who have managed to get themselves to 2,150 subscribers tonight, we will send out another promo kit to one of you folks in the chat with another signed picture of our Critical Role cast. So be sure to see if we can get the subscribers to climb up as well, so keep an eye out for that in the evening so we can give out one of those before the night is over. That would be awesome.
Sam: Let's do this!
Matt: Let's kick into the game proper, guys! Let's get some proper music playing, because that's what I do.
Orion: That’s what I baby do right.
Sam: (Beatboxing)
Matt: So last we left off, music's not playing here. I need music!
Sam: Doesn't matter.
Matt: The music's important to me! The party had been travelling into the dwarven city of Kraghammer at the behest of arcanist Allura Vysoren in search of a halfling paladin, a very revered folk hero named Lady Kima of Vord who had gone missing following a vision quest somewhere beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer, supposedly for some great evil that was germinating there, festering and growing. After you guys traversed through the dwarven city, you began to find your way down into the mines. The mythril mines of Greyspine beneath the dwarven town. After a few fateful encounters, the return of your gnome cleric.
Ashley: Hey, that's me!
Matt: Grog having his proverbial brains blown out by an intellect devourer. The party then decided to make friends with a mind flayer, an illithid that had been cast out from its people seeking vengeance and possible return to its people. Upon making this alliance, they made an attack on the dwarven, or the duergar, war camp that is threatening to rise up and attack Kraghammer from deep within the mountains themselves. The attack was successful. The general was killed, interrogated, and some interesting information was gleaned from him before his brain was sucked out from his head by Clarota, the mindflayer friend. However, this attack also announced to the local war camp of your presence and in the process of attempting to escape, the druid was damaged and lost her eagle form and thus began a freefall of many party members. A haphazard attempt to use the magic carpet far over its weight limit led most of the party to come crash landing and nearly killing everyone. Managed to escape, walled themselves in thanks to Keyleth’s stone wall spell. And after staying the evening in one of the deeper tunnels, and barely avoiding a roving band of duergar there, you managed to find yourselves in battle with 2 ogres carrying some sort of strange, mutated, black pudding ooze contained in a glass container. The glass container being shattered, of course, by an explosive arrow created by Percy and fired by Vex.
Laura: Go us!
Matt: At the very start of the battle, led into a very rough battle with this strange mutating ooze that kept splitting and splitting, until through some good teamwork, crafty use of telekinesis and a nearby lava pool, and general high damage rolls, you guys managed to survive the encounter.
Travis: Barely.
Matt: Making your way to the bottom of this tunnel, you found yourself looping back around to the large crevice where the giant waterfall had fallen in before, where you had met Clarota. Which allowed you to retrieve your bear Trinket.
Laura: Yeah! Trinket!
Matt: We pick up as you guys begin to step down into the lower tunnels, the ones that are partially coated with a series of magma pools and falls that are trickling out of the rockside. All right everyone.
Sam: I was just so out of it last time. Have we rested? Are we in some need of rest?
Laura: We should probably rest.
Sam: What are we around? What's near us? Is this just a tunnel? Is there any sort of shelter, caves?
Laura: We're by that lake with the giant monster.
Liam: We circled all the way back around.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: And went down to that place that you told us not to go in the first place? Yeah, that's where we ended up.
Sam: How was that for you? (all laugh)
Matt: So essentially there was--
Sam: We're back in the camp.
Matt: You're under the camp. You're where the giant chasm leads down into the waterfall. There is a pool of water at the bottom where the aboleth was in the water.
Liam: We just barely survived the chat room and now we need to rest.
Travis: (chuckles) The chatroom. Take it easy on us, all right?
Matt: You guys also just woke up about 2, 3 hours ago.
Laura: Right, so we don't really - oh, we can take hit points.
Matt: You guys can take a short rest and use your hit dice to heal up. You didn't take any damage last game. Thankfully you stayed out of the fray.
Sam: So I'm okay. That's all I need to know.
Matt: You did use one of your Dominate spells.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Only thing of note. So the rest of you who need to heal up can use this time to take a short rest and use your hit dice to heal up on your own.
Travis: I'm ready. Who we fighting next?
Sam: Anyone need some healing? Are we all okay? Are we all good?
Ashley: I think we're all good. Where's everybody at in terms of...
Orion: Well, I'm fine.
Laura: On a personal level, or?
Ashley: You mean like in life, or?
Sam: As we survey the area, how many tunnels we looking at? What's our options here?
Matt: So, (all laugh)
Travis: He's back, he's back.
Orion: Would you calm down?
Matt: Let me pull out this visual aid for you. This is the tunnel sequence you guys have traversed down to the main area where the goblin encampment was. This is the large bridge that went across the giant chasm to where the duergar war camp was. This is the giant drop-off at the waterfall. You guys are currently in this section about to go deeper into this tunnel where a series of small magma trickles are pouring out of the rock.
Sam: So we never went up to the war camp and through it.
Matt: You did.
Sam: Oh we did!
Liam: We crashed down by the tunnel, we fled. We sealed up the way behind us, ran in.
Sam: Got it. So we should keep going? We should just keep going. Magma? Follow the magma.
Liam: Well I recommend. We don't want to go up and through the camp again?
Laura: No no no, we're going into the cavern.
Liam: So we're going to backtrack the way we came to that war camp road, yes?
Laura: No, we're going into the tunnel.
Sam: Did you see the visual aid?
Orion: Yes, we are going into the lava tunnel.
Laura: No no no, in through the tunnel.
Liam: I’ll just follow. I thought I understood.
Matt: (laughs) It’s been a week.
Sam: I mean there might be something to be gleaned from going back to the war camp.
Laura: That tunnel.
Liam: We went out of there.
Laura: No no no no no.
Matt: You guys came through here, you traveled across over the war camp, went back here and tunneled below.
Laura: And popped this out right there. So now we're going into this.
Matt: Correct. Maps.
Liam: And just to make sure that my memory is on point--
Travis: It's not.
Liam: --Before we circled back around, we hit a fork in the road where we could have gone up and we could have gone down.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So that's behind us.
Laura: That's behind us, we're going down down down.
Liam: Cheers.
Matt: Cheers indeed, huzzah. All right.
Laura: Shall we?
Ashley: We shall!
Sam: Is Clarence with us still?
Matt: Clarota is indeed with you. Clarota took a large black iron duergar bolt to the chest earlier and is mostly recovered but is still even more hunched than usual.
Laura: Does he need healing?
Ashley: He also ate those brains.
Matt: The brains helped him--
Ashley: Helped him a little bit?
Matt: --keep healthy, but he's still a little wounded but he's taking his time to rest up. He seems to be okay. Not as worse for wear as he was before. A slight wheeze that's always to him still present.
Ashley: He's just always a little weezy.
Laura: (meh meh meh sounds)
Liam: (meh meh meh sounds)
Matt: Sounds just like that. So, as you guys begin to push down into this lower chasm, the temperature of the air itself grows steadily warmer and warmer with a drier heat.
Orion: This feels nice.
Matt: You find yourselves, especially those of you with thick armor--
Ashley: Oh, it's so hot!
Matt: --You find that sweat beads begin to trickle down the side of your face--
Ashley: I'm sweating!
Marisha: You're all glisteny!
Matt: --And begin to pool and gather in parts of your chestplate.
Sam: Pike, if you'd like me to hold your armor or do you want me to take it off for a little while?
Ashley: No, I'll keep it on just for safety.
Sam: Let it hang out a little bit?
Liam: Do you even lift, bro?
Sam: Just saying, you might feel more comfortable with a loose fitting sort of cloak?
Laura: Scanlan, stop being creepy!
Sam: I'm not creepy! I'm just trying to be mindful!
Ashley: No, it's fine Scanlan.
Travis: Very considerate of you, a gentleman's offer.
Ashley: Yeah, it’s okay. I'll keep it on.
Sam: I'll just have to use my imagination.
Marisha: A gentleman's offer, yes. That's what we'll call it from now on.
Travis: What permission?
Sam: Onward.
Matt: Pressing further down, the air itself that once had a kind of a hint of that sulfur smell, is now becoming stronger and stronger as you step deeper and deeper into this cavernous tunnel. It rests about 30 feet to 40 feet at width and about 25, 30 feet up and it varies to come pinched tighter or wider at moments, but it continues to be a steady downward climb in a continuous direction. The small trickles, some of them pool and gather into these small, magma cups if you will. Molten hot magma, I knew it was coming.
Orion: (murmurs) I was just wondering if it would happen.
Matt: Ooh, that's minus 200 experience points. (all laugh)
Orion: I feel a bit weaker now.
Matt: You get about 20 or 30 minutes deeper into this tunnel before the sweltering heat gets noticeably warmer and as you crest a slight incline and decline over a small hill portion of this tunnel, you can see now a large portion of the rock has collapsed on the left side and a gargantuan pool of magma is pooling into the tunnel, essentially covering half of the tunnel you are traversing down. It can be walked on the side of safely at about 2 or 3 at shoulder width, but you only have about a 15 foot width here and the rest of it is just extremely bright, hot, molten rock.
Laura: Does it hurt us to get near it?
Matt: No, but it's uncomfortable and something to be very aware of and to watch your step.
Orion: I feel great!
Matt: You feel great.
Liam: I would just like to point out that we're 9 adults playing don't touch the hot lava at the moment. (all laugh)
Sam: Keyleth, you don't have any way of - say it gets hotter than this? You don't have any way of getting some water out here?
Orion: Ooh! I do! And I pull out an empty bottle.
Laura: Oh? Oh?
Liam: Tiberius, I've seen that bottle a lot. What does it do?
Orion: Oh! Um well, uh. I pull out two bottles. This one - they're both empty bottles - but this one is an air bottle and this one is a water bottle.
Liam: Oh! Thank you! That clears that up! (all laugh)
Travis: Even I feel dumber right now. (all laugh)
Sam: Your intelligence is now 4. (all laugh)
Travis: 4...3 and a half.
Liam: Does it make a lot of water?
Orion: Oh! This, if we ever need air--
Sam: I think that's the water one that you just pulled out.
Orion: I take it out (wind SFX). I control a small gust.
Laura: Yes, but what about water? Oh my.
Orion: This, if we need water - And I do a small stream.
Matt: Okay. So a little bit of water just begins to pour perpetually, and without seeming end due to the size of the bottle.
Sam: It's like a piss stream!
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: So, if you want to just squirt - and I do a small, little squirt-blasts on Scanlan.
Sam: Ahh!
Laura: Oh, okay. Lovely.
Liam: Is that unlimited?
Orion: Well, of course it is! Why would I carry a non-magical item on me? That's ridiculous.
Ashley: Just a water bottle.
Orion: So yes, Scanlan, we're fine.
Sam: That's good to know.
Laura: So, should we try to cross this little path here?
Ashley: That sounds cool!
Sam: That's really cool.
Laura: Can I use my tracking to see any of those duergar? To see if any of them have passed through the area; if there's a large group of them ahead of us?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I can use my tracking and my favored terrain to see how many within 6 miles, if there's a large group of them.
Matt: Yes you can. All right. Go ahead and roll for your tracking check on that.
Liam: First roll.
Matt: I believe it's survival.
Laura: Ooh! Here we go!
Travis: Do it for the Star Wars trailer.
Marisha: Roll. Roll. Roll.
Matt: This is with advantage, I believe, because it's your favored terrain, correct?
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: (singing) Your favored terrain!
Laura: Okay, that's better. Is that it?
Liam: Survival.
Laura: 21?
Matt: 21! All right. You take a moment, and about 30 to 40 feet, you go through and inspect the way the terrain's been pushed and the dirt has been shoved aside. Tracking footprints and scuff marks on the rock and the walls nearby, seeing if any of the flows have been interrupted recently, and you ascertain that there is actually a pretty continuous patrol through here. About once every 4 to 8 hours up and down this tunnel that contain anywhere from 5 to 10 or more duergar, sometimes other, larger creatures. You find footprints that resemble maybe the ogres you mentioned earlier, possible troll footprints, but you're not familiar with that entity. You also notice some of the walls have what looks like small, localized cave-ins, almost as if something had burrowed through at one time or another.
Travis: Awesome. Great.
Matt: Large, large creatures. So, there's also things that exist outside of the tunnel system.
Ashley: Like Tremors?
Laura: So, as quickly as possible, we should get through these tunnels, I assume?
Matt: Probably a good idea. As a note though, you said within 6 miles?
Laura: Yes.
Sam: 6 miles?!
Matt: As you continue tracking down this tunnel - and it takes you a good 3 or 4 hours to finally reach a point where the tunnel begins to widen up - you assess that, maybe 3 miles up, there is a localized town. Or, at least, a population of duergar amassed in a central place.
Liam: Check out the brain on Brad!
Laura: So 3 to 4 miles up, you said, from where we are at this point?
Matt: Yeah. From where you began.
Travis: Should we be stealthing?
Laura: We should probably start stealthing at this point, yes.
Liam: Yes. I was about to say I'd like to move ahead of the group a bit and start sneaking along.
Matt: Let's do that! Go ahead and roll stealth.
Liam: Do I have advantage like my sister had for--
Matt: You do not.
Liam: No. All right, well--
Laura: Should we all try to stealth?
Liam: 26 for me.
Matt: This would be a group stealth check.
Liam: 26. I've tiptoed away.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 7.
Travis: 17.
Ashley: 7.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: Picking up on the shortcomings of a handful of members of your group, you do manage to maintain what you feel is a fairly stealthy advance deeper into this tunnel system. About an hour and a half of perpetual travel, as the tunnel slowly widens further and further, with every quarter mile or so, you eventually get to a point where the tunnel shoots open into a gargantuan cavern. A chamber nearly a mile and a half across from this visual point.
Ashley: (quietly)...of secrets?
Matt: It is extremely tall, with hundreds of very jagged stalagmites hanging from the ceiling, and rock formations that rise and fall at different points of the topography. This entire tunnel is built in this strange, large, natural, downward curve that disappears out of sight about a mile ahead and to the left. But this huge tunnel is lit with what looks like maybe 2 to 3 dozen various small lava falls that are pouring down the sides of this giant cavern's structure. You also see some small pockets of that red glow stone that a lot of these Dwarven tunnels tend to use as a light source. You also, as you begin to step into this, carefully - you, taking point on this, both the twins; you notice - on the far end of this cavern… Well, first off, the entire landscape is rough and craggy, with large, black, obsidian spikes just jutting out of the ground at various points. Whether it be seismically created or otherwise, it's a very unwelcoming atmosphere. And that sulfurous smell is extremely strong. Even though you’ve gotten used to it as far as you can for this travel, it’s still a very pungent odor and you find that it’s going to be very difficult for you to make out any other scent in this location right now other than that horrible mixture of chemicals that probably isn’t very healthy to be breathing at the moment. What you see across the chamber, your eyes focus on a small cluster of buildings, it looks, of a similar construct as the barracks that you saw at the war camp. You can probably surmise somewhere in the neighborhood of about 20 to 25 of these structures, all localized in this one area that is punctuated with - you can count about 7 of these black obsidian spires that rise out at different points around like watchtowers.
Liam: Still natural?
Matt: No, these are constructed. These are very smooth and have that rigid Dwarvish construction with a jagged edge to each one of the leveled lips of these towers. The one that you can see closest to you, which is about a quarter mile off, you can just barely make out what looks like a couple of duergar walking across one of the upper levels and what looks like some sort of ballista and/or anti-personnel weapon that is put--
Laura: This is where Kima’s being held.
Sam: How do you know that?
Laura: She had a vision.
Orion: Plus, it’s a really big thing.
Sam: That’s true.
Matt: These giant bolt-throwers currently reside on each one of these, and then in the center of this cluster of buildings, you see standing a gargantuan ebony fortress. Serrated stonework marks the top of each wall and more of these giant bolt-throwers are mounted across the parapets. A massive magma fall descends from the rocky ceiling, right above the stronghold, onto the roof and is forked onto each side and then continues to flow down, buttressing each side of the stronghold almost as a defense mechanism, like they built it intentionally underneath this magma fall.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Oh, that’s where the trapdoor is!
Sam: What? Trapdoor?
Travis: There’s a trapdoor.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait...under the magma?
Laura: You missed a lot, Scanlan.
Marisha: Oh, right.
Sam: I was with you the whole time.
Orion: Yes, but you were never paying attention.
Sam: I was drunk.
Orion: You got that new magazine and you’ve been staring at it a long time.
Sam: Well, it’s hot gnomes.
Liam: Vax creeps back to Pike and ushers her up to the front. Do you recall any of the details from your vision, from your dreams?
Ashley: I’ve definitely been here in my vision. (all laugh)
Ashley: I do remember that much. All of this looks familiar, and I think we’re in the right place.
Laura: Sweet.
Orion: Very good. That’s all important.
Ashley: Do we know what else is around? What was the building again? With the--
Sam: It’s a fortress.
Matt: The giant building you see is called Emberhold. That’s what it’s been referred to as.
Sam: And it’s not a temple?
Matt: It’s not a temple, it is a fortress. The temple of where apparently K'Varn as far as you know exists is further below in the fungal forest that surrounds this ancient city ruin that has been repurposed by the illithids that Clarota actually came from.
Laura: Oh, yes! And we know here, because the general that we mind melded - Clarota read his brain.
Sam: Yeah, I was there!
Laura: I know. It’s just you were drunk, so I’m reiterating it. (all laugh)
Sam: Yeah yeah, good, thank you for that.
Orion: Just making sure.
Taliesin: You had this very vivid look the whole time.
Laura: So remember, Scanlan, that the general said that on the left side of the fortress--
Sam: Of the fortress.
Laura: --is how we can get into the trapdoor.
Sam: How we can get into the trapdoor, exactly.
Liam: By the smaller--
Sam: Smaller--
Liam: --of two lava flows.
Laura: By the smaller of two lava flows.
Sam: --of two...what?
Laura: Lava flows.
Ashley: So what we’re looking at is the fortress?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You’re looking at Emberhold itself, the center of the duergar society and from what you’ve gleaned from two different duergar that you’ve interrogated, supposedly where Lady Kima has been held should she still--
Laura: by King Murghol?
Matt: --By King Murghol. Murghol and Queen Ulara.
Liam: From our vantage point can we see the two lava flows that we were warned about?
Matt: It is way too far away. That stronghold is probably a good mile and a half away from you right now.
Laura: So, there is a lot of cover as we go near it because of all the…?
Matt: There is a lot of cover, yes, but it’s a lot of open area with cover, so it’s one of those you’re just going to have to be careful as you move through.
Sam: Percy.
Laura: It’s pretty dark here, right?
Taliesin: Yes?
Sam: How long would it take you to make a nuclear weapon?
Matt: Yes, it’s pretty dark here, the only reason you can see much is because of the low light vision.
Taliesin: A very long time. If I start it right now..
Matt: Even at this radius, things you could see nearby, a light source would be very helpful in making sure that you can see details and not fall in anything you don’t want to, but it also makes you very visible to anything else out there, so you have to decide.
Liam: Between the lava and the red stones, the twins can see, correct? Because of the dim light.
Matt: You can see near, but these are things that are a mile away.
Laura: But nothing at a distance.
Liam: Right, right, right.
Matt: It’s way too far away. The reason you can make out this small city and Emberhold itself is because there are clusters of the red glowstone used within that city and the giant magma fall that currently envelops the sides of the stronghold, making it very, very visible and easy to pick out against the rest of the cavern.
Ashley: So this is a whole little city down here.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: About a mile off, yeah.
Laura: So we should keep to the left and head down that direction and try to--
Marisha: I'm actually gonna go ahead and cast Pass Without A Trace.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (whispering) What does that do?
Marisha: (whispering) It makes us really stealthy.
Sam: Oh, cool!
Orion: It's the thing that saved our butts last time.
Liam: It quiets your parts.
Matt: You've seen this before. As she finishes her incantation, you feel the darkness of the shadows around you begin to coalesce and almost stick to you. Although there's no substance, for a moment you almost find yourself repulsed by it, until you realize that it's probably an advantageous circumstance. But you find yourself now much easier to slip into the surrounding shadows.
Marisha: They're nice shadows.
Travis: And I'm doing my flower girl routine with the dust of tracelessness. Just over here, over there, put a little on Pike.
Taliesin: We don't really need - Well...
Travis: What? We've got a really large amount.
Orion: You never know, Percy, he does it all the time. We don't know how many times it's saved us.
Marisha: (laughing) We've got a really large amount.
Taliesin: I suppose that's fair.
Sam: What's our angle here, gents?
Liam: We need to get closer up. We need to find this trap door, because it's suicide going in the front.
Laura: Right. And Lady Kima's being held here.
Sam: So there's an entrance to this trap door that possibly is on the outskirts of the city?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: So we need to find it.
Laura: Yes, it's on the left.
Sam: Oh, it's on the left?
Laura: Yes, so we're heading left and going--
Sam: Let's do it!
Liam: The twins will creep - continue ahead.
Ashley: Yeah, you guys real stealthy, so--
Travis: Yeah, keep creeping, keep creeping.
Ashley: --Probably smart that you're moving ahead.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll take point on the group that's following.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You guys take care of Trinket as I'm ahead of you.
Ashley: Come on, Trinket.
Travis: (growling sounds) Me and Trinket are telling jokes in the back of the group.
Sam: Quietly.
Marisha: Classic Trinket.
Matt: All right. You guys continue staying off the main path and you can see there is about a 20-foot natural formation of a walkway or at least where most of the patrols and any sort of duergar foot travel is localized. You can see where that natural road has been created over time. You avoid that path and steer off to the left, dodging between the various bits of terrain. And it's a very rocky and difficult terrain should you not be with your ranger, who has the Underdark as her favored terrain.
Laura: Oh, I'll go back, then. Should I? Or is it okay because we're all together?
Matt: It's okay because you guys are in theory together. I'm going to say essentially you're just marking places where the terrain would be dangerous, to watch your step and to be wary of any locations that might be unsafe for load bearing, anything like that.
Travis: Yeah, I saw that look. You calling me load bearing? (all laugh)
Matt: Yes!
Travis: That's honest.
Matt: Specific. As you guys begin to curve around the left, everyone roll a perception check real fast.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Travis: Prepare for a natural... lap.
Orion: With our proficiency bonus?
Matt: Only if you're proficient with perception.
Sam: I can't read the dice. It's either a 6 or a 9. No idea.
Orion: 15.
Matt: Is there a dot on the bottom?
Sam: Oh, that's the bottom?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's a 6! (all laugh)
Ashley: Oh, Scanlan!
Marisha: 16.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 24.
Travis: 9.
Ashley: 19.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 25.
Matt: All right. Both Percy and Vax simultaneously put their arms out to hold everyone back as you instinctively--
Liam: Dtdtdt!
Matt: --You hear a slight distant clanking of metal and voices. Low, kind of conversational voices. Too far for you to listen at this point. But you guys immediately stop everyone. And you can just see, over maybe a good 70, 80 feet from your distance, heading up the path you guys had just began to skirt around, a small, what looks like a roving patrol of duergar. Probably the ones that go up and down the tunnel.
Laura: I can ambush them!
Sam: Ambush them?
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Taliesin: (whispering) Let them pass.
Sam: Why don't we create a distraction and get rid of them?
Laura: Well, okay, but I can - (whispering) I can be really quiet. I can do Hide In Plain Sight now. So, I could completely hide myself standing there.
Sam: How many are there? Are you gonna kill--
Matt: No one's seen them, you can just hear them. No one's gone to check.
Laura: Oh! Can I look?
Liam: Yes, let's go look.
Matt: You can.
Laura: Okay, let's look.
Liam: Let's go catch one.
Marisha: (quietly) Can we not just hide?
Matt: Just the two of you?
Orion: How far away are we from them? Like, in distance?
Matt: Right now? You're guessing about 80 to 70 feet, but closing fast. Not closing directly on you, because they're doing a slightly different path.
Laura: (whispering) Everybody stay quiet.
Taliesin: They're taking the path that we're not on, right?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So, if we hide--
Laura: They won't find us.
Taliesin: --They won't find us.
Laura: Potentially.
Orion: And they can just pass.
Laura: But I want to hear what they're saying.
Matt: Okay, so all of you guys, who's--
Marisha: We'll all hide. I go ahead and cast Guidance on Vax.
Laura: What does that mean?
Liam: Vex.
Matt: Is that a concentration spell?
Laura: I'm Vex, he's Vax. We look alike, it's understandable.
Matt: Just checking if it’s concentration or not, because that will definitely break your other spell. I'll pull it up here real fast.
Laura: Oh, no, then don't. Keep Pass Without A Trace.
Travis: Well, we could just get this party started right here, if we want to.
Marisha: Let me see, it might just be--
Matt: Guidance is concentration.
Marisha: No, sorry, you don't have my guidance.
Laura: That's okay, that’s okay.
Marisha: No guidance here.
Liam: Why don't we go just up ahead and scout?
Laura: Just a little bit ahead and see what we can see.
Matt: Okay. So, the two of you kind of work up. As the rest of you are holding back, the twins slink between the various rock formations and strange, jagged spires that are currently peppering this entire underground landscape. You get up to a point where you're maybe 10 feet from the road and with your backs against the rock, you can begin to see the roving band slowly move around.
Sam: (whispering) Band?
Matt: The band of duergar. You count, at quick glance, roughly 12 to 15.
Marisha: Oh, yeah...
Matt: Armed with hammers, halberds, um... Both of you guys roll a perception check right now.
Liam: Perception check.
Matt: Perception check. Specific for this one.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 17.
Matt: You make out that one of them holds no weapons. Instead is dressed in--
Laura: Wait, no! I get advantage on perception, because I'm in my favored terrain.
Matt: There you go.
Liam: I already perceived it.
Laura: Oh, yeah, never mind, okay. (all laugh)
Matt: You can also perceive, I suppose.
Orion: (whispering) I already perceived it.
Matt: One of the duergar walking alongside is completely bald on top with this extremely long, well sculpted, black goatee beard that streams down. Thick black and red trimmed robes. Carries no weapons and looks extremely dangerous. However, as you're listening to the conversation, you specifically, being able to understand Undercommon--
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What is he saying?
Laura: Hold on.
Matt: --You pick up bits and pieces as they begin to pass by. You hold your breath, hoping nobody notices you, and so far so good. They begin to walk slowly past the rock you guys are against. You overhear one of them say: "Well, keep your eyes peeled, eh. That thing is still out there." And the other one slaps him and says: "Horek says that it ate a whole scouting party in seconds." Another one goes: "Listening to Horek was your first mistake. Shut up and keep walking." And they all keep pushing. At which point, the same scared one from before says: "I mean, if that one went crazy, well, can't the other ones crack, too? I don't know if I feel safe around any of K'varn's pets anymore at this rate." And by that point, they begin to slowly move past and their voices begin to fade, as they continue up the path you guys just traversed down.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Up to the lava tunnels.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Good thing I was clearing our footprints. (all laugh)
Matt: It's actually a very good thing.
Sam: It's a win for Grog.
Travis: (high-pitched voice) Is it? Did I do something good?
Liam: Good job, dummy.
Marisha: (laughing) Did I do something good?
Matt: You guys have, like, bear tracks and a giant goliath, like, what-- (laughs)
Orion: These are amazing.
Marisha: What are they?
Laura: Fried banana.
Marisha: Oh! That's fun.
Matt: Fried bananas? Toss me one of those. Is that from the chat?
Sam: You're working. You don't have time to eat.
Zac: (off screen) Yes, the chat room.
Matt: Thank you, chatroom.
Laura: Thank you, chatroom.
Marisha: Thank you.
Orion: Thanks so much.
Matt: I know it's not a piece of pizza, guys, but I'll do what I can. (all laugh)
Sam: Next time, sushi. Sushi.
Zac: (off screen) Instajur and somebody who didn't put their name on it.
Matt: (disappointed) Oh.
Orion: Instajur and mystery guy, thanks!
Zac: Coleson sent the pizza.
All: Thank you!
Ashley: Oh my god, that's so good.
Matt: The sound of the duergar walking eventually fades and you feel pretty confident that you're safe to return to the rest of the party.
Laura: Okay. So, we walk back. So, apparently, number one, big party, we don't want to fight them if we don't have to. Secondly, there's some weirdo creature that's gotten loose and is very, very bad and it's killed multiple duergar already.
Liam: Quickly.
Laura: That might be the thing--
Sam: No indication of what kind of a creature it was?
Laura: No, but it might be the thing we already killed. It could've been the thing with the plate that showed up in the camp, I don't know.
Sam: The thing with the plate?
Ashley: The thing in the red rider wagon.
Travis: The bullet, the bullet.
Laura: The big thing.
Travis: Bulette.
Marisha: Bulé.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: It could've been that, I'm not sure.
Travis: It's a French dog.
Marisha: It’s French, yeah.
Laura: Regardless, we should be very careful, traveling forward.
Taliesin: I've seen your sheet, you don't speak French.
Sam: We could use that to our advantage.
Orion: We could! We could. We could scare them off quite easily.
Marisha: I had a grandmother who did, okay?
Laura: I like the way you think. All right.
Orion: I can make funny sounds.
Laura: Should we keep moving forward at a very stealthy sort of pace?
Orion: Waka waka.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: The stealthy mix.
Matt: You guys push forward, keeping that wide, kind of left curve, which adds a fair amount of time to your travel, as you're being careful and moving at a very very heavy, circular arc around the duergar city.
Sam: I'm looking for doors and stuff as we go. I don't know why.
Matt: Sure! Looking for doors!
Sam: Well, there's a trap door somewhere, right?
Orion: (old man voice) There’s doors in them there caves.
Matt: Good thinking.
Liam: That'll be the fortress, maybe, but--
Laura: Possibly. Could be farther. Can we see the molten things that he was talking about? The lava flows?
Matt: Still too far away.
Laura: Still too far away.
Matt: As you begin to make your way around, you're just starting to get to the point where you can see the front of the fortress. And you can see where the magma fall splits and just coalesces around each side of the stronghold. Almost like a blanket waterfall on each side. It does split up at certain points, you can begin to start making it out.
Taliesin: Where does the magma runoff lead to? Does it just pour out? Does it fill a moat?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, unfortunately. You'd have to get closer up to see. About an hour of travel around the side--
Laura: Oh wow.
Liam: I’m so bored.
Laura: (laughs) Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That can be fixed, Liam. (all laugh)
Taliesin: If only there were a way to just speed up this exposition somehow.
Travis: Of all the things.
Matt: Indeed.
Taliesin: Life isn't like that.
Orion: Wow, Percy!
Taliesin: Sorry. (all laugh)
Laura: (whispering) Be quiet.
Matt: It's at this point, immediately catching your eye, Vex, one of the nearby obsidian spires is a different color than the rest. The rest are like a deep black, glass shiny color. This one is a dull crimson.
Laura: Ooh! We should go towards that one.
Sam: Because it's a different color?
Liam: Let's go check it out.
Marisha: Wait, what was the first color? I was still laughing at Percy. What?
Liam: Just eat your banana, the twins will go check it out.
Matt: Black obsidian, this was red--
Marisha: (laughing) Red, okay.
Matt: --crimson, ruddy, anyway.
Taliesin: Do you not know anything?
Liam: The twins are gonna go have a peek.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm coming with.
Matt: Scanlan comes with. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm not coming with.
Sam: Not my strong suit.
Travis: Don't fuck it up.
Laura: No, Scanlan, what did you do?
Liam: You dick!
Travis: Did you?
Marisha: What did you do? (all laugh)
Orion: You can change your mind.
Ashley: Wait, wait, I go and--
Sam: I've got advantage, don't I?
Ashley: --I grab Scanlan and I kiss him on the cheek and make him stay. (all gasp and exclaim)
Orion: What?!
Taliesin: Way to take one for the team.
Orion: Oh no.
Travis: I don't know.
Liam: You just stopped him from farting into his flute.
Ashley: Persuasion? That would be...
Orion: Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge moment.
Marisha: Can you roll a persuasion against a critical fail? Can you? Can you persuade a crit fail?
Laura: Can you persuade the DM?
Ashley: Wait, is it a fail?
Marisha: (laughing) Can you persuade the DM?
Ashley: It is a 1?
Matt: Okay, so it was a 1--
Sam: It was a 1.
Liam: That's a 1 face. (all laugh)
Liam: That's a 1 face.
Matt: I will say, Pike, roll a perception check.
Orion: d20!
Laura: Come on, come on, d20.
Ashley: Perception?
Liam: Yes, d20. Uh, that's a half a d20.
Ashley: 14?
Laura: (soft, high voice) No, no... yes, 14. (all laugh)
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: I'll stop.
Matt: Unfortunately, you're not quite perceptive enough to notice Scanlan's not quite so quiet walking away, as you're distracted by the surroundings and the circumstance locally. You continue up with the twins, absentmindedly humming to yourself.
Sam: (sings softly)
Matt: The twins, being used to your humming, for some reason it doesn't connect. You make your way up to the spire. At about 15, 20 feet out, you notice the coloration is different, because it is completely coated in what looks like dried blood of some kind.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: (gasps) Oh god.
Matt: And immediately to the right of it, along the ground--
Orion: So grossed out.
Matt: --currently your vision is obscured by another, large kind of twisted stalactite, but there appears to be an arm and a whole bunch more dried blood across the ground, just out of view.
Laura: (gasps) Stop! Can we stop? Can we stop?
Matt: You can stop.
Marisha: An arm?
Laura: Scanlan. Shh.
Sam: What? What?
Laura: (whispering) You're singing.
Sam: I was singing? (whispering) I was singing? I didn't even know! It's a force of habit!
Liam: I'm going to see if I can see anything in the area that has done this recently.
Laura: Is the arm attached to whatever did--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Investigation check?
Laura: --Is the arm part of a dead thing or is it alive?
Matt: It's on the ground.
Travis: I'm pretty sure whatever it is, it's dead.
Liam: 7.
Matt: 7?
Laura: Can I check it out as well? I mean, I'm there, I might as well.
Matt: You can also attempt to make an investigation check.
Liam: Clever. There you go.
Laura: Wait, I'm doing advantage, too, just in case. Okay, that one's better.
Liam: Oh, I can get advantage?
Sam: You get advantage on investigation?
Laura: No, I got it because I'm fucking in my favored terrain. (all laugh)
Laura: 21.
Marisha: You walk up in this terrain.
Matt: The state of the blood that you see around seems to indicate that this has transpired over some time. You're guessing probably within a few days, if not a week, since this happened.
Liam: I'm picking up one of the arms--
Laura: (Gasps)
Liam: --to bring back to the group.
Matt: Okay, so as you walk up towards the arm to grab it, you have more of a view of what's happened. And what you see before you are definitely remnants of some battle long past.
Laura: This is the skelly pile.
Matt: Against these rocky formations there's dried blood everywhere.
Liam: Not pretty.
Matt: This terrible bloodbath, whatever this event was, it was probably a horrible thing to see. There are pieces of duergar flung about. And I say pieces - the only reason you know duergar were there is because occasionally you see part of a head, or part of a foot. And you recognize the ashy skin from the areas that aren't currently caked with its own gore.
Liam: (gagging sounds)
Matt: From what you can tell, because of your investigation check, the remains are torn apart by no blade. There's no cuts, there's no clean wounds. They're either pulled apart by force--
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: --like, arms and limbs were wrenched from the body just out of sheer power.
Travis: Like a Wookiee.
Matt: Or there appears to be some sort of gnawing, some chewing, like toothy fangs, sharp teeth have partially eaten portions of these bodies.
Liam: This is the work of a beaver.
Laura: Yes, definitely, a very large beaver.
Orion: A busy beaver.
Sam: I think it's suicide. (all laugh)
Laura: Based on tracking and everything and insight, can we tell if that creature is anywhere nearby? Or if it's gone?
Orion: I think it might be foul play, actually.
Matt: From what you can tell--
Liam: It happened in the past.
Matt: --Yeah, it happened quite some time ago. Looking at the tracks, you can see duergar feet, you can see other creatures that resemble those hook horrors that you encountered earlier during the lava pool. However, there's a series of tracks that you haven't seen. Well, there is very erratic footsteps that look human size, but they seem to be placed randomly, like one foot here, one foot here, one foot here.
Laura: (gasps) It's that big creature that - it was like one of those things that that thing put together, like--
Matt: And you see what seem like strange strikes through the sand, like someone had been dragged very quickly in a very localized spot, scattered all about.
Liam: It's a human centipede.
Sam: It is. It's a human centipede.
Matt: It's a very strange pattern that you can't really grasp what kind of creature would make it.
Laura: And it seems like it was here recently, or a while ago?
Matt: Best you can tell, the last time it was here was about two or three days ago, to feast on more of the remains.
Liam: Human? Human footprints?
Laura: Should we get out of here?
Matt: Human sized.
Liam: Human sized.
Travis: Or set a trap.
Laura: We could try to set a trap, or we could look and see if we can loot anything? Is there anything to loot? Does it look like anything shiny?
Matt: Any semblance of armor that belonged to any of these individuals is in such tatters that it's unusable. You do manage to find, across some of the body parts, a couple of blood-soaked gold coin purses.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Take it.
Laura: I like gold.
Matt: One of them contains a handful of gems.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: Gems.
Matt: Yes, those right there. So you can mark that down, until you get a chance to appraise them.
Liam: I don't think we want to tangle with this. What are we trying to prove? Let's just keep trucking.
Sam: I'm really bad at stealthing, we should go. (all laugh)
Sam: We should leave.
Liam: Also, put the accordion back in the bag, all right?
Sam: Was I doing that? It's force of habit, I don't - it's like breathing.
Liam: Yeah, we're going to go back to the group, I'm going to bring the arm.
Travis: I take out the cask of ale and pour a little tankard of ale, just because I'm bored.
Ashley: Have a sip sip.
Matt: Good man. Well done. It's very tasty.
Travis: Would anyone else like a sip? Keyleth?
Matt: Having been underground for what probably amounts now to four or five days, that little taste of ale on your lips is a very welcoming and very refreshing sensation.
Travis: It's good shit, right?
Ashley: Oh, delicious. Oh no, I'm drunk! Just kidding. (all laugh)
Ashley: That was fast! Just kidding.
Liam: When we get back to the group, I'm going to toss the arm to Grog.
Matt: Grog, you instinctively reach up and catch it. You look down and see what looks like a duergar arm that has been very heavily mangled.
Travis: Oh! Thanks for the hand! (all laugh)
Liam: It's a back scratcher.
Orion: That was clever, Grog!
Laura: Well, we killed a lot of duergar this time.
Travis: Don't negative anything. It was a good joke. (all laugh)
Matt: It was a good joke. I considered it, but no.
Travis: Have mercy!
Orion: That was a good joke.
Laura: There's a big centipede-y human, creepy creature that's killed a lot of things and we should probably avoid that at all costs.
Orion: I would agree with that.
Liam: If we have to, we will, but--
Taliesin: That seems fair.
Laura: Can we avoid that and still head left of the keep?
Matt: You haven't seen a creature.
Sam: Wait, we didn't make it into the - was there a structure that we could have entered?
Laura: That's where we're going.
Liam: You're heading towards that structure.
Matt: You're heading towards that structure.
Sam: Okay. But I mean, where we just were?
Orion: The magma fortress.
Matt: Where you just were? No, there's just all these giant rocky spires jutting out of the ground.
Liam: Spike coated in dried blood.
Sam: They didn't have doors in them?
Laura: Should we probably have looked for like a nest?
Matt: There were no doors.
Sam: Okay, good. I'm looking for a door!
Liam: No, we should just keep going. If we're going to run into it, we're going to run into it. Let's not find it.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It appears like there was, at one point in time, some very intense seismic activity in this area that created this cavern, and whatever is the source of a lot of this perpetually flowing, molten rock. That's why the entire terrain here is so dangerous and uninviting, is because of the sheer force that went into its creation.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: So we should just keep freaking being careful and keep going towards the giant thing.
Sam: Okay. Let's go.
Ashley: Keep trucking on.
Sam: Pike, I have this weird feeling, like you wanted to make out with me. Is that something that happened? Am I dreaming?
Ashley: Well, you just, you know, you weren't paying attention.
Sam: Really?
Laura: And that makes you want to make out with him?
Ashley: No, I think you were moving along to try to go stealth and sometimes you should just stay put and see what happens. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, cleric!
Liam: That was the most adorable diss in history. (all laugh)
Taliesin: That was cold.
Sam: All right.
Orion: Yet inviting.
Travis: It's all right, Scanlan. We'll go pay for it later. (all laugh)
Matt: A small hit to Scanlan's morale, but the party marches on.
Liam: You lose an inspiration die. (all laugh)
Travis: Disadvantage on whatever roll.
Sam: I deserved it, I deserved it.
Liam: Okay, twins in front, here we go.
Laura: Let's keep going.
Matt: Twins in front. You guys continue to push forward. For the sake of the length of this journey, I'm going to have the party go ahead and roll a communal stealth check once more.
Marisha: I still have Pass Without A Trace up.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god.
Marisha: Which gives everyone a plus 10.
Laura: Oh, really?!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Percy! Don't bang the guns together.
Taliesin: Yeah, that happened too.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24?
Sam: 19.
Liam: We all have plus 10?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: And this is plus 10, already?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: I rolled a 1.
Matt: Okay. (all groan)
Laura: Oh, Percy!
Sam: I kiss Percy! (all laugh)
Taliesin: What?! Ah!
Sam: I don’t know! I thought it might help.
Orion: You have to use the tongue, Scanlan.
Marisha: 23.
Sam: Is that bubblegum?
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Travis: 26.
Ashley: 3.
Taliesin: I have a habit.
Laura: (gasps) You have a plus 10.
Ashley: Oh! I get to do plus 10 bonus to that?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: 13!
Matt: All right, so that's three failures.
Laura: 30.
Marisha: Three failures?
Liam: 32.
Matt: Okay, good.
Taliesin: (relieved) Ah!
Matt: More than half you guys succeeded. That bit is key. A one is two failures.
Laura: Oh no!
Ashley: I'm not stealthy, man.
Marisha: A one is two failures?
Matt: A one is considered two failures for this challenge. Pushing forward--
Taliesin: Now you roll well.
Matt: --you manage to stop Percy and find out the root of this audio problem. Pushing forward, you manage to make your way about a quarter mile on the outskirts of this cluster of buildings. Curving far left, you're just managing to keep out of the city proper and move straight towards the very back wall of this cavern, which is buttressed against - what this fortress is built against. So you're circumventing the city to go straight to this fortress. As you're moving, about a quarter mile from the stronghold, Vex, you pick up a strange person standing maybe about 50, 60 feet ahead of you.
Laura: Just a person?
Matt: Just a person, it looks like.
Laura: (worried laughter)
Orion: (worried laughter)
Laura: Can they see us? Does it look like they can see us?
Matt: You take a moment, keeping an eye out, and the person isn't moving. Just standing right there.
Laura: (whispering) So. There's a person standing right there.
Marisha: (whispering) What?
Laura: (whispering) A person. He's just standing there.
Matt: It's too dark to make out any details, unfortunately.
Laura: No. Hmm.
Sam: Could be good, could be bad. We have no idea.
Liam: Can I see him now that she's pointed him out to me?
Sam: I can hold him. Might piss him off.
Travis: At least do the hold.
Matt: You can see it. And there is a humanoid, standing on its own.
Liam: It doesn't seem to be moving, though.
Laura: Maybe it's a scarecrow?
Liam: Maybe it's a statue.
Laura: Yeah, that's what I mean.
Travis: A statue?
Sam: Want me to go check it out?
Liam: No! I don’t!
Laura: Can't you go invisible?
Sam: Yes, I can go invisible.
Laura: Go invisible and check it out.
Sam: I polymorph and turn into a fly and I buzz over.
Marisha: Oh, yay! That's fun.
Liam: Good job, gnome nuts.
Laura: Oh no, if he's magic, he's going to know.
Sam: It's all right. I've got magic, too.
Matt: You approach this individual and notice it is unmoving and is of a singular, solid color.
Laura: (whispering) It's a statue.
Matt: What looks to be what is an illithid or a mind flayer is currently locked in some sort of reactionary position, but is completely turned to stone.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Like a Medusa type of a thing?
Liam: We faced basilisks once and they did this to Vex'ahlia.
Travis: We've got basilisk eggs.
Marisha: There's a lot of things that can do this, actually, to be fair.
Laura: We do have basilisk eggs in the bag of holding.
Travis: Yeah, we’ve got eight of them. Maybe we should crack one on statue guy.
Sam: I buzz back to the group. (buzzing)
Laura: Oh, what's that? Oh, it's Scanlan.
Sam: I kind of fuck with Tiberius's ear a little bit. (all laugh)
Orion: Oh, Scanlan, stop it!
Sam: And I turn back. (all laugh)
Travis: Well, what did you see?
Laura: What was it?
Sam: A crazy statue of a crazy illithid.
Liam: That's crazy.
Laura: Can we look at Clarota and say "Do you know anything about this?"
Matt: Clarota kind of thinks for a second and goes (breathy, raspy voice) "As far as I've noticed, occasionally these patrols do walk with a lizard creature that has this ability. It's generally used as a threatening device or a guardian amongst the city."
Marisha: Oh! So the duergar--
Laura: Have basilisks.
Marisha: --have this as, like, their pets?
Matt: "A trained beast, yes."
Liam: Why do you suppose they used it on one of their own?
Matt: "I can only imagine maybe this transpired before the union and is left as a warning."
Liam: So it's a duergar pet?
Laura: Do we remember how to take care of basilisks? Like, do we not look at them, is that how they don't--
Liam: Don't look at them. That's correct.
Laura: Don't look them in the eye? Or don't look at their face?
Liam: Yes, that's it. It's a vision thing.
Laura: Yes?
Taliesin: Yes, I believe it's vision based.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: This would be a nature check.
Taliesin: Double check.
Matt: For anyone who wishes to make one.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Travis: Me too. (all laugh)
Taliesin: 23. Natural 20.
Laura: Oh, well, never mind. He's got it.
Orion: Very good, yay!
Marisha: Oh, well, I'll stop there.
Travis: Just go ahead and dunk on everybody, why don't you?
Matt: Natural 20. Essentially it is a sight-based circumstance.
Taliesin: It's entirely visual. They have to catch your gaze and then that is how they can turn you into stone. Otherwise, as long as you don't catch their gaze, you'll be fine.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right. It's a good thing we've all been watching Daredevil last week.
Travis: So, look them in the eye? Got it. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yes! Very helpful.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Poor basilisks. Can never make eye contact.
Sam: We're going on?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah, let's keep going.
Matt: As you guys push forward, Clarota lags behind a little bit to inspect the statue. Kind of looks it over for a second--
Laura: Did you know him?
Matt: (low, breathy voice) "Uh…"
Sam: Dave.
Matt: (laughing) Goddamn it! (all laugh)
Orion: I don't think his name was Dave, Scanlan.
Matt: He takes a moment to look over and you can see his eyes close slightly for a second. (raspy, breathy voice) "Aye, we've met. Not the kindest of my people, but, nevertheless, should all this pass, I would like to, maybe, release him from this stony prison."
Laura: So you know how to do that?
Matt: "I know not, but it can be done. I've seen it."
Laura: Didn't we do that?
Orion: Yes.
Laura: Didn't we have to do that?
Liam: We sprinkled some of its blood on your eyes, if I remember correctly.
Orion: Yes!
Laura: I turned to stone?
Matt: You did.
Liam: You did. I was very sad.
Orion: Yes, that's correct. We used the blood of the creature.
Laura: I remember, I remember. Yeah, I remember that.
Matt: Essentially, there is a liquid that can be distilled from the basilisk blood.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: We don't have any more of that.
Matt: You do not.
Laura: Okay. So we'll be careful.
Travis: Dragon blood for fucking days.
Liam: We also don't know if it's a basilisk.
Sam: Should we move this statue off to a safe place, inside or anything?
Laura: Nah, fuck it.
Sam: It's fine here, it's fine.
Liam: No, it's heavy.
Laura: Let's just keep going.
Marisha: It's been there for a while.
Taliesin: Let's not give anybody any indication we've been here.
Laura: It's got bat poo on it, let's keep going.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: As you guys press forward, about another 20 or so minutes, you now have a much better view of the left side of Emberhold proper. And you can see the large magma fall that is pouring over the top of the fortress's second story and completely encompasses that side. It splits and divides towards the center - a larger fall towards the front of the fortress and a thinner one towards the very back.
Laura: (whispering) Thin one! Thin one!
Travis: Yeah, let's go towards the door.
Liam: All right, creeping back.
Laura: Yeah! Creepy, creepy, creepy towards the thin one.
Liam: The creeps are creeping.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're in stealth, still, or...?
Travis: Yeah, we're all stealthed.
Matt: For you, it'd be stealth. Yeah, you guys are all stealthed still.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: We're rolling again?
Liam: 26.
Laura: You don't to need check it again, he didn't tell us to.
Liam: Oh. Well, I said I wanted to go back and look.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So you move ahead of the rest of the group and head to the front of this stream. And you can see the smooth wall with molten rock pouring down the side, and you can see where portions of the stone have been gradually worn and melted by just the contact, but then built upon by more and more cooled rock. This is a very weird clustered framing of cooled rock around this fall. You see no doorway, as the actual magma is pressing directly against the side of the stronghold.
Liam: Right, I want to see if I can tell if anything - I know this all looks natural, but perhaps something is fashioned to look such. I want to see if I can figure that out.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Liam: Uh, lalalala. 18.
Matt: 18? Best that you can find, looking around, you cannot see anything before you, any sort of mechanism, any sort of any button, any sort of lever, or additional doorway. It's just a solid wall, with the two magma flows.
Liam: All right. I double back for the Underdark expert and I bring my sister up.
Laura: Right, right, right. Can I come up and look and see if I can see any tracking? If there's any footprints around a certain area around this.
Liam: See if you can find a false door or something.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Liam: Do it. Do it.
Marisha: Wait, I thought it was behind--
Liam: No!
Laura: It's okay, no, no, no! I get an advantage.
Liam: It was a 1.
Laura: Shush.
Liam: All right. That's not a 1.
Marisha: (laughs)
Laura: Is it investigation?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. Looking at this, the side of this fortress, you can see what amounts to a very, very slight raise in the smooth flow of magma. It seems to pour down most of the stronghold and then slightly bulge out, and then it pools, and you can now have a better, closer so you see where it runs off to. It continues into a stream following the edge of the giant cavern wall that's curving down and to the left into a far deeper cavern. You can see the entire cavern, almost like a giant U. It's open, and the entire thing banks around it and goes deeper still. You guys have made it to the far back wall.
Laura: (gasps, sighs)
Matt: Ah, the chicken has arrived.
Sam: (laughs) Metaphorically...
Matt: Metaphorically, and actually. But from what you can see there is a slight raise beneath the magma.
Laura: Okay. Does it look like it's safe to bring everybody up here or does it seem like anything's around that could see us? Anything looking from above?
Matt: You glance up and you can see there are two duergar perched up on the edge of the first floor, right on the parapet. You can see there's all this jagged, obsidian stone, almost teeth, sticking out of the very top edge of the wall. And you see the patrols just walking, keeping an eye out. They have crossbows on their arms. A couple of others just have javelins at the side. And they're just doing slow patrols.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: We need to 007--
Laura: We're going to have to be super--
Sam: We're going to have to 007 sniper them out.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I can handle this, I think.
Laura: You can?
Marisha: I think I can get us into that trap door.
Sam: I think you're right.
Laura: Do you have something that can pull it towards you?
Sam: No no no, can you redirect the magma flow around that bulge with your - can't you, move rocks or--
Marisha: I can.
Sam: So you can create a like a little lip for it to go around?
Laura: Ooh...
Marisha: I was thinking I could either do - that's not a bad idea, or I could - That's actually not a bad idea. (all laugh)
Matt: (singing) That's fucking teamwork. (all laugh)
Marisha: Or I could, or I was thinking I could cool off the magma and we could break it.
Laura: Oh yeah, maybe you can move it away, and then cool it.
Liam: That sounds kind of noisy.
Marisha: Well...
Sam: First we’ve got to take care of the guys on the roof. Are they back with us, or are they still stealthing in front?
Matt: They're still stealthing in front, and you guys have come back to the group?
Laura: Yeah, I guess we came back to the group and told them about what's going on.
Sam: Okay. We can - me and Pike - can take out the guys on the roof.
Laura: Oh really?
Travis: Yeah! Do it!
Ashley: You want to give it a go?
Laura: Wait, but he's got sneak attack.
Liam: Yeah, I'm thinking that Keyleth should--
Laura: Yeah but we could--
Sam: Yeah, but they're a good 200 feet up.
Liam: --bird out and drop me.
Laura: If Keyleth can bird up or you could go over on the flying carpet or something.
Sam: I can take Pike and we can do it.
Laura: Oh my god. (all laugh)
Marisha: Are they are they unable to be shot out? Can you not arrow them out?
Laura: I can try to arrow them out too.
Marisha: How high are they?
Liam: She can get a hit or two, but the chances that she could take them both out at once...
Laura: Maybe you should go up and I'll arrow one and you...
Travis: Why don't you let the little people have some fun?
Marisha: I'm just afraid if you go up there, that you're going to alarm yourself to other people.
Taliesin: How loud is it down there? Is the lava flow making noise?
Matt: Very subtle pops and hisses, but other than that it's pretty quiet.
Taliesin: Not like the roaring sound of a waterfall.
Matt: No, no, it's a slow gradual pour.
Taliesin: Does anybody have a "mute" spell of some kind?
Sam: Mute, as in silence noise, or a person?
Laura: I mean, Pass Without Trace, there's silence?
Taliesin: Yes, as in silence noise.
Ashley: Wait!
Sam: No, not me.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Ashley: I have - okay wait.
Matt: David Norris? Thank you David Norris for the chicken!
All: Thank you David Norris!
Laura: The chicken is delicious!
Orion: I love chicken.
Liam: Dave, the illithids have it. Thank you, Dave.
Laura: I'm just not going to let you see me eat it.
Liam: Oh my god, her mouth opens up and tentacles come out and -
Orion: It's really scary.
Marisha: Sorry, what are we doing?
Matt: It's a good question. What are you doing?
Sam: We gotta take out the fuckers on the roof.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Do you want to try to shoot them out? Or do you want me to take Pike and fuck their shit up?
Travis: Do that.
Laura: I mean, if you can flip them off the roof that would be awesome.
Sam: That's what we're going to do.
Laura: Okay, then do it.
Liam: Wait, can we see anyone else?
Ashley: We're just going to fling them off of the roof?
Liam: Can I see duergar from any other perch?
Travis: Yep, pressure's on!
Matt: From your current position, you're up against the wall, no.
Liam: No? All right.
Matt: You can back away and take up more of a case on it if you want.
Marisha: I mean if I took eagle form I could drop you and then I could just pick one up with my eagle talons and in the lava they go.
Liam: This seems dangerous and reckless.
Marisha: It does seem very dangerous and reckless.
Liam: Let's do it?
Ashley: What if it brings attention?
Liam: Who gives a shit?
Marisha: I'm keeping my Pass Without A Trace up.
Laura: We'll just have to be fast. Be really speedy.
Orion: Can they see down to where we are? Does it just keep going?
Marisha: I'm going with you guys.
Travis: It's been over an hour, we've killed nothing, we'll kill these fucks!
Matt: So far only the two of them have really approached the stronghold and you guys have stayed back behind the elevations.
Travis: I'm a vampire. I need blood.
Matt: So you can all try, in theory, if you want to just stealth past them.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Sam: Here's my plan.
Laura: Okay!
Orion: We're not with them.
Marisha: Yeah we are, we are.
Sam: I take Pike up there. We knock those fuckers off, super easy.
Travis: Yep.
Sam: Grog runs out and brains them the second they hit the ground.
Travis: I approve of this plan.
Liam: Or fall in the lava. You just gotta shove them.
Laura: Yeah, they'll fall in the lava pit, just shove them off the side.
Sam: Maybe. I don't know where they're going to fall.
Laura: Well, just do it.
Marisha: Well, if they miss they miss the lava pit, we've got Grog.
Orion: Can I just say right now--
Laura: Just be ready to let us know if you need help.
Orion: --I'm going to be reading this book.
Marisha: Eagle form.
Liam: I'm hanging by Keyleth in case shit goes south.
Laura: Oh my god this is so stupid.
Liam: Then we're going up, right?
Marisha: Jump on my back.
Sam: What you got, Pike?
Liam: Yeah, girl.
Laura: Give me the flying carpet just in case I need to fly.
Marisha: Or I can give you a ride.
Sam: I can get you up there. What can you do when we're up there?
Ashley: There's something I've been wanting to do.
Sam: Yeah!
Travis: What do you say?
Orion: Oh my word, this is fascinating!
Laura: We're doing it!
Travis: But what do you say to get the magic carpet?
Laura: Please can I have the magic carpet?
Sam: I'm going to just look at the guard's pattern of movement. Are they staying in position, or are they walking around? Are they talking to each other at all?
Travis: Ooh, good question.
Matt: As you watch, you take a moment, still from the far back position, watch the two up there come together; they chat for a second, then a third one appears.
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Then one of them rotates out for the one that just arrived.
Ashley: They were switching shifts.
Matt: They both just sit there, keeping an eye. One of them cleans his bow.
Sam: Are they close to each other?
Matt: They're about twenty feet from each other along the top of the parapet.
Travis: There's three? There's three, not two?
Sam: You said twenty feet?
Matt: Twenty feet, yes.
Travis: There's three up there?
Taliesin: Now there's three.
Matt: Two.
Sam: No no, one came to swap out the other.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Travis: I’m just saying, I have been known to climb a few things in my time, if you need an extra.
Ashley: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Are you coming too, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah! I'm a-coming up there to kill some - some things. (all laugh)
Travis: Do you have any climbing gear or anything?
Ashley: I have a grappling hook.
Liam: The ocean has changed you.
Laura: Oh my god. This is stupid.
Sam: Okay, they're standing twenty feet apart?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to watch this all go down with Bad News.
Sam: Radius? 15 feet?
Laura: Yeah, me and you get ready to shoot.
Taliesin: I'm waiting in case--
Sam: Is the range a radius?
Marisha: So wait, who's all going?
Travis: Just those two.
Matt: No, range is how far away from you they are, and the radius is for the point of the spell.
Sam: No, I mean a range of a spell, is how far from me?
Marisha: Just those two?
Travis: Scanlan and Pike.
Laura: And you're going to bring them up if you can.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Got it. We're good.
Liam: Are they carpeting up? How are you going up?
Marisha: Are you guys going to fly on me?
Laura: They'll fly on Keyleth.
Liam: Scanlan, how are you guys going up? Eagle? Carpet?
Sam: No.
Laura: Eagle.
Liam: What?
Travis: You're climbing that shit, aren't you?
Sam: I can get there like that. We're good.
Travis: Cliffhanger. Beautiful.
Liam: Do it, Tom Cruise.
Laura: All right, do it. Mission Impossible.
Sam: All right. You ready? Do you know what you're going to do up there?
Ashley: Not really, but let's just wing it!
Sam: I'm going to try to knock them both off in one blow, but if I miss, you gotta take one.
Laura: You can charge them off if you want.
Ashley: Okay. all right. I can take one if you can take one.
Travis: You’ve got a morningstar.
Sam: Okay.
Ashley: All right.
Travis: Morningstar to the taint.
Sam: Grog, you ready to kill?
Travis: Yeah, oh yeah!
Laura: Be really quiet while you're fighting, try to take them out before they--
Taliesin: This is awesome and nothing is going to go wrong.
Marisha: Why are we using the gnomes to throw people over?
Orion: I can't believe how they wrote this.
Sam: We’re little people! You know why? Because I need someone with me and I can only take her, because that's the only other one who will fit through the Dimension Door with me.
Laura: Go!
Ashley: The Dimension Door?
Sam: Yes, we're going to go through a Dimension Door. I can take one person of my height or smaller.
Matt: All right.
Sam: So I will take Pike.
Liam: Portal, motherfucker!
Matt: You reach over and hold on to Pike gently, give her a little wink. And suddenly--
Sam: We're going to try to appear between the two of them. Exactly between the two of them.
Matt: Okay. You feel the sudden rush of air and the surrounding atmosphere of you goes from that uncomfortable warmth to a sudden freezing cold as your vision goes black and all you can see is Scanlan looking at you with this heightened grin as he's muttering these arcane incantations under his breath. An instant later, you guys are both standing at the top of the wall, with both of the duergar, one kind of facing away, one looking really surprised at the fact that you guys both appeared there. You have a surprise round. What are you doing?
Sam: I cast Thunderwave and blast out from where I'm standing between them, 15 feet in either direction.
Laura: (whispering) That's so loud!
Marisha: Isn't that loud?
Sam: So, 10 feet and 10 feet away from me.
Matt: Okay. What's your save?
Sam: Uh, 19.
Liam: But a quiet Thunderwave, right?
Matt: 19, all right.
Laura: A really quiet Thunderwave.
Orion: Thunderclap is loud. Thunderwave is different.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: But I'm pretty sure it's still thunder.
Matt: Thunderwave, looking it up real fast just to make sure of the situation.
Travis: I like this plan.
Orion: Thunder makes a noise right?
Liam: (singing) This is a triumph.
Ashley: (singing) I'm making a note here.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: (singing) Huge success. (all laugh)
Matt: Here we go.
Sam: I don't think it's loud.
Liam: We're total fake geeks, all of us. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Such fake geeks.
Sam: Oh no - well, it's a wave of thunderous force, but it doesn't say sound. It just says thunderous force.
Matt: I would say thunderous force isn't a thunderclap,but it will make some noise.
Sam: Okay, fine.
Matt: So keep that in mind.
Laura: Keyleth, fly up and cast Pass Without Trace on them.
Matt: So, as you guys appear, you release Pike, you bring your arms up and slam your arms in a downward motion. As you do, there is a dull flash of light and a (boom noise) burst sound emanates from you.
Orion: I say, "Ooh, light."
Matt: Both of the duergar, the one who sees you, who is bringing us his crossbow to fire, gets impacted and blown off the side of the wall. The one facing away gets blown up towards, slams into the side of the wall, right at the edge, and then topples over the side, both plummeting over.
Liam: Wilhelm scream!
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: Brief Wilhelm scream. You're standing there, you watch this happen.
Ashley: I didn't have to do anything, Scanlan!
Sam: Make out with me! (all laugh)
Sam: We’re alone, it’s super romantic. I just killed two fuckers! Come on! It’s now or never, baby!
Travis: (singing) I think we’re alone now!
Ashley: (singing) Doesn’t seem to be anyone around! (all laugh)
Travis: (singing) Doesn’t seem to be anyone around! (all laugh)
Ashley: Well, let’s just wait until we’re out of danger.
Marisha: Yeah, it’s getting real romantic real quick, Scanlan.
Sam: Wait?
Ashley: But that was really hot!
Sam: It was really hot, right? Come on!
Ashley: It was.
Sam: Just a little something something?
Ashley: Let’s just--
Marisha: So sexy.
Matt: As this is happening, both of the duergar come plummeting off the side of the wall.
Liam: Friendzoned.
Matt: One manages to kind of loosely break his fall but the full 25 foot fall - he takes--
Laura: Get ready.
Liam: Come on, Grog.
Travis: I rage! (all laugh)
Matt: There’s one that lands just to the side of the magma pool that’s forming. He took some damage and is like (pained gasps) trying to get back up. He fell hard on one arm. The other one that’s further away from the magma, the one that saw you, managed to reduce his damage a little bit because it was aware at least you were there.
Sam: We have to kill these fuckers.
Matt: Looks like it took some damage, but not too much. It’s maybe 10 feet from you.
Travis: (eager laugh)
Matt: As he’s trying to get back up, he looks up and sees you charging towards him, Grog, raging. Go ahead and make your two attacks.
Laura: Yes!
Travis: (roars) 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Travis: Nice. And 19 again!
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: I’m going to get some duergar!
Travis: 17 and 19.
Matt: So as he gets up, (grunt) he goes back for his warhammer. Before he gets a chance to, you cleave off one arm and send the axe right into the center of his torso, silencing him in an instant. He slightly spreads at the wound. (choking sound) This gurgling sound, and you just have to kick him off the edge of your axe.
Travis: I tilt him towards the pillar to spray the pillar with his gore. Look, I can make one too! Ha ha! (all laugh)
Marisha: I run across to the other one and Thorn Whip him from across the lava pool.
Matt: You have to jump over the lava to do that because he’s on the side you guys are on.
Marisha: Oh. Well then, is there anyone on the other side?
Ashley: Is he already dying, or no? He’s in the lava?
Marisha: He’s on the same side as me?
Matt: He’s on the same side as you.
Sam: He’s hurt.
Laura: We run up and kick him into the lava!
Marisha: Is he standing up or...yeah!
Matt: He’s in the process of standing up, yeah.
Laura: Can we just run up and kick him into the lava?
Marisha: Yeah, can I just run and push?
Matt: (laughs) Okay, all right, so…
Liam: I use pushing attack!
Travis: (grunts) Hunh!
Marisha: (grunts) Hunh!
Sam: (high voice) I’m sorry!
Marisha: (laughing) Yes, exactly! (all laugh)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll athletics.
Marisha: This is the meanest thing I’ve ever done!
Liam: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Laura: No, no, remember you killed that kid one time.
Marisha: Oh, thanks for bringing that up, Vax! (all laugh)
Laura: I’m Vex, he’s Vax!
Travis: That’s some dark shit! That’s some dark shit!
Marisha: Oh, I thought it was Vex and Vax. Every time I get confused.
Matt: (laughing) It’s a long story!
Ashley: Oh my god. Remember you killed that kid one time?
Liam: Two and a half years in and Keyleth has just learned our names.
Marisha: I get them confused.
Sam: I do too. All the time.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: All the time.
Marisha: See, no one else has any idea!
Orion: I have your names written down!
Liam: I’m Vex, okay? It’s simple!
Sam: No, no! That is not true!
Laura: No, no, don’t do that. He’s lying.
Marisha: (laughing) Two years, and I just don’t.
Matt: So, as the terrible blood spray occurs across the nearby pillar on Grog’s side, the other duergar is getting up with his crossbow, trying to get it ready. You rush forward. Go ahead and roll athletics.
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Come on!
Laura: Oh no!
Orion: As she does this, I notice everything, and I sit down.
Marisha: This is for that kid!
Orion: And turn to the next chapter in my book.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (singing) He had it coming, he had it coming.
Ashley: This is quite a good read!
Marisha: It could be worse. 14.
Matt: That’s okay. He rolled a 1.
Laura: Ooh! Yes!
Matt: So, as the duergar is getting up, he goes - (grunt) You just run up and - boom! And he falls back - (hissing SFX) (screams) - and starts giving a horrible, painful scream as he’s essentially flailing in the magma, melting.
Ashley: Someone shoot him in the mouth.
Marisha: I say, shh! Shh! Shh! And I wind down to push him under the lava!
Ashley: Oh, this is brutal!
Orion: That’s not what it’s called.
Matt: Okay. So, as he’s screaming your Wind Wall shoves him further under the magma as he’s screaming, cooling the magma around him as the rock (cracking SFX) cracks around him, turning into black rock--
Marisha: I’m sorry! I’m sorry!
Matt: --his face still visible over the surface, going (choking SFX) in this horrible, almost Han-in-carbonite type of look at the top of the magma pool.
Laura: Keyleth!
Liam: You just one-upped Grog, man.
Travis: That was awesome!
Matt: As fresh magma now begins to pool over the cool, covering his face, you step away.
Sam: Piss on the body!
Travis: I never knew you were an artist.
Marisha: (laughs nervously)
Matt: However, the subtle sound of the Thunderwave and then the horrible screams of pain, you can hear footsteps coming toward the wall edge where both you and Pike are currently on. What are you going to do?
Laura: Run! Or can you turn yourselves into duergar?
Sam: Is there a door or something?
Matt: Not from your current position, no. You’re just on a five foot ledge of the second story.
Sam: Of the fortress. Oh, it’s not a standalone tower. It’s part of a larger wall.
Ashley: How far of a jump down is it?
Matt: It’s about 25 feet.
Laura: What, am I too excited about it? Turn yourself into a duergar! Make it seem like everything’s okay!
Ashley: Should we call Grog?
Sam: No, I’ll do the same thing to get us down.
Ashley: Oh yeah, Dimension Door!
Sam: Unless you want to stay and fight.
Matt: You’ve got 20 seconds.
Marisha: Wait, what’s happening?
Ashley: We could try to stay and fight?
Liam: Turn into a duergar! (cawing sounds)
Laura: Turn into a duergar! Act like you’re a duergar! Say everything’s okay!
Ashley: Turn into a duergar?
Sam: Should we get out of here?
Ashley: Yeah, let’s get out.
Sam: Okay, we’re going to Dimension Door out.
Matt: Okay. So you grab her, (magic SFX) back down to the bottom.
Travis: Cast that shit.
Matt: They reappear at the bottom.
Orion: Are you done?
Marisha: Okay, I cast Wall of Stone, but right over top of where I see that lip. But I don't want to bring it out far. Just like, halfsies.
Sam: (laughs) Just the tip.
Marisha: Just the tip.
Ashley: Does it stop the magma?
Matt: As you guys appear at the bottom--
Marisha: So it goes like magma flow, here's the wall, I want it to go - (grinding noise)
Matt: --you guys hear footprints along the wall. They don't seem to have seen you yet. At which point there's this (grinding and thump sounds) sound of shifting rock. A giant stone wall juts out the side of the fortress right where the lava pool was pouring over the side. As it does, the lava pools on top of the wall and is offset, leaving a small gap where you guys can try to squeeze through. You can see, right underneath where it was, there is a stone doorway. It does not appear to have a handle or anything, it's just a stone door.
Sam: How do we get in?
Liam: Tiberius, fly up there quick.
Orion: What?
Liam: Stop eating chicken and fly up to that door.
Orion: Oh.
Ashley: Where did you get that chicken?
Orion: What's going on?
Liam: There's a magic doorway up there, I don't see any handles or anything.
Matt: It's right underneath the lava.
Liam: Oh, it’s on the ground?
Matt: Basically she put the stone wall out. It pours off.
Orion: It's right there! What are you talking about?
Liam: I walk up to it and take a look.
Laura: Oh yeah, that was good. Maybe Grog can push it!
Orion: I'm going to do an Arcana check.
Liam: Do I have advantage?
Matt: Uh, no.
Laura: Can Grog push it?
Liam: All right, take a look, dude.
Travis: No, he's doing an arcana check.
Sam: Grog, just kill it!
Marisha: (laughing) Go kill it, just punch the door!
Orion: 22.
Matt: 22? As you guys are inspecting this, in the time you've taken to do this, both the duergar up on top have seen you, and are both taking shots at you.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I was waiting for that anyways so, I'm going to--
Marisha: He was waiting.
Matt: As they appear on the top, you guys who have your arrow and gun at the ready, both take a shot then they get a retribution shot.
Liam: Keyleth!
Marisha: What?
Liam: Let's go up!
Marisha: Go up?
Liam: Up to them, quick.
Marisha: I want see how they fare.
Liam: That’s going to be about 6 seconds.
Matt: The door is not magical. It is a mechanism of some kind.
Laura: 65. Oh, 65? (laughter) Shit.
Sam: I rolled a 65.
Liam: 65? Holy shit you're a deity!
Laura: I'm amazing!
Orion: Vax. Pay attention, the door mechanical, it is not magical. That's how we open it.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Percy? And you get 2 attacks each. So - (zipping SFX)
Taliesin: I hit a 23.
Matt: 23 hits. Go ahead and roll second attack.
Taliesin: Okay, roll damage.
Matt: Well, roll both attacks first.
Laura: 18 for the second one.
Matt: Hits as well.
Taliesin: I have to reload with my second attack.
Matt: Oh right. Is this with the Bad News?
Taliesin: I've got the big gun out.
Matt: You’ve got the Bad News out. Okay then, yeah. So you fire and then reload. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I'm using my fire bow.
Matt: You're using the fire bowstring. As you nock your first arrow, (swoosh sound) it bursts into flame as it hits your fingers.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Marisha: (dejected groan)
Taliesin: 7 damage.
Matt: 7 damage? Okay.
Taliesin: I'm so embarrassed.
Matt: I'm sorry.
Liam: (gunshot sound) You got me right in the ear.
Laura: 20 damage on the first attack.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Come on, Vex.
Laura: 13 on the second.
Matt: Okay, as both are going up with their crossbows ready to go, first one, Bad News - (gunshot sound) - with a cacophonous echoing gunshot that within this cavern, definitely carries some sound to it. And to some degree, suprise may be a little harder to find going forward.
Taliesin: They were ready to start shooting at us.
Matt: However, the shot hits the guy in the shoulder, knocks him off balance for a second. Not enough of a wound to prevent his next action. You, however, place one arrow into the other guy’s shoulder. He's dropped the crossbow. As he goes to reach for his other weapon, the other one just, right at the bottom of his throat, out the back of his head, and he just drops below the wall.
Ashley: Awesome.
Matt: The other one does get a crossbow shot off at you, Percy. That is a 23 versus armor class.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: You take 9 points of piercing damage. As the bolt just streaks you across the front of your torso. Passes through, thankfully, but you do feel there is a wound that’s slowly turning warmer beneath your armor.
Laura: Can I shoot at the other one?
Matt: That's been the round. Now, you guys have been inspecting the door. The door is not magical. There is some sort of contraption that opens it from the inside.
Liam: I’m getting my picks out, seeing if I can figure out some way to--
Matt: Go ahead and make a check with your thieves’ tools.
Liam: 29.
Matt: A 29. You take a second and you find that the contraption that holds this door in place definitely is on the other side. It's a series of winches and a chain pull. You find that there is one slight gap where you manage to hook one of the chains, pull it out ever so slightly, and you know with a strong yank from a strong person, you could probably pull it out from the outside.
Orion: Grog!
Travis: Sounds like we need a strong person.
Liam: So this is the part where I ask Grog over to pull. Grog, grab this--
Ashley: I'll do it! I'll do it. (all laugh)
Travis: Yeah, me and Pike are on this.
Ashley: I'll assist.
Matt: Grog, you reach over and grab the chain, and Pike grabs onto the back of you and you both pull.
Travis: Give it a good heave-ho.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check with advantage.
Travis: Oh yeah, 23.
Matt: 23. As you pull, you hear the grinding of this chain against the stone, (cracking SFX) and you can see the actual door begin to rise upward this way.
Sam: It's a Delorean.
Matt: Essentially. When it opens up, it moves the magma out of the way. That's how this construct is used as an exit. It's what I mentioned before. This is supposed to be an exit for the royal individuals of the stronghold. It only opens part way, however, because the stone wall currently blocks the rest of its movement. However, you can still move through it.
Liam: We can't leave this duergar behind though, we gotta take him out.
Matt: Yes, there is one duergar still there. So that's been all of your guys' actions. We're bringing it back. Pike, you haven't gone yet.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth you've gone, so the only one left to take an action is--
Marisha: Tiberius, have you gone?
Matt: Yeah, he checked the doorway.
Marisha: Oh right.
Ashley: Where's he at?
Matt: He's up on top of the wall, about 25 feet from you.
Ashley: I want to create a spiritual weapon, like a poisonous lasso, and (whiff SFX) and then put him down into the lava.
Matt: Huh. Sure. (all laugh)
Sam: A lariat of truth?
Travis: That's awesome.
Taliesin: Well, all right then.
Matt: So using your spiritual weapon, you take a moment, you grasp your Sarenrae holy symbol around your neck, and as you pull your hand away from the symbol you see this glowing celestial rope extends out of nowhere. You begin to spin your fingers, and on its own, it begins to swirl and swirl. You then throw your hand forward and on its own, it cascades upward toward the edge of the wall. Go ahead and roll an attack roll.
Ashley: An attack roll? Which is?
Matt: Using your spell modifier as the attack bonus.
Ashley: 10.
Sam: Ooh. That ain't gonna do it.
Matt: Total of 10?
Ashley: I think so. (all laugh)
Matt: What'd you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 2, and then I have a plus 8.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That ain't no good.
Liam: It was a good idea though.
Laura: It was such a good idea.
Matt: The celestial lasso, which you don't get the feeling poison is something you could really muster based on your deity's central good--
Ashley: I was just kidding! I was just getting a little crazy with ideas.
Matt: I like it. However, as it heads over the wall, you see it does not find purchase on the duergar. It instead finds purchase on part of the wall.
Ashley: Fuck.
Travis: Poisoning the wall effectively.
Matt: Yes, it is now a poisoned property.
Ashley: (laughs) Poisoning that wall, effectively. Gosh dang it. That would have been cool.
Matt: That would have been cool, unfortunate bad roll.
Travis: It was going to be pretty cool.
Liam: Remember it for the future though.
Matt: That brings us to the top of the round order. I believe at the top we have--
Sam: Mister Me?
Matt: Yes, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Boy, oh boy. We're still trying to get that fucker up on the roof right?
Liam: Yes, he's going to run and tell people.
Sam: I've got almost nothing. So I'll just - can I summon an Unseen Servant to push him? (all laugh)
Marisha: Oh yeah, that's a good idea.
Matt: We can give it a shot.
Travis: Roll high. Roll really high.
Sam: I don't have any ranged weapons.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: So you conjure Unseen Servant. Mark off your spell use.
Orion: I look up and go, "Ooh, It's Monty's cousin."
Matt: You see a slight shimmer of ethereal energy behind the duergar. It's going to attempt to shove him. It isn't, unfortunately, on its own, extremely strong. It's mainly meant as an aide. However, it is possible. Go ahead and make an athletics check. Not your athletics, just make a d20 roll.
Sam: Just a normal athletics.
Liam: Come on, 20.
Sam: Yeah, I mean it's a 5, so. (all laugh)
Ashley: What's your athletics? We're really rolling well tonight.
Matt: You hear a (ting) sound as the duergar's armor is given a hefty slap, but no apparent force is placed upon its body.
Orion: A hefty slap.
Sam: Thank you, Jarvis! (all laugh)
Sam: But is he confused?
Matt: A little bit, but not enough to not be loading his crossbow for a second shot.
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: Good thinking on that point.
Marisha: We're a party of 7 people just like, "Aw, damn it, you!"
Taliesin: Like a cat in a tree, just - (beckoning whistle)
Sam: And I'm going to just give a little inspiration to Vax. That's Laura, obviously. (all laugh)
Laura: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: It inverted. That's what I always get mixed.
Matt: All right, a d8 inspiration die to you as Scanlan hums a little tune under his breath.
Laura: Nice.
Sam: (hums Dueling Banjos)
Matt: You're up.
Laura: Oh! I attack him.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Pew pew.
Ashley: Pew pew!
Laura: It's good.
Liam: It's a 1.
Marisha: Damn it! What is wrong with us?
Travis: What in the hot and holy shit is happening right now?
Ashley: What are we doing?
Matt: That's your first attack?
Laura: My first attack is a serious fail. My second attack, though, is a 25.
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: That's pretty cool.
Matt: So the first one you pull back, and as you pull back the actual arrow snaps.
Liam: You almost shot me!
Laura: Ow, that hurt my arm so bad.
Matt: Yeah, you're gonna have a little rash there probably tomorrow.
Laura: Great. 8.
Matt: 8 damage, all right. Your second arrow manages to find its mark. As it sticks pretty close to where the first arrow hit, or where he was shot from the Bad News. The duergar just shrugs it off angrily, and aims his crossbow from once on Percy, now onto you.
Laura: (nervously) Haha.
Matt: It's getting its shot at you. That is a 17 versus armor class.
Laura: Nope.
Matt: Nope?
Laura: Nope.
Matt: You manage to just dodge out of the way. You hear it whiz past your ear. That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'll take one more shot at him.
Liam: Redemption, Percy.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: Kill this guy.
Ashley: Get it.
Sam: He's lasted longer than most of the people we fight.
Marisha: (laughing) Yeah he has.
Taliesin: 18?
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: Come on die.
Travis: Come on, Percy.
Liam: Right in the belly button.
Marisha: Oh, that's nice. That's pretty.
Taliesin: That's 25 points of damage.
Travis: Thank you!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: With a second (click), you pull out one of your custom made, nasty looking bullets, load it back into Bad News. You pull it back, aim up, and fire. And once again, you guys are seeing this weapon up close again. With each fire, it takes all of his physical body to not get blown off his feet with each time it fires.
Laura: That's badass, Percy.
Matt: (thunder crack) A plume of white and ash-like smoke comes shooting out the side of the weapon. Nearby, you almost have to close your ears instinctually from the loudness of the shot. However, the duergar at the top of the wall, you see where his head once was just (wet impact SFX) across the wall behind it.
Ashley: I love Bad News.
Taliesin: Let's move quickly.
Laura: Let's get in the door.
Sam: I think they heard us.
Orion: I go in the door.
Taliesin: Going in the door.
Laura: We all go in the door.
Matt: All of you have made your way into the doorway.
Laura: Can Trinket fit? Trinket can fit.
Matt: Trinket can fit with you, yes.
Liam: Just barely.
Ashley: Just bear-ly.
Liam: It's like Winnie the Pooh, in the--
Laura: If Grog can fit, Trinket can fit.
Taliesin: It’s the one you don’t suit.
Travis: Oh no, we can't see anything.
Matt: You guys make your way into this tiny little room--
All: Whoa!
Matt: You're all very crammed in, to get anywhere.
Laura: Into this (high voice) teeny-tiny little room.
Liam: Feels like an intermission room.
Laura: Oh. A bathroom break room?
Liam: Yes. We could all relieve ourselves in this room.
Matt: You guys all slowly push into this storage room. It's very musty. It hasn't seen use in quite a while. In fact, you can see a little bit of mold is growing on the side of one of the barrels in the corner.
Orion: Ooh, dank.
Matt: There is a doorway that is closed on the opposite side of this wall, and from what you can see, there is a stairway that curves upwards to the second floor.
Laura: Ooh!
Sam: Guys, I'm sensing a lot of purple and brown construction paper here. (all laugh)
Orion: I am as well, Scanlan.
Liam: That's your favored terrain, right?
Sam: It is. (all laugh)
Laura: Can we take an intermission break at this moment?
Matt: I think as you guys just entered the stronghold, we'll take this as an intermission break. So take a little over 10 minutes. We'll watch the rest of the videos here again, and we'll return as the party has just entered the Emberhold itself.
Laura: All right. Oh wait, quick announcement.
Zac: A couple quick announcements.
Liam: Zac matches the construction paper.
Laura: What?!
Marisha: You do! (all laugh)
Zac: You can't see me! So guys before we go on intermission, I wanted to bring up one more time 826LA which is the charity that Critical Role is supporting. Do you want to give a brief--
Marisha: Yeah. A portion of our proceeds, or whatever our donations are, go to 826LA. They are an after-school tutoring program that help children between the ages of 5 and 18, mainly with literacy and creative writing and they have this awesome program where it's a young authors thing. You can buy all their books and their stories, and you should totally check them out.
Zac: Sweet!
Matt: Fantastic.
Zac: So guys, we can spam you with that link in the chatroom if you want to support a charity for Critical Role. We also still have a giveaway at 2150 subs, which is a picture of the entire Critical Role cast they've all signed, and it's really cool. We'll show that to you guys again later, but we'll go ahead and roll those videos for you guys again.
Matt: See if we can squeeze the intro again, that would be best. All right, cool guys, we'll see you again in a little bit.
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar) (wet smack sounds) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. (brawling sounds) Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of 7 children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. As they ran, Percy’s sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (click sound) (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he’s never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it’s rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn’t last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (dragon roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, (ringing weapons SFX) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - her own stolen Trinket - to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages. (drumming battle music) (drumming battle music continues)
Orion: Still alive!
Matt: (laughs) Welcome back, guys. Welcome back to Critical Role. And we have Orion -- .
Liam: Holy hell.
Taliesin: Ow.
Marisha: Are you okay?
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Matt: 2d6 damage to Tiberius. So, guys, for those who are keeping up: two things, real fast. We want to thank Jacqueline Lassiter for the awesome food she sent for us.
All: (words of acclamation and thanks)
Matt: Seriously, thank you. A delightful, necessary treat after this game time. So, thank you, thank you, thank you. Also for the 2,150-subscriber mark, we're giving away this autographed photo of the cast.
Laura: Autographed photo.
Matt: We'll send out to you.
Liam: It's so handsome.
Marisha: Who is it going to?
Matt: Some lucky person in the chatroom once we hit 2,150.
Marisha: Oh. We don't know yet.
Matt: Whenever that happens, that will be going to you. So, yes, returning to the game--
Sam: Also, we've got these t-shirts. You should want them. (Laura and Marisha laugh)
Matt: We're going to now look into--
Marisha: Yes, let us know if you want them.
Laura: We're going to look into that.
Matt: We're going to look into possibly finding a way to get these shirts to you guys in the next couple weeks.
Marisha: Only if you want them, though. This is going to be a lot of work. We don't want to do it unless you really want them.
Orion: We hate doing work.
Travis: We're voice actors.
Taliesin: We're not here to work.
Sam: Where are we? We were just going in a door.
Matt: Indeed. You guys--
Liam: Come on. Yes, they want them.
Matt: Cool. I guess that feedback is good. The party had just managed to not-quite-so-stealthily pry their way into the hidden entrance to the outside of the duergar stronghold of Emberhold. They found themselves crammed into a very tiny, essentially a storage room, with a stairway leading up and a closed doorway leading further into the stronghold. So, what is your preference?
Laura: I think we should go through the door, instead of going up.
Liam: I agree.
Laura: Because any prisoners are probably going to be kept at a low level.
Taliesin: Can we quietly open the door?
Matt: Yeah, once inside.
Laura: Can we very stealthily try to open - oh, check for traps!
Liam: Yes, I'm going to sniff the door a bit.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (sniffing SFX)
Liam: Yeah, that's a 20.
Matt: 20? Best you can tell, the door itself is locked, but is not trapped.
Liam: Okay, well - (clinking SFX) Okay, thieves’ tools out. Oh, that's an easy 30.
Sam: 30?!
Matt: A 30!
Liam: 30.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: God damn.
Matt: Which is good because it's a very, very intricate lock. There is a specific key, a single key that is designed for this lock, that you gather is probably held by King Murghol himself.
Ashley: King Myrtle?
Laura: Mairgil. Mare - Mairgil?
Matt: Mur-ghol.
Marisha: Marigold.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: Murghol.
Sam: And his queen, Durarara.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: Is that how you pronounce her name? Doo-gara-gar?
Liam: It's, uh, Ermahgerd?
All: Ermahgerd.
Laura: Ulara is her name.
Orion: Kuma.
Laura: Queen Ulara.
Sam: Ulara. Uhura.
Matt: Yes. Uhura.
Marisha: Uhura.
Taliesin: Kana.
Matt: Kumar.
Marisha: I don't know! What is her name? Seriously, what is her name, now?
Laura: It's Ulara! Ulara.
Sam: Ulara.
Marisha: What is -- ?
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: Ulara.
Marisha: Ulara. (giggles)
Matt: Shh.
Taliesin: Maybe not.
Marisha: Uladra. Right?
Liam: I'm picking a lock.
Laura: Shh. He's picking a lock. Be very quiet.
Liam: (clicking SFX)
Matt: However, you do manage to find a series of intricate, strangely-constructed dwarven tumblers on the inside that each have a very strange, rigid structure -- (laughs)
Liam: ‘Ey!
Matt: Please do that every time you pick a lock. You manage to get the right sequence, and with a slight - (clicking SFX) - clicking sound, (squeak SFX) the door opens slightly on the inside.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: It was pretty easy.
Matt: Leading into what you can see is a hallway, that continues further down to about there.
Liam: Where is the door? Where is the door that I just picked?
Matt: The door that you picked, if you wanted to walk through is right there.
Liam: It's naturally there.
Laura: So that other stuff is upstairs.
Matt: All of this is on the floor that you're on.
Laura: Oh! Okay.
Liam: I'm going to take six or seven quiet steps forward, stealthily. 19 stealth.
Matt: All right.
Orion: As he does this, I'm going to pull out my Ioun stone from my pouch, and let it-- (whirling SFX)
Matt: All right, cool.
Travis: We're all trapped in that room together, right?
Matt: You are. Correct.
Travis: I fart. (all laugh)
Orion: Oh! Grog! Prestidigitation, and I (whoosh SFX) make a quick wind-gust--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Just circulate it around the room, will you?
Orion: I blew it away! I could blow it right up your nose, Vax! (fluttering SFX)
Travis: I'm closer to you now than I've ever been before.
Laura: I throw up in my mouth just a little bit.
Taliesin: Go around the corner and tell us what you see.
Matt: Just a little bit.
Orion: Oh. I'm sorry.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Take a very quiet peek around the corner.
Liam: All right, I'm having a peeky-poo.
Taliesin: Quietly.
Matt: As you peek through, you can get a general idea of what looks to be some sort of an empty storage room. A lot of materials have been moved out of it. It looks like the remnants of stone, things that were used for construction that once were in this room that have been pulled out to build things. Possibly moved as part of the war camp to start building some of the siege weapons that you saw above.
Liam: Do I hear anything?
Matt: Not currently. Roll a perception check.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Liam: That's pretty good. 27.
Matt: Listening, you hear footsteps above. You hear very, very faintly through the stonework about 20 feet above you - (thumping SFX) - some footsteps moving above. Apparently there is some level of alert on the second floor.
Laura: Oh, shit. We should move fast.
Marisha: Hmm. I wonder why.
Liam: Go figure.
Laura: We should get out of the room.
Orion: Yes, Percy, I wonder why.
Laura: We start getting out of the room.
Taliesin: It’s a wonder, looking outside.
Liam: I go back to the door and just be like--
Laura: (whispering) Come on. Hurry!
Liam: So, I want to go further - no doorway, as of yet. Correct?
Matt: No doorway here.
Liam: If I go this way--
Laura: They're going to start coming down these fricking stairs in this room.
Matt: This way? It ends. The hallway comes to an end, with a wall.
Liam: Well then, I'm going to peek into this door here. This open door.
Matt: Here?
Liam: No. What's right by the figure?
Matt: This is the one you just looked into that had this empty room that--
Liam: Thank you, thank you. So, down the one hall.
Matt: Down the one hall. Look past here there is a stairway that descends downward.
Liam: Down.
Matt: Looking down - pardon me. Looking down this hallway, you see what resembles - there's a door to your left that's closed currently, and it splits off into two directions, right and left.
Liam: Right, I don't even tell anyone. I just start to slink down the steps.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Did he go down?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh, geez Louise.
Matt: Okay. Put Clarota there. You continue down the stairway, and as you slowly move around, you can see down towards the bottom a very faint bit of reddish glow-stone light and a hallway that splits right and left. Laura: (whispering) We should go downstairs.
Liam: Right and left? I go to the right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Why don’t we just go left?
Laura: We're getting bored.
Matt: As you look past the right - you guys are all waiting in the room?
Liam: You should just storm in.
Laura: I get out.
Liam: Start banging your weapons together.
Laura: No! I come out, because you're taking too long.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: Anyone else?
Orion: I saunter about. (all laugh)
Ashley: I'll head on out there.
Sam: I go where Pike goes.
Marisha: We're just losing all attention span? Is that what's going on? We're just wandering off.
Laura: No no no. I said we stay in the area, but I wanted to check on my brother because I feel like he's taking awhile.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And he was just gonna check the doors.
Matt: As you move and glance over, you can see there are two duergar stationed on each side of the split hallways. One is a closed doorway to your right, and to the left there's an open doorway that leads into a room.
Liam: And that's when I went to the right?
Matt: Well, as soon as you went into where the division was, you turned to the right and there were duergar there, and a duergar on the left.
Liam: I'm going to turn my chin over to the left, and see what I see down there.
Matt: There's a second duergar that is currently sitting in armor, weapon to its side. Just occasionally glancing in. You can hear, every now and then, sounds like a moan or a slight whispering gurgle, and the duergar will lean in - "Hey, shut up in there! 'Kay?!"
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to go kill this guy.
Laura: You don't want to tell us what you found?
Orion: As I notice him going up, I'm going to - (click) Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: (softly) Uh, I'm killing someone. Hold, please. (all laughing)
Sam: (humming a Muzak version of "The Girl from Ipanema")
Orion: Uh, guys, Vax is going to go kill something.
Marisha: It's okay. Let him do it by himself. It's what he does best.
Liam: I'm going to sneak up on this duergar.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Orion: I worry.
Marisha: I know. It's okay.
Liam: 19?
Matt: 19? Let me go ahead and--
Laura: Oh, no! Look at this.
Matt: This'll be an interesting--
Liam: Like a magician, you just whip it out, Matt.
Matt: That's what I'm doing. Trying, at least. There we go.
Travis: Do you want an extra hand?
Taliesin: If Mr. Wizard can do it, you can do it.
Sam: Watch out! LAURA It's that book.
Matt: Oh, it is the book, isn't it? Stupid book. As you've made your way here, Vex [sic] you look to the right. There's the duergar here to the left that's shouting into this room here.
Sam: Do something!
Matt: You missed entirely what I was telling you.
Travis: Will you fucking do something, please?
Liam: He's right there on the side. There's one over there, there's one over there. There's two. Oh, shit. Well, we all come slamming down in here.
Sam: Yeah!
Travis: No, you're down there.
Liam: So I sneak back up and I put a hand on my sister's shoulder, and I give her a little come along motion. And tell everyone else--
Sam: Don't you need some Grog?
Liam: --I mouth "Kima" at everybody, and then pull my sister down.
Matt: As you're doing this, you hear footsteps across the way echoing through the hallway, what sounds like a number of other foot patters heading through the halls--
Laura: (gasps) We should just go down.
Matt: --towards the front of the stronghold.
Liam: I'm just pulling Vex down.
Orion: The front? Oh, the front of the front. Not where we're at, right?
Matt: Vex and Vax both disappear off to the side, down a hallway.
Marisha: Before they leave I just tap their shoulders and meditate and grant them Guidance.
Matt: Okay, you can give one of them Guidance because it's concentration.
Marisha: Uh, Vex.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: That's me.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: Did you mean to give it to him?
Marisha: Yes. (everyone laughs)
Orion: Brava.
Matt: All right, who gets guidance?
Sam: The man one.
Matt: Vax.
Marisha: Vax.
Liam: So I pull my poison blade out and I pull the keen dagger out. Okay, and I take the keen dagger - so the one on the left is by the door and the one that muttered through the doorway, right?
Matt: The one right here.
Liam: So I give a little fwip, toss in my hand and throw it right at his neck.
Laura: At the same time I reach out and I go (arrow SFX).
Liam: And the other one, the poison one, toward the other.
Matt: Okay and you are?
Laura: And I was going to shoot at the other one.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for this guy here.
Liam: That guy. That is a 17 for me.
Matt: 17 hits.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27, all right.
Liam: And then on the other guy, or should I just go ahead and attack?
Matt: Go ahead and attack both.
Liam: 17. So that’s--
Laura: And 25 on the same.
Matt: Both arrows on the guy on the right?
Laura: Let’s do both, one on each.
Matt: Each? (shooting SFX) You both - (impact SFX) - ?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay, cool. Damage on the one on the left? Which is sneak attack because he didn’t know you were there.
Liam: So, 46 with the keen dagger on the guard at the door.
Taliesin: Damn.
Laura: So I was really useful!
Matt: The guy on the left, as he’s leaning back, he’s getting angry with whoever is in that room. As he turns back to take his post again, (swoosh SFX) (gurgling) he just gurgles, slumps to the ground. As he’s slumping, an arrow goes (impact sound) into his stomach. (everyone laughs)
Liam: It’s like a punctuation.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Matt: Roll damage for the second attack.
Liam: The poison dagger goes (thunk sound). Well, I didn’t roll to hit him.
Matt: And you are using the poison effect on him?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: 15 on the other guy for me.
Liam: That is a 19.
Matt: Okay, that hits. Now roll damage.
Liam: This doesn’t get sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: Because I already used that. I made some noise hitting the first guy. 7 plus the poison.
Matt: What is the poison damage?
Liam: The poison is DC 15.
Matt: He does not make the save, even though he’s a duergar.
Laura: I go running back up since I’ve already shot my arrows.
Matt: Let me check one thing real fast.
Laura: And I figured you’ve got this.
Matt: Check one thing.
Ashley: He could just clear this whole place by himself.
Liam: 9 points of poison on him.
Matt: Okay. So, an arrow (impact SFX) into his chest just as the poison blade makes contact. You can see him (gurgling SFX) double over for a second, but the hardy duergar once-dwarven form seems to shrug off a lot of the poison’s impact.
Laura: Oh, shit!
Matt: He is still dribbling a very heavy amount of deep crimson from his mouth, but he still (gasps) looks over and sees you both in the hallway and goes to reach for his warhammer and turn around towards the door behind him.
Laura: Can I throw an arrow at him?
Liam: Do we roll for initiative at this point?
Matt: You guys roll for initiative to see who goes first.
Sam: I turn to Pike and say, "What the fuck is going on? Where are they?"
Orion: I don’t know, but this book, Scanlan, is incredible.
Sam: I’m sure it is.
Orion: It’s all about this, er, an ice thing--
Sam: I read non-fiction.
Orion: --and these other things.
Ashley: Let’s head down there. I’m going to head down there.
Liam: Careful, clanky.
Ashley: Oh.
Matt: So the rest of you are heading down there?
Travis: I follow Pike down there.
Sam: I’m going, too.
Laura: There are so many prisoners down this way.
Matt: Everyone else roll stealth checks.
Laura: Everybody fucking come down.
Marisha: Are we going down?
Matt: Stealth checks everyone. You guys both beat him on initiative.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Roll attacks, both of you, just roll the dice.
Sam: Roll the dice.
Orion: Roll the dice.
Ashley: 19.
Liam: 28.
Ashley: Getting a handle on my armor.
Matt: Okay. You don’t need to roll damage. He has like, 2 hit points left. You guys pepper him with additional arrows and daggers. The poor guys is like: "Uh, I’m gonna--" (impact SFX, gurgle) He just goes down with this horrible sense of overkill, his body just slumps up against the door, leaning against the wooden door he was guarding.
Laura: I say on my earring "I think we found the prison cells. Get down here."
Sam: We’re coming.
Orion: I’m assuming they’re dead.
Matt: Both duergar.
Liam: I start to loot the bodies.
Matt: Stealth checks?
Orion: 16.
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 12.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: All right, go team!
Marisha: Woo! We’re stealthy bastards.
Matt: That was with disadvantage?
Ashley: I have to roll again?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Why?
Matt: Because you’re in heavy plate armor.
Marisha: No!
Laura: No!
All: (words of encouragement)
Ashley: (laughs)
Laura: That’s not bad, that’s still not bad.
Ashley: I rolled an 8.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Plus what?
Ashley: Plus nothing. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (clanking SFX)
Matt: You guys, all rush down the stairs (stomping SFX) the clanking of the plate armor as you're going down. The rest of you wince as you notice it, but you make it down anyway.
Ashley: (laughing) Oh my God.
Travis: I should have picked you up.
Marisha: I'm actually going to go ahead and throw Guidance on Pike now.
Sam: Little late, little late.
Taliesin: What does Guidance do?
Marisha: It gives you a plus on your ability checks. And it gives you a 1d4 plus to your-- (several talking at once)
Sam: Do they already knew [sic] we were here? Now they really know.
Matt: So, the rest of you have made it down.
Liam: Surprise!
Matt: In this hallway, there are 2 dead duergar on the ground. One with a closed door and one with an open door.
Laura: Well, let's go look in the open door. Stealthily.
Matt: You glance over into the open door, you can see what appears to be a series of dungeon cells held underneath the stronghold.
Liam: Lady Kima?
Matt: Within these, you can see there are a number of dwarven captives that are in very, very, very poor health--
Taliesin: I don't care about them.
Laura: We need to get them awake.
Matt: --that are currently lying down, unfed, gaunt.
Sam: Are any of them Lady Kima? Because if they're not, they're about to die.
Laura: No, they're regular dwarves, they're good people.
Orion: I go inspect them and see what's going on.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'll go in with Tiberius.
Matt: Okay, you guys enter. As you look around, there are a series of largely decomposed bodies in a few of these cells. They are people who've just been left to die.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: One, there are these kind of strange deep underground, rat-like creatures that are feeding on one of them. One of the dwarves is just wheezing in pain (moaning). You can see his stomach is a little distended. The other one is either unconscious, asleep, or dead. You can't tell.
Ashley: Can I do a Mass Cure on them?
Matt: You can if you'd like.
Ashley: Okay. I'll do that.
Liam: Yes, I was about to say. I'm going to go start inspecting the other door.
Taliesin: I'll go with him.
Laura: Why don't you unlock the prison cells here?
Marisha: Yeah, can you unlock the prison cells?
Liam: Oh, sorry.
Laura: Can we go in? Can we talk to them?
Matt: If you guys want to. So you go through. It's fairly simple over time for you to unlock the cells if you'd like, the 2 that are in there. There's a difference between healing magic and nutrition. You make them feel physically better for the moment, but their physical form itself is failing.
Travis: Just a thought, shouldn't we clear this mess before we let prisoners out?
Matt: They need food, they need air, they need to be out of here soon. They're both on the edge of death.
Sam: Put them in the bag of holding, Grog.
Marisha: I pull out a water.
Orion: I go to the room, I take out my bottle of water..
Marisha: I'll do the opposite one.
Matt: You guys hear heavy footsteps coming from the stairway you guys just descended from.
Travis: I go stand right next to the stairway.
Marisha: In the cells, in the cells.
Taliesin: In the cells, in the cells.
Liam: I pull my sister and we flank. I push her into flanking position to the door.
Laura: Oh God, I nock an arrow, notch an arrow?
Orion: Where are they coming from?
Liam: The stairs, from where we entered?
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Marisha: I jump in the cells and I pull a dead, decomposing corpse over the top of me.
Laura: Eww, Keyleth. All kinds of nastiness.
Taliesin: I find a corner of a cell and slowly pull out my gun.
Marisha: I’m going savage! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I should make sure all the doors are shut, not locked.
Matt: All right, all the doors are shut. Pike, anything you doing?
Ashley: I'm just, you know, preparing.
Matt: (laughs) All right.
Marisha: Just kicking it, just chilling.
Laura: Do we need to move out of the way of the stairs?
Liam: Vax is scooching Scanlan out of the way to take that position right there.
Taliesin: The bear is at the back cell.
Laura: Scanlan, where are you?
Sam: There's voices coming from the stairs?
Liam: Yeah, someone's coming.
Sam: But there's a bear in the stairs.
Laura: Well, Trinket's coming down.
Marisha: I call, "Trinket, Trinket, Trinket (kissing SFX) Trinket!"
Matt: Trinket barely hears you from way over at the side.
Marisha: (kissing SFX) Come on.
Matt: He's coming into this room. Clarota just steps back, along the side of the stairs and out of view. A few moments pass as the footsteps slowly trail off.
Orion: I leave and turn around where Vex and Vax are.
Marisha: I know.
Laura: What's in the other door?
Matt: The other door is currently locked from what you can tell.
Liam: One moment. It is now not locked, I think.
Matt: (chuckles)
Liam: 25?
Matt: (clicking SFX) You push the door open and you see immediately, the fast moving heft of some large blade towards your head.
Sam: Oh, snap!
Laura: Oh, it's Kima.
Liam: No, it's a trap ready to hit me.
Matt: That is 24 versus armor class.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: That hits, all right.
Laura: Oh, you didn't check for traps.
Liam: Didn't check for traps.
Travis: I thought you were good at this shit.
Liam: I'm going to use uncanny dodge.
Matt: What would have been 20 points of slashing damage is reduced to 10. So you take 10 damage as the axe (impact SFX) hits you and imbeds itself in the wooden door, pulls back. Now you see as a duergar wearing this nasty-looking black leather tunic with a hood pulled back, with a giant, gnarled, hefted greataxe, words escaped me on that one, has a bunch of scars on its face. As it's grinning, it pulls the axe out of the doorway.
Liam: Right, I spit on the ground, and yank my belt off and throw it at his head.
Laura: And I yell ‘hold.’
Matt: Okay. As you throw the belt--
Sam: Hold?
Laura: Yeah, tell him to stop attacking.
Liam: Yeah, serpent.
Matt: --he ducks out of the way, pulls back out of the way, as the snake forms itself. It goes ahead and makes its attack. Go ahead and roll for snake attack against him.
Sam: Snake attack!
Liam: Okay, 12 plus, I don't know what, 12. Is my attack, his attack, snake attack?
Matt: Did you roll a 12 on that?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that will not hit unfortunately.
Liam: All right.
Matt: As he slaps it off himself and it (swish SFX) cascades off to the side of the room.
Ashley: Is he in a cell?
Travis: Is a base attack a straight line from him to Vax to--
Sam: He's protecting the cells.
Ashley: He's protecting the cells.
Matt: At which point he kicks the door closed again.
Travis: Can I, in my rage, bullrush through this?
Sam: Yes, yes.
Matt: Now roll initiative, guys.
Orion: As he's going I immediately cast Stone Skin on myself. (cracking SFX)
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What I like is that there are 8 of us and 1 of him.
Laura: Possibly, if no one else is behind that door.
Taliesin: So far.
Laura: He's in a room by himself.
Liam: I can see the square, it's very small.
Matt: You've looked inside, seeing a brief bit of the room. 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 26.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 26, all right Percy.
Liam: (shooting SFX)
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 18.
Laura: 15.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 15 to 10?
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14. 10 to 5?
Ashley: 7.
Matt: 5 to 1?
Sam: (nervously) 4.
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where am I?
Matt: You are way back in this cell, and you hear a slam of broken wood and another slam of a door closing.
Taliesin: I'm going to run to the hall.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check to try and move through this cluster of people here.
Taliesin: I can do that. 24.
Matt: 24. You leap over, vaulting off of Trinket, land and move into this hallway. And that's the extent of your movement.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot and blow the lock.
Matt: Okay, with the Bad News or with your--?
Taliesin: Oh no, Bad News is away. This is just with the handheld, shooting at the lock at the door.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Jesus H, 30.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 9 points of damage.
Matt: 9 points of damage. As the door slams back and you prepare yourself to try and kick it open, you hear the familiar (zoom SFX) of one of Percy's pepperbox bullets as the actual handle of the door (impact SFX) gets blown off and there's a small hole in the wooden door now where its handle once was. The door swings open a little bit loosely due to the impact. That ends your turn.
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay. All I'm gonna do is grab the hole of the door and yank it open and yell, "Your turn, Grog!"
Marisha: Oh! That's fun!
Matt: As you pull it open, the dwarf backs up over what you can see now, this room is completely covered in a series of really nasty, hooked instruments. Hot irons, you can see large pincers--
Travis: (laughs excitedly)
Matt: --you can see various blades.
Ashley: Oh, it's like a torture chamber?
Matt: It's a torture chamber. (all groan)
Travis: It's Christmas!
Taliesin: Grog is running into Toys R Us. This is going to be great.
Matt: You see gently as he backs away there is someone on this rack-like table. The dwarf backs up with his axe getting ready.
Liam: I use my bonus action to say, "You are so fucked, dwarf." (all laugh)
Matt: All right, that brings us to Tiberius.
Orion: I like where this is going, Vax. Wait, I go over there first and then I say that. (all laugh)
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Orion: Acrobatics, why?
Sam: You gotta jump over people.
Matt: You've got to move through people. The area is congested. Small spaces, man. Downside of a big party.
Orion: Okay. 22.
Matt: 22. You manage to move through, push the bear out of the way. Move, Trinket. Get out the way!
Orion: (muttering) Bear!
Matt: You manage to make your way, squeeze past Percy.
Orion: The bear surprisingly smells really nice.
Matt: All right, Tiberius, what do you want to do now?
Orion: I'm going to follow suit as I see what Vax is doing. I'm going to cast Hold Person on the dwarf.
Matt: You don't have visual on the dwarf currently, the dwarf is back--
Orion: What? That's absurd!
Matt: As you run through the hallway - which you don't know there's a dwarf there - you rush out to the hallway after hearing all this commotion. You look in and there's an open door into a room that's currently vacant. You don't have enough movement to get close enough, unfortunately.
Orion: Oh well, poop. I... I encourage violence. (all laugh)
Matt: A wondrous use of an action.
Orion: Do it! Do it, Grog! Destroy them! With no regard to any of his existence.
Matt: Keyleth.
Travis: (laughing) I encourage violence!
Liam: That's the best line of the night! (laughs)
Matt: You are currently in a cell with a dead body draped over you. (all laughing)
Marisha: It's cozy down here. Okay, so with the dead body, I hear what's going on - we're roleplaying it up!
Orion: Get the body off of you.
Marisha: I morph into Minxy form.
Travis: Minxy!
Marisha: And as I morph into Minxy form, I take the dead body that's on top of me and just pick it up with my mouth.
Matt: In your mouth, the body stirs. It wasn't quite dead.
Marisha: Oh, why?!
Laura: (Gasps) Oh, Keyleth!
Marisha: It was supposed to be - I wanted the dead one.
Travis: Minxy says I'm sorry!
Marisha: Can I drop that one and find a dead one?
Matt: Well, you wanted a dead one. It is now.
All: Oh!
Marisha: That's fine, that's fine.
Liam: Oh, murdering children again.
Taliesin: Spend the entire game being the worst person in the world.
Marisha: I know! I try so hard, you guys!
Travis: Was it a child duergar?
Marisha: I try so hard, I'm still the fucking worst!
Matt: So, you now have a dead, gaunt dwarf, hanging from Minxy's mouth. (all laugh)
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: Keep chewing.
Marisha: Um, it was...
Travis: Oh, go ahead, do something else.
Taliesin: At least it's not gamey, it’s fresh.
Marisha: Keyleth tries. Keyleth tries so hard.
Orion: You're not trying hard enough, damn it!
Marisha: Fuck you man, all right? I'm having a tough day.
Travis: You hear a little dwarf in the corner go "Mommy?"
Marisha: Vex brought up the fact that I killed a kid. I’m having all these memories coming back, I'm on the brink.
Matt: Yeah, there's some PTSD coming through.
Marisha: So I've got this now-dead corpse in my mouth and I come out around the corner.
Matt: Make an Acrobatics check. Because you’re still moving through this clustered hallway with a dead dwarf in your mouth.
Liam: Holy cow!
Marisha: I'm a tiger so--
Liam: That was Greyspine's cousin.
Marisha: Can I have an advantage? Oh, I rolled a 15. Plus being a tiger?
Matt: You're fine. You manage to push through, you're leaping through.
Marisha: I'm pouncy. And I come out into the hallway.
Matt: You actually shift Tiberius out of the way. This is a very small space, you're a very big cat. You're really pushing for space here.
Marisha: Move!
Matt: It's very, very tight quarters for you, you're like - (struggling SFX)
Orion: Keyleth, as a cat, you smell less good as Trinket does.
Marisha: It's not me, it's the dead body.
Orion: Oh. That's disgusting.
Marisha: And I look at the dwarf.
Matt: You can't see him from your vantage point, he's actually back out of sight.
Orion: I can't see him, you can't see him.
Marisha: No? Can I shift to see him at all?
Matt: You don't know there's a dwarf there. You just know there's some sort of commotion going on. You move around the corner and you see just an empty room.
Liam: Everybody give up your turn to Grog.
Laura: I know, let him go in the room.
Orion: Just let Grog deal with this butthole.
Marisha: I look at Grog and I foam at the mouth a little bit with the corpse and I--
Sam: Encourage violence.
Marisha: --I encourage violence. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. Vex?
Marisha: Just gnawing on the dead dwarf.
Laura: Oh, well, let's make this nice and easy. I smack Grog on the ass and say, "Go get him".
Travis: (eager snarling)
Matt: All right, Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: (eager snarling continues)
Marisha: Does he get advantage because we're all encouraging violence?
Orion: Yeah, or inspiration?
Matt: Oh no, you get inspiration dice for this whole set up. 1d8 inspiration dice.
Sam: You don't kill him in one shot, it's very very disappointing.
Matt: All right, you run in.
Travis: You said the room was full of shiny pointy things on the wall, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: I would like to bull rush the dwarf up and against the wall, try and spear him with all the sharp shit on the wall.
Matt: Okay!
All: (cheering)
Matt: Oh, that's nasty. Okay then, so for the-- (laughs)
Liam: Instant karma's going to get you, man.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: You hear that, Keyleth?
Marisha: (growling)
Travis: 24.
Matt: Yeah, against his 7. You rush in and with your first attack, you grab him, lift him, and you can see there's a series of giant meat hooks hanging from the back of the wall, and you just lift him up and (impaling SFX) shove him down onto the hook which protrudes from the front of his chest. (gurgling SFX)
Travis: No, perfect. Tell me I get another attack.
Matt: You do.
Travis: Excellent!
Matt: That's 12 points of damage and he's currently restrained by the hook through his chest.
Laura: Impaled? Oh!
Travis: Perfect! With my second attack as he's screaming out I reach inside, grab his lower jaw and pull him straight down.
Matt: Okay, make an attack roll.
Laura: Oh no! That's so gross.
Ashley: Oh, I love this so much.
Liam: Vax is using his free hand to cover his eyes.
Sam: Keyleth starts eating him.
Travis: (laughing) 24.
Matt: (laughs) Go ahead and roll damage on this.
Laura: Oh, sick.
Travis: With a 12?
Matt: For flavor, roll a 12. Why not? You're pulling his jaw.
Travis: Excellent! (laughing)
Ashley: He rolled really high.
Travis: 15.
Matt: After you throw him onto the hook, his axe clatters to the ground and he reaches up with his hands to grab you and it looks like he's pulling back to try and bring you in for a headbutt. This angry look of burning rage in his white eyes, this fucked-up duergar with all these scars on his face, as he reaches up towards you, you take your giant hand and jam it into his maw. With this horrible (choking SFX) sound, as you put all your muscle into it, glaring him in the face with a terrible grin you (breaking SFX) and yank the jaw off from the bottom of his head.
All: (cheering)
Matt: A spatter of blood across the front of his mouth and his tongue dangling, he gives out this horrible (gagging scream) this gurgling scream as all the blood begins to pour up into his throat. With that, clutching the jaw with one hand, you begin to pummel him in the face over and over, with his jaw, as he's watching, his head slowly cave in.
Travis: (laughing) Yes!
Sam: I think he's going to make it.
Matt: Until eventually, he's no longer moving and you throw the jaw to the ground, just coated with blood.
Liam: You're going to pull through, buddy.
Laura: Pike! I think Grog, um, I think he did his job.
Ashley: I scream out, "Good job Grog! That's your best one yet!"
Marisha: And they say video games are violent. (all laugh)
Laura: (gagging sounds)
Matt: As you've entered the room now--
Ashley: Wait, is he dead? (all laugh)
Matt: Oh, he's very dead.
Travis: We made cheese of him.
Matt: He lies there limply on the wall, twitching every few seconds. Grog, still in a rage, you look over at the other individual. You can see now strapped to this wooden frame is a smallish humanoid, female, currently chained and being pulled on a rack. You can see bunch of scars and wounds, blood pouring from each one of them.
Sam: Is that our girl?
Laura: That's our girl!
Taliesin: I'm running in. Do I know how to disable the rack?
Matt: You can probably figure it out with a tinker.
Liam: Pike!
Travis: Is it chains or rope?
Laura: Come heal her!
Liam: We need Pike in here!
Travis: Is it chains or rope?
Sam: I'll go!
Matt: It's chains holding her on.
Taliesin: I'm going to undo it.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Wait. Do we know it's her?
Matt: Go ahead and make a tinker check.
Laura: It's her. It's gotta be her.
Orion: Whoever it is, we should help.
Taliesin: What do I add? Is it proficiency bonus?
Matt: Proficiency bonus.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12? You take a moment and you manage to find where the winch to this machine is, where you can go ahead and release the tension and eventually the chains go a little more slack and (gasps) the halfling woman takes a deep breath and looks about the room a second, looks like there's a bit of a haze, but through the haze there's this constant anger and she looks down and goes: "So? Are you gonna let me go? Come on! Release these chains!"
Ashley: Who is she?
Travis: Wait, wait. Find out who she is first.
Laura: Can we insight and make sure that it's really who she--
Matt: You can indeed. This is an insight check.
Laura: Great, I don't get any... Anybody else want to roll for insight?
Liam: 5, 1. Pike, roll well. The twins fucked it.
Ashley: Insight?
Liam: Scanlan! Come up here!
Sam: Yeah, yeah, oh.
Ashley: 15! 15?
Liam: She's not in her right mind.
Matt: It's a very small room, only a few people can make it in here.
Sam: I'm gonna take a peek at her. What do I do? What do I roll?
Liam: Insight to see if she's in her right mind.
Ashley: 15? 18 is better.
Matt: At this point, it's pretty apparent that whatever this woman is, she's been here a while and has been subjected to many, many horrible things and still has that spark of life to her, mainly out of vengeance, anger, and pain, but she does not seem to be overtly aggressive or trying to deceive you; just trying to get out of these fucking chains.
Laura: Well, let's let her go.
Orion: I'll do an Arcana check on her.
Matt: What's that? Arcana check? To...?
Orion: See if there's like any kind of magical impurities in her.
Travis: If she's under the Imperius Curse.
Matt: Best you can tell, there's none.
Liam: I'm pulling out my lockpicks and I'm going to start working on--
Sam: I'm going to heal her with a little bit of a song.
Liam: And you know my lockpick snaps so... just totally broken.
Ashley: How hurt is she?
Sam: If I may.
Matt: She's pretty rough. As you look up, she's not clothed. Her body is just a spray of scars and gashes and rake marks. She's been tortured to an extent you hadn't seen in person, and to still be tensing her muscles against the chains and looking at you with this intensity, if this is indeed Lady Kima, you now see why she's made the reputation she has.
Liam: Grog, the locking mechanism on this is jammed.
Sam: Okay. So, I step forward and I pull out my flute and I sing, (singing) "As long as I got my song and flute, I'm gonna give some healing to you. Love and magic in the air tonight, gonna give you some hit points. Gonna give you some hit points, gonna give you some hit points of our love." (all laugh)
Sam: Dadadanana, okay. I roll 9 hit points.
Matt: The fresher wounds seal up, the blood flow comes to a stop. You see her muscles tense for a moment - her tension in her muscles relax for a minute. She looks to you for a second and says, "It's been a while since I've heard a song. Thank you."
Sam: It was a slow jam.
Taliesin: Please be careful for a moment. Can someone cover her ears for just a second?
Travis: Yeah, I got it.
Ashley: Earmuffs.
Taliesin: I'm going to utility shot - I'm going to put my gun against the lock, somewhere where it will not harm her and just blow it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage. You don't have to roll to hit, it's right there.
Taliesin: 15. Is it two locks?
Matt: Well, there's one chain for the legs, one chain for the arms.
Taliesin: Okay. 15 for the leg. 10 for the arm.
Matt: (gunshot sound) The legs get free. (gunshot sound) The chain mostly snaps on the top part, but not quite enough. It's enough for you, Grog, to-
Travis: I got it! (snarling)
Matt: You reach over and bring it down, with a brief moment of extreme tension as the whole room watches Grog walk up with his axe and swing it down towards this halfling. Before you have a moment to stop, everyone's heart skips a beat. The chain is bisected--
Liam: Ease down! Ease down.
Matt: --at which point the halfling woman immediately jumps to her feet with almost like a kip-up stand and is now standing on top of the table. Her arms are still bound and she - (groans) You can now see where the metal was weakened from the axe blow. She (metal snapping SFX) pulls herself free from the metal binding--
Travis: That's hot.
Matt: --there's a blister across her wrist, from how long she's been pulling against these restraints. But she bore through it, with a little bit of blood that trickles from that wound. She has freed herself and she looks around the rest of the group. "So, I take it you're not from around here?"
Orion: No! Would you like some water?
Matt: She grabs it from you, pulls off the cork and just starts chugging like she hasn't had anything to drink in a long time.
Laura: Lady Kima, we need to get you out of here.
Liam: Allura has sent us.
Matt: She caps it off after a moment and takes a deep breath. "I'd hoped she would. It was foolish of me to come down here so unprepared. Just knew there wasn't much time." (chuckles)
Liam: Time 'til what?
Matt: She looks around and says, "Look, we don't- it's a story. I have no--" And she kind of points to her pretty much unclothed, unarmored form, and says, "I need to find my implements. We need to get out of here."
Travis: Could I offer to you this black, studded leather, dwarven armor? It's not leather, actually.
Liam: It's magical, it'll fit you.
Orion: Would you care for this robe?
Laura: Which sounds better?
Matt: What armor were you offering her?
Travis: It's the black, dwarven armor--
Liam: The armor that I found and gave to Grog. It's magical.
Matt: Oh, the studded leather.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: It's in the bag.
Matt: She goes, "Sure, it works for now." She takes it from you and starts putting it on. You see her wincing as she puts it on, as it covers some of the wounds. Her whole body is just sore, but she still pushes through it.
Ashley: I'm going to heal her a little bit more.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'll put my hands on her. I'm sorry. You're not fully healed, let me help you out.
Travis: (quietly) Grog likes scars.
Matt: As you do, she takes a moment and she says - You heal her and she goes, "Can I-" She sees your mace and goes, "Can I borrow that for a second?"
Ashley: Uh...
Matt: "Please?"
Ashley: My mace?
Matt: "Your mace, please."
Ashley: What do you need it for? (all laugh)
Travis: You can have mine.
Matt: "Do you trust me?"
Ashley: I don't know. This is all I have to protect myself.
Matt: "You've come this far."
Orion: Grog has something for you.
Sam: Say yes to life, Pike.
Ashley: All right, well, I also have a morningstar, but this is-- (all laugh)
Ashley: Are you gonna give it back?
Matt: As you hand it out, she grabs it from your hands--
Ashley: That was rude.
Matt: --walks to the edge of the table--
Ashley: I don't like her.
Matt: --stares at the dwarf that is currently hooked onto the wall. (angry yell) And with a yell, slams it right into his face, causing his head to explode against the back of the wall. Slams it again and again and again, and is just making hamburger of his entire body. The arm sloughs off and she's just going nuts. You can see her bludgeoning over and over again with a spray of gore on her. And there's this look of anger, frustration--
Laura: She's raging.
Matt: --and a sick sense of joy a little bit in her eyes in how she's just tearing this dwarf apart. Eventually, after this frenzy, you're all taken aback, and she takes a moment. (heavy breathing) There is very little left recognizable of what once was a duergar.
Sam: I notice a bulge in Grog's pants. (all laugh)
Orion: I use my Mage Hand to slowly pick up my bottle of water... (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. She takes the mace she borrowed from you. (splatter sound)
Ashley: I'm sorry I questioned you.
Matt: As she begins to hand it back to you, there's a slight flash of radiant energy that emanates from her hand, and it burns all of the blood that currently encapsulates the mace off, and hands it back to you. "Thank you. I needed that."
Ashley: You're very welcome. I'm sorry I questioned you.
Orion: Give her something, Grog! Let her use one of your things!
Travis: That was amazing. (all laugh)
Orion: Like, you know, give her one of your things, Grog.
Travis: Could I, um, would you like to touch my axe? (all laugh)
Matt: "If you want to part with it, certainly."
Travis: Oh, uh. (clears throat, sniffs) Maybe we should get out of here. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Why don't we collect your things?
Laura: Yeah, where are they? Do you know?
Taliesin: I would assume they're being stored upstairs.
Matt: "I have no idea. They're either in the vault or they're in the armory."
Sam: Vault or the armory? Those are places that we can go?
Laura: There's a vault?
Taliesin: Are there stairs in the room that we're in?
Matt: "As far as I can tell, my--"
Liam: Lady Kima, are these things absolutely necessary? We have a secret entrance to this place. We could leave now. Are they of vital importance, the things you've lost?
Matt: She thinks to herself for a second, and goes, "They are divine implements, gifted to me from an avatar of Bahamut directly. I feel, to leave them behind would be a partial failure to my quest. Not to mention, that what we may face beyond this, we'll need every bit of help we can get."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Liam: Well, that's that then.
Orion: You'll have a friend in us, that's for sure.
Laura: Let's find the frigging vault!
Taliesin: Let's go upstairs.
Liam: Let's go to the vault! Let's go upstairs.
Matt: As you show the back of that card, she gives you a look and smiles and says, "Ah. It's good to see that your scale of color does not belie your intent. That is a face I've not seen for some time. I thank you." She leaps off the table. "So." (sighs) "Shall we?"
Sam: Do you know where the vault is?
Matt: "I can show you."
Laura: (whispering) Yes!
Sam: Lead the way!
Marisha: I go up to her, still in my Minxy form, and I rub on her legs.
Taliesin: Have you dropped the body yet?
Travis: I get right up behind them too, competing for space.
Taliesin: Are you dragging a dead body around?
Marisha: No, I dropped the body. While she was talking, I took the body, and I drug it back, and I buried my shame. (all laugh)
Marisha: So, first, I buried my shame.
Matt: Your shame has been sufficiently buried. (laughter continues)
Orion: Hashtag bury your shame.
Marisha: And I purr.
Matt: She doesn't look at you, but she pats you absentmindedly as she passes you, her direct intent on heading back up those stairs herself.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Let's go, but should we unlock all the other dwarves?
Laura: Yes, let's let all the other dwarves out, and maybe give them some food to try to help them out, if we can.
Travis: In the meantime, I have a greatsword or a morningstar mace that you can have until we find your items.
Matt: "Greatsword."
Travis: Greatsword it is.
Matt: She takes it from you, and the sword is a little over a foot taller than she is. Maybe a little more than that.
Laura: She's really fricking buff.
Matt: But as you hand it to her, she still takes it, and you can see--
Liam: She's a ripped halfling.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: --she is a built halfling female. She has seen some war, and she has survived some shit.
Liam: She's the Tyler Durden of halflings. (all laugh)
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Travis: As I see her grab the sword, I ask, "Would you care for some ale?" (all laugh)
Matt: She glances over her shoulder at you, and says, "Later. We have nothing to celebrate for yet."
Travis: Absolutely. Plenty of time! (all laugh)
Liam: I think Grog is smitten!
Laura: She comes to your knee.
Liam: Oh my goodness!
Laura: Can I run in the little prison, and tell the dwarves, if they are conscious, to say, "Don't exit from where you came. There's a secret entrance up and in a store room. Go that way, and stealth out."
Matt: One of the ones that was semi-conscious--
Laura: All of that, I say all of it.
Matt: He sits up and looks at-- (laughs) That's fucked up. Sits up and looks back at you and - (ragged breathing) "Thank ye. Thank ye kindly."
Laura: Here's some cheese! (all laugh)
Matt: He takes it hungrily through the bars and just starts eating it, incessantly, as you leave.
Taliesin: Government cheese.
Liam: Is provolone all you've got?
Matt: Lady Kima's already up the stairs.
Laura: It's Velveeta.
Matt: (disgusted groan) Velveeta!
Sam: We're following up the stairs.
Marisha: (laughs) It's calories!
Matt: All right. Clean this off here.
Laura: Oh goodness, oh goodness!
Taliesin: It's going to be fun! Savage burning--
Travis: I'm right with Minxy, competing for first place.
Liam: I place a hand on Lady Kima’s shoulder--
Marisha: First place, for how fucked-up we are.
Travis: Perfection! (laughs)
Marisha: Perfection! (laughs)
Liam: --place a hand on Kima's shoulder and say, "Please, allow me," and move several feet ahead of her and start sneaking along.
Matt: As you move up to her, you notice she's standing at the bottom of the stairs with a tension, staring up at the top of the stairway, where Clarota is looking down at her--
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: --and backing away, and she goes--
Orion: Oh! Yes. Uh--
Laura: Wait- Wait!
Matt: "Who is this filthy--"
Taliesin: No no no no!
Marisha: (screams)
Orion: I put my Mage Hand in front of her. Wait, wa-wait! Hold on! It- it's fine! Er, this mind flayer is with us! We saved him, or he- he's our ally now; he's fine. No one needs to fight. He, uh, she's fine, he's fine. His name is Clarota.
Taliesin: He's been an enormous help.
Matt: Without taking her eyes off of Clarota--
Orion: This is Kiva-
Sam: Kima.
Orion: Kima.
Matt: She looks back over - (laughs)
Orion: We are allies, all, yes?
Matt: "Are you to tell me that you've come down here and allied yourself with an entity that is the anathema of the Mountain?"
Orion: Yes!
Travis: Uh, what was that word?
Liam: I'm right at her shoulder, so I say, "We understand he's dangerous, but he's gotten us this far."
Matt: "And for what purpose? You think they don't have plots lined out for weeks and months--"
Orion: No, no, no! Listen, listen-
Matt: "--there is no trust to be had with these creatures."
Liam: He has been shit out by these creatures. They do not want him or trust him. He is an outcast. And we are working together, in this moment, and without him we would not have gotten here.
Laura: We see a single tear drop from Clarota's eye.
Matt: "And with him you will never get out."
Orion: No! We have his, er, alliance. There's a greater entity controlling his people, which he has been outcast from, like Vax was saying!
Matt: "And have you not thought for a second that perhaps all of you are being manipulated by this creature?"
Ashley: Well, I have.
Matt: You can see the greatsword now flares with divine energy and she goes, "I will not stand here and let us ally ourselves with this filth!"
Orion: (shouting) "Lady Kima!" And I blow fire breath. And I use Control Flames to create a bunch of swords around me with fire.
Laura: Don't threaten Kima! She's better.
Orion: (harshly) I give you my word.
Matt: Her attention divided from Clarota, now tends towards you.
Orion: Don't act me a fool, and don't treat me like one either! None of us are half-wits as you are claiming. We would not be fooled by such a creature like this. The words he speaks are true. And we believe him.
Matt: You go ahead and make a diplomacy check. Or a persuasion. Persuasion check.
Laura: Oh god!
Liam: Get it on, Tiberius!
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Get. It. On.
Orion: That's terrible.
Liam: Oh. Get it off?
Sam: Not good.
Laura: Not good?
Sam: Not good!
Orion: 12.
Matt: 12. Okay. She walks towards you, and with each step, you can see the color of her eyes begins to vanish, giving way to an extremely bright, burning, silver light. And she says--
Laura: (whispering) Oh my god, she's so cool!
Matt: "Listen. You come with me. Without this creature! Or you continue with it, and without me."
Orion: Why you have to be like that?
Matt: "I will not walk beside this. I have had its people devour mine since I set foot in here. This creature, whatever its reasoning is, is not in your best interest. It will lead you into a web of your own destruction! I've seen their kind work."
Liam: Clarota!
Orion: Yeah, they're mostly buttholes, but he's not a butthole! (all laugh)
Orion: I understand that -
Liam: Clarota!
Orion: - we had to kill a couple and he actually helped a lot!
Liam: Speak your mind! Convince her. Fix this.
Matt: Clarota, at the top of the stairs, you can see his tendrils in his mouth curl back in a sneer, his hands crossed before--
Orion: He won't even do anything!
Matt: --Clarota says, (gasping, breathy voice) "Listen. I am not going to walk where I am not welcome. I will not wake up with this--"
Liam: Giving us a Walking Dead decision.
Matt: "--woman's blade in my back! We made a deal."
Marisha: People with kids. You deal with this all the time.
Liam: I walk between them and put hands out.
Laura: Come on, roll a 20!
Liam: And say, "We all want the same thing. Kima. Tell us. What is it that you've come here for? What is your purpose here? Speak your mind, if you are true."
Matt: Kima turns back towards you, the same glowing flare in her eyes. "I've come here to rid this mountain and this continent of the darkness that resides deep within the bowels of this thing's city!"
Liam: Clarota, why have you come here. What is it you seek?
Matt: Clarota settles into itself for a second. "Ah, I've come to destroy this creature K'Varn and free my people."
Liam: Then the two of you. Get over your fucking shit. (all laugh)
Liam: We want the same thing here. Get over yourselves. Both of you. We share a common purpose. We are going to end this fucking bullshit. Kima, we have come here for you. Pay us the respect that we have earned. We have come a long way for you. He is an unlikely ally, but he has gotten us to this point. And together, for this moment and this moment only, we can work together. We don't have to be school chums or buddies in a week from now. But right now, right here, we will work together and achieve the same thing. What say you, Kima?
Matt: She looks towards you and says, "Free his people, he says. What do you think will happen once his people are free? Shall they let us walk out on our own?"
Orion: Yes! He said so! And then they'll be buttholes when we leave!
Matt: "You know so very little of these dark caverns, my dragon friend."
Orion: Yeah, it's our first time here!
Matt: "These entities I watched steal the very life essence of the men and women I hired and travelled with for weeks down here. I watched them capture them, and devour their very minds before me, and laugh and cackle as I fled into the shadows."
Laura: But they were under control of K'Varn at that point. Yeah!
Matt: "Oh! Understand; whether or not K'Varn controls them to give them direction, they are of that type of mindset at all points. They do not hope society will thrive. They do not want us free peoples to walk the surface. They want us for food."
Sam: Lady Kima, if I may. If you're intending us to choose between you, and our ally Clarota, and we can't get you to see eye to eye with us, then I'm afraid you leave us no choice but to choose our own friend Clarota over you.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Sam: We're giving you one last chance. Either you are with us, or you are against us. This is a threat.
Matt: "So you walk in here, save me from my binds, under the words of my dear, lifelong friend Arcanist Allura--"
Sam: We mean you no ill will. It is you who are aggravating the situation.
Liam: You could be sitting in a cell by yourself doing fuck-all, or ending this problem now.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Everyone's giving her inspirational talks.
Laura: I'm so nervous! Oh, Scanlan, come on!
Sam: Well, I rolled a 3...
Liam: I rolled a 13.
Sam: But I have a plus 13! So that's a 16.
Liam: Plus 13? 3 plus 13? Okay.
Ashley: Plus, plus, uh... hold on. (all laugh)
Ashley: Because, you didn't- where the fuck. (all laugh)
Ashley: War God's Blessing!
Matt: Cleric flail!
Ashley: No, I can't do that, because that's when a person makes an attack roll. (all laugh)
Ashley: Get 'em, Scanlan! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Can I assist?
Laura: He assisted because he was talking--
Matt: Unfortunately, it's too late. Once the roll--
Sam: No, he was with me, he was with me.
Laura: He assisted?
Matt: Right, right. And because of that, the DC has been considered. She takes a moment and steps forward. She's a few inches taller than you.
Sam: Of course she is! Everyone is! (all laugh)
Matt: And she looks at you, and says, "He of the pretty voice. I am grateful that all of you have come and traversed all this danger in my name, to free me from the binds that have held me. And I do wish, very much, to walk alongside you to this end. And I understand, it may be very well possible that this thing has taken your minds without your knowledge. However--" And her eyes close for a second, and she opens them again, and that radiant spark of silver fades, and her normal eye color returns. "We see ourselves with little choices. And I have very little allies at this point to achieve my goal."
Laura: (whispering) Oh, thank god.
Matt: "If we are to travel together, this one must walk in step the entire time. One single misstep, and I will not hesitate to carve that head from your body in the name of Bahamut."
Orion: I'm sorry. Do you mean like dancing?
Travis: I will help you do that if he missteps.
Matt: Clarota, hands still crossed, takes a step down the stairs towards her. Its tendrils in its mouth kind of-- (slurping SFX) (breathy voice) "And please, understand, if you ever intend to try and cut my life short, I will also not hesitate to bore that beautiful mind from your skull."
Liam: Once we murder this K'Varn, you guys are going to laugh so hard.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Sam: So friends then?
Orion: Allies, allies.
Travis: Allies, allies.
Laura: Allies?
Taliesin: I suppose everybody understands everyone now.
Orion: Allies. Clarota likes allies.
Laura: Good times.
Liam: The enemy of my enemy...
Orion: Is...
Laura: Is my...
Sam: Has mind-sucking tentacles.
Matt: She looks back at the rest of you and gives you all an understanding look and a nod and she says, "I pray that you are right. I pray that you're honest and I pray that through some strange will of the gods, this entity is telling the truth. Because if it's not, none of us will make it out of here alive."
Liam: We're playing a game of chess here, Kima, and we will win.
Laura: I whisper in her ear "I would have chosen you."
Sam: And I start humming 'Kumbaya'. (all laughing)
Sam: Kumbaya, my lord. Kumbaya.
Orion: I take the dagger and make a happy face of fire.
Matt: She doesn't notice this, as she steps up the stairs towards Clarota.
Laura: Oh god. Okay.
Matt: Clarota steps back, hands up in front, this little spark of arcane energy forming in his hands. Clarota [sic], bringing the sword up in front of her, pushes Clarota aside and continues ascending back up the stairs to the first level. (offscreen thump)
Matt: --To the first level. (all laugh)
Orion: Killing two guards on the way.
Matt: Clarota puts the hands folded back together. (unimpressed huff) (breathy voice) "Shall we?" And walks up the stairs after her. And you all begin to ascend back onto the first floor and that’s where we’ll end the game for this evening. (Multiple groans and exclamations)
Marisha: What? No. What time is it? I thought we just got started?
Travis: I thought we were going to have to pick. We got like ten more minutes!
Marisha: Yeah, we have ten more minutes.
Sam: No, no, no. That's fine, that's fine.
Laura: No, yeah, that is a good place, or we're going to get in a battle.
Matt: (chuckles) Depending on where you guys are going next it could be a bit of a lengthy encounter, so...
Laura: Oh god.
Liam: So the building is empty.
Matt: It's totally empty.
Laura: Completely empty.
Liam: There's ghouls everywhere.
Matt: There’s nobody in there. No one has any idea that you're here.
Travis: Wait, show of hands, if we have to pick between one or the other, who's picking Kima?
Orion: Oh, Kima?
Travis: Who's picking turtle-face?
Liam: I don't know.
Orion: She's Allura's friend, right?
Travis: We're going to throw down, this is gonna be Marvel versus DC in this bitch.
Laura: She's Allura's friend, she's good!
Liam: Undecided, I don't know.
Laura: Would you pick Kima?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Sam: You just want her because she's badass and you could hump her.
Travis: Yeah! (all laugh)
Matt: Oh, Grog.
Laura: That would be the most awkward humping ever.
Orion: That's a good idea. Grog! You can go hump, I can get Allura.
Liam: She can hump your leg.
Travis: Did you see her work in that room of blood?
Taliesin: Only one of them is demanding that I become a liar.
Marisha: Isn't Kima a dwarf?
Matt: No, Kima is a halfling.
Laura: Kima is a halfling.
Marisha: Halfling?
Liam: She's a ropy, muscular, halfling.
Ashley: Wait, dang it! I wanted to take some torture weapons!
Matt: You can go back if you want to.
Ashley: Yeah, can I go back since we have ten minutes and go get some torture weapons?
Liam: What's it for?! (all laugh)
Matt: This would be pretty quick, you have to grab some things as everyone is heading up the stairs.
Liam: Who's your deity? Harvey Keitel? (More laughing)
Ashley: No! Just for Grog!
Matt: So, Pike, the war priest, however, who the light of Sarenrae has guided her through her life, once a gifted being of light and joy, upon coming to the edge of death, her soul taken from her form and returned, going at sea and traveling with some of the more rough and tumble folks of the landscape, has returned now with her mind bent on war, vengeance--
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: --and what it means to win a battle, through force if necessary. Watching Pike rush off and going to gather up what appear to be two large, bladed hooks--
Ashley: (hissing)
Matt: .--a lengthy hand-razor--
Taliesin: Nice.
Ashley: Okay, wait, hold on. Lengthy hand-razor...
Marisha: You're going to go Sweeney Todd all up in this shit.
Laura: (mimicking Ashley) Hold on, hold on. Lengthy hand-razor. (More laughter)
Liam: A Milli Vanilli album, and...
Ashley: Wait, what was the first one?
Matt: Two large, pointed hooks that are about two feet in length. Almost like a bladed jai alai.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: And you gather a small bag of various instruments that are rusty and nasty.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: There is just some leather pouch and you put that in your bag. It's all you have time to grab before you have to bolt back up to get to the rest.
Taliesin: (swishing SFX)
Matt: And we'll pick up the next game as you guys head up the stairs back into the hallway you first entered in the center of the Emberhold duergar stronghold, Lady Kima released and a very tentative alliance. So, thank you guys all for watching.
Ashley: Whoo!
Marisha: Pain in the ass, Lady Kima. Pain in my ass.
Laura: Hey.
Zac: Oh hey.
Matt: Hello, Zac!
Zac: I was doing my little pop-ins here.
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: So we had some donations to the charity.
Matt: Oh, that's awesome!
Laura: Really?
Marisha: Yeah!
Marisha: Thanks guys.
Zac: I have really terrible handwriting, so... So I wrote these myself and I'm supposed to read them and...
Matt: Right, right, that's okay.
Zac: TheConman93.
Matt: Conman93, thank you!
Zac: ...Marilyn?
Matt: Marilyn, thank you!
Zac: A123Junior.
Matt: A123Junior, appreciate it, buddy.
Zac: Poltergeist123.
Matt: Poltergeist123, yeah. All good movies. First two.
Zac: Almsnuffufin... Um, Eon? Something?
Matt: Yeah MisnurMenfrishunsen.
Zac: AxisOfAnarchy...
Matt: Thank you. Nice, Axis.
Zac: RuzGofDi.
Matt: RuzGofDi! Thank you guys so much for donating! Really appreciate it.
Zac: Give to charity. Thank you.
Matt: Thank you, guys.
Zac: So thank you guys for tuning in tonight and for all you front page viewers. We stream 6 to 7 hours 5 to 6 days a week. We do a lot of varied programming, from comic book shows to tabletop gaming to Steam group games, indie gaming. All sorts of fun stuff. Every Friday night we have live music and bands play and stuff.
Laura: Nice!
Zac: And tomorrow we're having a special party to celebrate our reaching 2000 subscribers.
Matt: Yeah. That's awesome. (Cheering and clapping)
Zac: You guys are all welcome to stop by.
Matt: We might just do that. Awesome.
Zac: It's from 7 to 9 we'll have a band playing, we're gonna do some fun group games. Probably play some inappropriate Cards Against Humanity. And Super Fight and stuff like that.
Matt: As if there was appropriate Cards Against Humanity.
Zac: Every time I break it out, I'm like, I should never do this. (all laugh)
Matt: I know. It's part of the fun. And we're every Thursday, 7 o'clock, 7PM Pacific Standard Time. Usually we run about 2 and a half, 3 hours, our game sessions. So please come watch every Thursday. We love to have you guys.
Zac: And for Team Hooman tomorrow is Ify Appreciation Day. So if you guys want to get on that. And for those that know Ify as sholfboys and not much else, Ify is a really prominent figure in the local comedy scene and he does a lot of work on shows like Key & Peele, Comedy Bang! Bang!, stuff like that. He's a really talented dude. You should look him up before you write those tweets just so you know more of what he's about. And we are going to throw that dropcam up and set up for dancing. If any of you want to stay, you're welcome to. If not, you're welcome to leave. No one is going to force you, except chatroom now that I brought it up. (all laugh)
Ashley: I mean, it's a good workout after all this food.
Zac: You burn some calories after all that chicken, right?
Ashley: Burn some calories...
Laura: Right, right.
Matt: Exactly.
Zac: We are, I think, 20 away from a giveaway. So as long as we're live, the giveaway counts.
Travis: Is valid.
Matt: Exactly.
Zac: So, if you get 20 subs before we go offline we will ship this wherever you are in the world. So, let's throw the dropcam up!
Matt: Yeah guys, thank you so much! (kiss)

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to Critical Role an online show on Twitch where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer. I'm the Dungeon Master. For returning fans, welcome, and for new folks, prepare. A couple of fun things to announce: first things first, unfortunately we are down a Percy this evening. Our buddy Taliesin picked up a con plague in Alaska this past weekend. He had a great time, but came back very ill and has been trying to get better, and is unable to make the game tonight. Which makes the current storyline a little interesting, but we'll work it out. It's fine. No Mercy Percy is going to have some business he's attending to. Thank the Critters for that. That's an awesome hashtag! So Taliesin, I hope you feel better. We miss you. Next week we continue that arc. Let's see, first and foremost, still every 100 subs we get on the channel we have a giveaway to someone who's active in the chatroom. The winner of that giveaway gets a signed picture of the cast of Critical Role, as well as a signed poster by our amazing artist Kit Buss, who was with us for our last session. Those are both given away to whoever wins that, so keep those subs going. Also, there is currently going around a hashtag: No Shave 'Til 10k. A number of people on the stream are a part of that. All sexes can compete and be a part of this, too. No Shave 'Til 10k. If you want to be a part of that, go ahead and tweet that out. Get that hashtag going and I'll see if I can convince Marisha to let me do that. We'll see. At the very least, for my Halloween costume. All right, so other cool things to talk about: all of tonight's donations are going towards the Extra Life charity. The Extra Life charity is a drive that's part of the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. A lot of great people in the community have been supporting this and we're supporting that tonight. So any donations tonight will go to Extra Life. Also over the next two days, we will also be streaming here at Geek and Sundry doing a lot of other charity events for the Extra Life charity drive, including a small DND game-- some of us-- on Saturday evening with the Vox Moronica crew. So that should be fun. Come check that out! Oh, Dungeons and Dragons, the official Wizards of the Coast folks are also doing their Extra Life stream over the next 48 hours. They're just going to be doing live DND streams as well. So starting tomorrow at noon through Sunday at noon, just constant DND on the Wizards of the Coast stream as well. And all of that is going to be raising money for Extra Life. So you'll have a lot of things to keep you busy this weekend essentially. So there's that. Also, we have New York Comic Con coming up in just a couple of weeks. Excited about that, for all you guys. We have panels on Saturday. Do we have times for those yet?
Liam: Between 1 00 and 4 00 is when we're doing stuff.
Matt: Yeah, between 1 00 and 4 00. We have about an hour panel in there somewhere and then probably two hours of signings at the event on Saturday. So 1:00 and 4:00! Leave that period of time open. Hang out.
Marisha: We'll have prints!
Matt: Exactly! And then on Sunday, outside of the convention, because we know a lot of the badges were snatched up before this announcement even happened and a lot of the Critters aren't able to make it to the actual con. On Sunday, we're looking around midday. We don't have a time or location determined yet, but that will be up on Twitter soon. It's going to happen. We're going to have an offsite Critter meetup. Where we're going to all be able to be there, hang out with you guys and catch up, sign stuff, say hi, and have a good time. So watch Twitter. If you don't follow us on Twitter, do it, because we'll have those announcements coming up very soon. So excited about that. Liam, you wanted to announce--
Liam: Yes! This is the final chance for y'all to jump on Joe Madureira's Kickstarter, Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They have absolutely killed their Kickstarter. They hit their goal, their initial goal about two or three days in, and they have been hitting every single stretch goal they've had. They've got one last mystery stretch goal left to hit. So it's a good time to get in and just get them to the very tippy, tippy top of their campaign, which is about to end. If you guys don't know, really quick, because I've been talking about it for two weeks: Joe Madureira, amazing comic book legend, has drawn everything. It looks like nobody else's and has a good history in game dev as well. Created Darksiders with his company, Vigil Games, that he helped found. And now he has founded Airship Syndicate, and they're making an RPG in the style of JRPGs that you've loved in your lives. But also with Joe's ridonkulous art style. So go get on it.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you, Liam. Orion, you wanted to say something real fast as well.
Orion: Yes. Greetings and salutations, everyone! Last week when Kit was here-- Hi Kit, we miss you! We went to It's a Wrap over in Burbank, California. Me and Liam and Laura and Marisha and Kit and her hubby. We were there and saw this robe, and I think Marisha and Laura were like, try it on, and I was like, okay. And I tried it on and was like, oh my god, it was made for me.
Matt: The Tiberius robe you always knew-- or didn't know you wanted.
Orion: Yeah, totally, I was like, oh my god, and Liam tweeted a picture about it, and then I was streaming on my stream on Twitch and somebody mentioned the robe. And Michael Bauman-- thank you again, I'm going to thank you on Critical Role for-- he donated $400, which was the cost of the robe, and then he just wrote in the chat, this is for the robe, so I'm wearing the robe.
Laura: That's awesome!
Orion: Thank you very much. Thank you so much you guys and all you guys who pitched in and stuff. Thank you.
Matt: We'll find many cool excuses to have that robe be displayed and utilized in many ways. I'm pretty sure he hasn't taken it off since he got it.
Laura: Yeah, it smells really bad, you guys.
Matt: Awesome! Anybody else have any other announcements before we get this party started?
Travis: I like cheese.
Matt: Travis likes cheese, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: That's a good announcement.
Matt: I think so. It was very informative. Thank you, Travis. All right, then. Without further ado, let's go ahead and cut to the intro and then we'll jump right into the next episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! So picking up after the events of last week, to give you guys a little bit of a refresher. After the party had returned from their journey into Vasselheim for quite a few weeks, they discovered upon returning that the illustrious Briarwoods, current owners of Castle Whitestone and overseers of the entire city of Whitestone and sticking point in Percy's background, were coming to Emon to meet for essentially a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei to discuss construction of a bridge. It was a very political endeavor. And the council of Tal'Dorei was invited, including Vox Machina. There was a week of preparation in going into this event to see exactly what the Briarwoods were about. Information was gathered at this banquet. Vax went on his own little adventure into the Briarwoods' room, in which they nearly killed him. (chuckles)
Liam: Hey, everybody!
Matt: I didn't notice the shirt until now. So yeah, the party rushed out to his aid. Much violence ensued. The Briarwoods eventually escaped through some sort of magical means that was not uncovered. However, they are no longer in the picture. The party was left with a destroyed carriage, a young carriage driver who had his hand shot off by Percy, and was then told to the guards to haul off and bring to their keep to throw into their cell for further questioning. Uriel was eventually drawn out and confused by the sudden chaos and vehemently requested that Vox Machina return the next morning to go over what has transpired. After which, the party during this event had encountered a tiefling by the name of Lillith, who was masquerading as one of the servants within the palace of Tal'Dorei. Aided them in the battle and revealed that she was being hunted by her sisters in a distant land and revealing herself here essentially opened up her physical presence to be pinpointed and then immediately sought and hunted by whoever was after her. The party then brought her back to the keep. They were on the way back before they were encountered by this bounty hunter and a small team of individuals that were coming with him to seek down, capture Lillith, and bring her back to her sisters. The party then defended her in this circumstance, brutally murdering one of them. Sorry, brutally murdering two of them. One of which was then raised and sent off as a present to the sisters by Lillith. One was salvaged, not given an honorable death, and sent to find his way somewhere northwest of Emon. Possibly towards Vasselheim or wherever else he may find his adventure. They then gave Lillith the opportunity to come stay the night to rest in the keep and they all made their way back to Greyskull Keep for the evening. And that was where we left off. So as the evening progresses you all manage to get your rest and gather your thoughts over the rather stressful experience you had the previous evening within the palace. The next morning comes around. You all come to consciousness. Breakfast is prepared by the servants of the keep. As you all wake up, start getting your meals and gathering what you want to do for the day, two individuals have not come down for their meal. Lillith and Percy.
Orion: Good morning, everyone!
Sam: Not everyone. We're missing two. A male and a female.
Laura: Oh. No.
Travis: You don't think?
Laura: Percy was upset.
Sam: Maybe he needed some comforting.
Orion: Oh, I see. Are you saying they're having relations?
Sam: I'm not saying that.
Laura: Perhaps we should check on them?
Travis: We should totally check on them!
Sam: Okay, but if there's a sock or a gun on the doorknob, don't go in.
Laura: Or a ribbon. She wore a ribbon.
Orion: Well, I was thinking last night, Grog, that we're probably going to be here for a little bit before going anywhere. Do we go anywhere?
Laura: We have to go see Uriel.
Orion: Who? Oh. Right! Yes! Also, I really want to see Allura. For no particular-- actually for very specific reasons. Yes.
Travis: I think he's lying.
Orion: One of them is  I want to pick up one of the Earrings of Telecommunication. It has been finished for quite some time. We just have to go to where she resides to pick it up. Then one of us could have another one.
Liam: That robe just takes it to a whole new level!
Laura: Yeah, it really does.
Orion: I feel so good.
Liam: I'm somewhat entranced.
Orion: I'm telling you, it's helping, too.
Travis: Do I feel a little tingle from my belt? And can I roll for a beard check?
Sam: Oh, beard check?
Travis: Six. Two.
Matt: You wake up, realizing that the morning has transpired. You reach up and grab. And what you guys notice as he comes up is there is a dark charcoal smear across one side of his face where facial hair would once be, to match the other side that is currently beautiful quaff and shining in the dapples of morning light that come through the keep window.
Travis: You know the remedy for it, you just turn your face in the looking glass.
Laura: Yeah, from this angle you look amazing Grog.
Travis: My god, I'm so handsome. Right? And then just horror. Sheer horror.
Orion: (poof) A little dust and fix that for him.
Laura: Oh, so it looks normal again? I like it! Yeah. Beautiful. Don't touch it.
Matt: The color's a little off, but it looks better than not having it.
Marisha: In my head you're like those Mr. Wooly magnetic toys when you're a kid.
Travis: I would shave it and get it even, but let's be honest, given history, it's going to take care of itself soon enough. These things don't live very long.
Laura: I'm going to go upstairs and see if our guest, Lillith, is all right. I don't want to disturb Percy just yet.
Matt: All right. You head to the guest room. You have one guest room upstairs that was among the rest of the rooms that you guys had constructed.
Travis: (singing) They're going to be getting it on!
Matt: You knock on the door. A moment passes. No response.
Laura: Lillith? Are you with Percy? Lillith?
Matt: You knock a second time and the door (creaks) opens a little bit. It has not really been locked or closed.
Laura: I peek my head in.
Matt: You peek in and look.
Travis: Did you check for traps?
Matt: Roll a-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Already off! No. As you peek into the room, the lights are dimmed. What little bit of candles are in there are already down. Glancing in, the sheets are clean and set, the bed's been made, and there is a small piece of parchment that is folded on the edge of the bed.
Laura: Go and read it.
Matt: Read it? It reads, "Vox Machina, thank you all for your hospitality and protection through this past evening. I would stay, but the longer I remain, the more danger I am in, and as such, put all of you in as well. I shall travel across the Ozmit Sea to seek the guidance of my cousin Zahra, in hopes of finally getting out from under my sisters' baneful gaze. Nevertheless, I wish you all the finest of journeys, and I hope we meet again soon. Lillith."
Laura: She's so cute.
Marisha: I liked her bow. It was cute.
Laura: I tell everyone that she's gone. Gone.
Travis: No, she's in Percy's room! Scanlan, let's go see if he's banging!
Sam: All right, let's go! (laughter)
Matt: You run up and Percy's room is-- the door is already partially ajar.
Travis: (boom)
Matt: It bursts open. (wham) Slams on the side of the door, looking in the room. He's not there, is the first thing you notice. However, what you do see are a series of different books of sketches and designs and half-concocted blueprints for different things are crumpled and torn across the room. The bedsheets are thrown off the bed. It looks like the room has been continuously tossed through some sort of frenzied action, either seeking something or just out of emotional frustration. This room is left in far more disarray than you're used to seeing true to Percy's character.
Sam: My god, Grog. Percy's a hoarder.
Travis: Right.
Sam: Or he's in serious distress.
Travis: I think it's the previous.
Sam: The hoarder?
Travis: Yeah. Probably.
Sam: We must find him, don't you think? Our friend's in trouble. I proceed down to his tinkering lab. Doesn't he have some sort of lab downstairs?
Travis: My room's like shit, and I'm not in trouble.
Sam: Well, that goes with your character.
Matt: Yeah. You head down to the basement area, and to the right is the cell, to the left is the workshop. The workshop door is currently closed. There is a small slider eye vent where you can peek through.
Sam: Can I reach the eye vent?
Matt: You can if you leap hard enough and catch it on the edge.
Travis: I boost him up.
Matt: Okay. Looking inside, you can see, the forge is aglow. You hear the tangs of metal being hammered against the anvil, and you can see the form of Percy framed against the backlighting of the forge. He's feverishly working away on some sort of project.
Travis: Is he naked?
Sam: No, he's working too hard. Maybe we should just leave him be. Seems focused, driven, like a madman.
Travis: Oh. I get it. Like a madman?
Sam: I don't think you do.
Matt: At which point a voice rings out from across the room: Percy unmoving, still continuing his work, shouts over his shoulder, "Please, leave me be. I have a lot to think about right now."
Sam: Would you like a meal brought down?
Matt: "I'm fine. Thank you. Really. I need some time."
Sam: All right. If you're making things, a little ladder for the little perch here might be nice. Just in the future! But not now. That seems low priority.
Matt: He stops his banging, walks over and scribbles something on a paper, then goes back to banging. "Noted." (clanging)
Travis: I drop Scanlan and I lean in and I go, beware the water! It burns!
Matt: "Yes. Yes, it does, Grog. Good boy."
Sam: All right. So we go back up. Tell the fellows, Percy's in a mood. He's creating right now. I think we should just leave him be.
Laura: Understandable.
Liam: Let him get it out of his system.
Marisha: I'm really worried about him.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Matthew? Rolling-- 12. I'm just trying to teach my pet something but I rolled a 12.
Matt: For?
Orion: Oh, I want it to follow. To follow.
Matt: To follow. Okay. You gather, based on the recent intensity of trying to teach things to Lockheed over the past week. You succeed in a few. There is a bit of balking frustration that perhaps you've overstepped a little bit, and Lockheed feels maybe there's less of a friendship here more than a real master-servant relationship, at least in this moment, and does not seem to be receptive to your attempt.
Orion: He's in a mood, also. Why is everybody in a mood today?
Sam: I know. Percy's hate-smelting downstairs.
Laura: Percy has good reason to hate-smelt. He seems rather disturbed that the Briarwoods got away.
Sam: Yes. I feel responsible.
Marisha: Out of curiosity, did anyone else hear him-- did anyone else just happen to hear what he said in that fight last night?
Laura: I was a little bit preoccupied by watching him shoot a servant boy over and over and over again.
Marisha: It was after that, actually.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: Never mind.
Sam: What? No, spit it out. What did he say? It seems important.
Marisha: It's hard to say. You know Percy. I don't know where he gets these lines.
Sam: Is it fuck? Is it shit?
Travis: Cock! Bulls! Dong! Wang!
Liam: Steampunk!
Marisha: Jeez. Okay.
Travis: Donkey wang!
Marisha: This is getting really off subject.
Orion: I'm going to go down to my laboratory.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: It was when he was screaming the cluster of things as he was shooting that mercenary in the face, and he said, "What are you doing? You have no reason to be here. Your soul is now forfeit." Really, that last part is the most important one. The first stuff is fairly average. But yeah, "Your soul is now forfeit."
Travis: It's a good line.
Laura: It's a really good line.
Sam: Thought he was just trash-talking. You think there's more to it?
Marisha: I thought it was maybe a line and then it seemed really aggressive and strong and specific, so it made me think a lot. I don't know.
Laura: Did you ask him about it at all?
Marisha: We haven't seen him since that happened.
Travis: What do you think?
Laura: What, do you think his Pepperbox is-- what?
Marisha: I think he's not telling us everything, that's for sure.
Sam: Well, we all have some secrets.
Marisha: Yeah. But screaming, "Your soul is now forfeit?" That's not a secret. That's saying you peed the bed when you were a kid.
Liam: I worry, too, but he did lose his entire family.
Laura: He did pee the bed when he was a kid.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Liam: I am assuming. But he lost his entire family to those people.
Marisha: Sure. But he wasn't screaming this at the Briarwoods. He was screaming this at a random mercenary.
Laura: Well?
Marisha: What does that mean?
Travis: Maybe his soul is forfeit.
Marisha: To what?
Travis: Death?
Laura: Maybe we keep an eye on Percy.
Sam: That's a fair point, though. We'll keep an eye on him. He seems to be in a fragile state right now.
Laura: Percy's not the one who killed a poor old woman, though.
Sam: Did we kill her? I thought we just made her sleep and then walked away.
Travis: Nope. No. Total massacre.
Laura: Tiberius destroyed her.
Sam: Tiberius, you killed an old woman?
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Yeah, that's actually another thing I wanted to talk about. That was also really intense. You know, I get it. It was a hard day. It was a hard day, and we tend to get a little aggressive sometimes after hard days. We've all been there. But he didn't just murder an old woman. He chainsawed her. A sleeping, unconscious woman.
Travis: It was pretty great!
Sam: Are you saying that we should take it down a notch? Or maybe not brutally destroy the bad guys?
Marisha: You also were the only other one who seemed to be confused as to what was going on.
Laura: I shot her. I shot her in the back. Let's be honest. I didn't chainsaw her, but I did shoot her in the back as she was running away.
Sam: I made her go to sleep. That was peaceful.
Marisha: That's what I'm saying. That was good. That was nice.
Laura: I was aiming for her shoulder, if it makes any difference.
Travis: She did have that sweet little run, which was so cute.
Sam: Are you taking moral exception to some of our behavior?
Marisha: That might exactly be what I'm saying. Man, you see this is why I like you, Scanlan. You're so much better at the words than me. I don't think I even knew that's what I felt until you said it just now.
Sam: Well, this is something perhaps you should pray on and think on. If there's something you'd like us to change about our behavior, we can consider that. We're all friends. We're allies here. We should pay respect to you.
Marisha: I just don't want us to--
Liam: It's a fair point. We don't want to be corrupted by the very evil that we mean to stamp out in this world. She was trying to kill us. But your point is taken.
Marisha: She was a really old woman.
Liam: But she wasn't the secretary. She was trying to kill.
Marisha: Sure. But she was unconscious.
Travis: She actually didn't do anything, either.
Marisha: Yeah, she didn't really do anything at all.
Travis: She could have been taking notes.
Laura: She had a wand!
Marisha: I'm not saying she wasn't a threat and I'm not saying we shouldn't handle threats. I'm saying maybe we shouldn't dissect a woman with a spinning Krull blade who's sleeping on the ground. Defenseless, running away. She was fleeing.
Sam: All right. You know, this is constructive criticism, and we'll take it as such. And I, for one, will maybe not desecrate and denigrate bodies.
Laura: Just beds! And temples. (laughs)
Liam: I don't know! I mean, I see what Keyleth's saying, but I don't really want to cramp your style, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'll shit on things. Maybe not people.
Liam: We're like the A-Team, and that's your specialty. I don't really want to-- See, you should just shit when you feel the urge.
Laura: What time is it? Do we need to be getting to Uriel?
Travis: Oh yeah, what time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably pushing on 11 am, close to noon.
Laura: We should probably be getting to the palace.
Matt: Tiberius, what did you say you were doing down there? What did you say you were doing down in your laboratory?
Orion: Well, I was doing my research on that stuff last night and this morning.
Matt: Your which one?
Orion: It's just my ability because of my class. I do the backstory.
Matt: Your backstory is?
Orion: I am a noble sage.
Matt: Well, there's a noble and there's a sage.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I spliced them because it made sense. No. The noble part is the RP. The sage is the perk.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. That's good to know. All right.
Orion: And I was writing down the sigil to the keep. That's completed.
Matt: Okay. So the sigil is there for you. All right. And so as the sage-- All right. Okay. So yeah. Not difficult to research. There are a number of books. They're older books and things that were installed as part of the construction of this laboratory for you, and information that you have gathered since. There are various bestiaries and gatherings of information about the dangerous denizens in the countryside around you, and it is a very dangerous place outside of the few points of civilized society that has built up its own defenses. Throughout the evening and the morning, you've managed to find eventually a piece that talks about various undead entities and the process of undeath, and necromantic magics that have been perverted throughout the generations to defy the natural cycle of life. You do come across an entry about vampirism. It is extremely rare and was largely thought abolished close to 200 years ago. There are very rare whispers of any sort of cases out there, and usually as soon as something comes to any sort of public knowledge, large mobs gather and whoever was infected with this horrible state was hunted down and killed. What you do learn from this is religious symbology, while classically thought to have an effect on people afflicted with vampirism, actually has no effect. It's more of a superstition, but does not actually have any negative impact on the individual. However, certain things that do render a vampire easier to destroy: the presence of sunlight. Anything that counts as sunlight can damage them progressively the longer they're in it, prevent them from restoring their health, and ultimately destroy them and turn them to ash, should they be brought to the brink of death in the presence of sunlight. Also, very quickly and consistently rushing water. Being held into a rushing stream or under a waterfall would have a similar effect to sunlight. You do also know the stake in the heart is also considered to be a way to destroy them. It does not actually destroy them, but it does render them paralyzed and has to be done when they're in their resting place, within their coffin and/or the dirt that is considered their resting location. Usually that is the beginning step: to find and locate where the vampire is resting, stake in the heart, and then carry the body to sunlight or rushing water. And that's how they're permanently destroyed. You also find out that if a vampire is thought to be killed under any other circumstances, the body turns to mist and is nigh invulnerable and eventually finds its way back to wherever they've hidden their resting place to recover within a very short period of time, making them extremely dangerous, unless you have the right situation, the right conditions, to bring them to that point. So that information is now at your disposal.
Orion: Wonderful.
Travis: Do you want to tell us what you've learned?
Orion: I did it right this time! Knowing that, I take some files and-- I want to check if I can-- Nope. I can't do anything yet. That's it. I'm going to go upstairs.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys have gathered the time and what you might be, going forward, doing for the rest of the day, Tiberius comes upstairs with a bit of a smile and an air of confidence.
Laura: Oh good, you're back.
Liam: Tibs, we were just discussing the future of the group and the direction we've been taking. And a point was introduced that maybe perhaps, we started as a sort of a-- mercenary group is a bit strong-- but this alliance we have formed out of convenience. We all needed to eat. But now that we're at the stature we are, in a keep, in Emon. Friends to the emperor. We want to figure out what we're doing here. Do we want to be just powerful badasses who walk around getting what they want, or are we trying to enact some positive change in this world?
Orion: Yes, absolutely. That's what my items are for. I've only found one of them. There are still three or four, if they even exist out there. There are countless things to go and venture forth and explore.
Travis: What? Your items?
Orion: The artifacts, the Ring of Boros, the old hag. That is the next step in my quest. She told us it would be in the Feywood. Right?
Matt: Feywild. Close. Researcher.
Orion: That is where we need to go. But that's why we ran into her in Vasselheim, and she wouldn't tell me anything more.
Marisha: How do you plan to use your items? For better good in the world?
Orion: Well, you've seen how I've used my Mending Wheel. Countless ways.
Travis: Yeah, thank you. You healed my cask. I'll always be grateful.
Orion: Moreover, it would prove to the council that all of the things that I went on this journey for to begin with, it was true. Or for naught. And really, to gain the respect of my father and everyone else. You don't know how hard it is to be a chromatic dragon in a metallic world! It's not easy.
Liam: Well, there's no question that you are an invaluable member of Vox Machina, and our friend, and our family. And that is not in question.
Orion: Of course. Which is why I have pledged my loyalty to you all. And I need your strength, as well. There is no way I could accomplish in my mission alone. I mean, Grog, when I ran into you in that one bar. How many men were you beating up? I counted eight, if I recall.
Travis: I think that sounds right.
Sam: He can't count.
Travis: It's that many.
Orion: Here was this brute who I would have ran away from, but here you were, and I found you to be rather charming. I figured, well, that's some good company to keep, rather. And then I met the rest of you, and look where we are now!
Laura: Yes. Tiberius, the point of this is you killed an old woman last night, very brutally. Please maybe don't do that again.
Orion: She felt nothing, but of course. And I was giving my new Krull blade a good old try.
Laura: Yes, you were. Maybe not on sleeping people anymore. People who are actually attacking us.
Orion: She was-- okay, fine.
Liam: Well, I think the point is your abilities in arcane wonder are expanding daily. Exponentially. And perhaps be a little tentative. Do a little practice run in the woods on your own, once in a while, and see what the effects are before you go whipping it out.
Orion: Are there woods nearby?
Sam: This is an intervention. We love you very much, but you killed an old lady.
Travis: I like the way you kill people.
Orion: Well, yes.
Laura: We're all on the up and up now, right?
Orion: One raises a hand to me or Vox Machina, they are going to die.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah, they are!
Orion: It is simple. I do not know why this is a discussion. I won't be as cruel--
Marisha: You know, she didn't even really do anything. She was really old.
Laura: She was attacking us.
Liam: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Clearly, we all love you as family, and nobody blames you, but you once killed a child, and none of us blame you for that.
Travis: Is it too early to start drinking? I pull out the cask of ale.
Liam: And that happened in the heat of battle.
Marisha: You know, I'm really sensitive about that, Vax. I'm really sensitive about that, Vax!
Liam: I'm well aware.
Marisha: And that was different.
Laura: It was an accident!
Marisha: That was pretty fucking deliberate, what he did.
Orion: Yes, to someone who was opposing us. That was a child who was innocent. Or was he opposing us, too? I don't remember, actually.
Liam: And it all falls apart.
Marisha: He was being puppeted by sorcerer Michael Jackson.
Liam: No one agrees with you today more than I, and I think we can adjust our perspective slightly. Right, Grog?
Travis: What's the word?
Liam: See?
Sam: Kill softer.
Orion: I'll show you how. You just have to do it really slow.
Laura: Uriel's waiting for us.
Sam: Let's table this. We'll stick a pin in this discussion. We'll all be thinking long and hard about this.
Laura: Keyleth, it wasn't intentional and everybody knows that.
Liam: Absolutely. Not intentional. No.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie and start walking.
Travis: Minxie! I go and give a little scratch behind the ears.
Matt: You guys gather and make your way into the city of Emon proper.
Laura: Actually, before we head towards Uriel, we probably should-- do we have any sort of proof that the Briarwoods actually did horrible things and it wasn't us attacking them?
Liam: Well, I've got these little scars right here.
Matt: The scars are still there. They're still wounds that are healing.
Laura: All right. Cool. Just making sure that we had something.
Liam: And then there was what's-his-name, Awesome Pants, who was there.
Laura: Seeker Asum.
Orion: Allura saw everything, as well.
Sam: Did she see the fight?
Laura: Allura didn't see the fight.
Liam: We know she knows what's up, but whether she can be used as a reliable witness is-- we've got multiple witnesses.
Sam: There were those guards, too. There was guards outside the door.
Liam: They were incinerated.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Laura: Plus, they were the Briarwoods' guards, anyway.
Orion: One of them was still alive. I didn't kill both of them.
Laura: He went away with the Briarwoods, I'm going to assume.
Travis: What a dick! We go to see Uriel.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I made a choice for the team! (laughter)
Matt: As you're having this discussion, all of you make your way into the city of Emon, across the districts to the Cloudtop. You're greeted and let within the gate into the central district there. You make your way to the palace of Tal'Dorei, through the front doors. The guards that are there lead you in and one of them says, "Uriel is waiting within the throne chamber." You guys are led down the main hallway into the very center of the palace.
Marisha: I come out of Minxie.
Matt: The nervous guard, thankfully, puts his weapon away and is like, "Oh! Lady Keyleth, my apologies." And puts his spear to the side.
Laura: Trinket's still here, though.
Liam: I buzz over to that specific guard and say, do you have a lost and found here? I have this really badass serpent-style belt. Sometimes it crawls around on its own. Sometimes it's just a belt. And I lost it here the other night. And I'm really hoping-- I mean, it ties everything together. Is there anyone I can check with?
Matt: "Check back after you've spoken with the Sovereign, please. Thank you." Leads you guys on. As you head down the main hallway-- and you recall this hallway. This was a long, dangerous trek the first time you came to the palace. This was where Uriel's family was possessed. This is where you had your battle with the glabrezu. This is where Pike was slain. This is where you had to pull the shadows from the bodies of his family. This is a very emotional place that you really haven't been to since that sequence of events. Walking in already has this tenuous state of low-simmering energy. As you're brought into the main chamber, you can see there is the dual thrones for Uriel and his wife. His wife is not present; his family is not present, just Uriel sitting on the throne. There are a few guards on the different entrances to the room. As you walk in, Uriel just sits there on the throne and gives you acknowledgment and ushers you into the room. You all step in. Trinket behind you keeping an eye out. Like a bear is wont to do. You guys make your way up towards the very edge of the central raised dais where the thrones are currently set up on. You now see on the opposite side of the room, Seeker Asum and Allura walk in, as well as Arbiter Brom, who is the cleric that is the Master of Law in the city. They walk up and flank the sides of the throne, stepping back a little bit to not gather all the attention, but definitely be there as a show of support. As they enter, the doors on the other side of the room and the door behind you open, and roughly 30 guards enter the chamber quietly. They all filter in, blocking all the exits. The doors close. No weapons are drawn, but there is a very strong showing of muscle in this room that you weren't expecting for this meeting. Once all the guards are settled and a really awkward silence hits the room, Uriel stands up from the throne and looks upon you. Pacing slightly, back and forth. "Thank you all for joining me. I must say, I am troubled by recent events, and I wish to speak to you regarding them before taking any action. I owe you that much for all you've done for me. Before you left for Vasselheim, you showed immediate interest in the Briarwoods. Percy in-- Where is Percival?"
Sam: Well, he's not feeling well today after the events of last night, so he stayed behind.
Matt: "Well, then please relay this conversation to him as soon as you see him. You exhibited interest in the Briarwoods before leaving for Vasselheim. I, through trust, did not inquire as to why. But upon your return, eagerly told you they were coming to this feast and invited you as part of the Council of Tal'Dorei to join this feast, as it was your request. I graciously followed through. You showed up. A meal was had. Questions were asked, although curious ones; I did not pry. Now I have since been notified, and seen a bit of the aftermath, that you, Vox Machina, seemingly attacked our guests shortly-- please. Listen. Attacked our guests shortly after the meal in their own guest quarters. Forcing them to flee, after you destroyed the hallway, ruined their carriage, murdered two of their guards, two more outside, and leaving Seeker Asum to witness this entire process." Asum gives a nod. "You then tortured their carriage driver, requested he be sent to the dungeon beneath your keep. And upon my sentries returning from Greyskull to deliver him, they find a freshly murdered old woman not far behind the path you took. Not long after, Seeker Asum found me and corroborated most of this unexpected, violent behavior. I then asked Arbiter Brom here to divine the nature of this murder. And through his divine sight, through the goddess Ioun, comes to tell me it was none other than you, Tiberius, that slaughtered this elderly woman while she slept."
Orion: Yes!
Matt: "Now, I am quite disturbed by the events of these past 14 hours, and I would like to hear an explanation. Arbiter, if you could please, prepare the space." Arbiter Brom steps forward and pulls forth from underneath his robes a necklace that contains a holy symbol. The same symbol you saw across the temple beneath the Slayer's Take, an eye-like inscription of the god Ioun. Brom grasps it, looks about you all, and prepares this slight hand gesture, and you feel a slight tingle across the skin that lasts a few seconds.
Marisha: Can I recognize the spell he's casting?
Matt: I'll say go ahead and make a-- this would be a religion check.
Marisha: He's doing a cleric thing, yeah? Seven.
Matt: All right. Unable to ascertain the nature. However, the incantation completes. No seeming noticeable effect. Brom nods and steps back in the line of the thrones. I want all of you guys to roll charisma saving throws.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. Always a problem.
Orion: 19.
Marisha: 11.
Sam: I get advantage, and I rolled a 27.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Bards.
Liam: 19.
Laura: 13.
Travis: 18.
Matt: All right. Good to know. Uriel then looks to the rest of you. "So. I've said my piece for the moment. Explain."
Liam: I step forward.
Marisha: Can I do a quick insight check on Asum to see if I can still recognize if he's still affected by the mind-control thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check, sure.
Marisha: Ooh yeah! 28.
Matt: Glancing at Asum, the way he's looking at you and the general tension and feeling of the room, you gather that Asum is not his normal self completely. You step forward.
Liam: Uriel. With all respect, I needn't remind you what the group of people before you put themselves through on your behalf and your family's behalf. We almost lost one of our own. And if that counts for nothing here, then nothing makes sense. But if that is not enough, let us start here.
Orion: The Briarwoods are vampires. And that old lady, who was a butthole by the way, was with this demonoid person who we had to fight as well.
Liam: One thing at a time. That's true, but one thing at a time. We had prior knowledge of the Briarwoods' intentions before this evening. And I myself went to spy on them.
Laura: Here's the thing. Percy doesn't like them because they killed his family. They took over his home, after killing his family. He got away. He knows they're scary. We're trying to protect you.
Orion: So the point is, we all know how dangerous it is that the knowledge of vampire existence and the spreading of those vile creatures. And now we know they do exist. So however the means that that came about is neither here nor there. We know where they are.
Travis: And if you're wondering how we know they're vampires-- (whispering) Vax, this is your cue.
Liam: I will subject myself to any test, to any wizard or mage in this city who you know can ascertain the truth. To look through my eyes, to see my memories. I don't know shit about magic, but there are people who do.
Sam: Cleric Tristan also treated him last night for his vampire-inflicted wound. I know this all looks really bad on the surface, and we did not want to cause any disturbance within these hallowed walls, but there was a danger, we acted. Perhaps too abruptly and without telling you.
Laura: We tried to get your attention. I called for you immediately. As soon as we knew there was danger.
Liam: And don't take our word for it. Anyone, have them look in here.
Orion: Actually, you take a Stormwind's word for--
Matt: "Silence! Silence. You're in my court now, Stormwind. You put so much weight upon this trust, and you have done a good service. But also I've heard whispers that you've thrown this trust around in many circles. Remember, we held a parade in your honor; we spread the word of the good deeds you've done. We, at our own costs of Emon, built you a keep, a home, at great expense, to show thanks. And also, I believed, upon allowing you to join the council, put us square. I owe you nothing. Just as you owe me nothing."
Liam: Do you not want the truth?
Matt: "I want the truth, but I also want you to understand the stakes that are here and why there is this question. As the leader of this-- not this city, but this entire countryside, I have to be sure, and this is not the first time I have been lied to by very close, trusted people, so I have to be thorough."
Liam: This is why I offer myself completely into your control and put myself under your supervision and any user of the arcane arts you want to peer inside my mind, let them step up to the plate, because I have nothing to hide.
Laura: Also, while you are inquiring about him, you might inquire about Seeker Asum.
Sam: If you're worried about lies within your own ranks, I think you should start with him.
Marisha: In fact, I actually might be able to help Seeker Asum, if you will allow me to.
Sam: Help him?
Matt: You glance over at Asum, and Asum gives a look to Uriel and Uriel--
Laura: He was mind-controlled last night.
Matt: "I have had Asum at my side for the better part of 15 years. He is responsible, far more than your merry band has ever attempted, for keeping and maintaining the good and lawful state of this country."
Liam: Uriel, your own family was not themselves! And you know that! Look into my mind! Now! Today! You don't need to guess anything.
Matt: "It would also do you well to show respect. We are speaking, half-elf. Now, I would assign Allura to such an endeavor. However, it has also been noticed that she has grown quite friendly and attached to your group, and in this circumstance, there is question. So you will be, in a few days, assigned an individual to this ritual of which you are presenting yourself."
Marisha: Uriel, please--
Matt: "Shh. The Briarwoods, regardless of what you may think they may be, or we do-- that will show in time-- have shown nothing over the past five years but graciousness, and gone through all proper channels to establish this relationship between our city and theirs. Far more than the previous family ever attempted."
Liam: Well, one may smile and smile and still be a villain.
Matt: "That goes both ways. Now, please."
Marisha: Just let me do a quick restoration spell on Asum. If nothing is wrong with him, nothing will happen. It's harmless. It's like taking medicine when you're not sick. It can't hurt. And if I am wrong, then we can continue on. We can have Vax tested. Please, it'll take ten minutes. What can it hurt?
Laura: Up until last night, he was himself. Trust us that now he is not.
Marisha: He came to us.
Matt: "There has been nothing about his behavior, at all, to insinuate any change of anything of the sort. And I have known the man for quite some time, before I even took this throne. However, I will, in the good graces and the relationship we forged, allow this. Asum, are you all right with this?" Asum gives a nod. "Well, if this is to be how it is. Certainly." And he steps forward. The halfling approaches you, looking you in the face. All right. You would like to attempt your Greater Restoration spell?
Marisha: First, I meditate for a second, and I cast Enhance Ability on myself.
Matt: As a note, as you begin casting, you notice the guards all go for their weapons and ready themselves, uncertain of what's about to transpire. There is a tension in the room based on what this is going to be.
Marisha: Can I get some meditation music, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! (chanting)
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on yourself.
Marisha: Am I maybe inspired by that?
Matt: Sure. In the tension of the room, this slow droning hum of the gnome, which you can notice some of the guards look at each other, confused. And Asum puts his hand up like, hold off.
Liam: It's Tuvan throat singing.
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on your--
Marisha: Self.
Sam: What ability?
Marisha: To enhance wisdom? Wisdom.
Matt: Okay. You reach out with Greater Restoration. You complete the ritual. You touch onto the arms of Asum. It fades, and you see in his eyes there's a moment of clarity and an inhale. A slight gasp, like some realization hits him and his expression changes and looks towards you and just goes-- He puts his hands out like this for a moment, just trying to almost tell you something. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just a d20. Or no, make an insight. Make a straight insight. This is more of an insight roll here.
Marisha: Okay. Oh! 29.
Matt: You get the sense through the subtlety of physical motion and expression, Asum is telling you, just go with me on this. He steps back into the place next to the throne. There's a brief moment of pause. Uriel says, "And, Asum?" Asum goes, "My stance has not changed. I know not what she is attempting or thought the situation was, but it appears to me that this was either misinformation or at least at the time being, hopefully, not a lie. But I believe Brom has taken care of that, yes?" And Brom gives a nod. "I certainly have hoped to." Uriel goes, "Hm. All right. Here's the circumstance: as it stands, I fear I must revoke Vox Machina's membership in the council of Tal'Dorei until further notice, for the safety of our countryside and the current tension in our relationship."
Sam: Objection! That's it. I just wanted to say that. Please continue. I just want it noted that we object strongly to this.
Matt: "I understand. And this will only continue until all of our investigations are complete."
Sam: Are we still allowed free rein to roam about as we please? Are we under arrest for anything?
Matt: "You are not under arrest. You are revoked from the council, and you will be closely watched until our investigations are complete."
Laura: How long will your investigations take?
Matt: He looks back to Asum and Asum says, "Well, depends on how quickly we can acquire the information; it could be weeks. I'll do my best to make it thorough and quick."
Laura: Are we allowed to leave the city in that time?
Matt: Uriel looks back and says, "You may leave if you wish. Know that there have been precautions taken. Should you attempt to flee, we will find you."
Liam: And when are you to look into my mind?
Laura: Weirdo! (laughter)
Liam: It freaking ends here. Right away.
Travis: Can you read my mind?
Liam: There is no spoon.
Matt: "We ought to speak to the Lyceum to find a proper individual of sufficient power and trust to do this, as Allura right now is being kept out of the scenario."
Sam: Are we allowed to speak with Allura?
Matt: "If you wish. Outside of these chambers. Do what you must to clear your name. I would like very much for this all to be true, what you're saying. But do not flee. Do not give an inclination that you attempt to escape this judgment, for we will take that as a sign of guilt."
Liam: We've no intention of going anywhere.
Matt: "Should we conclude that your actions were beyond reason and the moral fiber of this council before your return, we will have no choice to put a bounty on your heads, should you not return. I really, really do not wish to do this. Do not make me do this."
Orion: I stand up. "No need for threats, friend. Are we done here?"
Matt: "I want to believe you all. I ask you, show that my trust has not been misplaced all this time. Now, you may leave."
Sam: I look forward to the second parade you'll throw for us after our names are cleared.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: I turn to the guards that were grabbing at their weapons and I flex real fast at them and then I walk.
Matt: Four of them go, (yelps).
Travis: Bitch! (laughter)
Matt: As you guys go back out the doors that you entered, the guards now a little closely following as you exit, leading you out of the palace, down the front steps, and essentially stand at the front of the palace gates.
Liam: I'm sorry. I was just talking to one of your friends. Have you seen a belt that is shaped like a snake? Sometimes it moves around on its own. And it answers to the name Simon, but usually it's just a belt and looks really cool. Have you seen it? Is there a lost and found I can check out? It's very dear to me.
Matt: The guard just looks for a second and goes, "I think you've got more important matters to deal with before you go looking for a belt, sir."
Liam: Where's that other guy? He was more receptive to this. Do I see that other guy?
Laura: Darling. Seriously.
Matt: The guards all turn around and start ascending the stairs.
Liam: It's on all the fan art. It really makes sense to have it on me.
Matt: They don't appear to be listening.
Liam: Keep an eye out for it. 100 gold to any chap who finds it and holds onto it for me.
Matt: Two of them stop in their step for a second and then keep walking.
Liam: I'm a nice guy! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You're going to get six belts thrown at you.
Liam: That's terrible. Six.
Matt: It was a brief pause. But also. A brief pause.
Laura: You have a two in persuasion? Oh wow.
Sam: We'll break in tonight and find it.
Travis: Could we wait outside for Allura?
Liam: I'll risk it all.
Matt: All right. So you are now currently there in the cobblestone street of the Cloudtop District, removed from the Council of Tal'Dorei and left in this interesting circumstance.
Sam: Keyleth, what happened? Your magic didn't work?
Marisha: No, it worked.
Laura: What happened?
Sam: But Asum lied.
Orion: He gave her a magic winky face.
Marisha: Yeah, essentially. Yeah. He gave me like a--
Laura: What does that mean? Does that mean Uriel's under their control? I don't understand.
Liam: Is he playing some sort of long game here?
Sam: It must mean that we have something to fear from Uriel. Or someone else close.
Marisha: I don't know who to trust anymore, to be totally honest.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: It worked. I could feel it break. It worked, and he's got some sort of long game. I don't know if it's because he doesn't want Uriel to know, for whatever reason. I don't know if it's because he has some deeper, ulterior motive.
Laura: Do you think he was faking that he was healed, and maybe he wasn't?
Travis: Or maybe we have to bring proof of their vampirism back?
Marisha: No.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Wait. No to Vex. What was your question?
Travis: To bring back proof of them being vampires.
Sam: Proof would help. Hey! Don't we have a prisoner? Can't we question the prisoner?
Laura: Is he bleeding out? What if he's dead? We're so screwed!
Marisha: I made sure.
Laura: Yeah, the guy that Percy shot the hand off of.
Marisha: I cauterized his wounds, remember?
Sam: We should question him. He could have proof.
Laura: Oh shit! I hope everything's okay.
Orion: Wait a minute! I really need to go to Allura. She's our best interest right now.
Sam: We get it! You want her body. Now's not the time.
Orion: It is beyond that. There are several reasons to go. We need to get the Earring of Telescription. I need her to enchant something for me, too. As well as the fact I fear that our keep may be in danger. I would like to ask her if she may be able to set up a warding spell for--
Laura: Can you go get her and bring her to the keep? I need to find out if this boy is all right.
Marisha: Well, we can split up. I can go with you.
Matt: As you guys are having this discussion, the palace doors open and you hear the quick footsteps of Allura, rushing from the palace now, running towards you guys.
Laura: Saving the day. Again.
Marisha: Wait, she's coming out of the palace?
Matt: She's coming out of the palace, behind you guys. Like after the council had just closed. The meeting had finished. She basically gave chase to you guys and is now catching up to you on the street.
Sam: What the shit happened in there?
Marisha: We were just talking about you!
Matt: "Everyone-- I don't fully know what happened last night, and--" She looks to you, Tiberius, and says, "You didn't, did you? Please tell me you did not kill that woman."
Orion: Oh, I absolutely did!
Laura: But she was attacking us.
Sam: It looks bad, but she was a threat.
Orion: Her and another one with this-- what was he, a tiefling? Named the Broker attacked us. And that's why I killed her.
Matt: "Brom's divination is very clear. And he divined that the woman was currently filled with fear, attempting to flee, and unconscious when she was murdered."
Liam: How did she flee when she was unconscious?
Travis: She fled, went unconscious, then we butchered her.
Marisha: Just accept it for what it is, guys.
Matt: "I just worry. I know not what happened here, and I heard what you said, and I honestly do not trust the Briarwoods myself either. There was something about that meal and the conversation, and their presence that put me off entirely. It was strange. And what you say makes a lot of sense. Vampirism is a bit beyond what I was expecting. I did sense some powerful masqueraded arcane essence from Lady Briarwood. Look, I would recommend for this to do your best to be thorough in this. Bring back any and all information you can. From the words I hear, you probably have at best a few weeks before this comes to a close. And if you don't have enough evidence to support your argument-- well, I don't know."
Liam: Allura, all I know how to do is break locks, but I've seen these people do things with magic that have defied expectations. Why can no one look into my memory? You have looked across miles. Cannot anyone look into my mind and see?
Laura: They're going to do it!
Sam: Yes, but that might not be proof enough for them. Someone could have corrupted your mind.
Matt: "You have to understand. Not all arcane works that way. There are magics that can dabble in that realm, but none that specialize that here in Emon. Divination, yes there are elements of that. We can see the physical. We can see certain events. But to look into one's mind is a different magic entirely."
Liam: Are there no spells that can divine if someone's speaking true?
Matt: "That was attempted during that council, but after you left, Brom notified Uriel and the Council that many of you were resistant to the spell, and as such, it could not be verified."
Laura: (laughs) We should have rolled low! Just tell us you're doing it, we won't resist it! What the shit? Doesn't even trust us to tell the truth.
Travis: If we came back with proof?
Sam: What sort of proof do you think they would accept? The head of Lady Briarwood?
Laura: No, because it'll disappear the minute we kill her or something. They're vampires, I don't know what they do.
Matt: She gives a thought to that. She goes, "Interestingly enough, if an artifact or an item brought forth from them could be divined, that should tell all."
Marisha: Is there still the remaining wreckage of their carriage? Is that still there?
Matt: "The carriage has been disposed. It's been picked over, and there were remnants within the rubble of some sort of a 'siggle' of teleportation. But that is no-- a sigil, if you will." (laughter)
Travis: What sort of artifact? Like, a brooch? A handbag?
Liam: Are we talking about that motherfucker's teeth?
Orion: I need to see that sigil.
Matt: "Sigil. We're all learning together. That, I believe, has all been investigated and kept under lock and key with Asum. You would have to speak with him. I would like to help. I cannot come with you. I'm working on something else at the moment. Ah!" And she reaches into her pocket and brings out your Earring of Transcription.
Orion: Thank you so much, Lady Allura!
Matt: As she hands it to you, she gives you a really, really concerned look. And just gives it to you and hands it back. And it's a look of-- and it hits you: it's a look of disappointment with a hint of heartbreak.
Travis: Oh, that's the worst! I'm not angry, I'm just disappointed. Ugh!
Liam: I feel like I've failed you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: She looks back to you as you take it and goes, "Do your best to clear your name."
Orion: I shall.
Matt: "I know you come of noble blood, and many of you stand to inspire many others of noble blood. As celebrated heroes of this city, there is a lot more on the line here besides just your well-being. There's a lot of people in this town that look up to you. Nevertheless, I've already said more than I should. Good luck."
Laura: Thank you, Allura.
Matt: She looks behind and you can see she takes this small hood of the same material of her robe that she's wearing and puts it up over her head and rushes off towards her white tower towards the edge of the Cloudtop District.
Liam: Fucking politics.
Sam: No one insight checked her.
Travis: She's telling the truth. Let's go make sure the prisoner isn't dead.
Sam: All right. So wait. What are our avenues? We're going to have to Columbo this. What are our avenues of finding proof?
Laura: We say as we're walking back to the keep.
Sam: We have a prisoner we can question. Who knows if that will yield anything. And then, we might have to go gather evidence, which means leaving town against his word.
Laura: Well, we're allowed to leave town.
Liam: No!
Sam: No!
Laura: Yeah! No! He said we're allowed to leave. We just can't look like we're fleeing, so we tell them where we're going. They can even fucking follow us. I don't care.
Liam: So we tell them that we're going to their political-- the people that they're trying to create a political relationship with? We're just going off to invade your political allies.
Travis: Oh come on! You half-elves. I swear to god! Have you never heard of lying before? Yeah! We don't tell them where we're going. We're going on a field trip. We're going to pick berries. Fuck all, but we go there.
Orion: The only way we can go there is telling them.
Travis: What? And we're going there, what for?
Orion: When I talk to Asum and get that sigil to that damn Briarwood keep. That's how we get there.
Travis: Why don't we say we're taking a picnic-- oh, we took a wrong turn. Hey, it's the Briarwoods!
Orion: We don't have to lie to them. We tell them where we're going, and we can just go there.
Travis: We don't have to if we don't want to.
Liam: You're pretty.
Laura: Especially that beardy side, Grog.
Travis: It's a full beard right now.
Matt: What you do know is the sigil that a teleportation circle is attached to is known when you cast or create the circle. The circle does not necessarily indicate or maintain the sigil it's attached to.
Orion: It's just a piece of it?
Matt: Meaning, there are two parts to it. There is the sigil that it sends to, and there is the actual ritual circle that is created. The circle that attaches to it is not the same as the destination. There are elements of it that connect it, but you would not be able to ascertain a sigil to Whitestone immediately from looking at the initial circle.
Liam: Thanks for the cups, guys! The cup.
Travis: I just noticed that!
Liam: Well, let's go check on this poor little shit in the dungeon.
Sam: And then the next step will be to seek out Seeker Asum?
Orion: I'd like to stop by the temple real quick to pick up my decanter.
Sam: How many errands do you have to run?
Laura: Endless errands.
Sam: All right. Go run your errands! We've got a mystery to solve.
Travis: Yeah, I want to be there when we talk to the prisoner, too.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep. Are you going with them or you're--
Orion: I'm doing all the shit.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: He's got a list.
Matt: I would like to know the list.
Orion: I'm going to stop at an armory because I want my crossbow reinforced. I don't know what that means. I want to learn a different sigil. The one that I researched for the waste fair, or for the way-- the Feywild! There's this big city next to it that I researched, that is near it, and in that city might be a sigil. So I'm going to go see if I can learn it. And then I want to come back and start enchanting my blades.
Sam: It's a busy day.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I can give it to you. I wrote it down.
Sam: Coming soon on Friday nights  The Adventures of Tiberius's Errands! 7:00 to 10:00 every Friday night on Twitch.
Orion: And then I have to go to the dry cleaners for my robe.
Matt: All right. So as you begin that process, the rest of you continue back to the Keep. As you approach Greyskull Keep, there are two individuals waiting for you at the gate that you do not recognize from a distance.
Sam: Wait, what? Say that again.
Matt: There's two individuals waiting for you at the gate. You can see at a distance, but you don't recognize.
Sam: They're our handlers, probably.
Liam: Grog, come on. Let's go have a talk with someone.
Laura: I walk with you.
Sam: We're all going!
Liam: Let's go arm in arm in one big line!
Laura: Well, they're right at our fucking keep. It's not like we're all headed in the same direction, anyway.
Orion: Who doesn't have a ring?
Sam: A ring of what?
Orion: An earring.
Marisha: I have one right now.
Sam: I think I do?
Laura: I have one.
Liam: I have one.
Laura: Grog doesn't have one.
Travis: How far away from the keep are we?
Matt: You're probably a good 100 to 150 feet.
Travis: I whistle really loud and say, who are these fucks in front of the keep? to the guard that we have employed.
Matt: Okay. So. Let me try and see who's on duty right now.
Laura: He has notes on who is on duty.
Matt: This would still be Shayne and Cordell. Cordell shouts down from the top of the wall and says, "I don't think they're a threat."
Travis: Right. We'll be the judge of that. As you were.
Sam: Grog, keep in mind, these are our allies.
Laura: Hello!
Matt: As you walk up and you get close, you get a better view. You're expecting ominous, armored guards. Somebody possibly assigned to escort you. Instead, you're greeted by what looks to be an older couple waiting at the gate. A man and a woman, dressed in simple clothes, weathered skin. And as you go out to them, they both smile.
Sam: We hate old people. (laughter)
Laura: Who are you?
Travis: Favored enemy!
Matt: They begin walking up, and the man steps forward. You can see he's got small dirty glasses at the end of his nose and says, "Hello, hello! Good afternoon, everyone! I'm sorry to be a bother. But unless my eyes and tales do deceive me, might you all be the heroes known as Vox Machina?"
Laura: Can I insight check to see if these guys are legit?
Sam: Legit what? Old people?
Laura: It could be Lord and Lady Briarwood, for all I know!
Liam: Me too. I did well. I rolled 18 on them.
Matt: Okay. From what you can tell, they are both happy, simple folk that are here with a tension of purpose, but nothing that seems to set off any alarms.
Sam: We are Vox Machina. I'm sure word of us has spread far and wide. We're a pretty big deal. Why have you made this journey to us?
Matt: The woman, who's holding his side, lets go of his arm and says, "We come to you humbly as representatives of the farming community just north of Emon's walls."
Marisha: Oh, I love farmers!
Matt: "I am Riley Klaus and this is my husband, Ben." "Pleasure to meet y'all."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "You see, many of us here, we make our living through livestock and small crops." Ben takes over at this point and says, "Word is that the Sovereign will be calling down troops from Fort Daxio for a while, so the need for meats and fresh produce has been elevated." The wife, Riley, then says, "Around this time, over the past two weeks, a number of our finest cows and sheep have gone missing. No struggle or mess or signs of dire wolves. Nothing! We suspected thieves, initially, but we sent up our neighbor's boy Kyle to watch over them until sunrise and he saw the culprit. From what he described, a giant bird, larger than anything he's ever seen or heard of." Ben then takes over the conversation, "Wings at least ten carts long, tip to tip. Just swooped down, he said, without sound and in one motion snatched up one of our most virile bulls. Mr. Simms, just gone like that!"
Marisha: Mr. Simms?
Matt: "That was the bull." Riley says, "Kyle said he saw it fly northwest."
Marisha: Northwest? Can I do a nature check to see if I can recognize the creature he's describing?
Liam: Are we certain he's not describing a dragon?
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. You've seen some big birds in your time. This is, from what they're describing, a lot bigger than any birds you've encountered in your experience. You've heard whispers of larger birds in the wild, but you've never seen anything like that. You haven't had any personal experience hearing or seeing anything of this size.
Marisha: But it is a bird?
Matt: That's what they described it as. At night.
Laura: When did these birds start showing up?
Matt: "About two weeks ago when the whole thing started to happen." And then Ben kicks in and says, "Should this keep up, most of us will lose everything before the year is out. Now, we've talked with the leaders of the farming community this side of Emon. We've scrounged up what we could." And he brings up a couple of coin purses and she goes, "512 gold pieces, 37 silver, and 103 copper. That's all we can spare."
Laura: Keep your money.
Marisha: Yes, keep your money.
Matt: "We can't possibly--"
Liam: What about this? What if you supplied us with a small stream of produce for our servants here at the keep? For cooking, for feeding them, for feeding us when we're here? It'll be a sight less than 500; it wouldn't be nothing. You could still give us something.
Matt: "Yes! We could, we'd be more than happy to!"
Sam: However, despite what my companion is saying, we are not agreeing to go after this winged beast quite yet. We hear your plight, and we sympathize, and we will do what we can, but we have very pressing matters right now. Is there a deadline of some sort? When is your next harvesting season?
Matt: "I mean, there's no deadline, but the longer that goes by, the more and more we lose by the night. Two weeks in and we've lost half of our livestock. If the creature is this big, I imagine it eats quite a bit."
Laura: And how long of a ride is it? Is it walking distance?
Matt: "To... where?"
Laura: To your farm.
Liam: To your farm.
Sam: To your farm.
Matt: "North side of Emon."
Laura: Oh, so real close!
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: We are friends of the elderly, obviously, and also of the farming community, so we are very interested in helping you. May we talk about it a bit before we decide how and when we would tackle this problem?
Matt: They look at each other and nod and he taps her hand and says, "Yes. By all means-- If you could, please help us stop this beast from ruining our livelihood."
Marisha: And can you please tell us how to get to your place. Do you normally stay there? Are you normally home?
Matt: "We wander about the community, but we do have a homestead. If you look, it's the large red wood and partially brick-based homestead closest to the city walls, on the north farm. Right outside of Emon. It's hard to miss, if you're headed that direction."
Liam: Quickly. Presently, we will find you. Guys, we were told to sit and spin basically. I mean, what's wrong with earning some brownie points in the eyes of Uriel?
Travis: Mr. and Mrs. Kraut, as friends of the elderly--
Matt: "Klaus."
Travis: Right, Kraut. Do they normally come at night, or have they ever abducted any of your sweet bulls during the day?
Matt: "We've not seen it during the day. It'd be easier for us to identify if we had. Seems to only hunt at night."
Sam: And have they ever messed with a human?
Matt: "Not that we've heard of. Not yet." He gives you this sudden look of realization and fear. And pats and comforts his wife who suddenly realizes, oh my. Are they going to take us now?
Marisha: We'll probably be by like tonight or tomorrow morning.
Liam: Yes. Tomorrow morning at the latest. We have a little bit of business. Yeah.
Marisha: So we're in the middle of doing something. We'll get to it.
Matt: "All right. Well, thank you."
Liam: I take him by the hand and say, we will see you presently.
Sam: Here. My business card.
Liam: And you can take that to the bank.
Laura: You can't actually; it's worth nothing.
Matt: "Well, thank you for listening to us ramble on, and we look forward to hearing from you in the next day."
Laura: You will.
Matt: "All right." He pats her on the arm.
Travis: Travel safe, Mr. Kraut!
Liam: Hide your bull; hide your wife.
Matt: They both wander off.
Laura: We are in danger of being ostracized. We should really be nice to everybody right now.
Sam: We were just having a conversation about how we should try to be nice from now on. But we do have very pressing matters.
Travis: Yeah, let's get fucking in there and talk to that little--
Marisha: It's funny how that type of thing can come back to bite you in the ass.
Sam: I call up to Cordell. Oi, Cordell!
Matt: "Yeah!"
Sam: Remember when I told you not to let anyone linger outside the keep?
Matt: "To be fair, the Klauses are well-known in the community."
Travis: The Krauts?
Laura: The Klauses.
Matt: "They came here for business. I figured it was probably something you'd want to hear. I apologize."
Sam: By all means, use your judgment over the orders of your master. That's fine.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: Cordell bows his head sheepishly. "I apologize. I'm sorry."
Marisha: Ignore him!
Laura: We are here to help people! We're here to help.
Matt: He does his finger like this and the gates open in towards the inside of the keep wall.
Marisha: And what is wrong with you all today?!
Sam: We had a really bad dinner last night. That's all.
Laura: I head straight to the jail.
Marisha: I follow.
Matt: As you guys are doing that, Tiberius, what's the first thing you're trying to do?
Orion: Stop by and pick up the decanter from the temple.
Matt: Okay. He said it required two days. It's been less than a day since you dropped it off, just so you're aware.
Orion: Then the only thing I do is visit the keep with the sigils library or whatever.
Matt: Oh, the Lyceum? Okay.
Liam: I'm not going. I'm just going to go hang out up on the wall outside the keep.
Matt: All right. As you head to the Lyceum, the clerk lets you in. What are you specifically looking to find or research?
Orion: The sigil that's closest to the Feywild.
Matt: Okay. In researching what they have at their disposal, you understand that the Feywild itself, because it is a separate plane, the magics to traverse it are a little more difficult to do. If you notice-- and I'll confirm here just to be sure that we're on the same page-- before I go full on this here. Pardon me, just a moment while I scan through the book. The mighty book. The book of might. Yes. Sigils of teleportation require the same plane of existence, meaning you can teleport anywhere within the Prime Material Plane that you exist in. To traverse into the Feywild, you have to actually find a door into the Feywild, and then you would be able to use a sigil from the Feywild.
Orion: Then I only pick up my decanter.
Matt: Which is not ready yet.
Orion: I don't do that! Damn, I forgot! My short-term memory is just jacked!
Matt: It's all good. It's all good.
Travis: You know, somebody's been to the Feywild.
Matt: Yeah. The Feywild. What you do find is that the Feywild-- the boundaries between this realm and the Feywild tend to grow weaker at full moons. It's tied to the moon cycle. And at certain places where nature is set to run wild. A lot of druidic tribes tend to mark these locations, and in some cases actually guard them.
Laura: We know where a hole in one is. Grog went through it.
Matt: And if you recall-- good memory-- in the Frostweald, the partially frozen forest where you had that conversation with the nymph-- that portal that she existed through was specifically a door into the Feywild, which you recognized.
Orion: What city was that near?
Matt: That was south of Westruun.
Orion: Then I'll go to the thing and I'll find the Westruun sigil.
Matt: Okay. Through your research, you do find a sigil to Westruun. This is allowing you to go into this portion for this sigil because you've already used the favor that you had to get the sigil of Kraghammer.
Orion: No, I didn't. I used the amulet and we got permission to come there. I saved that favor for this.
Matt: Right, the favor for Gilmore. All I'm saying is, you've used one of two favors to get that sigil. You have to invoke Gilmore's favor to get this one. Okay. And since you're a part of the circumstance, you acquire the secondary sigil. You now know, in your memory permanently, a sigil to Westruun. You don't know where in Westruun, but you are connected there. If you choose to teleport there, you know how to. That favor has now been used by Gilmore, so you can mark that. And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a five minute rest break. So yeah, restroom, snacks, drinks and we'll be back here in about five or so minutes. We'll see you guys and continue this tense adventure. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. We've had our break; we've returned to the table. A quick note, we are 50 subscribers away from our next giveaway.
Travis: 50? Come on!
Matt: If we can get there, that'd be awesome! We'll have our giveaway-- the signed cast Critical Role photo and the cast signed art poster by Kit Buss.
Sam: Kit Buss, ladies and gentlemen!
Matt: Yeah! So you have all returned to the keep. You have found yourselves down to the basement area. You hear the distant pinging of metal, an occasional squeaking metallic noise. Like something is being altered, turned, or quenched in a water trough. Like the process of blacksmithing.
Marisha: I go to the edge of the door and knock.
Matt: As you knock on the metal door, it's like a (boom). The pinging stops. Just hangs for a second.
Marisha: Percy? It's Keyleth.
Matt: "Not right now. Please. I'm sorry. I just need to clear my head."
Marisha: Okay. We'll be here.
Matt: A moment later, you see Percy's eyes appear at the edge of the door.
Marisha: Hi!
Matt: Just looking at them, you can see they look a little sunken, a little weary.
Marisha: Did you sleep?
Matt: "Not as much as I'd like."
Marisha: Do you need anything?
Matt: His eyes look away for a second, looks back at you. "I'm all right. Thank you."
Marisha: We went and saw Uriel. Everyone in the city hates us. They think we're all criminals.
Matt: "Great. I have to get back to my work."
Marisha: Okay, yeah.
Matt: The slit shuts.
Marisha: Oh, we'll see you later, then.
Matt: You guys, however, walk down to the other side of the cell. The cell door's been closed. The keys are hanging on the nail by it. You have not used the cell until this point. It's technically pristine and unused since the construction of the keep, but the keys still hang on the key ring. On the inside of it, there is no thatch. Nothing has been put in to really make a comfortable floor. And hanging from manacles--
Laura: He's hanging?!
Sam: We're the worst.
Matt: He was put in as a prisoner.
Laura: I go and get the keys, and I take him down from the manacles.
Matt: As she rushes into the cell, begins unlocking the manacles. He's unconscious at this time. Dirt streaked on his face and spatters of dried blood from the blast of the gun.
Marisha: I go ahead and I administer Cure Wounds.
Matt: The wound at this point has been cauterized. You cast Cure Wounds as he starts to come to consciousness, in a heap on the ground. (coughs) It appears he may be healed of any damage he may still be sustaining from that, but the fingers are gone. This is beyond the magic you're capable of. He comes to consciousness on the ground, dirtied, sore. Essentially broken before you.
Laura: Does he look like he's been bitten at all?
Matt: You want to inspect?
Laura: Can I look at his neck?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay. You don't have a whole lot of medicinal experience, but you take a moment and inspect both sides of his neck, tilting his head side-to-side, as he's groaning and coming to. "What's going on?" Looking at the sides of his neck, there does not appear to be any sign of any puncture wounds, anything that would be reminiscent of what your brother currently is healing from.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if he is also under a mind-control spell?
Matt: At the moment, no. He is barely coming to consciousness. There isn't enough of a presence at the moment to really read past.
Laura: Hey, there. Welcome back.
Matt: "Where am I?"
Laura: You are being held, at the moment, for your own safety.
Matt: "For my own safety?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "How?" He looks at his hand.
Laura: Well, you were captured. We're pretty sure the Briarwoods are going to be pissed as hell that you let the carriage get hit. We're just trying to protect you, really.
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I mean, his friends all died, so.
Marisha: Do we not feel like terrible people enough already?
Sam: Let's not have this conversation in front of the prisoner. What's your name, boy!
Matt: "My name is Desmond. Desmond Otham. I am the son of a messenger, a courier of the de Rolo family."
Marisha: He's the son of a messenger! That's even more ironic!
Laura: Keyleth, do you need to step outside?
Marisha: No, I'm good. Continue. Son of a messenger.
Laura: Right now, everyone is at risk. The Briarwoods are bad people, you can attest to this, yes?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yes. Can you tell us everything you know about them?
Matt: "It's not going to matter. They're going to find me. No one's supposed to get away."
Laura: You did!
Travis: There's always a first time.
Matt: "I don't even know where to begin." He adjusts himself, sliding back, putting his back against the wall of the cell.
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding. I pull out the little goblet, and I pour some ale into a cup, and I hand him a little bit of ale. No, it's fine. I take a little sip.
Matt: "Please don't take offense if I don't trust a drink from strangers who've, well, to be honest, put me in this position."
Travis: All right. I put it beside him.
Matt: "What do you want to know?"
Laura: We want to know if the Briarwoods--
Sam: Are vampires.
Laura: Pretty much. They're vampires, right? I mean, they're vampires.
Matt: "All I know from the stories I've heard. Mothers would tell their kids not to wander out at night because dark things crawl in the shadows. From what I know of vampires, they're not supposed to go out during the day, right? But I'm sure I've seen Lady Briarwood walk in the sun many a time."
Marisha: Only Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "As I recall, yes. Lord Briarwood doesn't make too many public appearances."
Sam: Have there been any strange goings-on in their residence? Sounds you've heard? People disappearing? Boxes coming in or out?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on him. I know Cure Wounds, bitches! Level up!
Orion: Have I reached the keep yet?
Matt: No, not yet. You're probably about an hour away, at this point. From the time you've taken to research, find this, learn the sigil to Westruun, and begin your trek back. Fortunately, you got what you wanted, but you're out of the picture for a little bit. He flinches as you put your hand up, and as you touch him, he exhales. You get to him just as he can react, briefly.
Laura: 11. Do I add anything to that?
Matt: I believe you add your Wisdom modifier to that.
Laura: 14.
Matt: He goes, "Look, my father worked for the de Rolo family before the Briarwoods came. My father vanished the night of their fall. My mother was taken in madness and lost to the night this past year. I was left alone. However, I knew the roads well between here and Whitestone and places between, growing up, traveling with my father. So I was made to be a coachman for the new nobles. I was paid, albeit little, and I was left alone. Now, when I say the new nobles, there were nobles that lived in Whitestone and worked along with the de Rolos, and they helped oversee parts of the town, the business, and the people. They had been there for many generations of their respective families, all under the de Rolos' guidance. But the night the castle fell, those nobles were dragged out. It's strange. I mean, after the brutality of that first night, it took days before the people of Whitestone knew what had happened. We saw the fires, we heard the battles, but no word of the victors until three days had passed. We were too scared to approach. By then, the Briarwoods called a town meeting. They explained their new rule over the town. A number objected, which is expected. Many strong-willed folk in Whitestone, those days. They were subsequently shot down at arrow-point. The rest were quiet. They then dragged out the noble families and executed them, gifting their property and titles to the various cut-throats and mercenaries they had hired, brought across the channel to help them take the town. They're not just two people; they've used a lot of money and influence from wherever they came from and brought a whole slew of very dastardly folk, who have since been given the titles once held by the other nobles of Whitestone, living in their homes, taking their tithes and most of the profits made from the businesses they've forced us to continue to run from within the city. A number of families fled into the woods the night after the executions, using the shadows of a moonless evening to keep safe. They were all found hanging from the Sun Tree the next morning. They kept things going as they were, mostly: farming, logging, manning the white marble mines. Business went as usual, all filling the pockets of the new nobles and the Briarwoods. We were given food, kept our immediate property. As long as we didn't attempt to leave, we were promised safety. That lasted for a few years, until the nobles grew bored. Twitchy. They began to abuse the people of Whitestone: scare us for fun, brand, cut, steal the children, leave them back, destroyed. They treat us like animals. Folks went missing. I was beaten so bad by my employer, Count Tylieri. But Lord Briarwood noticed, one night he was passing through the city. He saw wounds on my back when he was meeting with Count Tylieri. When he asked me in private how I got them, I couldn't lie. Couldn't resist him. He has a way of drawing the truth out of you. Now, he told me this unrefined violence was boorish to him and his wife. That was the last I ever saw of Lord Tylieri. Lord and Lady Briarwood took me in as their own driver and showed me Tylieri hanging from that same Sun Tree the next morning. I was thankful, then. In a strange way, life had been so terrible for so long, it was the first time I saw someone reach out and save me. They took me in as their driver after that. It was a better thing to be away from the anger and the fists of the thugs. But the more I got to know the Briarwoods, the more nightmarish I realized they were. Behind the walls of that castle was no longer a grand fortress that we heard it was. Seeing it, keeping watch and guard over our people. No, that was a domain of perverse magics and sacrilege, it was. The green fog drifting out from the ground where it stood. The same servants still run the halls, but they aren't living. They're walking vessels of undeath, their flesh slowly tearing away. The garden in back lies shriveled, a foul green mist forever pouring out. They're excavating something in the dungeon, plundering pieces. A lot of their attention seems to be down there; I don't know why. I dare not wander too far down. They bring up old things. Ancient things. Relics, books, bones. You live in that world long enough, you believe there is no way out. Death would be easy, though I've seen that death is no real end there. It's just the beginning of a whole new terrible existence. A far worse fate."
Laura: If we keep you here, protected, would you be willing to tell your story to someone else?
Matt: "Who would you want me to tell it to?"
Laura: The emperor. The guards here. An army that could go and fight the Briarwoods.
Matt: "Maybe."
Marisha: This could be an option to save Whitestone, and you would have your freedom.
Matt: "I don't know. You don't know what it's like. You don't know what they've done. They're going to find me."
Sam: We can protect you. We are safe here in this keep, and you're surrounded by very powerful allies now.
Travis: We've stood before them, and we did not fall.
Laura: It's true.
Matt: "I'll think about it."
Marisha: Would you like to stay in the guest room upstairs? You'd be more comfortable. You could get a good night's rest.
Laura: Far more comfortable. A little less safe. I'm going to put it out there.
Matt: That resonates with him immediately, and his eyes flash open. "I mean no disrespect, but if this is safe, then I'd rather stay here."
Laura: I think it is. And we will bring a bed down to you, make sure you're comfortable. I don't want you sleeping on the floor. That's terrible.
Matt: "You're all being very accommodating."
Travis: You'll get every consideration for protection. We value your info very much.
Marisha: You're also the key to our own freedom, so it's important.
Sam: You also caught us on a day where we're trying to be nicer to people. (laughter)
Sam: Lucky for you.
Liam: Just be glad you're not an old woman.
Matt: "I'll stay here for now."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "I need to think on it. I've been promised such protection before."
Sam: From the Briarwoods?
Matt: "From a few. And they're dead. An enemy of an enemy doesn't necessarily make them a friend, I've discovered."
Marisha: No, but it can make them allies if they have mutual enemies. Of their enemies. It's a little complicated.
Matt: This whole conversation, the emotional recalling of everything, you can see has been very taxing on him and his still mostly conscious state. He looks exhausted, scared, and still trying to suss out all the information coming at him right now.
Marisha: Grog, why don't you carry the bed down from upstairs?
Travis: Not a problem. Keep the goblet nearby. It is very nice ale.
Marisha: Would you like something to eat?
Matt: "Yes, please."
Marisha: We'll have our staff bring down some food.
Matt: He takes the goblet. He looks at it, smells it, but still holds it at bay as you walk off. You eventually go-- easy enough for you-- take the bed. You have to turn it to the side to take it out, which causes all of the cushions to fall out.
Travis: Aw, shit. (laughter)
Travis: I grab a little pillow with my toes, and I hobble down.
Matt: It takes about 20 minutes and three trips, but you manage to get the bed down there from the guest room.
Travis: Not a problem.
Matt: When you fit it in the cell-- and it's not a large cell; it's maybe ten by ten feet maximum. You place it there. As you guys walk back, you notice as you see Grog walking back down the stairway-- right around the corner as you go down the steps, the hallway goes to the cell, and it turns to the right and to the left to the workshop. You see around the corner a shoulder, listening in. There's a person. And you recognize that it is Percy. Percy has stepped out of the workshop and apparently has been hearing everything this entire time.
Laura: Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm fine." And Percy immediately steps away and you hear the door close with a slam.
Laura: Give him time.
Sam: So moody!
Laura: So yeah, I'm going to lock it. I'm just going to lock your door. To make sure you're safe, make sure nobody can get in.
Matt: "Keep him away from me. Who is that?"
Sam: He's a friend. I know it doesn't seem like it from the condition of your paw, but he's a friend. He's in the same boat as you, trying to stay safe from danger.
Laura: The Briarwoods destroyed his family, as well.
Matt: And you see now, there's like this look of tension on his face that's mixed with tired. And eventually finding the bed and takes the goblet-- still filled, has not drunk from it-- just slips it next to the side of the bed. Eventually food is brought down.
Laura: And a chamber pot, because come on!
Matt: All the basic pleasantries are brought within the cell. He lies on the bed and takes the plate up with him and starts just scarfing some of the bread rolls down. And immediately starts going for the mashed potatoes. You can see a decent meal hasn't been had in quite a while. Especially the journey, what is essentially a seven to eight day journey from Whitestone, probably has not been very kind to him. Eats and then promptly passes out on the bed. Food still mashed on the side of the face. Just goes straight into a slumber.
Travis: Is there any other entrance to the cell area besides the door? No barred windows or anything like that?
Matt: No. It's underground. It's all solid, solid stone walls. And there is the barred front door, and then just goes right into the hallway that goes up the stairs to your left and across the way and around the corner to the workshop.
Travis: You can't cast any kind of alarm system? A trigger?
Laura: So that Percy can't get anything through there?
Marisha: Let me reference my spell tome. It's not a common one. It's situational. But let me check real quick. I haven't read that chapter from my book in a while.
Orion: Is Allura on the way back from the Lyceum?
Matt: No, the Lyceum is in the Erudite District. Allura's tower is in the Cloudtop, which is the central part of Emon.
Laura: I do want to go check out that bird creature at the farmhouse tonight.
Sam: Yes. Well, have we stationed a guard down there?
Travis: We should. We have five or six.
Sam: All right. I'll go talk to Cordell. That's his name, right?
Travis: No, not Cordell. Let's get somebody else.
Laura: Get the crossbow guy that we like so much. The guy that's the captain of the guards.
Sam: Is that Kendrick? Or Shayne? Oh, the girl?
Laura: No, the guy. He's awesome and he's an archer, as well.
Sam: Jarett?
Laura: Jarett. That's it!
Sam: All right, we'll get Jarett. Oh, Jarett?
Matt: You make your way to the back part of the wall, and there is a small tower that's constructed as part of the back wall. That's where Jarett usually keeps watch. Jarett has the in-between shift between the guards, so he can be present for both sides and keep a watch during the afternoon until the nighttime. Probably till about midnight or so. So as you make your way out of the keep, Tiberius, are you heading back to the keep or are you heading toward the Cloudtop District? This will dictate whether or not you show up around this time.
Orion: I'm going to Allura's.
Laura: I'm staying down in the prison, just for the time being. I don't want to leave him alone with Percy.
Matt: You go to find Jarett, who's up at the top of the tower. And as you call to him, Jarett leans over. And you see him, you know, short jet-black hair, darker complexion. Very handsome, younger, early-twenties guy. Well-dressed over his studded leather armor that he wears underneath and has the crossbow on the side. He leans over. "Scanlan, it has been some time. It is so good to hear from you. What can I be of service for?"
Sam: We need you to watch a prisoner for us, downstairs in our jail cell, which we had built and are now using. You'll be guarding the prisoner to make sure he doesn't escape, but also making sure he stays safe. He possesses information that's very valuable to us. And one of the people who hires you might try to kill him, so if Percy tries to go in there, can you stop him without hurting either party?
Matt: "I imagine this would be very well-suited for my skill set. It will be strange to keep watch against one of my employers, but he's been a bit sheepish around me anyway."
Sam: You think you could take Percy?
Matt: "Well, I think I can at least talk some sense into him!"
Travis: I like him!
Sam: Wow! Jarett, you're ballsy! Just out of curiosity, if he was running at you, what would you do? (laughter)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I would dive in the forward motion, leg out, to put him off balance. This would be from a frontal melee-- you're messing with me, aren't you?"
Sam: A little bit!
Matt: "Ah, gnomes! Very well."
Sam: Do you need anything to help?
Matt: "I have access to my own private armory, and I have utmost faith."
Sam: All right. Well, keep him safe and there's an extra five gold in it for you?
Laura: Oh! Pathetic!
Sam: I don't know! Ten! Ten gold!
Matt: "Gnomes."
Sam: I don't know how money works. We'll talk to Vex about it.
Matt: "Certainly. All right. I will do this." And he stands up, and goes and starts gathering his general setup supplies inside the guard tower. As you walk back to the keep, you hear him whistle and start calling out to Shayne to go ahead and take over, up in the tower.
Liam: I wasn't there for any of that. I was upstairs on the roof, just thinking.
Matt: Tiberius, you make your way into the Cloudtop District. As you come to the front gates of the district, the guards that normally recognize you and welcome you in, recognize you and stand firm, weapons at the ready.
Orion: At Allura's tower?
Matt: At the Cloudtop District entirely. You guys had to get written permission to enter there when you first came to Emon, anyway, since that's where the nobility and many of the important figures of Emon reside. It appears that since you've been taken out of the Council and you're under investigation, your access to such a sensitive location within Emon has been temporarily revoked, and the guards are not letting you through.
Orion: Is that it? So I just turn around? Go back?
Matt: It's up to you. The guards are just there, standing.
Orion: Greeting and salutations. I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. Moreover, a member of Vox Machina, over at Greyskull Keep. It seems that you all are posturing and whatnot. (chuckles) It's adorable. But I'm here to see Lady Allura. Could you let her know that I would like to speak to her, or get out of my way so I can just go over there and tell her myself?
Matt: "We have direct orders to not let you or any other member of Vox Machina into the Cloudtop District until your investigation is complete. So no, and no."
Orion: Well, do the second thing. If you don't do one thing, do one of the other things.
Matt: "Your information and wish has been processed, taken into consideration. Thank you very much. Please be on your way."
Orion: Oh, it has been, it has been processed! Oh, that's good to know! I appreciate that. Very well. I cast Fly on myself and I go back to the keep.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) They both did not expect that exit. You essentially Superman-ed. You're just like (thud). Little cloud of smoke in the shape of a dragonborn left behind. All right. So as you cruise over, you see in the distance, from where you're standing at the top of the keep, you see a distant bead of dark shadow that approaches and grows larger, and it is an air-cruising Tiberius making his way towards the keep.
Liam: I hide behind-- I don't want to get hit, so I'm going to crouch down a little bit, carefully behind one of the pieces of wall. Yeah. Rough landings, sometimes.
Orion: I fly in. Vox Machina!
Liam: Easy. Be careful.
Orion: Sorry. Hi. What are you doing? Are you up here thinking?
Liam: Why, I suppose I was. The others are downstairs interrogating that boy. Where have you been?
Orion: Off doing things that wasn't really that productive, overall, but they don't like me anywhere, especially now.
Liam: Do you want to have a drink?
Orion: Yes, actually, I do.
Liam: I've got a flask. You normally drink water. You want a shot, though?
Orion: Yes, I would love some alcohol. This calls for alcohol.
Liam: I pull out my flask, and I'm amazed, because I've never seen this and I hand it over to him.
Orion: Oh yes. (whoosh)
Sam: Did you eat the flask?
Orion: No, fire breath.
Liam: Do you want to pass that bad boy back? Is it hot?
Matt: It's empty.
Liam: Oh, it's empty! Well, I guess that was worth it.
Orion: (slurred) What? What are you talking about? Don't you tell me how to drink. Oh, you!
Travis: I come out from the castle into the courtyard, and I go, hey! I feel like chicken tonight! Can we go hunt this big bird?
Liam: Tiberius-- I just got him drunk!
Travis: Really?
Orion: (slurred) He gave me a shot of his flask water, and it's so good.
Travis: Are you sure you didn't hit him with the blunt side of your knife again?
Liam: No, no, he took a shot of the old firewater, and I don't know. We might want to slap him a bit--
Orion: (slurred) Allura doesn't like me anymore because I killed that bitch who tried to kill us, and now she's fucking-- nobody likes us!
Liam: Let's find Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah. Smart. Keyleth!
Marisha: What? I was reading. What?
Travis: Tibs got turnt up. Will you fix it?
Marisha: How?
Orion: Vax gave me--
Marisha: What did you do? Why are you touching me?
Orion: Oh, I love protecting you, it is-- and Lockheed is, he loves you, too--
Marisha: Don't touch me right now!
Orion: See, I'm telling you, nobody likes me.
Liam: I gave him his first drinky. I'm sorry. Do you think you could pull him out of it?
Marisha: What?
Liam: I thought he was going to say no! He didn't leave me any.
Orion: It's good. Hi. How are you? I'm Tiberius-- Draconia. You are princess pretty face. He likes you, too.
Liam: Vax walks away, off the roof. Out of here. I'm gone!
Travis: Grog is riveted.
Orion: Human kissy mouth, with you is-- (vomits) (laughter)
Orion: I'm good.
Marisha: If you touch me one more time!
Orion: Oh! Sorry. Did you need to go somewhere?
Marisha: I am doing something else, a request that was already made previously, before "can we fix drunk Tiberius," so I'm a little busy! Why don't you go sleep it off, take a nap, and I will deal with you in a second.
Orion: Is it sleepy time?
Marisha: For you.
Orion: Should I cast Fireball?
Marisha: Oh my god. And I shove him into the cell and put him in bed--
Travis: No, we're not in the prison. We're out in the courtyard.
Marisha: Oh, I thought that you said-- everyone was like, Keyleth!
Laura: I'm still in the prison. Everybody else is out of the prison.
Matt: So where do you push him?
Orion: She pushed me off the roof.
Marisha: No! I thought we were downstairs.
Orion: I fall off the roof. I still have Fly on myself, don't I?
Marisha: You don't fall off the roof. I don't know what I do with him. I let him pass out.
Orion: I'm going to get a sandwich.
Marisha: I let him go get a sandwich.
Sam: I encourage sandwich! (laughter)
Matt: That's the quote of the night. Encouraged to get a sandwich, Tiberius wanders off. What are you doing to prepare what you were doing?
Marisha: I don't know! I got distracted!
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Well, as the day progresses, what would you guys like to do?
Marisha: Wait. My idea. Okay. We were wanting extra fortification? We were wanting extra protection. Okay? I can't necessarily cast a big spell. I could cast Hallucinatory Terrain. We have a few options; I'm giving them to you all. I can cast Hallucinatory Terrain to make this look like something else. I don't think-- I don't know. I don't know if that's a good idea. I don't know. I could conjure a few woodland beings for, like, extra bears. We could have some bears guarding the palace. I could also throw up a Wall of Thorns, to barrier the cell with the wall of thorns. You're not here?
Sam: I think everyone left. I think it's just you and me up here, and drunk Tiberius.
Marisha: I went downstairs, and I'm saying this to the group so I don't have to repeat myself!
Orion: Oh, so then I turn around with my sandwich and am like, we have to just make Allura talk to us. She can fix everything.
Travis: I grab Tiberius's mouth and I cover it. Please continue.
Sam: Wall of Thorns could be good.
Laura: I like Wall of Thorns.
Marisha: The thing with Wall of Thorns is it's not super big. It's 60 feet.
Sam: That's pretty big!
Laura: Oh. That's not the whole place, though.
Sam: Oh, 60 feet long. I thought you meant high.
Marisha: No, it's 100 feet high. It's really high. Actually, I don't know how high it is. Don't quote me on that. But it's not that long, but we could fortify the doors more. Have bears. We could do multiple things, too.
Liam: I think that the Hallucinatory Terrain wouldn't work. I felt like they could see right through me.
Travis: I think so, too.
Marisha: On the Briarwoods?
Laura: Yeah, they can see through illusions pretty darn well.
Sam: Listen, Percy's here. He can defend for us.
Orion: No, you need a warding spell.
Sam: Why don't we just leave someone behind?
Marisha: Percy's behind.
Travis: Percy's here and so are five? Six? How many employees do we have?
Laura: Our very capable guards.
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: Huh?
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: All right, I'll make some extra bears.
Orion: Put some little hats on them and make them cute.
Liam: Do you think you could fix him? Because he's a lot of firepower if we're going to go--
Marisha: What gets rid of drunkenness? (laughs)
Laura: Maybe Restoration?
Matt: Restoration would probably take care of it.
Marisha: I don't want to burn a Restoration spell on your drunkenness.
Laura: Can you cast little Restoration?
Matt: You could also just give it a couple of hours. Drink a lot of water.
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably close to 3 00 in the afternoon.
Travis: So it's 3 00 in the afternoon. The bird doesn't even come until night. We could let him wear it off.
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: 3 00. We just established this. We're going to wait until night and go.
Laura: She said she hated you. How did that feel?
Liam: Fine. That was fine. That was the heat of the moment. She was angry. We're a team.
Matt: All right. What's the plan, guys?
Sam: The plan is we're going to let him sober up. We're going to give him some coffee. And then we're going to set off for the north farmlands at dusk.
Orion: Oh, we should get some corn and other harvestments at the farms.
Marisha: I make an army of bears.
Matt: Okay. This concentration will last an hour.
Laura: Oh! That's it.
Matt: The Conjure Woodland Beings?
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on. What if I conjure a bear, and then-- let me make sure, while they figure their stuff out. See, we're all figuring stuff out?
Laura: What if I leave Trinket in the prison with Jarett?
Travis: Yeah! That won't freak him out at all.
Sam: Well, with Cordell. Jarett's down in the cell. This is defense against invading vampires.
Marisha: Okay! I have a better idea!
Travis: Yep?
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: Why don't I conjure an elemental, and then I can cast Planar Binding on him and he'll hang out for 24 hours.
Sam: Great! Do it. Make it done. Let's go kill a bird.
Travis: Lead with that next time.
Marisha: I was figuring it out. It's new.
Sam: You've got to talk it through.
Marisha: Figuring it out.
Travis: That's awesome!
Matt: Yep! That'll do.
Travis: Don't vampires hate fire? Can you do fire?
Laura: Yeah, fire! Fire elemental!
Liam: Running water.
Laura: Ooh, water elemental! (gasps) Tiberius, remember that you--
Travis: He's drunk!
Laura: I know.
Sam: Don't talk to him.
Travis: He won't remember anything.
Orion: (slurred) I love how you shoot arrows at things' eyeballs.
Sam: I use Minor Illusion to create Lockheed, and I have him scamper away.
Orion: Oh, that's you. But where are you going? You go play up there. Tell your brother to be good. Anyway, you're so pretty.
Matt: So are you doing that, Marisha? Keyleth, are you summoning an elemental?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Which kind?
Marisha: Water elemental.
Matt: Okay. And you cast Planar Binding. Part of the material component cost is a gem that's worth at least 1,000 gold pieces.
Travis: I have one of those.
Laura: You do?
Travis: Yeah. It's a jewel that's red and palm-sized.
Laura: I have a diamond of awesome. And a regular diamond, as well.
Liam: If I create a trap here, can you bind some magic to it?
Orion: You can do anything with magic. You can make things go. You can make things stop.
Travis: I cover Tiberius's mouth again.
Laura: I give her a diamond.
Matt: All right. Is this the awesome diamond or the regular diamond?
Laura: This is a regular diamond. The awesome diamond is special.
Matt: All right.
Laura: No! Don't do that!
Marisha: I know! Why do you do that?
Laura: Diamonds are really expensive! Any diamonds!
Marisha: I know! And an awesome diamond has got to be more than 1,000, so this time there's got to be at least 1,000. Grog, what kind of jewel do you have?
Travis: It's a palm-sized ruby.
Marisha: A palm-sized ruby?
Travis: Yeah, I got a big palm!
Marisha: Tiberius.
Sam: No, just don't.
Matt: Vex. Your keen eye is able to ascertain that the palm-sized ruby is worth roughly 1,200 gold pieces and would be suitable for this ritual.
Laura: I think we should use the ruby. Because I have an eye for these things.
Travis: Do we think they're going to come while we do this? Do we want to waste it? Because that's an awesome outside defense. Do we want to waste it for this? What if they're coming? Does it cost one jewel per--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe we should save that, because that's awesome!
Liam: Is there a possibility, DM, that I could-- if he's sobered up-- if I set a trap, that a spell of his could be bound to it, somehow, and go off? I have no idea.
Matt: It's hard to say. There are certain spells that can enable that. That can take certain spells that trigger at a certain time. Nothing that's particularly in your guys' realm of experience or understanding though, unfortunately.
Liam: All right. So I can look into it for the future, but not today.
Travis: Keyleth, I like that. I think we should keep it in case there is an actual attack coming. Because it might just, 24 hours and then we waste it. Nobody came.
Marisha: That's true. To be fair, the castle's being heavily watched by outsiders, as well.
Sam: Okay! Listen. Let's just go.
Orion: Grog is big. Scanlan's small. Everything is great. Hi.
Liam: Can we leave Trinket? To watch.
Laura: What? He's going to go down in the prison with Jarett.
Matt: Okay. You bring Trinket down. Trinket stands watch right in the center, plops down right up against the bars.
Laura: I knock on Percy's door and say, Percy?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Trinket's out here. If you need anything, you just come out and you pet him.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Welcome.
Orion: I also go up to the door and go, Trinket. (mumbling) Percy.
Laura: Aren't you sober yet?
Orion: No, it's been like five minutes, hasn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Over time, over the next two to three hours or so, you guys have set up a place to go. They have given you some water, and you've managed to sober up a bit.
Liam: I actually picked his pocket and took his bottle of endless water. Don't you have a bottle of water like that?
Matt: No. That is currently left to be blessed for holy water.
Liam: Oh. Oh, well.
Travis: And we take the scenic route to let him walk it off as we head up towards Big Bird's house.
Sam: Great!
Matt: All right. So. You guys make your way around the outskirts of Emon under moonlight. It's a three-quarter waxing moon. You make your way to the farm vicinity on the north side of the city. It doesn't take long for you to eventually suss out the house that matches the description that you were given by the Klauses. You knock on the door, and they eagerly greet your arrival and invite you in. "So glad you all could make it. Have you decided? Have you given our community's request some thought?"
Sam: We're here to help. We're the heroes that you asked for.
Travis: We love old people.
Matt: "Thank you. That's really good of you. We will happily provide you with fresh produce, going forward. We've talked to a few of the members of the community and we're going to make sure that's taken care of."
Sam: Where do you think we should stake out this bird? Where are your livestock kept?
Matt: "The livestock are kept on the eastern side of this community. If you look about, say about half a mile out to where the actual residences stop being clustered together, you'll see there are a number of large livestock containment areas. Hard to miss out there. We have pens for sheep; we have pens for cows; we have pens for horses, other beasts of burden. That whole vicinity is where most of these attacks seem to be coming. So that's probably your best bet there."
Liam: And the biggest you have are the bulls, you said?
Matt: "Bulls. We have a few big cows, as well. We've lost a few of them, unfortunately."
Travis: That'll be all we need.
Laura: Can one of us polymorph into a giant cow?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: I could also talk to cows again. Maybe these cows will know something.
Travis: We head out to the pasture.
Marisha: First can I ask her, you said your neighbor boy, Kyle?
Sam: Kyle. The neighbor boy. The neighbor boy's son. Yes.
Matt: "That's true. Kyle's the one who originally spotted it, yeah."
Marisha: Where does he live?
Matt: "He's actually the son of the man who runs most of the livestock areas over there. You can go and head over there. He's probably still up, keeping his eye out in case it comes back."
Marisha: Thank you. I go to Kyle.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way over there. It's easy to find. There's large pens. You can see that for as big as the pens are built and their structure, they are noticeably dwindled. You can see why there's been some worry in the community here. The fact that it's only been two weeks and this many creatures are gone is a little disconcerting. As you get there, you can see the house has its light on. There are glowing windows. And sitting in a chair, holding a crossbow across his lap, you see a 19-year-old boy, rugged chin growth, dirty red hair that's disheveled. And he's sitting there looking around in the sky. Rocking back and forth in his chair as you approach. "Who goes there?"
Sam: Don't worry, we're friends. We're friends of the Klauses. Mr. and Mrs. Klaus.
Matt: "Okay. Okay. So you the ones they say was coming to help?"
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Aye.
Laura: We hear you have a keen eye, Kyle.
Matt: "I've seen some things, yeah."
Sam: Where have they been attacking lately?
Matt: Points to the whole area in front of him and says, "Are you keeping watch now? Great. Thank you."
Marisha: No! Wait! Don't leave yet. We need you.
Orion: Yes, yes. Keyleth. We are Vox Machina. Over from Greyskull Keep. I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Marisha: That's irrelevant. The point is, I was wondering if you had any more information about the creature.
Matt: "I mean, other than the fact that it was just a really big bird. Really big. Huge."
Marisha: Do you remember any other details? Any other defining details other than "bird?"
Matt: "It's hard to see in the moonlight."
Sam: When it picks up a cow or whatever it's been picking up, does it strike with the beak or the claws? The talons.
Matt: "Claws, and sometimes it takes two at a time, one in each claw, and just carries them away. "
Orion: Have you seen any of its droppings anywhere?
Matt: "No. "
Travis: Have you managed to hit it with your crossbow?
Matt: "I've missed."
Liam: And you're certain this is a feathered beast, or no?
Matt: "Best I can see. It's dark out here at that time of night and it looks like a bird. It doesn't make any noise and swoops on down and takes them away and flies off in that direction."
Travis: I've heard that those giant birds are attracted to red-headed, 19-year-old, scruffy-chin folk with crossbows.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: This would be with your charisma.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Nice. He goes, "Well, I don't want to be here, then. You guys can keep an eye out. I've got to go." And unloads the bolt in the crossbow, slings it up under his arm--
Sam: Wait! Before you leave. I'm sorry. I have an itch. And it can only be scratched with a cowbell. Do you have a cowbell anywhere around here? I just need a cowbell. Can I borrow a cowbell from you?
Matt: "Your kid's weird." And he keeps walking.
Marisha: Your kid is weird!
Sam: I'm not a child!
Laura: Do I see any cowbells on the ground?
Matt: You can take a glance about. You eventually can see that there is set up on one of the fences that fences in the cows, there is a cowbell, yes.
Laura: Hey, there's a cowbell, Scanlan.
Sam: Great. It will help the ruse. Here's my plan we're all cows. Is that an okay plan?
Laura: I like it!
Marisha: I'm into this plan. But doesn't that essentially make us the bait?
Sam: Yes, we're our own bait. Are you cool with that?
Laura: Should one of us maybe not be a cow?
Marisha: Well, here's the thing, maybe a few of us should not be cows because only a few people are going to have the ability to turn out of being a cow once they are a cow, unless they take damage.
Travis: We went from all cows to pretty much no one is a cow.
Laura: No, Keyleth is definitely a cow. No, I mean-- I didn't-- we didn't mean like that. You're very lovely.
Marisha: It's okay. What Vax said was way worse, earlier.
Travis: How do you come out of being a cow, if you are one?
Sam: I can get rid of it.
Travis: You would do it? Let's do it! When else are we all going to be cows? Come on! Unless it kills them instantly, we'll be fine.
Orion: I'm fine. I go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to lay in wait with an arrow. All the rest of you can be cows.
Liam: I think I'm better served waiting to strike.
Sam: You and me, Grog. We're cows!
Liam: If it grabs one of them, I'll deal more damage. If it grabs me, I'll deal no damage. But if it grabs Scanlan cow, I can--
Marisha: Another thing is, I can turn into a cow. I can turn someone else into a cow. Well, Polymorph is a concentration spell.
Sam: I can turn us all into cows.
Marisha: Oh. Because you got that thing.
Travis: Cow or no, Keyleth? Give us your answer.
Marisha: Oh, I'm a cow.
Sam: Seeming.
Orion: Oh, we are not actually cows?
Sam: We'll just seem like cows.
Marisha: Except for me who is going to be an actual cow.
Orion: If it's Polymorph, I couldn't cast stuff. I redact my Invisibility and I'll be a cow. I'm also going to be a cow. I want to be a brown cow.
Marisha: We're all cows! Just embrace it.
Matt: You can't change a target's body type.
Sam: What? No.
Matt: So the same form of your limbs-- you're right.
Sam: You can't change size, but we can all be Grog-sized cows or Scanlan-sized cows.
Matt: It's going to be an array of very strangely sized cows.
Marisha: Scanlan would be like a calf. Big calf.
Sam: What do you think?
Matt: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: Gather close to me!
Travis: We want to get in the pen first, right?
Sam: Yes, let's go into the pen, and if I may, I'm going to wear the cow bell.
Travis: Sure! You've earned it. (laughter)
Laura: How you going to put it? I'm just going to put it around your neck right now.
Travis: Super loose.
Matt: You guys make your way into the cow pen. The little bit of moonlight that's coming down from the sky illuminates. You see the cows are clustered underneath this overhang that is used for temporary shelter. You hear this distant (mooing) as you approach and make noise. No one's not too upset yet. It's more low muttering.
Travis: What if that was attraction?
Matt: Not yet.
Marisha: If we use Seeming, we just appear to be cows, but we can still speak, right?
Matt: Yeah. Anything sees you as cows--
Marisha: Would be like, holy shit, those are talking cows!
Sam: It's "cow-moo-flage." (groaning)
Sam: Thank you.
Orion: That's good.
Matt: I have to give you experience for that. (laughter)
Liam: Wait. What's going on? Are we turning into cows?
Sam: We just will seem like cows.
Liam: I don't understand magic.
Travis: Just go along. Go along.
Laura: That way we can ambush the bird.
Marisha: We are going to look like cows. Are we going to look like cows to each other, too?
Matt: You'll find out.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you all gather around the small gnome, currently adorned with the cowbell around his neck.
Liam: Just like the brothels, eh?
Matt: You complete the spell and with a sudden (whoosh) of cold night air, your vision blurs and you blink for a second. You look around and Vox Machina is now, instead, an array of slightly smaller than average cows. (mooing)
Sam: (barks) Oh, wait. No.
Matt: You're, by the way, more of a calf.
Laura: You are so cute, Scanlan.
Marisha: Okay, shall we go interview some cows?
Laura: Let's go talk to some cows. I want to walk over to the cows with you.
Matt: You guys step up, awkwardly, towards the cows, some of which are sleeping, some of which are noticing and sitting there just chewing.
Marisha: Which one looks like the alpha male?
Laura: The one that's got horns.
Matt: There are no males in this pen, because they are cows.
Orion: I try to speak to the cow.
Matt: Okay. What do you say?
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Matt: You speak Common. You don't know Cow.
Marisha: Tiberius, just because you look like a cow doesn't mean you can talk to the cows. The cows don't understand English. No matter if you look like a cow, they still don't understand Common.
Liam: Boy, if Uriel could see us now. (laughter)
Travis: We are "cow-nsel" worthy.
Marisha: I cast Speak With Animals.
Matt: This is the best Vox Machina adventure ever! All right, you cast Speak With Animals.
Marisha: Yes. Actually, how many animals can I hit with Speak with Animals? It is called Animals, right? Or is it just Speak with Animal?
Matt: I think it affects you. I think it gives you the ability to speak with.
Marisha: Oh, just me the ability?
Orion: You're Dr. Doolittle.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. I think you're right. Okay, so I cast Speak With Animals on myself.
Matt: All right. Yep! On self for ten minutes.
Orion: Make sure the cow-- What? She may know a cow that is over there.
Marisha: Okay, so I go up. Is there a cluster of nice-looking ladies, sitting around?
Matt: All the cows are clustered in this one corner, up against each other for body warmth. And there are few that are just like (moo).
Marisha: Hello, ladies. Good evening.
Matt: (moo) Which is what you guys hear. You hear as a response: "What are you doing? We're trying to sleep."
Marisha: I do apologize to awaken you. I was just curious if you could tell me a little bit about some of the events that have been transpiring around here lately? Mainly, the results of your kind getting killed?
Matt: "My kind?"
Orion: Just ask about the bird!
Marisha: Have you seen a giant bird flying around? Anyone?
Matt: At which point, all the cows start shuddering and say, "Yes. Haven't you? It keeps taking us. Why do you think we're hiding under this?"
Marisha: Oh, sure.
Matt: "Be careful. If you stay out there, it'll see you."
Marisha: Right. Where, exactly? Where have they been-- okay. Damn, cows! It's never--
Sam: Keyleth, what vital information have you learned?
Marisha: I'll get back to you in one second. Can you tell me anything about what it looks like?
Matt: "It's big and has wings. It's fast, and it keeps taking us."
Orion: Ask her where the moon is at night--
Marisha: Does it seem to come at a certain time of the night?
Matt: "The dark time."
Orion: It's a cow. This is the same as before.
Travis: Because nothing is happening I am now trying to eat grass.
Matt: You bend down, and take clusters with your hand, and start eating grass.
Orion: Oh, we are ourselves, still?
Matt: Yeah, you are not actually physically cows. You are still yourselves. You just look like cows.
Sam: I, for once, and it's not weird, I just shit on the floor. (laughter)
Sam: Seems totally normal.
Travis: We are in it, baby!
Laura: I'm just going to notch a bow to my bow, just to keep a lookout to the sky.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Can I Prestidigitate smells?
Matt: You could.
Orion: Sweet. Go ahead. (laughter)
Sam: All right, so we go out into the field.
Marisha: They're cows. I forgot that talking to cows never goes well.
Laura: Yeah, remember Dork?
Marisha: Didn't seem to know a lot. They're simple-minded beasts.
Laura: Dork the ox.
Marisha: Yeah, poor Dork. Dork the ox.
Matt: Rest in peace, Dork.
Travis: Pour a little out.
Matt: You guys make your way. You wait a while, a good two-hour period, as cows, before eventually you, keeping your eye to the sky with your arrow nocked, see a whisk of shadow across the moonlight.
Laura: (whistles)
Travis: What was that?
Laura: I'm letting you guys fucking know there's a thing in the sky.
Orion: Is it Jumanji time?
Sam: Not quite.
Matt: At this point, you guys look up, and you see something circle once. It looks like a bird. It's just not as big as you were expecting. Looks like a bigger hawk.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: Okay. Bigger and bigger
Liam: My cow is going stealth.
Matt: Roll for cow stealth! (laughter)
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay. You're still a cow.
Marisha: I make myself look available. I step away from the rest of the herd a little bit.
Travis: I go into a cow rage and start chewing faster.
Matt: You would like to chew! All right.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark it.
Matt: Okay. Well, it has to come within range first.
Laura: As soon as it is.
Matt: As it swoops down, you see this bird just gets larger and larger and you realize it was quite a distance away. And now that it's getting closer, the tales you've heard are true. This is at least a 100-foot wing span, if not more.
Orion: I'm going to fix my ring on it.
Marisha: 100-foot wing span?
Orion: As it gets close I'm going to brace my ring as it's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay. It comes. It dives down with extreme speed and goes into a dive. It comes into range. You cast Hunter's Mark on it. You have your ring ready. What you doing?
Orion: Cast Slow on it!
Matt: Cast Slow? All righty. What is the DC on that?
Orion: 17.
Matt: And what is the save?
Sam: Is it wisdom or charisma or something?
Orion: It's concentration! No, wait, it is a concentration.
Matt: Yes it is. That's okay. I'm finding it. All right, it is wisdom. All right. Oh! What was the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. That is an 18. Rolled a natural 18 on that one. As it swoops down, you release the spell, you are immediately attempting to be grasped in its talons. That is a 23 to hit.
Marisha: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you then take 23 points of slashing damage to your cow form.
Laura: I thought we were just--
Matt: Oh. Okay. Sorry. You're not in cow form, are you? You're illusioned. You're staying normal?
Marisha: No, I'm normal.
Matt: You're normal. Right. Okay. I thought you were saying you were doing an actual cow form, but no. All right. You take 23 points of slashing damage, and you are currently grappled as it takes right back up into the air, clutching Keyleth within its talons.
Liam: How fast can the rest of us do anything? It's gone?
Matt: Now you guys can react. It is currently 60 feet away from you.
Laura: I immediately-- oh god! I shoot it.
Sam: Do we have to roll for initiative?
Matt: You do.
Laura: But I was notched already.
Matt: Right. I'll give you advantage on your initiative. Because you're notched but you used your last turn to cast Hunter's Mark on it. Everyone roll initiative. You have advantage on it because you were nocked, and because you were ready to react, you have advantage on your initiative check, but everyone else just roll normally. All right. So that is 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Travis: 18.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: Vax. Keyleth. Scanlan? Tiberius? What you guys got?
Sam: Six.
Orion: Five.
Matt: Okay. All right. So Vex, you're up first.
Laura: I'm going to shoot it through the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll for the attack.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 hits.
Laura: (counts quietly) 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage. All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot it again.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That one definitely hits  26.
Matt: Yeah! That hits.
Laura: 26 again.
Matt: Nice! All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I take the Firebrand Warhammer, activate it, turn on the fire. And I put the Chain of Returning on it and throw it at the winged beast.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll with disadvantage because it's already roughly 40 to 60 feet away from you. It's tough to get there. But you can try.
Travis: 15. Nope. 16.
Matt: Okay. Due to its distance and the dark cover of night, it's harder to hit and you actually swing and throw it and the hammer-- The chain goes taut and it just drops to the ground and it's just out of range of the hammer, as it escapes the range it would have hit it with.
Travis: Can I pull it back?
Matt: Yeah, go for it. That's easy enough, it's not wedged in anything. You don't have to roll for it. All right, so that's your turn. Vax.
Liam: I'd like to use a bonus action to click Boots of Haste together, and I think if I do that, I have two actions at that point, right?
Matt: No. Well you do have an additional action that can be used only to attack.
Liam: Just attack. So what I want to do is click the Boots of Haste together, use the original action to run as far as I can towards the bird, and then use my final action to sneak attack the thing since it's got Keyleth in its talons. That's up to you.
Matt: Okay. The sneak attack will not kick in because Keyleth is not threatening the creature. But you go for the attacks. You rush up, you dash, you get underneath it-- for a moment, because of the Boots of Haste, you keep speed with this giant, darting creature. You, underneath, throw your daggers upward.
Liam: All right. It would just be one-- I mean if I use the dash to run as far as I can, that would leave me with one attack probably?
Matt: One attack and your bonus without the damage bonus.
Liam: I'm trying to be a Boy Scout here. Wouldn't the Boots of Haste clicking be the bonus action? Yeah. That is 22 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: All right. And that's not a whole lot.
Matt: What's the range increment on a dagger?
Liam: That's ten. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Dagger. Roll again for disadvantage because it's just within your secondary throwing range.
Liam: Oh yeah. Then I missed.
Matt: Okay. It vanishes into the dark night ahead of you. So yeah. That is gone. You still have your Belt of Returning, you just don't have your snake belt. Yeah, don't worry guys. I saw the look on your face and I'm like, no, it's fine. It comes back. Okay. Keyleth, you're up. You're currently grappled and held within the talons of this giant bird. You see the entire ground below you.
Marisha: Judging by the fairly close up appearance I have of him at this point, can I tell it is probably a "beast" nature?
Matt: At the sheer size, it's hard to tell. You've never encountered a beast of this size, but you do look up and you can see the talons that are currently holding you in place and piercing the sides of your armor are bird-like talons. And you do see a series of dark feathers coating the entire underbelly of this entity.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to attempt to cast Dominate Beast.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: It has to make a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is your Enhance Ability still active? From before?
Matt: That's for ability checks. So you finish casting the spell. Apparently, this entity is not affected by the spell.
Liam: Fuck-sticks.
Sam: It's not a beast?
Matt: It is not a beast. There's a fine line when certain creatures of nature are altered by some sort of magical essence or their nature perhaps is not natural at the get-go. Either they were created or over time they became something beyond beast. This seems to fall under that category.
Marisha: That's my turn, right?
Matt: That's your turn. That brings us to its turn.
Marisha: Can I try and break the grapple as a bonus action?
Matt: That would be your action to try and break the grapple. For this creature's turn, it does a full double dash of its full flight speed and is about 250 feet away from you and completely out of your guys' reach. You see it (whoosh) up into the sky, disappearing to the north, north-northwest area beyond Emon, carrying Keyleth in its claws.
Liam: Keyleth, just get out of its fucking hands and fall. You can change. We'll catch you; we'll do something! Just fall.
Matt: You're close enough where you can still hear this, as the desperation kicks in and you realize-- seeing your whole party not even visible at this point except a couple of dark dots in the low light of the night.
Sam: Is it our turn yet?
Matt: It now comes to Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Okay. I Dimension Door.
Matt: What's the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet.
Matt: You-- and appear where? Where do you want to appear?
Sam: On it. On its back.
Matt: Okay. You appear right on its back. You immediately land and start sliding back as the wind is pushing on you. The feathers themselves, due to the aerodynamic nature of its flight path; it's a lot of wind resistance against you.
Liam: Oh, make an acrobatics check.
Orion: Shush! What the hell?!
Matt: No, I was going there. Don't worry. That's what it is. You need to go ahead and make an acrobatics check to see if you can maintain balance on the back of this beast.
Liam: My intelligence is not six!
Sam: 20!
Matt: You manage to just, you tumble backward a little bit. You grab a couple of feathers and get yourself just on the side underneath where the wing meets part of the upper torso, where the wind resistance is the least amount, and you manage to hold on. You are now clutching the back of this giant bird. That's your turn.
Sam: Okay. As my bonus action, I will inspire Keyleth. Right? She's right next to me?
Marisha: Scanlan? What the shit?
Sam: (singing) The way you kick so much ass like nobody else. The way you do animal things gets me overwhelmed. You don't know. You don't know you're powerful. Oh. That's what makes you powerful.
Matt: Due to the wind, you don't hear the last line. It's too loud around it. However, you can take a d10 inspiration dice.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: Yay!
Liam: What a heroic move! Amazing!
Matt: Which for the record, this currently right now looks like-- you see the cow clutched below, and currently there is a cow holding onto this giant bird.
Sam: It lasts eight hours.
Matt: This singing tiny cow. You artists out there, have fun with this scene. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Tiberius.
Orion: Good. I drop Stoneskin. At 5th-level, I go myself, one, two, three-- I cast Fly on all of us. Fly, you fools! And go right after them.
Matt: All right. All of you guys, at that point you see Tiberius and you all take off after him.
Liam: The cows take off into the night sky.
Orion: (shouting) Fly, Vox Machina! Moo!
Marisha: Vox "Moo-china!" (booing)
Matt: A squadron of weirdly-sized, flying cows lit by moonlight, chasing after a giant bird. I love Dungeons and Dragons. (laughter)
Travis: What is this?
Matt: What's the flying speed on Fly?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet. Cool.
Orion: I'm going to dash. On that.
Matt: Yep. You guys can go 120 feet every turn. It can go 240. Two rounds pass before you guys realize there is no way you're going to catch up with this thing or get even close to it.
Liam: I've got Haste!
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark on it, so I can track it.
Liam: Double me, yo! I got Haste.
Matt: Your Haste speed-- your physical body doesn't affect the Fly spell, unfortunately. You're only at the speed that the arcane nature of the spell can take you. I'm just saying. Your metabolism's real fast. Your heartbeat's hummingbirding it. But you're still only going 120 feet. So as you guys follow behind, you can see now, after a while on the edge of the shoreline, not too far from Emon-- maybe what would normally be from horseback or a brisk walk, a half day's travel-- you eventually come upon the-- There it is! You come upon the coastal mountains known as the Shoreline Summit. It's a series of unusually steep mountain bluffs that hug the coastline, northwest of Emon. As you get closer, and at this point you've lost sight of the bird. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Sam: Athletics? Well, that doesn't count. That's not good. Athletics? 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. You still manage to keep hold for the portion of the length of the journey. As it moves and shifts and the wind itself is still blowing in your face, though minimized by your current positioning. It's a trial to hold onto this large creature as it makes its wings beat and just the sheer force of its movement. All right. So as you get closer to these mountaintops--
Marisha: Do I have a turn yet?
Matt: You can go ahead and take your turn now too, yes.
Marisha: Yeah? I cast Polymorph on it. You're on it.
Sam: Don't worry about me!
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I'm fine! You never need to worry about me. Haven't you guys learned that by now? I'm fine!
Marisha: Out of thematic reasons, I also turn him into a cow. (laughter)
Sam: That's amazing!
Liam: Is what she cries out heroically.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on this?
Marisha: My spell DC? 18.
Matt: Rolled a one. (laughter)
Sam: I'm a cow on a cow with a cow!
Matt: So this giant flying bird-- Moo! And just begins to plummet at an extremely fast speed. You both immediately are released from its grasp. Scanlan and Keyleth both are just falling. You guys don't see this. It's too far away from you now. At this point, you're probably close to about 500 feet in the air.
Liam: Yo, I heard you liked cows, so I gave you some cows with your cow.
Matt: I hope this inspires the next Diablo Cow level, guys. You really need to look into this. All right. So you guys are now both plummeting and falling at a really, really rapid speed.
Marisha: I go eagle form.
Matt: Flailing cows. You go eagle form. You're fine. So you go into eagle form. That's your action this turn. That's your bonus action, because you can do that as a--
Marisha: As a bonus action!
Matt: Eagle form. Scanlan, you plummet full speed on this one. You probably have another two rounds before you impact with something very painful.
Liam: But he's as heavy as a dust mote, so he just goes like this all the way down. Right?
Marisha: I don't think that's how it works.
Orion: No, he's a little pebble.
Marisha: I can catch him, if you need catched.
Matt: You guys still continue to give chase. Eventually, you see this giant thing just go and vanish from sight. It's just gone. It just disappeared.
Orion: I go full Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Never go full Gandalf.
Matt: You guys are pushing forward. So it's now the next round for you guys to react. What are you doing?
Sam: I will become a pterodactyl.
Matt: So you're casting?
Sam: Polymorph on myself?
Matt: Okay. Because you are falling and this is a lot of wind, I'm going to have to ask you to make a concentration check to complete the spell.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan!
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20.
Sam: This is a concentration not on holding a spell, but on casting it?
Matt: Correct. Because as part of the components of it and maintaining your attention to the spell--
Marisha: What does he add? His spell attack bonus?
Matt: This? No, this is a d20 and-- let me make sure, yeah-- it's a d20 and then you add your plus five from your charisma.
Sam: Charisma? That's a natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: With that-- (screeches) pterodactyl.
Liam: Tables have turned, motherfucker! Tables have turned!
Orion: You're both flying cows!
Laura: Wait! Was Seeming a concentration?
Orion: I think it lasts for like eight hours.
Laura: Did it drop? Are we no longer cows?
Sam: I think so. I'll check.
Liam: Hey! You're not a cow anymore!
Laura: Oh my god, you're not a cow anymore!
Liam: Oh! Awesome!
Matt: You guys keep flying. You guys catch yourselves.
Sam: Nope, not concentration. It just lasts for eight hours.
Matt: You guys are all still flying cows. You're all still just a squadron of flying, illusory cows, which you guys are both now transformed into an eagle and a pterodactyl, but you still look like cows. (laughter)
Liam: As the twins are flying, I say, hey, did you notice we have the same pattern? Twins!
Matt: About this time, you hear a loud, impactful boom. And there's a cloud of dust partway into the side of this first bit of mountain range that you come upon, a little bit distant from you guys.
Laura: Can I fly down towards it?
Matt: You start heading in that direction. Because of the speed it was traveling at and the way it was carrying at the speed it was going, it's still ahead of you guys. And you see the impact. You hear this loud screeching sound and you see now where there was a little poof of cloud, these wings unfold and (flapping) make its way back up.
Orion: How far away from it are we?
Matt: You guys right now at the close to six minutes you've been traveling--
Marisha: Did it not drop the cow to 0 hit points?
Matt: All the damage carries over.
Liam: The remainder of that damage went into its hit points.
Matt: You don't know. It looks hurt. It looks like it wasn't happy about it. It continues back up. From you Tiberius, it's probably close to 700 to 800 feet away from you. It's because of the speed it was traveling and the speed you guys were following. It was gaining on you every single turn.
Laura: Is it flying away from us now?
Matt: It's heading up into the mountain range.
Liam: Fly after that motherfucker!
Laura: Should we still track it? It's still nighttime, right?
Matt: It's still nighttime, yeah.
Orion: It's only 500 feet away from me right now?
Matt: 600 to 500 feet.
Orion: Okay, cool. Well I'm going for it, still.
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: We're all following it.
Orion: Where am I? It's taking off right now and I'm over here?
Matt: You're back here. It's now starting to take off and head up towards the top of this mountain range that you're just starting to come upon.
Orion: Okay. If it's doing that, then I'll fucking go higher and try to meet it where it's going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. The rest of you guys continue to give chase. Now that it's returned to its form, it travels an additional double dash: 240 feet. As this progresses, it's far beyond any of you guys in a matter of seconds.
Laura: Is the mountain range really far away?
Matt: No, you've just hit the outskirts of the mountain range. It got there first. You guys just catch up to where it starts and you see it's like now it's dodging through the mountains and is currently no longer in sight. There is a little bit of low cloud cover in this area. A couple drift by and cover a couple of the mountains. But this little cluster of seaside cliffs and mountains, as you get closer, you can see it's dotted with high altitude trees. There's precariously perched goats that are sleeping on elements of the sides of this mountain.
Liam: Can you track it?
Laura: I can track it! Of course.
Matt: So you're keeping your attention on it?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: The winds also are pretty strong as you get close to the mountains. As you coast around each, you start actually diving into this middle valley area.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Does that affect any spells?
Laura: No, it just makes us stealth easier.
Sam: It doesn't drop Hunter's Mark?
Matt: Is it concentration?
Laura: No, it's not concentration; it's an action. Oh wait. (laughs) I don't know if I can tell.
Matt: Is Pass Without a Trace concentration?
Laura: Where does it say it?
Sam: There's a C next to it somewhere.
Laura: Oh, never mind! It's a concentration. Forget it! I don't know how these things work yet.
Sam: Yeah, stick to the bows and arrows.
Matt: Traveling through this area, you can see the mountains. The way that they're constructed in this area, it's not a gradual crag. A lot of these are just punched up in the air, like whatever heavy seismic force that created these initially was very localized and very powerful. A lot of the mountains are spire-like. They come up with very sheer sides and you can see why this mountain range is largely not utilized or traversed or generally spoken of often because it's too dangerous for most average folk to even attempt to climb or use for any good reason. The winds are high and powerful here at the tops, as well. And as you're flying around, the winds blowing across, and you get pushed off your course a little bit here and there, but you still keep up, best as possible. You leading the charge. Over about five minutes of searching through this mountain range, you sense that its movement eventually comes to stop.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: There's a nest.
Sam: Wait, you sense that he came to a stop?
Laura: He came to a stop a little bit ahead of us.
Sam: Let's go get him.
Laura: Can we all try to stealth in?
Sam: I'm a pterodactyl, so--
Marisha: Yeah, let's go for the element of surprise. Well, technically, we're all still cows.
Matt: Yes. And you guys cannot talk because you're actually in creature forms.
Laura: All right. Well, I'm going to try to stealth. Mountains are my favored terrain!
Matt: They are! Do you want to go onto the mountain itself, or are you still flying amongst them?
Laura: Oh, I'll still fly.
Matt: So you would not get the advantage because air is not your favored terrain. So everyone who wishes to, go ahead and roll stealth checks
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who wish to try and come at it from a quiet--
Sam: (pterodactyl screech)
Matt: What did you roll?
Liam: With advantage, I rolled a two.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm not used to being flying, really.
Sam: Five.
Orion: Are we flying anymore?
Matt: You guys are all still flying, yeah.
Orion: Oh, shit. Okay. Oh, no.
Marisha: 21.
Travis: 14.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Yeah, so. You guys following behind Vex, many of you clumsily and some of you shouting out to each other, "I think she sees it this way." And you're like, "oh my god." You come around this one bend and you can see one of the larger mountainous spires that has a lot of trees and green growth towards the top at certain places where the rock juts out and gives a shelf for such greenery to grow, outside of its sheer outside surface. You do see a couple of wings fold in against the moonlight in what looks to be an outcropping. And there are multiple layers of rock shelves on the side of this mountain. And on one of these outcroppings, there appears to be some sort of a nest: a cluster of almost like actual trees and pieces of wood that are all jammed into this giant nest that's nestled against where the shadow and the moonlight are fighting for some sort of visual on it.
Travis: Big-ass tree fortress.
Laura: Did we just find like a mama bird and baby birds?
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Laura: What are we going to do?
Liam: We're going to take out the mom and train the babies.
Sam: What are we going to do?
Liam: Yeah. We're going to capture those babies and we're going to train them.
Orion: That's a good idea. I like that idea.
Sam: Like Avatar?
Orion: Yes.
Travis: You could go in.
Laura: Me go in? There's a giant fucking nest here! I get close to it. As close as I feel safe getting to it.
Matt: You guys all stay back or do you go with her?
Orion: I'm going to cast Greater Invisibility on myself and then follow.
Matt: Okay. You guys have 12 seconds before you all plummet.
Orion: Oh wait! No! I don't do that. Damn it! I forget we're still flying.
Travis: What part of the flying part did you forget?
Orion: I thought we'd landed already.
Matt: Are you guys all going with Vex, or are you all staying back and she's going on her own?
Travis: Are we going to lose Fly, or do we keep it?
Matt: Are you casting Greater Invisibility?
Orion: No.
Matt: Then no, you're fine.
Liam: Is it the same stealth roll or an additional stealth roll to go forward at this point?
Matt: No this was your stealth roll on approaching.
Liam: Oh. Well, I mean, I knew I rolled shitty.
Matt: You don't know you rolled shitty.
Travis: I'm going in.
Matt: All right. So Vex and Grog, you approach. Gliding cows, drifting through the night sky.
Laura: This is so stupid.
Travis: Hoof in hoof.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So you guys all realize you must keep close together to Tiberius as you come in. Keeping too much of a distance would be a bad thing. You come upon the underneath portion of this outcropping, and you can see within a quick glance-- go ahead and make a perception check, all of you guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who are coming up in this cluster.
Travis: Three.
Laura: Do I get an advantage because we're in a mountain environment at all?
Matt: Nope. Actually no. Because you're seeing things on a mountain, I will give you advantage on this.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12?
Orion: 16.
Sam: Nothing.
Liam: 13.
Laura: 12.
Matt: So the highest was?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16. You got?
Travis: Three.
Matt: As you guys all look up, it's very shadowy over here. It's hard to see. The moonlight's in your eye a little bit and the darkness is so pitch. The umbra of this particular shadow is very dark and crushed. You make out, in the nest, the large bird creature has folded its wings and is currently leaning down. And you see something in the nest that's much smaller moving up next to it.
Marisha: I don't want to kill a mama.
Laura: But she's killing the farmers' stuff.
Marisha: Maybe we can transplant her.
Sam: To a wildlife preserve?
Laura: Maybe. And her babies?
Marisha: Capture her and move her away from town?
Liam: That seems complicated.
Sam: Are they on the highest peak?
Matt: No. There's two other levels up above this. This one just is one of the largest outcroppings.
Sam: I'm going to swoop up over them. See if there's any boulders to drop.
Matt: Okay. Looking over it, there are no loose rocks or boulders. In fact, because of the construction of these mountains, they're solid spires that jut up and then abruptly end. All the erosion that happens here appears to be gradual enough-- that's why the sides of the mountains are so smooth and unclimbable.
Marisha: So there's a sheer peak and they're nested on the side of it?
Matt: Yeah. It's a sheer peak that rounds off at the very top and there are little outcroppings that jut out in places as it goes down. But those are more towards the top, and as you go down further-- as most of the erosion hits the mountain lower and lower, it has carved off or destroyed most of what would have been previous outcroppings, or smoothed them over.
Travis: How far away are we now?
Matt: You guys are probably a good 60 or 50 feet if you're trying to get up within range of your Fly. Right? What's the range of on that? Fly?
Sam: Fly? Oh, here.
Matt: I got it. No! There is no range on it. You just touch them. So you're fine. Yeah. As long as you're concentrating on it, you're fine.
Travis: So we're within 60 feet?
Matt: Well, you guys have been keeping a little more of a distance down here. However, at this point, as you guys are all encroaching and Scanlan's gone overhead, a voice rings out against the darkness, "Flying cows? Really? I care not for this insolence. If you've come to mock me or fight me, do it now! Or leave this creature alone!"
Laura: What? Where are you? Who are you? Who said that?
Orion: I rolled an arcana check of 17 of my surroundings-- where it's coming from.
Laura: Ditto. I try to perceive where it's coming from.
Matt: Okay. Arcana check-- there's nothing arcane in nature. It's not omnipresent or coming from any certain place. There is a direction it's coming from, which is from the outcropping or nest area. There's nothing arcane in nature to it. It's in the shadow. You can't really see it from this distance.
Laura: Is it in front of us? To the side of us? Is it coming from where the bird seems to be?
Matt: It's coming from where the bird is.
Liam: He's controlling it.
Marisha: I fly over as an eagle.
Laura: You still look like a cow eagle.
Marisha: Can we drop Seeming?
Matt: It's not under your control, and you can't talk, too.
Travis: Okay. I yell out, you've been stealing the farmers' livestock. Give us a reason not to kill you.
Sam: That's good. That's good. Diplomacy.
Orion: Or, I mean, moo!
Matt: Okay. You guys are all keeping distance from it? The voice comes out again, "Your nature confuses me and your words seem ill-informed. If you're not going to come to speak of discourse, I'm going to assume that that you're my enemy."
Orion: Then, as he's saying that, I'll approach.
Matt: So Tiberius cow goes.
Orion: And as I approach the thing, I'm going to Dispel Magic on myself.
Matt: Okay. Cool. For Dispel Magic, I need you to go ahead, just for the sake of this-- I won't consider it contested because you're allies in this thing. So you land. Tiberius' form shimmers and returns back to that of a dragonborn, and you're standing there on the precipice. Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Orion: What is that? 11.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to make out the details, but the voice is definitely coming from the nest. You see there is something vaguely humanoid, but it's hard to make out the shape at this distance with this low light, especially since you aren't a darkvision-gifted entity. However, it's close to this bird creature.
Orion: I'm going to say, is this big bird thing asleep?
Matt: "You will not harm this creature, poachers!"
Orion: I'm not trying to harm it at all. I'm just seeing if it's fine. If we could talk. I can't see anything, and I wanted to cast Light so I could see something, but I don't want to hurt your bird's eyes.
Matt: You can see the bird's moving and it's looking towards your direction. And it has this like (soft snarl).
Orion: So it's awake?
Matt: It's awake, and it looks hurt. The voice is like, "You come here masqueraded as whatever manner of beasts that you are--"
Orion: Cows. We were cows.
Matt: "After tormenting and severely wounding this beautiful creature."
Orion: We didn't do anything to the creature. No, we were-- This creature was stealing the farmer's cows, and the farmers were saying, "You've taken our livestock," which is hurting the farm. We came to help them and we posed as cows, and then your bird took our--
Liam: While he's blithering, can I make an additional cow stealth check?
Matt: To?
Liam: To come up behind the guy. Near him. Not even near him. Just to get a better vantage point.
Matt: Go for it. Make it with a disadvantage.
Liam: Does that cancel out with my advantage from my cloak?
Laura: A cow in a cloak.
Matt: You are a flying cow in the moonlight against an individual that is very aware of your presence.
Liam: Shut up, baby, I know it. (laughter)
Liam: That is good.
Laura: That's 31.
Liam: Yeah. 31.
Matt: (chuckles) You stealthily cow your way up to the side of this precipice. Seemingly unnoticed. Getting a view of this creature now, you can see this nest is a cluster of driftwood and chunks of shipwreck and carts and wagon wheels and whatever pieces of wood have been scavenged from different time periods. Some are weathered, some are more fresh. And trees, whole trees that are broken and shredded have all been cobbled together to make this nest. In the center of this-- I'm going to take the intensity down on this a little bit-- you see, there up against this bird-- and the bird itself is twitching and looks like it's hurt. Not deeply hurt, but hurt. You see a small humanoid. Pretty small. Scanlan small. Hard to make out details, but it is currently in the process of doing a repeated hand motion and then touching. A hand motion and then touching. And you've seen this motion before.
Liam: Touching what?
Matt: Touching the bird. There is a perpetual string of Cure Wounds being applied to this bird.
Marisha: I also approach and come out of my eagle form.
Orion: Light.
Sam: Are you landing somewhere?
Marisha: Next to Tiberius.
Orion: But I'm going to block it with my hand so it's not going to blind the bird.
Matt: Okay.  As the light picks up, you can see the bird turns away for a second and starts to like flap its wings instinctually. And once again, seeing it up close, this bird is really big. The humanoid entity becomes immediately visible. And it is a gnome. You can see, he's dressed in hides and roughly crafted leather and furs. He has tousled, greasy black hair that hangs past his shoulders, covering a bedraggled and bearded face. Holding up his arm-- and looks thin. It's covering the light and he's like, "You!"
Orion: Sorry. I tried to not blind you. It was very dark. I'm sorry. Hello. We mean you no harm.
Matt: The gnome slams this small wooden, for lack of a better term, a small staff or cane. Slams it into the ground with a foot stomp and you can see the gnome's entire body suddenly begin to shift and change into this dark, gnarled-looking, hard surface.
Liam: I whack him in the back of the head.
Laura: No! It's just Barkskin! It's just defense!
Matt: He doesn't know. All right. So you cow stealth up to the side of this guy.
Liam: Let's get ready to rumble.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an attack.
Liam: I pause.
Matt: You pause? You are currently now crouched right behind the edge of this nest, and you can't even actually see the guy anymore because in order to get up there, you've come underneath to stay hidden and you're just there behind.
Marisha: Can I see Vax?
Matt: No. Well, actually go ahead and roll a perception check. Is it higher than a 31?
Marisha: Is it higher than a 31? No.
Matt: You have no idea where Vax is.
Sam: I'm way up above them still, right? Do I see anything?
Matt: No, actually. You see, there's another section above there. It looks like there's nothing else of interest, other than some growth, a few bushes, and some vines that hang down the side.
Travis: Somebody talk to him before I kill this fucking bird.
Orion: I am talking to him.
Marisha: I land beside Tiberius and come out of eagle form. Tiberius, would you please Dispel this cow form from me. Please? Thank you.
Matt: Okay. And with that, you cast Dispel Magic and Keyleth's form reverts that to Keyleth. Normal Keyleth. Non-cow Keyleth. The gnome character now has the staff at the back and has a hand in front and is like, (panting).
Marisha: Are you a druid? I'm also a druid. I think our goals might be aligned.
Matt: "Really?"
Marisha: It's okay. What's her name?
Matt: "This creature has no name to it yet. I, myself, am a protector of the wild, as you claim to be, as well. I have no tribe but the trees around me. I hear the whisper of the wind, and it calls for justice."
Marisha: I can relate to that.
Matt: "Then why do you follow? Why do you insist on harming this creature?"
Marisha: Because we were seeking justice for other people.
Matt: "Why? For the civilized folk of the city? You should know more than most. They sit there, taking beautiful creatures of nature, making them fat and formless and worth nothing. To slaughter them without life and purpose to their existence."
Orion: The life and purpose of their existence is to keep those other people alive.
Matt: "And why is it not the same with this creature? If they cannot guard their livestock, why is it not food for this thing, as well? It is the natural life cycle that they've removed themselves from."
Orion: When one has an establishment, when one grows its own crop, and one steals something, it is considered a crime.
Matt: "Well, when one is not part of that civilization, but the civilization of the world as a whole, which requires hunting for what keeps you alive, perhaps that does not sink or hang on my conscience."
Orion: Fair point.
Marisha: Let's not let this escalate. Okay? What is your name?
Matt: "I was once called Byron."
Marisha: Vyron?
Matt: "Byron."
Marisha: Byron.
Matt: "I have not heard my name nor spoken words for many years."
Orion: Would you not like to be called Byron, or would you like something else, like B-roy or B-man? My name's Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. And this is my friend Keyleth, who is also a druid. And we also have a friend who is a gnome who sings songs and whatnot.
Matt: The bird, now looking of much better health than it was when it arrived, now flutters its wings out in a stretching motion. And as it does, its head glides down and looks right towards you. This giant beak that looks like it could snap you in two with a single bite.
Marisha: I reach up to it and reach out to pet its beak.
Matt: I'm going to ask you to make an animal handling check on this. Just to see where this goes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I gently start swooping down to check on my friends.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: All right. The large bird-type creature retracts from your attempted touch and begins to rear back into the nest in a defensive position. Doesn't bite your hand off.
Marisha: I kneel down a bit. Produce a few Goodberries. Reach out.
Sam: Bye, Keyleth. This is how we lose one of our members. Feeding a bird.
Matt: The creature leans forward and the giant bird, you can see its dark, black eyes staring at you. Each eye probably about the size of your torso. As the giant beak comes down, you can see the moonlight gliding off the smooth exterior of the dark black beak. It smells. And you take 27 points of piercing damage as the animal takes the Goodberries and almost your entire hand with it, as well. At that size, it's hard to be gentle.
Marisha: It's okay. It's all right.
Matt: So you retract your hand, which is now essentially in many ways, bones are broken, feels like. There's blood streaming down the side of your hand, and (dripping).
Marisha: That's a good girl.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: Swallows.
Sam: Is it a good girl?
Orion: I'm feeding a tiny snack to Lockheed.
Marisha: I turn back to Byron--
Sam: And say, ow.
Marisha: Yeah, and go, that hurt. Now. Please listen to me. Please, please listen to me. We did come here to kill the giant creature.
Matt: "I had assumed."
Marisha: But upon seeing the situation, upon approach, realized the situation and decided amongst all of us that we did not want to bring such a great creature to its death.
Matt: Scanlan, you've landed by now. A pterodactyl. A cow-looking pterodactyl.
Orion: As he swoops, I've never seen anything quite like it.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'm going to aid her, too.
Sam: All I've seen so far is Keyleth's bloody hand.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: You have advantage on this because Tiberius is aiding you on this conversation.
Marisha: I'll take that 20 total.
Matt: All right. He looks at you. "Well, shall you leave us, then?"
Marisha: Under one condition.
Matt: "There's always a condition. You call yourself a druid, yet you speak like the civilized folk. I get the feeling that perhaps your connection to nature has not been tended to for some time."
Orion: No, she really knows her stuff. I mean, we just fought this fire guy--
Marisha: Just because one can appreciate nature, does not mean that one cannot also appreciate humanity.
Matt: "Well, this beautiful creature is the only surviving young of a clutch, bred by a majestic roc high in the Cliffkeep Mountains. Its mother now lies dead, slain by the brutal giants that wander those peaks. This young'un is all that remains of that clutch and the memory of that blessed entity."
Travis: That's a young'un?
Matt: This is a young one. "This new home serves us well. Abundance of feed. Lack of large, predatory creatures. I believe this is where we'll stay."
Marisha: Question. If this is a young, adolescent creature, what do you think of the destruction it could cause once it reaches full adulthood? Are you okay with having that on your conscience? This creature could result in the lives of many. If you relocate out of town, just a few miles. Say like 50 or 100 or so because this thing's really damn big. So I'm sure it's got a pretty big-- you know what I mean.
Orion: Or just the other way.
Marisha: I will help you. I will personally come with you and tend to their safety. And make sure that their location is proper and safe, and handled with respect. Then you will be out of the harms of poachers. You can live off the land, and you can be free and alone.
Matt: "Do you think we came straight to this mountain range? Do you think this is the first nest we've constructed? Me and this lone survivor have scoured the length of this side of Tal'Dorei. This, as far as I can see, is the safest. It's the most ignored by nearby civilization."
Marisha: Listen--
Sam: I'm going to drop Seeming and also drop my form of pterodactyl.
Matt: All of you now, your forms change. As this happens mid-sentence, it's noticed immediately by the gnome druid, who's like (gasps).
Marisha: Yes! That is correct. Listen. We are being nice. Don't think that we will be the first. You will have more people come and hunt you and kill this, as this beast continues. How long do you think you can survive waves of mercenaries coming to try and kill this? We are the nice ones. I suggest you heed our warning, take our help, and save the life of you and your creature in the long run.
Matt: "You have yet to provide a suitable alternative."
Orion: Oh! I might have an idea.
Marisha: There is an alternative. Tiberius can tell you of that alternative.
Orion: Yes! See, your creature is rather large and powerful, yes? You have a rather strong bond with him, which is quite unique with such a unique looking creature.
Marisha: I was setting you up for an awesome one-liner, man! You were supposed to be like, the other option is death.
Liam: Ask him if he's considered Whitestone?
Orion: Whitestone? Yeah! Well, I guess there's a couple of options, really. There's this town Whitestone that's pretty great and has a lot of livestock that this creature can consume.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know about that.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Orion: That is a 24.
Matt: "Whitestone. How far is this Whitestone?"
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on! No! This is getting out of control already. I will not let you all do this! No! Not today. You guys have caused enough problems. We are not going to push this creature on other people. I'm trying, all right? I'm working on it. I don't want to push this problem off on a town that's already being held hostage by vampires. That fucking sucks! That's double shitting on them.
Orion: Well, the other option was, like I was saying, perhaps you can form an agreement with Emon. I'm sure it would pay in livestock rather well for the protection of you, such a powerful druid, over at least a section of the land. In exchange for free food for your friend.
Matt: "You, dragon man, are adorably naive of the ways of men and those that lie and deceive. I have yet to have met any civilized people who have kept their word when it came to creatures like this."
Laura: Can I come forward? All right. What about Vasselheim? Not in the city, but outside of it. There's plentiful forests, tons of giant creatures it could feed on.
Orion: That's right! That's true!
Marisha: That actually is fairly true.
Laura: There's so many monsters out there, they don't hunt them all because there's too many.
Orion: That's a wonderful idea, Vex. Yes!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'll aid her, as well.
Matt: I'll say you've aided one person recently. This'll just be her check on this. He really doesn't trust you, given the current circumstances.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Then as a natural 20, you know that's good for you. That's the best place you can go. You can see the wisdom in my persuasion.
Orion: It is true, though. I mean, it's just feed walking all around for it.
Marisha: Please, please listen to us. We're only trying to help.
Sam: Is there a young creature around here besides the--
Matt: No, looking about you, no.
Sam: There's no babies there?
Matt: No. This is the young. This bird is like the adolescent.
Marisha: Please believe me. I let this thing almost take my hand off, and I'm still standing here fairly cogently talking to you, so please take that as a sign of honesty.
Laura: I go and put my hand on her back and cast Cure Wounds, because I got that spell now, yo!
Sam: Where are we telling them to go?
Travis: To Vasselheim.
Sam: Vasselheim?
Marisha: Listen. She's right. We have friends in Vasselheim. We can contact the Slayer's Take. We're a part of their guild. We can tell them that you're coming. They'll not bother you. We can tell them they are not allowed to take out a contract on your creature. You will not be harmed.
Laura: Don't bring up contracts, Keyleth. Maybe just don't even bring it up.
Marisha: Because they don't have mercenaries out there. It has to be approved! So it's really good.
Matt: "And what's to stop them from hunting down a majestic creature as rare as this one?"
Orion: Us!
Matt: "You, who live here in Emon?"
Orion: Yes. No, us who are members of the guild.
Matt: "So you also are monster slayers, who come here under the guise to slay this monster?"
Orion: No! Not here. Other places that we're forced to do it. But still we're members.
Matt: "It's too much talk."
Travis: Can we kill this thing now? You guys are doing awesome.
Marisha: I feel like I've done pretty damn good! Come on, man!
Sam: I start speaking in Gnome to him. Listen. Earlier, you said that this place was perfect. It was safe. There were no large predators. Well, you're looking at six large predators. We'll keep hunting you down and hunting your beast down until you get out of here. This is your one and only warning. You must leave, and you must leave now. We're giving you a good choice, a safe choice. We can help you get there and be safe there. But if you don't listen to us, we'll start killing.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Marisha: How many fucking persuasion rolls does this asshole need?
Sam: Persuasion?
Matt: This is essentially a conversational skill challenge. So every success and failure leads towards where the conversation's going to end.
Sam: 32.
Matt: He gives you a look. Very intense, looking into your very essence-type stare. His little beady gnomish eyes meeting yours. (sighs) "If we're going to make this journey to where you say this Vasselheim is, how far is it?"
Sam: Several days' journey.
Laura: It's just across the water. You could fly no problem over it.
Matt: "Across the sea?"
Travis: It's across the sea.
Sam: We can draw you a map. We can give you provisions. We'll even make sure the farmers provide you with a few pieces of livestock to chow down on before the journey. A parting gift to fuel up before the big ride. We can give you papers to hand to the Slayer's Take that will ensure that you'll be treated fairly.
Orion: I'll take out my Scroll of Telescription and start writing a note.
Matt: He looks back towards Keyleth, looks back at Scanlan, looks back at Keyleth, looks up at the bird.
Marisha: Please. We really don't need another death on our conscience today.
Matt: "Then looks like we don't have much of a choice, do we? If you can assure us enough food to get across on this journey, we'll make our way towards this Vasselheim. I pray on the solidarity between our kin, and our kin, that you speak the truth that resonates this moment. Because if it does not, may the fall of this entity and myself weigh on your conscience."
Orion: I flip over the note that I'm writing to him and then I trigger it (flying noise) as he's reading it.
Matt: All right. It (poof) vanishes. "As the sun rises, two sizable pieces of livestock to be placed at the boundaries of the usual hunting site. If those are there, and it is taken without any sort of aggression, we'll take that as a sign that you are being honest, and we shan't bother you or your people any further."
Sam: I bow deeply and when I do, it goes (cowbell ringing).
Matt: For a moment, you think you hear a slight, uncontrollable chuckle from the gnome.
Orion: As that's going on, because we're going to head back right now to seal this up, right? Then I'll do my Teleportation Circle. Which is closer to the northeast: the Lyceum or the Keep?
Matt: To the north side of it? That would be the Lyceum.
Laura: We could fly back pretty fast. Couldn't we?
Matt: If he has another Fly spell, you could take it right back.
Laura: Yeah, we can just fly back.
Marisha: Before he leaves. Well, wait! We've got to go to the farm.
Sam: We've got to go to the farmers. We've got to buy some cows off them.
Marisha: And I tell him, if you're up that way, there's a druidic tribe, a little village called Pyrah. They're Fire Ashari. You can find their headmaster Cerkonos. He's a friend. You might find your people there. Who knows? Maybe friends will do you good.
Matt: "Ashari, you say? My dealings with them have been mixed. Perhaps I'll keep my distance."
Laura: Can I see if there's any feathers dropped from the giant bird creature?
Matt: There are ample around.
Laura: Can I grab a few of them?
Matt: As you go and reach up, slaps you across the knuckles.
Laura: Can I have a feather that he dropped?
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: Because they're beautiful. You have to admit they're beautiful.
Matt: (sighs) "Elves. All right."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You take three roc feathers.
Travis: They're huge, right?
Matt: Yeah. They're almost boat size.
Orion: I put one in my Bag of Holding, too.
Matt: You guys manage to get one for you and three for you guys before he's like, "Now go! Now! My patience wears thin. I'm through with talking words." (sighs)
Sam: Sorry.
Liam: I walk out from behind him and just walk past.
Matt: (yelps)
Sam: (laughs) Sorry about that.
Orion: All right. I'll burn another 5th-level and then fly us all out.
Matt: Okay. You guys coast back to the north side of Emon. You go to the door where the Klaus family is, and you speak with them for a while. You manage to convince them of the situation and what seems to be a mutually positive circumstance. They agree it's better to lose two cows than continue this.
Laura: I pay them for their two cows. Being nice, man!
Matt: How much do you give them?
Laura: How much are cows usually worth?
Matt: You've never purchased a cow, so you don't know.
Laura: Yes I have! I purchased Dork the ox.
Matt: An ox is not a cow.
Laura: Shit! How much do your cows normally cost, darling?
Matt: This is a good question. Let me look in the book. I've not had to look up the cost of a cow before. I would put it at about maybe 40 gold each.
Laura: That's way more than I expected.
Matt: Because they can be used for meat, they can be used for milk.
Laura: 40 gold each to make up for the loss of your cows.
Matt: "Thank you so much. I greatly appreciate you helping with this. And you promise, this will--"
Sam: Yes, just put them out in the open field.
Travis: We'll take them.
Sam: Oh, we'll take them?
Travis: We'll put them out there. Stake them.
Sam: Okay, we'll take care of it.
Matt: You guys take two of the cows. You bring them to the outskirts. With rope tied around their neck, you essentially hitching-post them to the outside of this open area, about 20 to 30 feet from the actual holding pen. A few hours go by, and the sun slowly begins to rise.
Laura: Along with some other food, right?
Matt: Place some of their feed and things around there. Eventually, the sun begins to rise across the eastern sky. As it crests, you can see some of the farmers come out, anxiously watching from their homes. You see different families gathering. The wings beating in the air, and it swoops down (swoosh) and grabs two of them. You can see some of the families gasp and rush inside, and some are amazed to see this even happen. It takes the two, carries them up, and heads out over the Ozmit Sea, passing to the northwest side, and over the next 30 or so minutes, slowly disappears over the horizon until it's no longer visible.
Travis: The sun rose, right? Can I make a beard check? (laughter)
Matt: You may.
Travis: Two, zero.
Matt: With that, (creak) the beginnings of the other side of your beard slowly begins to set in.
Travis: What happens to the existing side?
Matt: The existing side has rounded itself off to a nice beard. It's pretty much where it's going to be on that side. The other side is now starting to finally catch up. And that's where we'll end: on a successful beard check.
Sam: Wow. That was a crazy night.
Travis: Perspiration was happening.
Marisha: Yeah, it was.
Sam: I gave you my hand.
Matt: More battle maps that will never get used.
Laura: Look at us not fighting things. That's really beautiful.
Matt: That would have been really bad, too.
Laura: I'm glad we didn't fight it.
Travis: Bad for us?
Matt: Well, just imagine a giant bird that grabs you and then drops you off the side of a mountain. Would have been an interesting fight. Cool. That concludes a unique Percy-less bottle episode of Critical Role.
Travis: Squadron of cows.
Matt: Squadron of flying midnight cows. That is probably the weirdest thing that's ever-- no, there's been weirder. That's in the top five of weird things that's happened in DND for me.
Sam: Fighting "formootion." (groaning) [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice actors get together and roll dice like we're awesome nerd people, which we are. So, welcome! We're going to do a couple quick announcements here before we kick things off. You want to go ahead and start?
Zac: Yeah, I'm that guy that you can't wait to stop talking so the show can get started. So guys, last week we hit 516 on the sub-train. Okay? And each week, in theory, should grow by itself because re-subs count. So basically, if we break 516 and make a new record, we will do a giant giveaway which includes everything from Heroclix to Steam keys to D&D schwag, books from Felicia, all sorts of stuff. It will be a giant box of wonderful Geek and Sundry-related stuff. So that is if we break 516, so there's a reason to keep that train alive, guys. We are also very close to hitting 10k. We are like 160 away from reaching 10,000 subscribers. How many? 154 away from hitting 10k. Now you guys may remember #noshavetil10k. I have not. If we hit 10k, right when we hit, a straw poll will be released into the chatroom, and you guys get to vote on what my face gets shaved into for the next week of programming on G&S. And it is very unfortunate that that's how we're going to do it. So tomorrow night on Gather Your Party, it will be Stef and Jessica's birthday, we're going to be throwing a birthday party, and I'm going to let them shave my face in whatever you guys vote on, as a birthday present to them.
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: The possibilities are endless.
Zac: Just saying that out loud honestly hurts me. A lot.
Matt: It is thick, too. You can get some nice dimension in there.
Zac: Great.
Liam: Words, shave words in--
Taliesin: You could build a bear in the beard.
Zac: I could build a bear. Yeah. Great.
Matt: Can we shave off bits and then re-apply them to other parts of the face?
Zac: If you want to wear them, yeah!
Matt: Okay! I might do that, yeah.
Zac: And then this weekend, Nerdist is running a 24-hour livestream for Extra Life. You guys may recognize some of the faces that stop by. They are going to be streaming from our set. So, let's welcome them. We'll be hosting it, but I encourage you guys all to head over to Nerdist, twitch.tv/nerdist. This weekend it'll be Saturday from 9AM to 9PM Pacific Standard Time. I will be there the whole time helping out, as well as some of our other Geek and Sundry hosts. So you guys should check that out and help them be part of our team, raising money for Extra Life. And Matt, I wanted to thank you for helping us make Battle of the Bands a success last week. We all know that the voting was rigged and that's why your team won, but it was a valiant effort nonetheless. And if you guys enjoyed that, you should tweet at Geek and Sundry's twitter and let them know, and we will try to do things like that for you more in the future. That's pretty much all I have. Let's get to 10k and get this stupid stuff off my face.
Matt: Thank you very much, Zac. Speaking of shaving, let me take a moment here to mourn the Mercer-beard. Those who saw on twitter. I was trying to hold off until 10k and Halloween for my costume, but due to work, had to shave it as of last night. So, I apologize. I'm in mourning. So please bear with me for this evening, going forward. Couple announcements. Critical Role-related: we have a lot of our party in transit right now. Laura and Travis just flew in from Toronto and will probably be a little bit late to the game. Sam is currently heading here from a session and will get here as soon as possible. Unfortunately, Orion will not be joining us again this evening, but hope to have him back next week for Halloween. So, things will get rolling as they arrive. Thankfully, we're at a situation in the game where I don't think it'll be too halting. We shall see. Next announcement, we're putting out Critical Role thematic playlists. All the players have put together playlists of Spotify songs that they feel encapture aspects of their character and their character's journeying as Vox Machina and in the world of Exandria. So those will be releasing every week, starting tonight at 8PM with Percy, I believe. So Taliesin's playlist will be up available on Geek and Sundry's website and--
Taliesin: Dropping mad jams-- I'm not.
Marisha: They're mad, you're allowed.
Taliesin: I'm going to show you some music.
Marisha: It's good. Go download Spotify right now, so you can go, if you haven't. It's free!
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: It's cancer. It's been a weird weeknight.
Marisha: It has. It's been a long day.
Taliesin: I had a strange day. I've infected friends with Spotify now.
Matt: As you should. Infecting friends is fun. Couple other things. For those who haven't seen it already, the D&Diesel videos went up earlier this week, where we had the wonderful chance-- for me, at least-- to Dungeon Master for a half an hour for Vin Diesel, along with Travis and Laura, and Jessica and Dan of Nerdist ilk. Had a great time, so hopefully you liked it, and if you'd like to see more stuff like that, hopefully we'll have more things coming up in the future in that vein, because we had a good time. Also, along with that, I released my Witch Hunter class, which was a customized 5th edition class that I designed after I ran that game, based on the character I created for Vin. It went up on the website, untested. Feedback is always welcome, and I will be updating it on the website as feedback comes in and balancing is tweaked for it. But have at it, have fun, hope you guys enjoy it. I had a good time creating it, and it's a good time. Also, just a reminder to you guys: our official Critical Role t-shirts are available on the Geek and Sundry website store if you want to wear any of the awesome red shirts that we've shown on the show with our full-on Critical Role logo. Shown in an exemplary dark, fine ink. Those are available for purchase.
Marisha: And keychains.
Taliesin: What if, due to some strange third-arm syndrome, I can't wear t-shirts; is there any way I can show my support to the show?
Matt: Yes, you can. We have necklaces and keychains with our logo as well. Also available on the store. So, you're welcome to check those out.
Taliesin: With my third arm, I need necklaces and keychains.
Liam: Three-armed shirts are coming in 2016.
Matt: Yeah, three-armed shirts will be on the docket. Thank you, Liam, I was trying to get to that.
Marisha: There's a new shirt up. I didn't know that.
Matt: We have a new shirt up?
Offscreen: How do you want to do this.
Matt: We have it up?! This is good news to know. We have now up on the store our official "How do you want to do this" shirt as well. So you can go check that out on the shop. Prepare for the holiday season with your Christmases and your Chanukahs and your Critmases and all that fun stuff to make people look as nerdy as we are. Which is I think part of my goal, personally, through world domination. (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not Liam. Everyone but Liam can look weird. There's no way to help you.
Liam: Can I just interject for a second only because I'm hot as hell. I just want to thank @pupgames on twitter for making me this fabulous stealthy cloak. I'm going to take it off in about two minutes, because it's more t-shirt weather here in the studio. So I'll just let everybody bask in the glow of my absence of light for two minutes, and then I'm going to switch to t-shirt mode.
Taliesin: You're so stealthy.
Marisha: Where'd Liam go?
Matt: It's mysterious.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: All righty. Also, our cast interviews on the Geek and Sundry website are almost over. Orion's went up today and those will be finishing up shortly.
Marisha: But we have Spotify lists to replace them.
Matt: Yep, Spotify lists coming up.
Marisha: So there's still more content.
Matt: If you've missed any of the cast interviews, they're all available on the website. So feel free to check them out.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Marisha, you wanted to follow up on the 826LA news you had.
Marisha: Yes. 826LA, they're in a campaign right now for-- let me try to get all this right-- for LA 2050 which is a big contest that's sponsored by Goldhirsh, right now, and it's all for sponsoring education and a brighter future for Los Angeles. So 826LA and Young Storytellers are actually partnering together, and they're in this contest right now. You have to go vote, and they could potentially win $100,000. Which: awesome. And we've got Critters. I think they'll win. So you have to go vote. I tweeted the link, so the mods, go find it on my twitter, or you can just search #LA2050, and you should be able to find it. So, yeah, go vote.
Matt: Team Hooman, Critters, come up there and make this happen.
Marisha: Also, they just announced they're going to be opening an 826LA-- sorry, not 826LA, but an 826 in San Francisco!
Matt: Awesome!
Taliesin: Another 826 in San Francisco?
Marisha: Oh, is there another, I guess so.
Taliesin: Yeah, because there's one there--
Marisha: They might be opening a second one.
Taliesin: They might be opening-- that would make sense.
Marisha: I think they said they announced they're opening one. I think.
Taliesin: I'm retweeting you right now.
Marisha: Okay. Taliesin's retweeting me.
Matt: So there you go. Follow either of their twitters to get the information.
Marisha: But, go vote. Help them win 100k.
Matt: All right, Taliesin, you wanted to mention something about Tara's--
Taliesin: I do! Tara Platt, who is a wonderful friend of the show and amazing voice actress and extremely fabulous in many different ways; she's a sky pirate, she does all sorts of crazy stuff. She's got an Indiegogo for an interactive book called, and I'm hoping I pronounce this right, Zartana. You should check it out, it's really cool, it's really pretty and beautiful. It's got a very Stardust-y vibe. I've already picked up my copy. So you should go, there's just a couple days left, just hop in and grab a copy for yourself. It's going to be really exciting. And--
Marisha: Yeah, it's like about a g*psy girl, and it's got a bunch of recipes, and it teaches you how to make a bow, and has herb cards and all sorts of cool stuff. I was into it immediately.
Taliesin: For the cool child in your life this Christmas. This would be for the kid who needs something that's not quite outdoors, but not quite a video game.
Marisha: Zartana.
Taliesin: Zartana.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Also, I will be in OniCon in Galveston, Texas over Halloween. So, if you're in Galveston, Texas and it's Halloween, and you want to go to an anime con, I'll be there. And I'll be in costume, and it will be pretty hilarious.
Marisha: And last, but not least, last Thursday while we were here, looking at dead versions of ourselves hanging from a tree, Super Power Beat Down won a Geekie!
Liam: Oh! Mazel tov!
Marisha: Yeah, glad I came here instead of going to the award show. Totally worth it. But we won a Geekie. So, I thought I should say that.
Liam: Well-earned.
Marisha: Thanks.
Liam: You nerd.
Matt: Good on you.
Taliesin: You should wear it like bling. Get a chain for it. That'd be great.
Marisha: Just, once again, like, it-- No.
Taliesin: No. No, never mind.
Matt: All righty, any other announcements anyone needs to make?
Taliesin: God damn it, it keeps happening.
Liam: I'm good.
Matt: All righty. Well then, let us go ahead and get ourselves tuned in for tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. So, everyone, our Sam arrived--
Sam: Samurai?
Taliesin: Samurai?
Matt: We have our samurai! Laura and Travis are in transit, they'll be here as soon as they-- (thump from Sam's mug)
Matt: Well played. So. To give us a little overview of the current story. Two nasty individuals known as the Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, have, for the past five years, been occupying the city of Whitestone, which was once the home to Percival here, after it was forcefully taken from his family, most of which seemingly have been either killed or lost in the process, and he was scattered to the four winds to find Vox Machina. After encountering the Briarwoods in Emon in a scuffle that took place, the Briarwoods retreated to Whitestone, inviting the party to come and say hello. Since then, the party has prepared the best they could, made their way towards Whitestone, and, through some bit of infiltration and subterfuge, managed to sneak into the city itself. They, under the guise of Scanlan's Seeming illusion, appeared to be as common folk as the rest of the poor saps that still live in Whitestone. They scoped out an abandoned tavern, which they fitted to their needs as a base of operations, and also managed to come across a central portion of Whitestone's city structure and history, known as the Sun Tree, a tree once risen to the might of the god of the sun, Pelor, now lies dead in the center of town, and from it hung eight figures that appear to have been individuals killed, hung, and painted up and dressed to resemble Vox Machina as essentially a warning, or a welcome. It's hard to tell when it comes to the Briarwoods. Nevertheless, a message was definitely delivered. The party, retreating back to the tavern, set up for the remainder of the afternoon. Keyleth carved, through her druidic magical ways, through the ground to find some of the roots of the Sun Tree, and began preparing an extensive, time-consuming ritual in hopes of restoring some semblance of life to the entity itself. That is where we left off. While the rest of you have been going about your preparations for the rest of the afternoon as this ritual for Keyleth is an eight-hour ritual and it begun in the early afternoon around 2:00, so this will conclude by around sundown, a little past sundown. While she is down there, essentially meditating with the barren roots of the Sun Tree, is there anything you guys would wish to do, or are you just waiting for her to complete her ritual?
Taliesin: Well, there are options.
Sam: What do we need? We have to get water, right? There was some issue about-- we don't have any water, do we?
Taliesin: Was that an issue?
Sam: I don't remember. There was some wells around.
Marisha: Can I do a few checks while I'm preparing the ritual to see if this is a curse over this tree?
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check, I guess.
Marisha: Not great. Hang on, my ring of protection is in the way. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Honestly, it's hard to tell if it's a curse, the tree itself is just dead. You are very well-connected with the natural essences of the world, the life essence of plants and natural growth. All of your interactions with the Sun Tree are devoid of any response. It seems dead where it stands. But, as you continue your ritual--
Marisha: God, I hope this works.
Matt: Anyone else have anything they want to do?
Liam: Well, couple of things. Grog and I were keeping watch. I forget, one of us was on the first floor and one's on the second. I'm just going to say that I was on the second for now. Because I can't remember. It's probably wrong. I'm going to take all daggers out of my Blinkback Belt except for the Keen Dagger and replace them with wooden stakes that I purchased. And I'm going to spend an hour or so, whatever it takes to-- I've got partial gloves on; I'm going to take that symbol of Sarenrae and I'm going to take as much time as it needs to sew it so that it is fixed firmly to the back of my right hand. I tell Grog that I'm going to go down below and check, and I follow the path all the way down to find-- I think everyone else is down there.
Sam: Oh hi, Vax.
Liam: I step over Scanlan's head and I kneel down by Keyleth and gently place a hand on her shoulder and say: What do you need? What can I get?
Marisha: I don't really know. I don't know if this is going to work, to be totally honest. The tree is dead. Do you have any of that holy water?
Liam: I got holy oil. Not water.
Marisha: Do I have holy water? I don't know if I took one or not. I can't remember.
Matt: If you didn't write it down, it's not in your inventory.
Marisha: I'm pretty good about that. I don't think I took one.
Taliesin: In the meantime, there are options.
Liam: I got two. I remember it. It was two vials of holy oil. I gave one to my sister, and I have the other. If you think it will help, you take it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Do you need me to get water?
Marisha: Yeah, let's get some water.
Matt: Yeah, because as you guys went through the tavern, you found there was no actual water. There was old ale. There were still a few casks of wine. Stuff that was abandoned when whoever previously was the owner of this tavern either left Whitestone or fell to a worse fate. But there was no plain water to drink.
Liam: I'm going to go out into the street. I'm going to find water.
Taliesin: I can show you where there's water.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I lived here my whole life.
Sam: Are you guys disguised?
Liam: Yeah, we all are.
Matt: They're still technically under your Seeming spell, for the next few hours, at least.
Marisha: Yeah, we cannot let that go.
Sam: Does that have a range? No, it just lasts.
Matt: As far as I know, it lasts just for an eight-hour period. I'll double-check.
Liam: Percival, do you want to come upstairs to the window, and--
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Oh, you're coming, too? All right. You're my son, let's go. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it lasts for eight hours and allows you to change the appearance of--
Sam: Great. We're still peasants.
Marisha: Remember, we also have Heroes' Feast up.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Advantages on wisdom throws and whatnot.
Taliesin: Hit point bonus, advantage on wisdom throws--
Marisha: Yeah. 2d10 hit points. Max hit points.
Taliesin: I have my advantages still. So I'm going to lead them to the closest well.
Matt: Okay. Stealthily?
Marisha: I'm going to start-- I've kind of cleared out around the roots.
Matt: It's a lot. It's earth and then giant roots from a very large tree that go past. You aren't at the bottom of the roots. You've met the roots as you were carving through. They go even deeper than where you are right now.
Marisha: Yeah. Can I start carving a little ravine around it for where we're going to start pouring the water?
Matt: If you've already started the eight-hour process of the secondary spell, you would not be able to really interrupt that to be able to continue another spell you've been doing. I could say that you did that as part of your preparation for the roots. That's fine. That's fine. It'd be a small ravine, because you also don't want to--
Marisha: Damage anything.
Matt: You continue your ritual. The rest of you make your way out the same window that you entered, into the alleyway, following Percival. You lead them to the back of the tavern into one of the large alleyways between this chunk of the city. You find there was a grassy area; most of the grass here has turned gray and brittle, as it is starting to push towards the winter months. And even for the daytime, the temperature is pretty chilly. It's probably around 50 or so degrees, 55. Fahrenheit, for our un-American friends. Eventually, you make your way to the nearest well that you've been to. And there is a bucket there. It looks like it has gathered some dust and some cobwebs. You get the bucket, and you let it down, and eventually it finds its way into the water. It's pretty deep before it hit the water. You don't know if it's been just, like, water level, or if this particular well itself is drying up. But you manage to get a bucket up, and you pull it up and check it and it looks clear. You take the water back with you to the tavern. Seemingly uneventful. You guys have managed to stay far enough out of sight. Nothing seems to caught your attention.
Sam: Okay. Should we scout around and see if there's anything else around the hideout that we should be aware of, or any other hiding places, or safehouses?
Liam: I feel like we should probably bring a little more water than one bucket. So we should spend a little bit of time doing that. But maybe my sister and I can have a look around, see if there's anything that we've missed. Outside.
Taliesin: Well, here's the question. There's three lordly houses that we have to avoid at all costs, for now. There's a few shops that if we feel might be in our best interest to scout out. I know where an old weapons depot used to be. We could check the temples to maybe see if we could maybe find some support to begin with.
Liam: Do we trust anyone here?
Sam: We need friends.
Taliesin: There might be people I trust.
Sam: Is there a central meeting place?
Taliesin: There's a temple.
Sam: Is that a place where you can really chat up brand new people? Or is there a pub? I guess it's not really a pub town, is it?
Taliesin: It's not a pub town. And it's a place where you don't necessarily chat up new people, but maybe find some old ones.
Sam: Okay. We could go there.
Liam: Percival, we're on your turf, so I'll follow your lead.
Taliesin: (sighs) If we have just enough time, I'd like to try to go to the temple and the cemetery. Leave, maybe Grog and Vex to guard Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. So, Keyleth, you're staying behind to finish the ritual?
Marisha: I'm doing what I do best. And I focus all my energy on this thing.
Matt: There are two temples in here. There's the temple to Pelor, which is known as the Zenith. Within the graveyard.
Taliesin: Yes, the Zenith is the one I wanted to go to.
Sam: What's the other one?
Taliesin: The other one is called The Lady's Chamber. It's a temple of Erathis.
Sam: That sounds fun.
Taliesin: I don't know anybody there.
Sam: I might!
Taliesin: That's what I'm afraid-- they might know you, so no.
Matt: So the Lady's Chamber, the temple to Erathis, is more central to the city and is partially a courtyard, partially a half-dome amphitheater place of worship. You guys make your way through the city. I'll have you all roll stealth checks if you could.
Sam: We're not trying to hide, are we?
Matt: Well, if you're not trying to hide, then make deception checks instead.
Taliesin: Awesome possum.
Sam: I rolled an 18 for something.
Liam: Can I choose to hide instead of deceive?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Liam: Yeah, I'll hang a little bit back from them.
Taliesin: I was trying to be stealthy, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Although I'm fine either way. 23.
Sam: I'm better deceiving.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 26.
Matt: So we have two folks staying to the shadows, best they can in broad daylight in a clustered city. And one child-looking pauper of a boy wandering through the city alone towards the graveyard. As you guys make your way through, staying off to the side, jumping, or running through buildings and staying off the main path, you walk along the central road to the far eastern side of Whitestone. A few folks come out during the day, some are carrying bundles of textile goods. There's one guy that has a small cart, and it looks like he's bringing tools and stuff either to or from a store of some kind. Gives you a curious look as if he hasn't seen you before but doesn't seem to--
Sam: G'day, sir!
Matt: "G'day!" And just keeps rolling along, the wheels squeaking as he pushes up the road.
Sam: I wish I had a yo-yo.
Taliesin: How about a wheel and stick?
Sam: Oh, the wheel and stick would be good.
Matt: Eventually, you guys make your way to the far eastern side of Whitestone. This is where the boundary wall that surrounds most of the city from a defensive standpoint lies. There is the multiple exit points throughout this wall. You dart around the outskirts of it, being careful to avoid the pattern of the undead giants that are slowly stomping through the city, like these hulking sentinels that walk in a perpetual pattern through the town. You follow the winding path through the thick woods, just on the outside of the wall of the city itself. You sticking to the path in your open way, or do you want to join them in the side of the forest?
Sam: Well, I've got to stick with them, I guess, although I like being a young peasant boy. It's kind of fun. All right, I'll go with them.
Matt: All right. So the three of you dart off into the woods, skirting the outside of the road, but making your way following it to the outside of the graveyard itself. Eventually, you come to the outside of the graveyard. Large iron fence that marks the outside of it. It's rusted from time, small spikes mark the very top of it, about six feet tall, and the gate itself is partially open. With a little bit of breeze that's blowing through, very, very cold breeze that blows through this part of the forest, it's opening a little bit, and (creak) against itself. You push through the gate--
Liam: Wait a minute, nope. Let me look. I'm just going to move in, ten feet ahead, and see what I see.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That is a 23 for perception.
Matt: Okay. You skirt up and look inside. And there's a handful of trees in little clusters here and there, but for the most part this old graveyard is flat land, with just stones set up throughout. The older stones have very little rhyme or reason to their placement. They're sporadically thrown around, fresher ones tend to be more clustered with family names. This definitely looks like something that was put here when the town was founded and has been slowly expanded over time, and it's not uniform.
Liam: I hiss back at Percy  is this the way to your temple?
Taliesin: (whispers) Yes.
Liam: Through here?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You do see, a little ways ahead in the center of this open barren area, there is a stone temple that has, from what little you can see, a bit of stained glass pattern to it.
Liam: Do we knock?
Sam: Is it safe? Should we go up?
Taliesin: We go up to the doors, and give it a tug.
Matt: Okay. Percy walks up to the doors.
Liam: Well, all right.
Taliesin: This is my neighborhood. I feel comfortable.
Matt: Okay. You--
Sam: All right, Papa, let's go.
Matt: You go to the doors of the temple, the large wooden doors. In them are carved this flaming wreath into the wood. It looks almost like the outer ring of the classical depiction of a sun and going across the sky where you can see the waving flames licking the sides of the actual doors. And it is a double door. As you tug on the handle at the front, it gives very little to you. You give a little more of a tug on it, not enough to gather attention, just enough to really see if it's just stuck, or if it's locked. And it appears that the doors are not opening.
Liam: And I look--
Sam: This is what he does!
Liam: It is what I do. This is an old, old type of lock, hold on.
Matt: There is no lock, actually.
Liam: There's no lock? Oh, but I rolled a natural 20. Does that help? Let me get through the door?
Taliesin: Suddenly, a lock appears! Utterly pickable! (laughter)
Marisha: Utterly pickable! It's the most pickable lock I've ever seen!
Matt: There is no lock. It is barred from the other side. There is some heavy wooden plank that is currently set on the other side of the door.
Liam: Oh, where's Grog when you need him?
Matt: So, with your expertise in these sort of circumstances, you know that with the proper placement of a long blade and enough strength and weight put at the right fulcrum point, you can probably shimmy it off, and it may take a little bit of teamwork to do so.
Liam: Okay who's got a-- mine are all very small. Do you have a shortsword?
Sam: Everything I have is short. I can just go in there and open it from the inside.
Liam: Oh, right. I always forget.
Sam: It's not concentration, so I can just jump in there.
Matt: Essentially.
Liam: Don't fuse with a church pew.
Matt: If you're referring to a Dimension Door--
Sam: Correct. It's not concentration, I don't think.
Matt: No, it is not concentration.
Liam: More of a sneeze.
Matt: You can visualize it. It doesn't have to be a place you have seen yet.
Sam: I can say I want to go ten feet in that direction.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Before I do, why are we trying to get in here? I thought it was to meet people. I don't think there's anyone in there.
Taliesin: I would like to find out what happened.
Sam: Okay, good enough for me. I go in.
Matt: Okay. (spoof) With a burst of dark purplish energy, Scanlan steps through the door, leaving no mark or trace behind. On the other side you hear this muffled (spoof) as he reappears on the opposite side, completing his transition. You appear now in the central worship hall of the Zenith temple. To each side of you, you can see there are windows, about ten foot wide, stained glass windows, about every ten feet around this pattern, it looks like three to each side. There are pews set up for the masses to come and sit and worship, but a lot of the pews have been pushed off to the side, set astray, some have been destroyed and ruined. There's a pile in the corner of a number of sundered and tattered pews. There is a red carpet that marks the center that goes all the way to what looks like a raised altar on the opposite side of the room. You can see that some of the stained glass further down has been shattered and broken, and a little bit of sunlight creeps through. You can see there is on the altar a large stone platform. It's hard to see from this distance. Make a perception check.
Liam: (muffled) Scanlan! Open the door.
Sam: We do have earrings. 17.
Matt: There appears to be something on the the altar in the distance, small and scattered about it, but from this distance, it's hard to make out the details. But you hear Vax muffled through the door.
Sam: All right, how big is this thing that's keeping the door shut?
Matt: It's about eight feet wide and about a foot-- eight feet long, about a foot wide and about six inches thick. A big old piece of wooden board.
Sam: A couple hundred pounds?
Matt: I would say it probably weighs about 40 or 50 pounds.
Sam: 40 or 50 pounds?!
Matt: It's wood. It's porous.
Sam: And how high off the ground? Could I touch it?
Matt: You could touch it. It gets to about your head, a little higher.
Sam: All right. I'm going to try and lift it off.
Matt: Go ahead a make a strength check. Athletics! Make this athletics.
Sam: Athletics? Hmm. Not good. 12!
Matt: (grunting) From this position, it's not even budging.
Liam: All right, Scanlan, step back from the door a couple of paces. I'm going to stick a blade through the door.
Sam: It's not going to do much. There's a big heavy thing.
Liam: I'm going to hold on one side, you're going to hold on the other, and we'll do it together. Percy, can I borrow your blade?
Taliesin: I've never used this. I've had it since I created the character and I've never used this blade once. This is the most use it's ever gotten. I pull out this pristine piece of shit (laughs) I don't even remember. I think I found it in a dungeon. It's terrible.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a boarding sword, it was one of those little curved swords.
Matt: Right. A scimitar or falchion.
Taliesin: A scimitar. But short. It was nothing, it was terrible.
Liam: It's all we need.
Taliesin: Yeah so. Get it in there.
Liam: Scanlan, grab some rags or something, wrap it around the blade. You're going to lift on your side; we're going to lift on this side.
Sam: I get the sharp side?!
Liam: I can't get the handle through the crack in the door.
Sam: All right. I feel like there's some sort of spell I could use. All right, let's just do it your way.
Liam: Got that Bigby's Hand, is that what you're saying?
Sam: Yeah, I've got a million things I could do.
Taliesin: Are any of them concentration spells?
Sam: Bigby's is probably concentration, but I've also got a potion of strength.
Matt: As a note, Seeming isn't concentration.
Sam: I thought it was.
Matt: No. You cast it and it lasts for eight hours. You don't need to worry about that.
Sam: No, I want to follow this through.
Taliesin: Let's keep going.
Liam: All right. Can we lift it together?
Matt: (laughs) We can try. All right, so. This is going to be the three of you as a skill challenge, I want all three of you to roll. Not athletics, just a straight strength roll.
Taliesin: One, two, three.
Matt: Add your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 16!
Sam: Plus strength. 12. (laughter)
Sam: Wait, did you get a four? Four? We are the worst! We are the weakest ones. Oh, I cut my hand!
Matt: Which is exactly what happens.
Taliesin: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Liam: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Sam: I'm going to take damage.
Matt: Yeah. First and foremost, you take four points of slashing damage to your hand. You pull back, and there is a line of blood now, beginning to drip off your hand. You shake it amongst yourself.
Sam: Oh, I can't say "God damn it" in here. I'm in Pelor's-- Sorry, Pelor.
Taliesin: Let's use a sword, I want to see how this plays out.
Sam: God bless you. Gesundheit, Pelor. Man, all right. Well, jeez Louise.
Liam: Whip out the purple hand, man!
Sam: Seems like overkill. What about a Thunderwave? Can I do that?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: All right. Does it only affect living things? Or does it affect--
Liam: Wait. Scanlan, are there any windows in there?
Sam: There are. There are windows. Good call.
Matt: It's a blast of thunderous energy in an area, it would affect living and nonliving matter, yes.
Liam: Hold on, this is stupid.
Sam: Are you sure?
Taliesin: We are going to the window. We are going to the window.
Sam: No, let's carry this out.
Taliesin: No! We are going to the window. Please do not destroy the temple of Pelor.
Sam: Three hours later, we are still trying to open the door.
Marisha: It's not even locked. It's just heavy.
Sam: I can Bigby's Hand. I'll just Bigby's Hand.
Liam: Which way to the window? I can walk to the window.
Sam: It's up there. You can make it, but Percy can't.
Liam: I can probably lift that door bar from inside.
Sam: You could, probably.
Liam: With your help, son.
Sam: Yeah, but I could blast it. Would be very dramatic.
Liam: Let's save that for important stuff. All right, where is the window? Which way do I go?
Sam: To the right and up.
Matt: There are windows shattered on both sides. They're broken a little higher up. So you could either continue to break the bottom part of the window, or just attempt to leap through the hole.
Liam: Yeah, I'll attempt to leap.
Matt: Okay, so give me an acrobatics check.
Liam: All right.
Sam: The saga of the door!
Marisha: It's just a door, you guys! It's just a door.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. You get a running start, leap off the side and parkour up between the actual-- there is an extension to the side where another room is attached on each side of the temple towards the back. You leap off that wall onto the small pillar that's holding the side of the window and up through the broken portion of the stained glass, landing, three-point landing, on the inside. You almost land in one of the shattered piles of wooden pews and splinters and jagged pieces of wood sticking out of it. About a foot away from you, and you are like, "Oh, that was close." You see Scanlan across the way. You see the altar to your right.
Sam: Hey! Oi! Your stupid idea cut my hand!
Liam: Builds character. I'm going to stay away from the altar and skirt the wall all the way around it. Mat: Okay, you get to the door.
Liam: I'm going to try to help. Do you want to help me lift this thing?
Sam: With my good hand, yes.
Matt: Have both you guys make strength checks.
Sam: You know what, I'm going to get some assistance. I call my Unseen Servant to assist.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Sam: He is going to lift with us.
Matt: With a brief burst of wind energy, a shimmering form, somewhat humanoid in shape, but still amorphous appears.
Sam: Hi, Darrell.
Matt: (wind sounds) and begins to shove itself up against the bottom of the wooden bar. Make your check, as well.
Sam: That was a six. Is that for me?
Matt: That's for you, and then roll and add five for your Unseen Servant.
Sam: So, five extra to that is 11. Right? No?
Matt: Roll again, add five.
Sam: Oh, I see. Four. So that's a nine.
Matt: The three of you, one mystically summoned from a plane beyond your own, cannot seem to budge this single wooden door! You've defeated beholders. You've slaughtered illithid underneath, in the Underdark, deep in the belly of the planet. But this door bests you!
Marisha: Man, Laura and Travis ain't missing shit!
Sam: All right, I'm doing it. Step back!
Liam: Whip out the hand!
Sam: All right, I summon Bigby's Hand! The mightiest hand that will ever unlock a door, ever! (singing) Bigby's Hand!
Matt: This giant, glimmering, purple fist appears in your vicinity. It grabs the bottom. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Liam: Come on.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Plus eight to it.
Sam: Plus eight? 20!
Taliesin: How do you want to do this?
Matt: With its finger, just goes (ping) and it (thudding noises). The door (creak) opens up and Percy stands there, looking not very happy.
Taliesin: Was it overkill? Because really it took that.
Sam: It took three spells to open this door! Three spells!
Taliesin: It's not overkill if you used what it took.
Sam: Three spells and I injured myself.
Taliesin: We took damage from an inanimate object. Oh god! Get it out of our system now!
Sam: Welcome, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh god! All right, I'm looking around, taking in the damage. Anything that I notice is particularly out of whack from the last time I was here? Other than they're upgrading the locks, apparently.
Matt: Looking about the place, it looks pseudo-ransacked. There has been much force used in whatever destroyed these pews. The glass that was broken, was broken from the outside in. So, definitely seems like there was someone throwing a rock through, or a intrusion from an outside standpoint. As you walk further and look around, the two rooms to the side, the doors are closed. There is the altar on the top, and you do see, there is a couple of small sacks, laid to the side of the altar. What looks to be some low-lit candles, and there are some braziers. One to each side of the altar, and one against each wall. All of them appear to be long dark and out. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: All of us?
Matt: All of you.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: You both, as you approach the far side of the temple towards the altar, you notice the brazier to the right is smoldering ever so gently. Just a very faint glow of ember to it.
Liam: What's the matter?
Taliesin: Reynal?
Sam: Who? Reynal?
Taliesin: Father Reynal? (louder) Father Reynal? Let's check one of the doors. We'll start on the door on the right.
Matt: You step up. You can see now, on top of the altar, there appears to be a couple of glass vials that are overturned, a little liquid spilled. You can see bits of broken glass across the bottom, the one step that leads down from the altar's raised platform.
Taliesin: Can I dip and smell?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. Looking at just the general vicinity of the altar. You taste the liquid. It's definitely somewhat caustic in nature, you can't really determine it. But, just touching it to your tongue, your tongue goes numb for a second and you feel a slight burn. Your nostrils clear out a little bit from the scent. There is some random powders and such that've been brushed off. You get the feeling that the way that all this was treated, it wasn't so much like it was destroyed more than it was hastily packed up. Roll a perception check.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay, looking about the outside of the altar, you do notice that around the brazier that is slightly smoldering there is a layer of ash there, gathered on the inside of the brazier and a little bit on the floor, around its base.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: Someone has been working on something in here.
Sam: It couldn't just be ash from the thing that is burning?
Matt: If you look at the other braziers, there is no ash around it. Most of the ash is contained. The wood ash itself tends to fall; it's a little heavier. This seems to be a lighter shade of ash and it's more of a-- has found its way out of the brazier from just the heat and the air.
Taliesin: I want to smell the ash. Does it smell like some sort of-- is it perfumed?
Matt: You lean down and you take some of the ash in your fingers and smell it. It's not perfumed, but you've had some experience with dealing with various burning materials: this is definitely paper-based ash. You do also notice underneath the brazier there is one sliver of paper that was not wholly burned.
Sam: Paper.
Marisha: (whispering) Paper.
Sam: It's a golden ticket.
Taliesin: "Without sufficient magical essence the distillation is proven to consistently fail. A shame, really. I shall seek an influx of materials elsewhere before I can continue this project. Regarding the weapon, after a year of taking notes from eyewitness accounts, my original designs were faulty and recently cost me my hand. The wind of fortune has seen a shift it seems as Sylas just returned from Emon, having encountered the still-living subject, and had the pleasure of seeing his work first-hand. His unnatural eyes took in much detail. I believe his observations have brought me to the brink of finishing my design. I intend to journey from Whitestone within a couple of months to gather the components needed. But, if Delilah's hunch is correct, the subject is heading here. I may find myself needing to leave sooner than anticipated."
Liam: They're trying to copy your work.
Sam: Copy?
Taliesin: Why?
Liam: For war.
Taliesin: I want to take another look at everything that was on the altar, and I want to see if it looks--
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Testing what's there  I mean, a lot of the material has been scattered and mixed but there are elements that resemble the black powder you've used in some of your constructs and tinkering in the past.
Sam: They're making guns!
Taliesin: Well, we know we're looking for someone without a hand.
Sam: To do what?
Taliesin: To find out who's trying to copy my work.
Sam: Someone who is working with Sylas, right?
Taliesin: Yes. Let's check the rest of the temple.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to go up on the altar. Was there a small something on the altar?
Matt: What you noticed were like some of the glass vials that were overturned.
Taliesin: What's in the pouches?
Matt: Looking at the pouches, it looks like some of them contained phosphorus, some of them contained other alchemical reagents that were used in the research but most have been emptied, and it's just a residuum on the inside.
Taliesin: Checking the door on the right.
Matt: Door on the right.
Liam: Going with.
Matt: (creak) Opens up into what was Father Reynal's room. As the door opens, you're immediately hit with terrible smell of decay. And you can see, shoved under the bed that first appears on the opposite side of the small room, what appears to be the remains of Father Reynal. Long passed and left to fester beneath his bed.
Sam: Can I tell how he died?
Matt: You're welcome to go ahead and take a look. Roll an investigation check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. Looking at the body, it appears that there are a series of puncture wounds. Rapier-based. They're too long, like stiletto, too long to be a dagger.
Sam: Not teeth.
Matt: No, they are inflicted by a weapon, a long thin weapon. And multiple to the torso.
Taliesin: I'm going to search the room for anything else. Search the body.
Matt: Okay. Searching the body, searching the room, it looks like everything of interest has been taken from the place. You find some leftover stale food, you find some candles that are generally used for the purposes of worship here in the temple, but anything beyond that-- all the drawers have been emptied, everything has been taken by whoever was previously setting up residence in this facility.
Sam: Are there any holy symbols or anything that we might take to give to Keyleth to, I don't know. Wasn't she gonna-- I don't know. Do some holy shit?
Matt: You do notice that, throughout the temple, there are images of Pelor, flame-wreathed face, various sun and stars that are set up, but most of them have been profaned, marked on, shattered, or covered in soot. An intentional effort has been made to dampen the power of Pelor in this once-holy place.
Liam: Are there any untouched?
Matt: None that are untouched, but there are some that could possibly be cleaned. A couple of small medallions that are hanging up in the room where the Father lays.
Liam: I'll snag those.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I want to check the other room. The room to the left.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: So much perception. 19.
Sam: 19.
Liam: 20.
Matt: All right. As you walk back into the main temple--
Marisha: Finish. First.
Matt: All right. Your ears catch a faint, distant sound like a strong wind pushing through a mountain pass. This low mournful wail-type sound.
Sam: What's that?
Matt: No wind is moving. There is a stillness to the air.
Liam: Stepping back into the darkest shadows I can see.
Matt: As you guys take in this sense, this sound gets louder and louder. At which point, the air itself gets colder and colder. As you nervously exhale, you can see your breath becoming visible in the air around you. As you all look at each other, you, stepping back into what shadows there are, as it is a very open temple, as it's a temple of sun--
Liam: 32 stealth.
Matt: You find what tiny little alcove you can of shadow. It's not going to offer a lot of protection once you move, but for now you seem to be out of the circumstance.
Sam: I grab Percy, and I make us both go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So, what is that, a 3rd-level Invisibility spell?
Matt: Yeah. You guys both vanish, holding your place on top of the altar, and as that moaning tends to grow louder and louder you can see this shimmer at the doors that are open on the opposite side of the room. It looks like a woman. A form of a woman, but translucent in nature, drifting in, giving off the horrible (raspy groan) sound, as it drifts in and you see it looking around and the features are gaunt as it gets closer. It looks elven by racial nature, but the eyes are just these sunken faintly glowing sockets, the hair wild and matted and floating behind it, its hands reaching out, and as it gets partway through the temple, it looks like it's seeking something, and its eyes fall directly on you two.
Liam: I'm throwing a dagger right now.
Matt: Let's go ahead and--
Sam: Ugh! What if she was a good guy?
Liam: It's a banshee, man.
Sam: What if it's a good banshee? Some of the banshees that I've met have been decent. We're rolling for initiative?
Liam: There's Siouxsie and the Banshees, they're all right.
Sam: I'm glad I used half my spells trying to get into this goddamn place.
Matt: Off to the side there.
Liam: He means well.
Taliesin: He means well. That's a terrible costume.
Matt: You guys are on the altar there.
Taliesin: You were so prepared for me to go to the temple that you built it?
Matt: I built the whole city, because I didn't know where you guys were going to go.
Sam: Jesus, Matt!
Marisha: He does have a pile of maps over there. MATT Shh! Don't look at it.
Taliesin: I'm not looking, I'm not looking.
Marisha: I'm just noting the pile.
Matt: So, first and foremost, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You'll get a surprise round.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Natural 20 for initiative, as well.
Marisha: You finally got a good initiative roll!
Sam: I got a seven.
Taliesin: I got an 11! Together, we can get a Slurpee. I'm weird tonight. I don't know what's up.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Well, I can't do anything.
Matt: All right, well. First and foremost, before anything happens, this entity, as it notices your presence, it begins to transform and its image becomes more horrifying. As you pull your dagger out, I need all of you guys to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: You have advantage!
Taliesin: I rolled a one and then a natural 20.
Matt: (laughs) Nice.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17?
Taliesin: Thank you for the advantage.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: 11.
Matt: With advantage?
Sam: I also always have advantage, so do I get to roll a third time?
Liam: No. Doesn't stack.
Matt: Unfortunately you are considered frightened by this entity. It scares the crap out of you.
Marisha: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Matt: Ah! Then never mind. You feel it shake your form for a second. Its horrible visual presence, for a second, freaks you out, but then you remember the knowledge that your friends are here and you have to serve a purpose and you shake off--
Sam: Not only do I shake it off, I gird my loins!
Matt: Pull them up and get ready. All right.
Marisha: Just for a refresher  you're immune to poison, disease, and fear, and you have advantage on your wisdom throws.
Taliesin: We should do this every time we fly.
Marisha: It's expensive.
Liam: So, do I get to attack and then move into the combat round where I got a natural 20 plus five for initiative?
Matt: Well, you go first. Technically, it's not a surprise round because the creature can sense life and saw them before it happens, so it wasn't ambushed. But you do get to go first, and you do get to go before it. In the use of surprise, I didn't mean to use it in the surprise round fashion. These entities can detect living creatures up to five miles away.
Liam: So, there's no sneak attack damage on this thing, is there?
Matt: If you get to it first, you still have advantage.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Because it doesn't see you. You're still hidden from it.
Liam: 15, so this is a 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. And this gets the sneak attack damage?
Matt: This would, yes.
Liam: All right, here we go. But it's not a critical hit from assassinate because--
Matt: It is not surprised.
Liam: It's not surprised. All right. So, that's a four plus seven is 11. Plus 15, 19, 20, 24, 26, 28?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm just going to keen dagger it three times in a row. Oh, I've got to roll to attack, so that is a twelve plus-- 22?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. Two, and that is six of damage, and then natural 20 on that one. That is three, four, three, plus seven is ten, so 20 for that, if it's doubled for a critical hit.
Matt: For double dice, not doubled modifier.
Liam: Oh, all right, so six plus-- 13.
Matt: Okay, 13, good to know. Awesome. So, out of the shadows, (whoosh) three daggers strike this wailing ghost entity. Each dagger, it punctures, and you see it reacts from the impact as there's a flash of magical energy with each hit. The daggers then tumble out of its form and then blink back to your belt side. It looks like it definitely did some damage to it, but it's--
Liam: You know what, just to be fair, I changed out all my daggers except for one, so I probably couldn't throw the same dagger three times in a row, so I think should pull back some of the modifiers, so I would pull out four, because my dagger is plus two. So the plus two for two of those hits gets taken out, right?
Matt: It would actually, yes.
Liam: So four, minus four.
Matt: So, minus four damage to this other guy.
Taliesin: So truthful.
Sam: So, we're fighting it with wooden stakes?
Matt: Wait so you threw wooden stakes at it as two of the attacks?
Liam: I threw one dagger and two wooden stakes.
Matt: Okay. So, the first dagger hits?
Liam: First was the dagger, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. The two other stakes pass through its form without any other impact. The one dagger does return to you, but the two stakes just clatter in the distance, and the creature seems unharmed by those two.
Liam: Even though they came out of the belt?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: All right.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: It's okay. It's just wood.
Taliesin: You learned.
Matt: So that ends that point. The creature now swoops up to the center of you three and gives out this horrible (roar) this wailing scream that bursts out in the air, you feel like the wind push you back and all of you feel like for a moment you're staring at your own death. I need all three of you guys to roll constitution saving throws.
Sam: Does our meal help us with that at all?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Wait, don't forget you have the additional--
Liam: What?
Marisha: 2d10 hit points on top.
Sam: Okay. 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys, you feel this chilling burst of spiritual energy blast through your soul. And you each take 14 points of psychic damage. Percy, however, as you look at it, it seems like this blast actually forces the soul from your body momentarily. You immediately drop to zero hit points and are unconscious.
Sam: What? No! No, he can't. Oh, god.
Matt: So with that, you see Percy, eyes roll back and then collapse onto the floor like a pile of cold bones. Out. Percy, it's your turn. Go ahead and make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11, okay.
Marisha: That's a good sign.
Matt: Scanlan, it's your turn.
Sam: Very quickly. Should we flee?
Marisha: Get the fuck out.
Liam: In a little bit.
Sam: In a little bit? Okay.
Liam: Without Percy?
Marisha: Well, get him up.
Matt: You still have Bigby's Hand, by the way, on concentration.
Sam: Oh, that's right!
Matt: Let's see how long that lasts, actually. Let me see how long it lasts. Just to be safe.
Taliesin: We haven't been there very long. (whispering) God damn it.
Matt: Up to a minute. So probably would have faded by now.
Sam: God damn it.
Matt: Sorry. What are you doing, Scanlan?
Taliesin: Really, it's the door's fault.
Sam: Shit. I'll just Lightning Bolt her. Him. It. Whatever it is.
Matt: Okay. So you release a bolt of lightning energy right in its direction. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Sam: Oh, just damage?
Matt: You don't have to hit for lightning bolt; it just hits everything in front of it, and you have to try and avoid it.
Sam: Oh, 8d6.
Matt: What's the DC?
Sam: Do I get my hand cone?
Matt: It is a free action to pull it out, so you instinctively-- hand cone, cast the spell-- out the bolt goes.
Sam: So, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Sam: 8d6.
Matt: Does not make its saving throw.
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: Need more d6, or are you cool?
Sam: Nope, that's it. I just need help counting.
Marisha: That's good!
Sam: 16, five, 21, 27.
Taliesin: 28, 29, 30. 34!
Sam: 34.
Matt: 34 points of damage. The lightning blasts through her, not impactful as you think it might be. This entity because it is in an ethereal state, is not as effectively hit by such magics. However, it does take damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I will move back a bit. Away from the thing. And I will-- Oh! We have people.
Marisha: Yay! Percy's unconscious!
Laura: No!
Travis: Keep fighting!
Marisha: It's okay, it's cool.
Laura: We've been listening in the car.
Taliesin: Okay, so you know.
Matt: Scanlan, you move back?
Sam: Okay, and then I can, as a bonus action, still get a bonus? I will heal him, this doofus here.
Taliesin: I didn't do anything!
Matt: Healing Word.
Sam: Okay, yeah. (singing) I'm bring health points back. Yeah! You mothafuckas don't know how to act-- Yeah! That's all I got. (singing) Take it to the bridge!
Matt: All right, so Healing Word is 1d4 plus--
Sam: Yeah, but maybe I should do it at a--
Taliesin: Just get me up. It's okay.
Sam: Just get you up? Okay. 1d4 plus something?
Marisha: Do it.
Sam: Two plus whatever. Six? Eight?
Marisha: I think it's plus your spell level.
Matt: Healing Word will be--
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five, so it's seven points.
Matt: So, seven hit points. You're conscious, but you're still on the ground, face down, loosely fallen over the stuff on the altar.
Taliesin: I don't get my turn until next round.
Matt: Correct. So, Scanlan? Your turn's done? Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, so where is it? I'm just going to back away from it about three steps, while I pull Flametongue Dagger out of my cloak.
Matt: Okay. You're in this room currently.
Liam: Yeah, oh! That, oh, okay. No. So, I'm going to walk, thanks. I'm going to slide up the wall along where Scanlan is. Towards Scanlan. And another thing I realized, I haven't clicked my Boots of Haste, so I wouldn't have been able to do whoosh, whoosh, whoosh, anyway. And I'm still not going to. But I'm pulling out my Flametongue Dagger and now I'm throwing Keen Dagger, Flametongue. First one is 26.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: And the second one is 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. First attack gets 11.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And the second attack gets eight.
Matt: All righty. Both daggers hitting it, you see its form being impacted by each dagger hit. It still continues to come forward toward the two of you. Is that the end of your movement?
Liam: I'm going to, without doing any dash or anything, because I can't, I'm going to move as far as I can just going kitty-corner. Behind Scanlan, walking along the wall.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Absolutely.
Matt: That far?
Liam: Yeah, that's as far as I can get, that's good.
Matt: I think so. All right. That ends your turn. The creature now is going to drift up to the unconscious form, or the now-conscious form of Percy. It's going to swipe at you with its Corrupting Touch. Since you're prone, it has advantage on the attack. That'll be 20 to hit. What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. As its hand reaches down and passes through, as you just come to consciousness, and you start getting yourself up, you look up and feel this cold sensation as its hand reaches through your back and seems to almost grasp your spine. Your whole body lurches from the impact. You take 12 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: I'm back to zero.
Sam: That's two!
Liam: It starts over.
Sam: It does?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm back to zero.
Sam: If he dies once, comes back and dies again, is that two?
Matt: No, he has to fail his death saves.
Taliesin: I just woke up and went, (groans). Passed back out again.
Matt: That ends its turn. Well, no actually, it's going to start moving now. It's going to drift through the rest of its movement this direction. That ends its turn. Go ahead and make your death saving throw.
Taliesin: Yes, 19.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yay, little snitch.
Matt: All righty. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Hey, should we leave?
Liam: No, we should kill this thing!
Sam: Damn it! All right.
Liam: We're not going to be able to run. This thing flew in here on the breeze.
Sam: I don't think Eyebite's going to work against it. So, fuck, I'll cast Bigby's Hand at 6th-level, then.
Matt: (laughing) Okay!
Travis: Has that ever been done?
Sam: I don't have any more 5th-level slots. So, I'm just going to make it even bigger.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I don't even know what it does.
Liam: Fingers going out the windows of the church like Alice in Wonderland.
Matt: All right. Bigby's Hand. With a clenched fist deals an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So if you're going to punch it, it does an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Yes, I think--
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to bitch-slap it, but the forceful hand. So I can just push it far away from us. Possibly to the front door.
Matt: Okay, I see. So it does no damage but it does force its movement.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, and I'll say because you did it at a higher level, it's an additional five feet of movement on that. So, as the hand shoves toward the creature--
Sam: It takes no damage for that?
Matt: The forceful hand it doesn't, no. There's grasping hand and the clenched fist do damage.
Sam: All right, so then I'll just hit it. I'll just hit it hard.
Matt: Okay. So, you bitch-slap it physically hard. Clenched fist. Go ahead and make a spell attack. Go ahead and roll a d20, add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: 14. Plus, what am I adding? Oh, nine. Plus nine.
Matt: 14 plus nine? That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 6d8 force damage because you cast it at 6th level.
Sam: 6d8. I don't even know what those are. That's a ten.
Liam: They look like diamonds.
Sam: There they go. I got one. I'll just roll it six times.
Travis: (singing) Diamonds are Scanlan's best friend.
Laura: No, diamonds are Vex's best friend.
Sam: 24?
Matt: 24.
Sam: Even at 6th-level, that's all it did.
Matt: Yeah. As that happens, the fist clenches and (wham) bitch-slaps the back of the wailing ghost creature. As it does you hear it scream out in pain (screech) as its spectral form is scattered across the air and dissipates.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Thank god.
Sam: What?
Travis: I think you smashed it.
Marisha: You killed it.
Liam: You crushed it.
Sam: But I'm so little and wee!
Liam: Lift yourself up for a victory lap.
Sam: Yes, I lift myself up with Bigby's Hand. Yeah, that was a great idea.
Matt: You toss yourself up a couple times.
Sam: Whoa!
Travis: Meanwhile, Percy's unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit! Percy!
Liam: No, I've got four healing potions. I pour, it's not the best. It's a greater healing?
Matt: So, it's 4d4 plus four.
Sam: I will also sing for him a Song of Rest, which is just another d6.
Matt: If you guys are taking a short rest--
Sam: Yeah. Oh, are we clear of danger?
Liam: We don't know, but I poured the potion into Percy's mouth.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four?
Matt: Yep, you got it.
Taliesin: Four, five, six, seven, nine, ten, 14. Yep. I'm awake. Hurt, but--
Liam: I slap him twice, anyway.
Taliesin: Ugh! Ah!
Liam: What do we do?
Sam: What are we doing here?
Liam: The priest's dead. Is there anyone else, or should we head back?
Taliesin: We should head back. Apparently, any help I thought we'd find here is obviously gone.
Sam: Should we check this other room first, before we go?
Taliesin: Did we not check the other room?
Sam: No.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: Let's check the other room, and--
Sam: Quickly, though, quickly.
Taliesin: We'll check the other room quickly.
Liam: While they check the room, I'm going to go all over the altar and see if there's anything, any hidden door, any trapdoor, anything like that.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Eh. That's a-- oh! No! Wait, I keep forgetting that's a rogue skill. That's a 20.
Taliesin: I was really hoping you missed that part.
Matt: Looking over the altar, it appears to be smooth, solid stone. Nothing catches your attention. You check the other room. This is a small kitchen, essentially, for whoever was running here would make small meals or things to delineate during worship and/or just cook for its own meals when the father was keeping--
Taliesin: Has it been used recently? Is it--
Matt: It does not appear to have been used, you can make an investigation check to gather an idea of how long it's been there. SAM I'm going to look around as well and food and stuff.
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 22.
Matt: Okay. You get the feeling that the last time this was used was a little under a week ago.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Any provisions that we can take? Water, food?
Matt: You find a couple of loaves of stale bread, some dried meats, salted dry meats, like some jerky-ish type things. Things that are meant to last a while. There is produce here, but the produce has long wilted and gone to rot.
Taliesin: I have theories on who's been using this space. Is there anything that would clue me in to who's been using this space?
Matt: It's hard to really tell. You're not too familiar with lifestyles of different individuals. Whoever left the notes, and whoever was dabbling with the vicinity does have a tendency towards sciences and alchemy in ways that seemingly can blend and overlap with your specialty. That's the best you can ascertain, based on the information given.
Taliesin: Now, here's the question. Do we leave them a sign that we're here, or do we hope that they don't notice?
Sam: Well, let's leave them a sign. We're supposed to be sowing discontent, right? So, let's leave a sign that someone was here and fucked up their shit. Do you want me to pee on the altar?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: I take my dagger, and I go to the altar--
Taliesin: Wait.
Sam: No, don't leave your dagger; it's your only one left.
Liam: I didn't say I'm leaving it. Yeah. You want that?
Taliesin: I want that.
Liam: I start-- would you hand me that scrap of paper, yeah?
Sam: Whoa, this is our sign?
Liam: So I start carving this-- Is this Pelor?
Taliesin: This is not Pelor. It's part of the crest of de Rolo.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: de Rolos are back!
Liam: Okay. So, I just start scraping it into the stone with the Keen Dagger.
Matt: Okay. And it gives a horrible screeching sound as you carve into this well-polished stone surface that's used predominantly for worship, or when it was. Given about five, ten minutes in you manage to scrape a design into it that is visually distinct against the smooth surface, and does match the design best to your ability that Percy--
Taliesin: I would also like to drag Father Reynal out of his room and put him at the pedestal.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then before we go, I'm going to the wooden door, and I carve into the door: Pelor lives in Whitestone.
Sam: That's a lot of words.
Marisha: Six hours later...
Liam: It's wood! It took me five minutes.
Matt: Okay. You finish your carving, seemingly without recurring incident.
Taliesin: Like to head back now, I believe.
Matt: Yeah. You guys make your way out of the temple back into the center of the graveyard. The sun is beginning to set. The reds and purples of the night sky are starting to creep in, as it just begins to crest on the far western side of the mountain range surrounding the valley.
Marisha: I have a question. MATT Yes.
Marisha: What's the weather been like since we've been in Whitestone?
Matt: It's been spotty, cloudy--
Marisha: The sun has come out during the daytime?
Matt: Bits and pieces. There is heavy cloud cover that seems to be pushing through. It brings colder weather. It looks like when you first got there, there was some snowfall that happened before you arrived. You've had a few days of sun, but I'd say about half the day is cloud cover.
Marisha: Does it seem to be fairly natural weather for this time of year? Okay.
Matt: And this far north, too. All right. You guys--
Liam: I also grab those wooden stakes off the ground.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little time, because they're amongst a bunch of other broken wooden scraps--
Liam: I grab a couple extra, as well.
Matt: Okay! You find some splintered wood. You guys make your way back into the town. I'd like you all to make a stealth, or a deception check, if you prefer.
Sam: Deception, please. (sings a ditty) I'm just a peasant boy.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13.
Travis: G'day sir.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 32.
Matt: All right. As you guys are making your way back towards the tavern, there is a small group of Whitestone villagers walking and having a conversation. Not heated, but there is a sense of desperate conversation amongst them. And, standing with them you can see there's an older gentleman, mostly bald, long scraggly gray hair that falls past his shoulders, a little bit hunched. He's wearing dark leathers and a cloak that's over one shoulder and drags the ground behind him. And they're talking to him and he's growling to himself and the best you can make out is there's an argument about farming shipments and the inability to make dates and requirements. He shouts back to the remainder, says, "Listen, it is beyond my control. This is what has been decreed by Sir Kerrion. That is how it'll be. If you cannot provide, then taxes will be pulled. If you cannot pay, then there are far worse things we can take. Now, be on your way!" And steps away from the group, looks over and sees a little boy and this in the shadows skulking individual. "You there!"
Taliesin: Yes?
Matt: "You new around here?"
Taliesin: A bit, yes.
Matt: "I don't recognize you." And two of the guards step forward.
Taliesin: I suppose it's our good luck, then.
Matt: "What's your name?"
Taliesin: (sighs) Reggie.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Fuck my life. I know! 21!
Liam: My name's Reggie.
Matt: "Then make yourself useful. Maybe you can make up for some of these lost crops that these bags of shite keep saying they can't do."
Taliesin: I'm actually supposed to be going back for a--
Matt: "I don't give a shit, move on, boy."
Taliesin: Yes, sir.
Matt: He grumbles and keeps on walking. The guards give you a look. One of them spits at your foot, keeps walking on. Eventually, they drift aside. You continue your path back to the tavern where the rest of you are waiting. The sun has now set. Night has taken the sky and Keyleth is on the verge of completing her ritual.
Laura: I'm cleaning my nails as I'm watching her.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye from the second floor. I want to see how much movement in the city there is and whether or not there's any guards by the tree, whether or not the tree seems to be left to its own devices.
Matt: Okay. As you're keeping watch, you notice occasionally there will be one of the zombie giants that will lumber through the center of town. There's a very specific pattern that they tend to follow.
Taliesin: Definitely trying to memorize that.
Matt: And you do notice a couple of other guards that you didn't notice during the day begin to show up. They're humanoid; they're armored. They sneak around. They're humanoid, but their movement is unnatural.
Taliesin: Is there a lot of light in the town, or not very much light?
Matt: Not very much light at all. There's very low-lit points at certain crossroads that've been left up for general visibility for those who have to travel at night, but you gather most people just do not travel at night here in Whitestone.
Laura: Make sure no lights are lit in our--
Taliesin: We've already blacked out--
Sam: I blacked out the windows.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth--
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: You finally complete your ritual. Sweat pouring down your brow, you have your hand on the roots--
Marisha: Can I do something? Something real quick for my final, extra drama? So, as I complete the ritual, remembering that Pelor, and this is a sun tree. I'm going to cast my 6th-level Sunbeam spell as I'm finishing the Plant Growth with the last big essence--
Sam: At night?
Marisha: I'm underground. So, I'm going to take my Sunbeam, and wrap it up with my druid goodness. And shove it in the tree.
Taliesin: You're going to shove it where the sun don't shine.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to kill it. I don't know if it's going to work or not.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Do I get advantage on this? Because of Heroes' Feast?
Matt: I would say no, because this isn't a saving throw and because what you're attempting to do is essentially convert a highly damaging spell into a non-damaging circumstance at the end of an eight-hour endurance match with a ritual. This is going to be a difficult attempt. So go ahead and roll a d20. Add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: I hope I didn't just fuck up by doing this.
Laura: You got it, Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah, you never get arrested or anything, you're good.
Sam: Use the green one. This is you doing greenery.
Marisha: I'm so nervous.
Sam: Natural 20. Easy. Or a six.
Laura: Oh, no.
Marisha: But my wisdom's not bad, so 12?
Matt: You complete the ritual and release the healing energy of your Plant Growth spell. As you release it you begin to concentrate on the sun ray and you begin to see, throughout the pieces of earth around, seeds quickly begin to germinate and small little bits of ivy, greenery begin to pierce out from parts of the earth in your immediate vicinity, as this affects a large radius. There does not appear to be any sort of immediate reaction by the tree. You begin to pull back and concentrate on the spell. You release the Sunbeam forward. In the frustration of the lack of reaction from the tree and the desperation to make sure some effect happens, you release the full force of the beam as opposed to the prequel aspect and you burst into some of the roots, blasting some of them apart and beginning to set flame to part of the under of the tree.
Marisha: Oh, cool. That's cool. Cool story.
Liam: Bucket of water.
Marisha: I'll put it out.
Matt: You guys hear this (explosion).
Laura: That's right in front of-- I pull out my cloaks in my bag and start trying to put out the flames. Keyleth, what? Was that supposed to happen? Is that good? Was this good? Should I stop? I keep putting out the flames.
Matt: You put out the flames. And you notice where the fire had burned aspects of the wood, there is the black char marks across the roots where the flames touched, and the area surrounding the root is a little more of a vibrant brown color. Almost like a little hint of life seemed to have seeped into the root.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: It expands for a moment and you can see a little bit of life return to that localized section of the tree.
Marisha: Ooh! Like starting a fire. (blows air) Go, go! Can I Druidcraft? Come on!
Matt: As you do, there's still these bits of ivy greenery, this long-embedded seeds through years and years and generations of earth layering in here. These long-dormant seeds are starting to come to life and spring through the earth around you. The expansion of the healthier portion of the root begins to spread, and then stop spreading. And you begin to notice all the greenery begins to immediately wither and crumple and turn to ash. And you watch as the vibrant aspect of the roots slowly drain from the bottom up. Like something is pulling the life force out of the roots.
Laura: They're sucking the life force out of the earth.
Marisha: I take some of that holy oil that Vax gave me and I dip my finger in it and start rubbing it along the vines that are growing along the edge of the roots.
Matt: You take the holy oil and place it along the roots, and it soaks into the dry and in some cases now charred aspects of the roots. You wait a moment, and the oil seems to almost burn off and evaporate.
Sam: So, the ground is cursed.
Marisha: The ground is cursed.
Sam: Well, poo.
Travis: Should I try peeing on it?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Perception check?
Taliesin: That thing you hate doing?
Marisha: No, I'm good at perceiving things, I'm just not good at reading people.
Sam: You know what we need to do?
Marisha: That's not bad. 23?
Sam: Hydroponics. No ground, just grow it above.
Matt: The pattern of decay that followed your initial attempt at reviving this vicinity, all had a very distinct downward motion of draining. There was something about the ground, something beneath the tree and where you are that is seemingly taking the life force of the surroundings.
Laura: Oh, my god, what if the vampire thing is right underneath us?
Marisha: I was going to say, can I still see the green being sucked down a bit?
Matt: At this point, all the life force was very quickly drained.
Laura: Can I use my Primeval Awareness and sense any sort of vampiric presence within our very close vicinity?
Matt: What's the radius on that?
Laura: It's a minute. It's up to six miles if I spend six minutes.
Matt: Okay. So you take your time, and you begin to focus and it expands. As you do, focusing on vampiric presence, you feel a fair amount of presence: above, below and further north. And smattered throughout the city. You get the sensation at this point in time that there is much more beyond just Lord Briarwood that have come to be a creature of the night in this city.
Laura: (whispering) That's good. Bad. Probably bad.
Travis: Maybe they're not below the tree, maybe it's just the soil.
Taliesin: The ground is tainted.
Marisha: I'm exhausted.
Sam: Let's sleep.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Laura: We're just going to sleep? Surrounded by vampires, we're just going to sleep surrounded by lots and lots of vampires?
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker for a moment on my glove with that thing I talked about.
Matt: Okay. Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: An intelligence check?
Matt: Yeah, just a straight intelligence check.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. Incorporating this organic organ? Keeping it from rotting is already going to be a feat. In order to incorporate any of its natural charge essence is going to require your workshop. Doing that on the go is too intricate.
Taliesin: I just wanted to think about it. It's fine.
Matt: I mean, it may be functional. It's definitely possible to use what you extracted from the behir to be a way to charge your Diplomacy, but that is something that you'll have to do in a controlled space when you have everything at your disposal. It's a very delicate process to even attempt it.
Taliesin: I think we get it.
Liam: I'll take first watch.
Matt: Okay. You all take an evening's rest.
Marisha: I'm sorry I couldn't fix the tree, you guys.
Taliesin: We learned a lot.
Laura: You even did that awesome fire thing at the end that was really, really cool.
Marisha: Thanks. I was afraid I was going to permanently kill it for a second.
Taliesin: We know it's not dead dead. That it's just tainted.
Sam: Guys, I just want to say that I killed a door and a banshee, so--
Laura: Really?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Nice, Scanlan.
Sam: The door was harder to kill.
Travis: That's some door!
Taliesin: It's okay. I think I figured out what we have to do first.
Marisha: What do we have to do first?
Taliesin: I think we have to kill Kerrion Stonefell.
Sam: Who's that?
Taliesin: It's the one that everyone-- he's the one managing all of the goods and all of the farming.
Sam: Is that who they were talking about today? The group?
Laura: Where is he at?
Sam: Oh, Sir Kerrion. I thought they said something else.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell. He's in one of the three-- I would assume that he's been given one of the three mansions in town.
Sam: You think if we find him, kill him, and leave his body on some sort of public display, it would sow some seeds of rebellion?
Taliesin: I think it would be the beginning. He's who everybody's afraid of.
Travis: We could hang him in the tree.
Taliesin: We could hang him in the tree.
Sam: We could. Grog, could you do something nasty to his body?
Travis: Just say the word.
Laura: Oh, this is messed up.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Do we check the mansions for him?
Taliesin: I think we ask around to see if there's a way to ask around to find out who's in what house.
Sam: Ask around? Let's just go house to house and kill everyone in all of them!
Taliesin: Let's-- Eventually, yes.
Travis: Hello. I'd like to share the news of our Lord and Savior: my axe in your face!
Sam: Yes. We could be Mormons.
Matt: As you guys take your watches and go to sleep in the cold interior, and it is a cold interior of the tavern. As the night comes through, this is your first time really staying the night in the center of Whitestone. Even though you slept in the forest, in the boughs of the trees itself, the temperature grows far colder here, and even with the warm interior, the windows frost over and you find yourselves having to huddle or build some sort of small fire to even keep a semblance of comfort to rest. You all eventually go to sleep throughout your various times. I would like everyone to make a wisdom saving throw. With advantage, because you're still affected by the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Until noon tomorrow, right?
Marisha: 2PM tomorrow.
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: 25.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 23.
Travis: 14.
Matt: Okay. All of you wake the next morning rested as best as can be. Percy, your entire evening was wracked with nightmare after nightmare, imagery you wish to not recall. Whispers and voices familiar, unfamiliar, seeing yourself pulled from your physical self into the heart of this banshee, then wrest from death, barely, cackling in the distance. I want you to go ahead and mark on your sheet one point of corruption.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: What does that mean?
Marisha: Oh no!
Sam: I don't even know where that is on the sheet!
Laura: He could be evil. We could turn evil here!
Matt: As you wake up, you find yourself wracked by those nightmares, a sense of nervousness comes to you. And there's a tremor to your voice now that's uncontrollable. At times of silence, you find yourself impulsively clearing your throat. And with that we're going to take a five-minute break.
Marisha: What the fuck?!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: All right guys, keep this to a stringent five-minute break so we can get to as much as we can before the show's up tonight. So we'll see you guys here in five minutes? All right?
Liam: See you in 17. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone. So, a couple quick things. One, we're roughly 30 to 25 subs away from our next milestone. The milestone, as we do with every 100 subs, the winner in the chat room, as long as you're active in it, gets a package of one of our signed cast photos, as well as a wonderful poster art piece from our artist, Kit Buss, signed by the cast, and that will also be our 10k mark.
Travis: Damn!
Liam: Damn, damn!
Travis: Skittles, motherfucker!
Matt: It's pretty fantastic. So, as soon as we hit that we'll have our next giveaway and a big celebration as we hit 10k.
Marisha: Get yourself a double cheeseburger.
Liam: (singing) Look at the Sun Tree!
Matt: Also, you guys just caught, as that break ended, a quick episode of Omnibus. Omnibus is a new show that shows here every Tuesday. It's helmed by Ian and Hector, some of our fantastic hosts here. It talks about all sorts of things. Not just Batman things. All sorts of things in geek culture and-- what's that?
Taliesin: There's more than Batman?
Matt: There's more than Batman! It's crazy! I pop up there every now and then to answer some questions and talk about some cool things, as well as a number of other cool personalities that pop in and out. Check it out if you're around on Tuesday. It's a lot of fun. All righty. So let's kick back into this. So, a rough morning's rest come to fruition. Percy seems a little worse for wear after the evening's sleep.
Marisha: You feeling okay?
Taliesin: (grunts)
Marisha: It was cold. Did you catch a cold?
Taliesin: No, I'm fine.
Marisha: Is your throat ticklish?
Taliesin: A little ticklish, I'm fine.
Marisha: Do you want some Goodberries? It might help a little bit--
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I'll take some Goodberries.
Marisha: All right. If you suck on them a little bit they act like "logenzes."
Sam: "Logenzes?"
Marisha: Well, shut up.
Liam: Kenny Logenzes.
Sam: Kenny Logenzes.
Marisha: Kenny Logenzes.
Matt: It's a whole business opportunity that was missed.
Laura: Oh wait. Seeming has ended at this point, hasn't it?
Matt: Seeming has ended, yes.
Laura: So, Trinket is a bear.
Matt: Trinket is now a bear.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: And not a donkey.
Travis: And not a donkey.
Liam: But he's indoors with us, right?
Laura: Yeah. I've been laying on him all night.
Travis: Man, that was a good night's sleep. Who do we get to kill today?
Sam: Sir Kerrion.
Travis: How many mansions are there?
Taliesin: There's three.
Travis: Right. One, three.
Liam: Do you know which one he lives in?
Taliesin: I don't.
Liam: Shit.
Sam: Only one way to find out. Burn every house down except for those three mansions and see who runs out.
Travis: I like it. Seconded.
Taliesin: I also think perhaps we should find a new place to sleep tonight. I think it might be best. To mix it up. Keep moving.
Travis: But I've been peeing in the corner.
Laura: That's why it smells like it does. Grog!
Travis: What? Look, it's like they did in the old days, they had chamberpots. I mean, I have my corner. It's my recreation corner. Sorry. Yeah, that's my brand.
Liam: That is ripe. We're leaving.
Sam: You want to all be peasants again? Can we not just disguise ourselves in tattered clothes?
Laura: I have a bear. Do you want to disguise the bear?
Sam: Oh, wait. We could just leave the bear behind.
Laura: In the house.
Sam: He could guard this safe house, and then we could go find another safe house.
Taliesin: Scanlan, cast the spell.
Sam: All right, fine. Seeming it is. We're all peasants and he's a donkey. And I'm a little boy.
Matt: You're a little boy. Jovial boy without a yo-yo.
Taliesin: There's a shop that I used to frequent. We can see if that's perhaps been abandoned.
Laura: All right. I want like a crazy eye in my Seeming.
Sam: Of course you can! I'll give you two crazy eyes.
Matt: (laughs) You now have two crazy eyes.
Liam: That's an improvement. That's nice.
Matt: The majesty of bardic illusion.
Taliesin: So we're going to go to Beyond the Horizon.
Matt: Going to Beyond the Horizon?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: All righty. You guys step out into the day's sun. Today is fairly overcast. Clouds have taken the sky, and there is a bit of a light mist that is falling. Not quite rain, but not quite drizzle, but just a mist in the air. It's a cold day. The ground and most of the walkways and roads are a little damp due to the moisture in the air. Not muddy, just a little bit of a packed wetness to it. As you head over towards Beyond the Horizon, and that lies more in the northwestern quadrant of the city. A little ways around the street from one of the noble houses, so you keep a wide berth. You come to the row of shops that bookended it before, and you go to the curiosity shop to find that the building itself is partially collapsed and ruined. The door is torn off the hinges and left to the side. Part of the ceiling is fallen in.
Sam: Is there a basement?
Laura: Yeah, secret doors? Can I use a perception check to see if there's any kind of secret entrances in the rubble at all? Something that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Do you wander into the building? You guys are still on the outside--
Liam: How collapsed is it?
Matt: The whole building is still standing. It just looks like the front entrance is caved in and the doors were pulled off.
Laura: I'll just old lady walk into the building and look around.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'll go in with her.
Taliesin: Do old ladies lick the air?
Laura: Yeah, she does. This crazy-eyed old lady does.
Liam: Yeah, the eyes, they never go in the same direction; one's always to the left and one to the right.
Matt: Looking about the inside, most of the furniture has been broken or taken. You can see a bunch of shelves set up as this was once a curiosity shop. Empty. Anything of worth has long been taken.
Sam: Oi, Grandma! Any yo-yos in there?
Laura: I'm looking, boy.
Matt: A large scattering of broken glass, and a peppering of stains. Dark, ruddy stains across the hardwood floors you can see spattered in places. Occasional rat seems to crawl out in the distance a little (rat squeaking) sound. But there is no other sign of life within the interior. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: Ooh, with no advantage, right?
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: Oh, until noon.
Marisha: Until 2PM, yo!
Matt: Wisdom check, not saving throw.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13?
Liam: 13.
Laura: That would have been an eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. You take a while pushing through some of the rubble, checking behind the main desk, if you will, as to where most purchases would have taken place. The place is cleared out, and looks like it's covered in enough dust to have been left here for the better part of six months to a year.
Laura: I can't see any kind of like door that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Glancing about, you find what looks to be a small cellar door that opens up in the floor in one of the back rooms. You open it up, there's a small ladder, not even a staircase, a ladder that leads down in there. It's a small room, about ten foot by ten foot. That room is also entirely cleaned out.
Laura: All right. No yo-yos here, boy.
Sam: Thanks, grandmama.
Taliesin: Can we use this as a base of operations in the moment, then?
Laura: But it's half-collapsed, it would not be very protected.
Travis: Yeah, we're fully exposed.
Sam: Let's just take a walkabout and see if there's anything else around the area.
Travis: Do you want to head in one of the directions of the mansions?
Taliesin: Let's head to the closest mansion.
Matt: Okay. So you skirt back towards the the crossroad, the nearest crossroad that heads northward to the very, very far northwest section of Whitestone. There you come to this noble house, which has a nice bronzed fence around the outside of it. Probably about seven feet tall with these intricate spears affixed to the top, almost in a fleur-de-lis type pattern, but looks sharp enough to keep anyone from trying to leap over. The front gate is currently chained off with a lock on it. There is a lawn, but the lawn itself appears to be frost-crusted from the evening's moisture and cold temperature. What grass is there is very gray and dull and currently crisp with a white frost dew. Is a slight hill, and you do see the building itself. It's a very nice building. It's a deep brown. A lot of it appears to be like natural stained wood from the local forest surrounding Whitestone, with highlights of deep green and black. There does not appear to be any immediate sign of life from the inside, but there does appear to be a light coming from the inside, so even at this point in the day, it can be dark on the interior. You can see a little bit of light coming from one of the doors.
Marisha: Is there a mailbox with a name? (laughter)
Sam: Are there guards out front or anything, or is it just a gate?
Matt: It's just a gate, currently.
Sam: Do you want me to go in?
Laura: What if we went to the fields and we asked other peasants how we report to what's-his-fuck. Keron. Keron?
Taliesin: Kerrion.
Laura: Kerrion?
Travis: Oh. That's actually a good one.
Taliesin: I will say, chances that anybody in any of these buildings is somebody we're going to want to take care of is very high.
Laura: So, just bust on in and kill them right now.
Sam: Just, whoever's in there?
Marisha: Is that actually what you're saying?
Liam: And you went from focusing on Kerrion, to kicking in doors?
Travis: Are you feeling all right?
Laura: Yeah, you look a little pale, Percy.
Taliesin: I am a little pale.
Marisha: It's kind of like the game show problem.
Sam: Well, you know.
Laura: Are you sick? Does Keyleth need to cast, I don't know, Restoration on you or something?
Taliesin: I just had a bad night's sleep, that's all.
Travis: Scanlan, go knock on that door.
Marisha: Do you have a fever?
Sam: I'm just a little peasant boy.
Marisha: Is he running a fever?
Matt: He is not actually, he's quite cold and clammy.
Marisha: Ew.
Taliesin: My nice jacket. We can ask around. See if we can manage to ask somebody without arousing--
Sam: Is anyone else on the street?
Matt: Right now, in this particular area, there is nobody on the street. You passed a few folks. A lot of them seem to be traveling southward.
Taliesin: How far are we from the temple? The Alcove?
Matt: The Alcove is a little further east, it's probably about a 15-minute walk. The other temple, that one is about a ten-minute walk south of here. It's closer to the southwestern side of the city.
Taliesin: We could take a walk to the Lady's Chamber and see if we run into anybody there or on the way, and it's only ten minutes out of the way.
Travis: The Lady's Chamber?
Taliesin: Not as exciting as it sounds.
Liam: You know someone there?
Taliesin: (sighs) It's not looking like it.
Sam: I bet it's empty. I mean, it's a temple. The other one was.
Travis: All right, but I thought we were killing somebody in this house.
Sam: I thought so, too.
Taliesin: We'll get to it.
Sam: I can just pop in there and see who's in there and pop out.
Laura: Be killed? Never pop back out again.
Taliesin: He doesn't know what he looks like, anyway.
Sam: I'm just a peasant boy. You wouldn't kill a harmless peasant boy.
Taliesin: I think they would, actually. They already have.
Laura: We saw the tree.
Taliesin: Genuine proof that they are perfectly fine killing a small peasant boy.
Liam: What is there in the way of guards out in the open now, and those giants strolling about?
Matt: The skulking humanoids you saw last night that were wandering the streets? None of them visible. You do take in that far down the road to the east of you there is a large shape looming around the corner in a shadow stretching across the road. And you hear the distant (muffled stomping noise).
Liam: Are we within eyeshot of that thing right now?
Matt: Not yet. It looks like it's coming around a corner at the bend of the road a ways to the east.
Liam: Is there anyone our size, any humanoid guards around?
Travis: No.
Liam: Nothing?
Matt: Currently? No.
Liam: I'm guessing the best time to sneak into any of these places is during the day.
Marisha: Do we want to sneak in, though? You're the only one who knows what they look like.
Matt: It's coming around the bend.
Marisha: Okay, wait. Are the gates locked?
Sam: Let's get out of here. Take a walk, we're going to take a walk.
Taliesin: We're going to take a little walk and let it pass by. Let's go to the Lady's Chamber.
Liam: Lady's Chambers, anyone?
Sam: Towards the Lady's Chamber. We're not going in.
Liam: It's full of prostitutes, Grog. Full.
Taliesin: You'll see. It's not really that complicated.
Liam: What did you roll?
Matt: All right. You guys dart southward across the road, ducking into the alleys of the southern portion of the road, getting out of the visual range of the zombie giant that is making its way down the road, across your path. Heading southward, you dart through the back alleys and keeping free of the main central visual areas of the city, you eventually make your way to the corner that houses the Lady's Chamber. And as you guys see it--
Sam: Have we passed any people?
Matt: If you're keeping an eye out for that, yes. In some of the alleyway, you do pass a couple that are holding some, what looks like either scavenged groceries or some sort of food they have keeping close to themselves.
Sam: Can I go talk to them?
Matt: You can, indeed.
Laura: I'm going to come with you.
Matt: All right. As they're both walking by, keeping the hush, they see you guys step in the same alley. They stop for a second, looking you over, give a nod.
Sam: Oi, excuse me? My papa sent me to send a present, a gift of sorts, to a Sir Keri? Kurion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: Kerrion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: We're just looking to see where we can deliver the gift.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Scanlan's forte. Come on.
Sam: 29. (laughter)
Matt: You both stop and the man gives her a look like he's trying to usher her along, pulling her arm and she goes, "No, honey, it's just a child." Walks up and leans forward and says, "If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you'll find him in the extravagant abode to the southeast of the city."
Sam: The one right over there?
Matt: "No." And gives you a side look for a second and says, "You don't want to go find the Countess there. If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you go to the southeast. Look for the brick building. That's where he stays. Near the farming area south of us. You're not from here are you?"
Laura: We're new to town.
Sam: She's blind.
Matt: "Well, just do what he says. Don't question. All right?"
Sam: Okay. I just need to bring him this sack of presents, or my papa will whip me pretty bad.
Taliesin: TMI.
Matt: "Then perhaps you could do that quickly."
Sam: You're so pretty and clean.
Matt: She blushes for a second, goes like, "You stay safe." And brushes the hair out of your eyes for a second and pinches your cheek a little bit, and there's a look of sadness in her eyes, almost like, what horrible fate befalls this child, if he's not careful.
Laura: I smack him on the back of the head and say: Let's go boy! Keep up!
Sam: I'm her seeing-eye boy. (laughter)
Matt: She rushes back to the side of the man with her and, "See, it's fine. Good luck!" And they both dart off down the alley again.
Liam: Sam Riegel, ladies and gentleman, he played Gavroche in Les Mis. Gavroche, right here, Gavroche.
Matt: On Broadway. Literally.
Taliesin: He is Oliver Twist.
Sam: (singing) Consider yourself! (speaking) Oh, that's a different show.
Taliesin: I was ready! I was ready.
Matt: All right, so. You make your way southward to probably what's the second largest road intersection in this city. Away from the Sun Tree square. You can now see the temple to Erathis here. And it is a large stone half dome amphitheater set up where it's built outward to face the actual crossroads. And there is a courtyard built around it, a small stone wall about three feet tall, that encapsulates this area. There is a couple of trees, but there isn't a lot of grass, most of it's just stonework-- Erathis being the goddess of civilization. You know, it has an interesting duality and disrespect to Melora and all unbridled nature. Things that are controlled and civilized are definitely her realm of expertise. But as you approach, like most of the grass here, it's pretty desolate and dead. Winter is definitely making its way to this part of the city. You do notice that surrounding it, there is dried ivy, and just a general feeling of solemn desperation and sadness. There are a few people scattered throughout sitting on benches, sitting in quiet contemplation. Some of them are clutching small holy symbols and doing a prayer to themselves while rocking in the bench. You do see within the dome, there is a group of about four people that are all sitting, looking up to a man, an older man with a thick, white mustache and receding white hair. His gray robes he's wearing look weathered. You recognize him. While you haven't had too much interaction, not being much of a pious man, in any form of religion from your history, but you do know, Keeper Yennen is the head priest of Erathis here and is currently giving the tail-end of a small sermon to those here. Hearing him, he speaks words of comfort talking of, through these dark days, we must bind together as a community. We have to ensure that our livelihood and our existence is kept, and we look out for our fellow man. There is solace in the friendships and bonds we keep here. And best not to upset those that wish to keep us down. Erathis looks over us. There will be a time in which our salvation will come. And he goes into this very rallying speech and trying to lift the spirits of those around.
Marisha: You said there was 40?
Matt: Four.
Marisha: Four. Right.
Sam: But they're allowed to assemble?
Matt: Yeah. There's four around him in the amphitheater. There are probably another ten or so scattered about the various ground surrounding it, just doing their own private prayer.
Taliesin: Do I have an opinion on Yennen?
Matt: Yennen? From your previous experience and what you've heard is a very-- can be a bit arrogant in his worship, but not in a way that is considered dangerous or impactful to when the de Rolo families were in rule. He does good for the people. Kind of a tool at times. But he practices well and he keeps the people's spirits up for those who worship.
Taliesin: We found him a bit obnoxious to our means and ends on occasion?
Matt: On occasion, but mostly just his personality. Nothing he's done personally. He's not a bad person, by any means. He's just, you know.
Taliesin: He's also not a lapdog.
Matt: Yeah. Strong-willed in his ideas.
Laura: Can we insight check him to see if it seems like he's changed at all, or if he's still that same douchebag or if he's--
Matt: You would have no basis of comparison. You would be the only one that has.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to the little meeting. Is it wrapping up right now?
Matt: It seems like it's winding down. He finishes the discussion about the bonds of community, speaks about this city sprang up from nothing, but has a greater destiny to itself. If not here at Whitestone, one day we will all go past these boundaries, these borders, and create our own cities. There is hope for this. And then begins to go into a couple of familiar prayers tailored specifically to the Erathis way of thinking, and then finishes and everyone looks up, bows their heads for a second and begin to stand up and walk away from the amphitheater as he turns around and begins to clear off one of the back benches for him to sit on.
Taliesin: I'm going to just walk up and start a conversation.
Matt: Okay. You walk up to him, he sits down. "Can I help you?"
Taliesin: Do you think there's any hope for Whitestone? Do you think there'll be a day the people can find happiness again?
Matt: "I can say this. If history has taught me anything, our people are a resilient bunch. There has been much death, opposition, to all the free peoples of these lands. And yet, they persevered and surmounted these odds. I think, though, to some degree a prison this town may have become, perhaps we ourselves cannot see the distant ends. It's easy to misinterpret the means of those that would oppress us. But we can't go too long before the world at large can see the atrocities committed, the terrible entities that walk these streets."
Taliesin: Do you think there will come a day that these people can seize freedom for themselves against their oppressors?
Matt: "I look forward to a day in which there can be a beacon of outside hope. From the inside, I fear many wills have been torn asunder. I'm sorry. Forgive my manners. Welcome to the Lady's Chamber. You are unfamiliar to me." And he looks out at you guys standing at the peripheral of the amphitheater. "Travelers?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I fear the cold winter is looming. An ill omen takes this city, friends. You may stay to give worship, if you will, then I recommend you continue on your way. There is little here but dying tradition."
Taliesin: I have a prayer to give.
Matt: "Interesting."
Taliesin: I pray for a day to come when outside forces can rally the people of Whitestone again. That strangers may come and bring with them salvation, and that the people will seize it.
Matt: "You speak in strange confidence for a traveler."
Taliesin: Look for signs, Keeper Yennen. Look for signs. I'm going to hand him a piece of parchment.
Matt: "Signs of what, I might ask?"
Taliesin: Salvation. Good day to you, sir.
Liam: Act cool. Everybody act cool.
Taliesin: We walk south.
Travis: We walk south. We leave.
Taliesin: And you know what I've left him.
Matt: Yeah. As you're walking away, you hear his voice call out after. "Wait! What does this mean?" He pulls the parchment forward, revealing the symbol of the top of the de Rolo family crest.
Taliesin: That... (sighs) What appears dead may not necessarily be death. And that with the shadow of death over the city perhaps there is life deep underground. Perhaps things that appeared ended and gone are perhaps continuing to this day. And may rise again.
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion check. Give you advantage on this.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Nods his head slowly, looks back at the sheet. Looks back at you with a discerning look.
Taliesin: He's definitely not going to--
Matt: Oh, not at all. You look like a dirty peasant right now. Takes it and hastily closes it and folds it and puts it in the pouch. Steps back over and gathers some of his loose tea leaves-- he was making himself some tea-- and looks about shiftily, calls over one of the other worshipers and begins talking with them as you guys walk away.
Taliesin: Let's head south.
Travis: South it is.
Sam: To the--
Laura: To the house?
Sam: To the house.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell's stately manor.
Marisha: So wait, which mansion were we at?
Sam: The Countess.
Laura: The Countess.
Taliesin: Countess Anna Ripley.
Marisha: Which mansion is that out of the three?
Taliesin: That's the northeastern one.
Marisha: That's the northeastern one?
Laura: And she was which? Who was the Countess again?
Taliesin: I'm assuming if it is who I suspect it is, it's Countess Anna Ripley.
Sam: And who is she to you?
Taliesin: She is a terrible person.
Sam: Wait, she's the one who killed a bunch of your people, right?
Marisha: She's the doctor, right?
Taliesin: She's the doctor.
Laura: Oh, she is the one!
Travis: Do we get to kill her?
Taliesin: I hope so. But let's-- one at a time. If we're lucky, maybe one a day.
Marisha: Well, okay.
Travis: Like a vitamin?
Sam: Like a Flintstone's vitamin. Except it's assassination.
Taliesin: (coughs)
Sam: Do you need some healing? Are you okay?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I'm fine.
Sam: Scanlan can make you feel good.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Travis: (laughs) He can make you feel real good.
Laura: Can I go up and ask Keyleth, outside of his earshot, to maybe cast some sort of restoration on him, without-- He's fighting it. I don't think he's feeling well. Can you heal him?
Marisha: I'm mean, yeah. He's going to feel it once I cast it on him, but I can try.
Laura: He looks cold and kind of slimy, and he's coughing a lot.
Travis: Wow, that's harsh. Looks cold.
Sam: He's probably been up tinkering all night.
Liam: Who are you to talk, Crazy Eyes?
Laura: I know.
Taliesin: I look like like a dirty peasant right now.
Laura: No, that's true.
Marisha: I don't know if my-- I don't know if Greater Restoration will work.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Should only take 20 minutes to get to the house, shouldn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Approximately.
Taliesin: We're not passing anything interesting on the way, are we?
Sam: Any other safe houses? Potential candidates?
Matt: I mean, there are plenty of houses that currently don't show signs of life.
Taliesin: I was thinking mostly of the barracks or the Alcove.
Sam: Yes, but after we kill this thing, we're going to need to know where to go.
Taliesin: Got some thoughts.
Sam: Thoughts? We need a place to retreat to immediately.
Taliesin: The Lady's Chamber.
Sam: It's an amphitheater isn't it?
Taliesin: There's quarters. They'll be able to hide us.
Marisha: What makes you think they're going to hide us?
Taliesin: Hunch.
Sam: Shouldn't we have a backup plan, in case they turn us out onto the street?
Taliesin: Actually, my thought was if we take care of Stonefell, why don't we hide in his house?
Laura: Nobody will know, right? Let's do it!
Sam: That's a good plan. They probably have some good wine.
Travis: I always wanted to be a lord.
Sam: All right. Let's go assassinate someone.
Marisha: Percy? I don't mean to beat a dead horse or anything, but--
Taliesin: If it would make you feel better, you can do whatever you like, but I think it's just a tickle.
Marisha: No. You're sure about all of this?
Taliesin: This has been what I've been working for for years. I'm not going to lose-- I was surprised last time. I've had time to think about it. I'm going to be all right. And I'm keeping it together. I'm not going to pretend that I'm great. But I've got a hold on it.
Sam: They also have technology, now. They have weapons, guns, that they're developing. It could be a threat to many, many other people.
Marisha: Well, that I'm fine with. No, not that I'm fine with. I mean, I'm fine helping prevent that. I'm just more worried about your sanity than anything else.
Taliesin: I've got a hold. And I respect that if you think that I'm slipping, you'll let me know.
Marisha: Okay. You followed me into the fiery abyss, so--
Taliesin: If that isn't a sign that I must be crazy, I don't know what is.
Marisha: Touché. I'll follow you, though. I'll follow you to the end.
Sam: As the oldest among us, I say that he's fine.
Taliesin: Are you actually the oldest among us?
Sam: Well, I assume so. How old are you people?
Laura: What?
Travis: Me?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Somewhere between one and 50.
Liam: Well, I'm 27, but I don't know how old she is.
Matt: And with that, rainfall begins to hit upon the city--
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: The ground immediately becomes thick with mud and sludge as you begin making your way through the city to the eastern side.
Marisha: I go puddle hopping!
Taliesin: This is not a happy place.
Travis: Low key.
Liam: Low key.
Marisha: Oh. I look miserable.
Taliesin: Look wet.
Travis: I take the Dust of Tracelessness to void out any footprints in the mud.
Liam: It's been washed away with the rain.
Matt: You do it. As you walk along, you do, some of the mud shifts behind you. It can be a little conspicuous if you're not careful.
Travis: Oh. Not my normal flower girl routine; maybe it's like the old Shawshank Prison walk. (laughter)
Taliesin: The old Shawshank Prison walk.
Matt: All right. The Alcove is a little ways north. It would take some time. You're pushing at like 10:30 in the morning at this point, around 11AM. Are you going straight to the supposed homestead of Kerrion Stonefell?
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: We're going straight there?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We're going straight there.
Matt: All right. You bee-line it. You're all getting cold from the wet rain that is now soaked through your clothes. You make your way, and this home is a deep, red brick in construction. This house was not here when you lived here. It looks like what house was here has been demolished and rebuilt with sturdy masonry. It's a two-story building. There appear to be two guards currently set outside. Two regular leather-armor looking, more thugs than guards, but they're just both keeping under the overhang at the front porch to keep dry and grimacing at the weather. There is a gate around it. This gate is more for purpose than visual presentation. It's a black iron, nasty, jagged, rusty-looking gate. Not too dissimilar to the one that surrounded the graveyard. It's about a 20-foot walk from the gate entrance to the front step of the actual building itself. How do you want to approach this?
Taliesin: Let's walk around the back, I think.
Liam: As we walk up, I'd like to trail back by Grog in the rain. The killing's going to start soon. It's not going to stop. We're going to protect them. All of them. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, big guy?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Vax, you have your daggers back, right?
Liam: I got them all.
Laura: I put a couple arrows in the holy oil that we have.
Matt: All right. Each holy oil is essentially three--
Laura: Oh, can I just dip one arrow in, then, right now?
Matt: Mark that off from one of your holy oils, you have one of three uses of that, and that that arrow does have a holy oil essence.
Sam: Percival? If we get in there, what are the chances that this gentleman, Sir Kerrion-- Korean--
Taliesin: You can mispronounce his name. It's fine.
Marisha: Sir North Korean.
Taliesin: Sir Starbucks, yes.
Sam: Sir Starbucks. What are the chances that he's going to be in a coffin? Sleeping?
Taliesin: 50-50.
Sam: Okay. All right. Good to know.
Travis: Would it be worthwhile to maybe say that the little boy and the old lady were caught hoarding crops and we brought them to this guy, see if we can draw him out of his house?
Sam: Ooh, that's a cool plan. I like that plan!
Marisha: It is raining.
Sam: Oh, wait, but I would be bait?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, fine.
Taliesin: Let's take a long walk around the house to see if there's a way in through the back.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: It's dark. It's raining.
Taliesin: And I can't imagine that many people attempt to infiltrate this house.
Liam: How dark is it?
Matt: I mean, it's overcast, but it's getting closer to noon. Even though you can't see the sun, and it is dark clouds overhead, it is still a general universal storm light. Darkened daylight.
Travis: Once around?
Marisha: Does it look like it's going to pass soon?
Matt: No. It looks like it's probably going to be here for most of the day at the very least.
Sam: The rain will dampen the screams from inside. So we go around once? Once around?
Matt: Okay. Perception checks all around.
Sam: Perception check.
Liam: I'm looking specifically for ways in the building other than the front door.
Sam: I'm looking for clouds because I rolled a two.
Travis: Four.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 20.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right. I will say above 20s, you guys notice there is a cellar door outside the building that descends beneath it. There's no indicator as to whether or not it's attached to the house or if it's just an exterior cellar that you can enter from the outside. You do also see there are a number of windows around the household that are all currently closed that lead into the interior. You're uncertain if they're locked or open. There's a little bit of light from the inside.
Marisha: Like candlelight?
Matt: Like candlelight or lantern light, the darkened exterior has made most of the sunlight that would warm a building or light it up from the inside has been cut off by the rainstorm. So, there is a necessity for internal lighting.
Marisha: Is there any sign of windows that are blacked out?
Matt: No, but you do notice that one of the windows to the far back side of the building where most of the light's coming from-- occasionally the light does seem to shift or a shadow moves past it. There's movement within that room nearish that window.
Sam: They're watching TV.
Laura: Probably. I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Sam: Ooh, thank you!
Marisha: Are we going through the cellar?
Sam: Is our meal still affecting us?
Taliesin: Until two.
Sam: Yes! Let's go in quick!
Laura: Is it possible to see what the movement is, who it is inside that window?
Matt: Not from this 25 to 30-foot distance from the building and you guys trying to be inconspicuous.
Liam: There's nothing between us and the building?
Matt: There is the gate. The gate, and what looks to be a few rocks and a couple small trees that are on the actual grounds of the house surrounding it.
Laura: Is the cellar door hidden from view of everything or is it out in the open?
Matt: Which one?
Laura: The cellar door that we saw.
Matt: The cellar door is out in the open, buttressed against the back of the house. It's up against the ground on the side. It has two doors that open up and lead into the cellar below.
Laura: Does it look like anybody can see us?
Matt: From where you're standing? No. You're going to be hardpressed to get across without being in sight of somebody if someone were nearby.
Marisha: We're between a fence, right?
Matt: You're on the outside of a fence.
Travis: Do we want to try to draw them out or get to the cellar? Either way, those two thug guards are going to die.
Marisha: There are guards?
Laura: There's two guards.
Sam: There's two guards.
Matt: They're currently not in visual range of you. They're guarding the front of the building. You guys moved around back. So you don't see the two guards currently on the opposite side of the house.
Travis: What's the fence made out of? Is it the spear-y shit?
Marisha: Is it poky up top?
Matt: It is poky. yes.
Travis: It is poky.
Matt: It's not super sharp poky, but there's iron rods.
Travis: So, I could throw Scanlan over.
Liam: If you roll a two, you can get hurt.
Matt: Yeah, if you rolled poorly, it's going to deal some damage.
Sam: Should we do a diversion for the guards?
Laura: They can't even see us, though!
Sam: Yes, but once we go through the fence, they might. I don't know. All right, you want to sneak in?
Taliesin: Let's try to sneak in and leave the guards there unless they notice us and then we'll just (thwip thwip).
Sam: All right, sure!
Travis: How do we sneak in past them?
Taliesin: You want to try to pull one of the wrought irons off, maybe?
Travis: I'd be down for that.
Sam: If I puffed some smoke, would it draw attention to us?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Okay, then never mind.
Taliesin: It's raining. We can make a little noise, it'll be okay.
Liam: Where are the guards in the front?
Matt: They're currently on the opposite side of the building. If you guys are looking at the back. They're in the front of the building guarding the front door.
Liam: Inside the gate at the house?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Want me to heat up that metal bar for you?
Liam: We still have to go over and in.
Travis: Sure.
Laura: Let's just up and over the bar, athletic it. Acrobatics it?
Liam: Grog, can you bend that shit open?
Matt: Your donkey's still there beside you.
Laura: Fuck!
Liam: Yeah, well, if Grog can frigging make a hole in there--
Travis: Can I try and Lou Ferrigno those bars?
Matt: You're more than welcome to. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: The bar that he's--
Taliesin: Lou Ferrigno-ing.
Marisha: -- Lou Ferrigno-ing, I'm going to cast Heat Metal.
Sam: Is that going to burn his hands?
Marisha: Put on some gloves.
Travis: I don't have any gloves.
Marisha: Spit in your hand a little bit. Grip and bear it.
Sam: It's raining. It'll be fine.
Matt: So, you cast Heat Metal on the bars and a certain area of this gate begins to glow with a dull orange to become a brighter orange, and portions of it going whitish-hot in places.
Sam: Why don't you just hit it with something?
Laura: Wrap your hands.
Marisha: You can use your axe.
Matt: The rain, by the way, is puffing against it and evaporating as it impacts the now-heated metal.
Sam: But that'll be loud!
Marisha: You do you! You do you, Grog.
Travis: I rolled a 23.
Matt: 23? Okay, you reach over and grab it, your hands smoking on the-- use the pain! Use the pain and pull down the bars. You get a large portion of the gate to actually bend downward into an arc, causing the whole gate to fold inward on that side, making it much easier for anyone to pass through. However, you do suffer nine points of fire damage from the burn and your hands are currently scalded.
Taliesin: Now we can get Trinket in!
Liam: That's a hangnail on his pinky toe.
Travis: It's all right.
Marisha: I go ahead and I cast Healing Word on his hands.
Matt: Okay. So it's 1d4 plus six. She's rolling it.
Marisha: Ooh! 11.
Travis: Hey, back to full!
Matt: So, the scarring stays for a bit. You do smell the burning flesh, but there's no lasting wounds on your hands.
Taliesin: You can check to see if there's a lock on the cellar door?
Liam: Yeah, sure.
Travis: We gotta make it across the lawn first.
Laura: Well, we're in the back of the house.
Liam: Well, we're all just walking very quietly.
Laura: We're stealthing.
Matt: So, everyone make a stealth check.
Taliesin: We have advantage?
Matt: No, everyone gets plus ten to their stealth. You have disadvantage on the stealth check, though.
Sam: Plus ten.
Matt: Yes, plus ten to your stealth roll.
Sam: 17.
Travis: 23.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 32.
Marisha: 34.
Taliesin: 26!
Matt: All righty. You guys all keeping low and quickly darting across the grass field. You make your way, pattering across the somewhat slick grass. The rain is a little warmer than the frost that kept the grounds frozen as the morning came to. So, it's a little slick, but you make your way to the back of the building. You're still loosely out in the open, in a weird way, so you don't want to be out in the open for a long period of time. This isn't a safe place. You're currently, apparently made it to this side of the building unnoticed. But you don't want to stay here very long because you are visible to anyone who's on either side of the gate exterior.
Liam: I'm going straight to the cellar door.
Laura: Up against the wall of the building.
Liam: I give it a little (clunk) to see what I feel.
Matt: It is locked. It does gives resistance.
Liam: I get to work.
Marisha: Do your thing.
Laura: I feel like it's been a while since you've done this.
Liam: Did what?
Laura: Lockpicking.
Liam: I already did it earlier when you weren't here. 14, that's 27.
Matt: 27. You reach over, without even looking. You grab the lock; you're familiar with this kind of lock. (clicking) You take the lock off the chain. The chains fall loose against the opposite side of the, or the inside of the door. You pull it open. It's dark inside. You can see the dry stone steps that lead down below the building as rain starts darkening them with drops that are hitting them.
Liam: I lean my head in really fast and just see if I can hear anything, and roll a one.
Laura: Could I stealth in a couple of steps look around and see if there's anybody in there, or hear anything?
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: No, I said it's good! It's good! Let's go! Right? You agree. We're never wrong!
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. Listening to the inside. The smell's a little musty, like a cellar you'd expect. But a little bit of dust and untouched earth. There's nothing down there; no movement, no sound.
Laura: It's clear, let's go! Ish!
Matt: You all drop in. Darting into-- which is good, because you notice around the corner one of the giants is turning the corner. You all dive inside, close the cellar doors. Bringing you to the interior.
Laura: I wonder if they're going to notice that fence.
Sam: They might.
Matt: You hear the pattering of rain across the wooden doors of the cellar. You made your way down underneath. And it is pitch black. There is no light source down here.
Liam: I pull out my Flametongue Dagger.
Matt: Okay. A little bit of flame causes enough candlelight to see the surface. And it is a wine cellar.
Travis: I have Darkvision.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and use my flaming hands.
Matt: Okay, so with an instant of will, all of a sudden flames burst around-- [no audio]
Matt: -- is a small ladder in the corner that seems to lead up to a latched door that leads to the interior of the house.
Laura: I got up to it and listen.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I don't hear anything, you guys. I think it's fine!
Liam: My ears are bigger than yours. Let me have a listen. Get down.
Laura: Yeah! Your ears are huge compared to mine!
Liam: Definitely, look at them!
Matt: Your sister assures you she heard--
Laura: There's nothing there!
Liam: I don't hear anything, either. I think we should just bust in.
Sam: Okay!
Travis: Wait.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly!
Marisha: Wait, hang on! Grog just said wait!
Liam: I keep forgetting the rogue skill, so really I rolled a 20.
Sam: Wait, what? You rolled a three and it becomes a 20?!
Liam: For perception, I can no longer roll lower than ten, unless I roll a one. But if it's a two or nine, it's actually a ten for me.
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: Rogues are pretty cool.
Taliesin: That's crazy.
Laura: Yep, rogues are awesome.
Travis: Rogues are whatever.
Matt: So you put your ear up to it and listen carefully. And you hear pacing footsteps creaking against wood no more than maybe four feet away from you.
Liam: Is that one person?
Matt: One person stops and then moves again, then moves again almost like there's pacing, and you hear low voices. It's a conversation; there's two voices. You hear one voice very muffled, but it seems to be similar to the voice of the gentleman that came across you guys on the street that actually briefly talked to Percy the day before.
Liam: The old guy; the balding guy?
Matt: The balding guy with the long stringy gray hair.
Liam: He's just reporting in. He's his frigging money collector.
Matt: The other voice you don't recognize, and it's too muffled for you to make out anything. About four feet from you, not over the cellar, but off a ways to it. You're not certain where this doorway leads to, the level of muffling you can hear through the floor leads you to believe that they're not directly above you.
Liam: Not directly above. All right. There's nobody right above us, but there's people in the house.
Laura: They might be close.
Travis: Just to be clear--
Liam: No, they're on another floor or in another room.
Travis: Before we start  we're killing everything, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Do we want to send one person out sneaky and then have a code word like Cheeto if it all goes wrong?
Marisha: Last time we did that, it went really well.
Travis: Did we do that before?
Liam: No, we didn't send anyone, I just--
Taliesin: Let's just go one room at a time.
Sam: One room at a time? We have to get up through this latch and there's people right above us!
Liam: Scanlan, you or me? You want to go invisible, or do you want me to creep in?
Sam: I think you should have some fun, too. But before we do anything, do you want me to send a cloud up there of gross smoke to smoke out the area?
Liam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Taliesin: Let's not let them know we're here.
Laura: Wait, before we do this. Keyleth, can you maybe make the gate outside not look like it's all bent to shit?
Liam: Zombie guards aren't going to-- giants are stupid.
Sam: It'll be fine.
Liam: They're stupid. I mean, there are the guys out front.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: It's fine!
Sam: What could go wrong? This is a stealth mission. We'll be in and out of here in six minutes if we do this right. Let's go! Go, go!
Marisha: Wait, are you going in? Are you infiltrating?
Liam: I'll go up and see what I see. Just above us, not far away.
Marisha: I touch Vax's shoulder and I cast Enhance Ability and I'm going to give you dex saves-- what do you want?
Liam: I'm good on that.
Marisha: What do you want advantage on?
Liam: Not dexterity. Constitution. I'm feeling a little weak.
Marisha: All right. Constitution.
Matt: What's this for?
Marisha: Enhance Ability. So I think it's called Bear's Constitution or something weird.
Matt: Advantage on constitution checks. Those are different from saving throws.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Checks.
Matt: But it does give him 2d6 temporary hit points, but those do not stack with the current temporary hit points you have. Constitution would not be of much benefit to you.
Travis: We could just set a fire down here.
Marisha: Okay. Do you want dex or anything?
Liam: I'm pretty dex-y already.
Marisha: Instead, I say, good luck.
Sam: Bonne chance! Vive la résistance!
Travis: All right.
Liam: I'm going to check and see if it gives at all or if there's anything to it.
Matt: (creak) It gives.
Liam: It gives. All right, so I'm going to go up.
Travis: Invisible or not?
Liam: No, stealthing up. All right. So, okay, hold on, I get advantage. 23.
Laura: Wait, no. Plus ten because Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 33.
Matt: 33. You move it up, without a sound, dart up, catch yourself and lower it down carefully. Dark interior, you use your Flametongue Dagger to look inside. You are inside of a closet of some kind, a ten by five closet. There are coats and outfits around you. You can push them aside. This looks to be like a small storage room that has been repurposed as a closet of some kind.
Liam: I am listening intently and feeling through as many pockets as I can find around me.
Matt: Easily enough. As you put your ear to the door, they are talking immediately on the other side of this door. You are a room adjacent to it. You do manage to pocket from a few of the coats about 47 gold pieces in total.
Marisha: Who leaves that much in their coat pockets?
Travis: Dead people, that's who.
Liam: Can I make anything out through there?
Matt: You make out conversation. It seems to be between a voice you don't recognize and the gentleman earlier you met, basically saying, "With everything that's going on now, it's honestly very frustrating that these people wouldn't do their share of the bargain. I, myself, I've been doing my best to keep them in order, but at this point in time, I think we need to do another show of strength in order to keep them working as hard as we have been." Another voice calms him down and says, "Don't worry, don't worry. Keep it under control. At the very least, we should have to be ready, prepared. If what Lady Briarwood says, we should be having visitors any day now. And I would hate to be caught flat-footed. So, we're going to go ahead and gather our arms, going to make sure that we outfit the place the best we can. Traps, alarms, whatever is necessary to make sure that we are not caught off-guard." (laughter)
Marisha: This is about to be hilarious!
Matt: You guys came at just about the right time.
Liam: I'd like to-- everybody hold.
Sam: Hold?
Laura: Hold.
Liam: I just want to wait for one minute and see what progresses.
Matt: Okay. The conversation continues. The older gentleman begins talking about, "I don't like the idea of there being any sort of conflict on our home turf. I wish they would just meet them out, head them off, cut them off at the head. Why did we invite them in here? That seems to be a dangerous circumstance."
Liam: While they're talking I say  we've got two gentlemen up here.
Sam: Two gentlemen!
Laura: Okay. I start climbing the--
Liam: I think it's time to start killing.
Sam: Grog up first!
Marisha: Places everyone, places!
Laura: Grog up before me.
Travis: It's opening night and I'm so excited! (laughter)
Matt: Stealth checks all around.
Laura: Plus ten!
Liam: Send up the goliath.
Marisha: That's good!
Travis: 29!
Sam: 18.
Laura: Plus ten!
Sam: That was plus ten.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: 34.
Matt: All righty. You all slowly make your way up. There's not enough room for all of you inside this room, this storage space.
Laura: Grog first.
Matt: Grog, you go up, you push open the door into the next room and it is a-- for lack of a better term, a music room. There's a few couches around, there's a piano set up.
Liam: Oh, it went closet to music room?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh, we're opening the door?
Matt: You guys are opening a door to a room next to-- the wall you were listening to is the room next to you. This opens up into a room adjacent.
Marisha: A music room! How regal!
Matt: So, as you push out into the room, it's dark in here. The only light that's coming in is from the nearby window. A little bit of sun's coming through from the rainstorm. You can still hear the rain pattering on the window and the second floor above you, there is no sound from the rain hitting the roof from this distance.
Liam: Dart my eyes around. Is there anything that's useful in here?
Matt: Not particularly; it's mostly decorative. Few vases, some books on the shelf. There is a door that is partially open that leads into hallway. A hallway that seems to connect the two rooms.
Liam: Which way are the voices coming from?
Matt: Yeah. The door is the opposite of the window and the room that you're in is adjacent to the room that the voices are coming from. The closet is in between the two.
Liam: Oh, between the two. So it is out, door, hallway?
Matt: Yes, out, door, hallway, and then the room where the speaking is coming from.
Sam: Do you want me to create a diversion of some sort? No?
Laura: Just run in, surprise him.
Sam: Are we going to go around?
Liam: So, we're stealthing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I pull both of their hands and I say--
Sam: Who's they?
Liam: Grog and Keyleth. I start pulling them through-- that's all right. Out the door. Along the hallway towards the voices.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Matt, that's a lot of maps you have down there.
Laura: Really? Really?! I'm offended. And I'm hurt.
Marisha: I look back at Vex and I just go--
Laura: I give you the worst evil eye I've ever given anyone.
Liam: Too bad one's going that way and the other's going that way.
Sam: As they go, I quickly lock eyes with Grog and I give him a quick little inspiration. (singing) Blood, glorious blood! Grog's about to take some. Dead dudettes and dudes, Grog's about to make some! (laughter)
Matt: All right, so take a d10 inspiration die. So, the three of you move on ahead. The rest of you-- Trinket is unable to climb.
Sam: Oh! Can I? Trinket  stay. (laughter)
Laura: I smack the back of your head again. And it's hard because I'm angry right now.
Travis: Do you have any of your rings on? Turn them inside and (impact noise).
Marisha: It's the mom slap, exactly! It's the grandma backhand.
Matt: All right, the three of you stand at the double doors. You moved around to the hallway. Is there a change to this arrangement that you would like? You currently have Grog, Vax, and Keyleth at the front, and three of you in the back.
Laura: Yeah, I want to stealth in behind Grog after they go into the room.
Matt: All right, so there you are. I'll put you on the side of the door there. You hear the voices from the other side of the door conversing and talking back and forth. Scanlan, Percy.
Marisha: Oh my god. Someone say something cool!
Matt: What's the plan?
Liam: I put my hand up in the air.
Sam: de Rolos, roll out!
Liam: And I click my boots together. (click) Feel that adrenaline rush.
Travis: I rage.
Liam: And I kick the door as hard as I can and go right in!
Marisha: (scream and cheer)
Taliesin: (scream and cheer)
Sam: (scream and cheer)
Matt: (impact noise) The door swings open, both of them slamming into the sides of these two bookcases. Immediately, you see behind the desk here and standing in the center.
Liam: It's Kiefer Sutherland.
Matt: You see the older gentleman in these long robes immediately spin his head and see, essentially, a troupe of armed villagers, peasants, dirty faces come rushing in. all fucked up eyes and all. Rushing into the room. They both turn, looking completely caught off-guard by this. You do also see in the room, there are a few guards that are just waiting off to the side. There's a couch area, there's a fireplace.
Marisha: Of course. Damn guards.
Matt: You guys get a surprise round.
Marisha: That's right!
Matt: So, let's go ahead and roll initiative to get the order of things here.
Travis: Advantage on initiative because I have that thing.
Sam: Are you alert? Do you have Alert? Is that what it is?
Travis: I have Feral Instinct.
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Which I forget sometimes. That's better.
Sam: (sing with the battle music)
Laura: (sing with the battle music)
Matt: All right, so 25 to 20?
Travis: 20!
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Sam: 16!
Laura: Whoa! Look at you, Scanlan!
Sam: Better figure out what I'm going to do!
Matt: So, Scanlan is 16. 15 to ten?
Liam: 13.
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 13.
Liam: Half-elves!
Matt: Ten to five? Is that everyone?
Laura: That's all of us.
Matt: That's everyone, yeah.
Marisha: Bitches gonna die!
Matt: All righty! First, surprise round from all of you guys, catching them off-guard. Up first is Percy.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to pull into that empty-- Oh, I've got a button, don't I? I'm going to pull into that corner right there?
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: And I'm going to take two shots at that soldier in the corner, that guard.
Matt: Okay. The guards, you can see, are wearing dark studded leather armor, no cloaks. Both have rapiers or stilettos, daggers on their sides. They look at the sudden intrusion and begin going for their weapons. You caught them off guard.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit.
Taliesin: That's just a d10, where are my d10s? That's nine points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Another shot to him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That's a misfire. I'm going to do a quick repair. And that's fine.
Matt: Does the repair take an action?
Taliesin: No, it takes a--
Matt: Okay, so you're fine. It does not break. Cool. That's your turn. One shot off. The blast rings out. As you fire the pepperbox, it misfires, and you quickly throw one of your tools in the air, catch it, and with one swift movement you unblock the passageway, click it back up into its place. Out of the corner of your eye, you turn, and for the first time in five years, you see, standing behind the desk, Sir Kerrion Stonefell. Visually, nearly the same as the last day you saw, except maybe a bit of white on the sides of the hair. Armored with a nice set of relatively ornate leather armor, blue hues and blacks. The hair itself is this tousled brown. There's a boyish charisma to him, if he wasn't such an asshole. And the moment you see him, there's this boiling rage from within just to have that moment of sight.
Taliesin: If you're lucky, you die last.
Matt: There's a look of complete confusion, as he has no idea who any of you are. You look like paupers that literally burst into his office. That ends your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I hear him say that he has to die last, and in my rage, I race forward to that fuck in the middle of the room and I swing my Firebrand Warhammer at him twice!
Matt: All righty!
Travis: I would make to make this first one a new feat called Great Weapon Master.
Matt: All righty!
Sam: What does that do?
Matt: Minus five to hit.
Travis: I'm going to use my-- no, not on that one. That misses.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: A two! So that's 11. Yeah, that misses.
Matt: That definitely misses. As you swing in, (nervous yell) just ducks out of the way, and even though he's older, he reacted pretty quickly. Your weapon slams into the ground, splintering some of the wood. You peel back for a second attack.
Travis: That makes me even angrier. And now I'll use inspiration. 18... minus five, 23!
Matt: 23 does hit! Plus ten damage.
Travis: Okay. Plus eight is 13, 17, 27!
Matt: 27 points of damage, ooh!
Travis: Plus four for the fire damage, but still the 27 total.
Matt: So, as he ducks out of the way, you bring up the hammer a second time and (whack) smack him right square in the chest. (grunts) The wind escapes him for a moment and the flames lick across the front of his chest. He catches himself on the table between the sofa and chair behind him. Gets back on his feet. Looks to you for a second and pulls out two short swords.
Travis: That's the best thing you could have ever done.
Matt: "I don't know who you are, but you're going to regret this!"
Laura: What does Grog look like?
Matt: Grog looks like an oafish butcher. Tubby on the sides, an oldish, middle-aged looking man. Scruffy beard. Scanlan does his best on that one. Whatever other visual you want to--
Sam: Potbelly.
Matt: Huge potbelly. Grog, that ends your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. In theory, it is a surprise round. So you may have had advantage on that first strike, so go ahead and roll it.
Travis: (screams) 26. Minus five is 21.
Laura: 23. No, you're right.
Travis: Yeah. 21.
Matt: Roll damage again. We'll say this is an additional third strike in reaction to him pulling his blades out.
Travis: 32.
Sam: Jesus! God!
Matt: (wham) The hammer slams him a second time and he almost drops his weapons. The actual end table he's resting on shatters beneath him and he, (grunts) has to get back up onto his feet. Looking genuinely fearful now. That ends your turn.
Travis: You dropped your toothpicks.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay, so he's been attacking the old guy.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Those two flanking the big boss are just guards, right? They're just standard-issue guards?
Matt: Best you can tell, they're both in studded leather armor. They don't look like guards, like armored, they look like thugs that are essentially there to watch.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to run in the room.
Matt: About how far in?
Sam: Make a left. I'm sorry, turn right, away from the action. And then I'll look at the guard behind and to the right of the big guy.
Matt: That guy there.
Sam: The good guy-- the bad guy.
Marisha: You got it.
Matt: That guy there?
Sam: No, this guy over here. And I'll Dominate him.
Marisha: Is that also a guard? There are three guards?
Taliesin: There are three guards.
Matt: All right, you're going to attempt to Dominate Person.
Sam: Yes. I pull up my hand cone and I say, (singing) You're as cold as ice! Willing to sacrifice your boss! And so I tell him to kill his boss. (laughter)
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Wisdom. He rolled a 17. That's a fail.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: He is currently Dominated by Scanlan.
Travis: (singing) Cold as ice!
Matt: Good to know. So, as he pulls his heavy crossbow out, loads it, and aims it towards you, looks over his shoulder for a second, and trains it on his boss. Sir Kerrion looking confused by this whole circumstance.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: That ends your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, take your surprise rounds now.
Laura: Can I go first so I don't do any damage to you guys if you guys go in?
Marisha: I'm also probably going to do a ranged spell.
Liam: What are you guys talking about? Kill him!
Laura: I want to go in, peek my head in and shoot-- first, I'm going to shoot from my Longbow of Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to use-- it turns into three arrows for one of my attacks, so it's three more attacks, potentially?
Matt: Well, it's two additional attacks against the one arrow. So you'd get four attacks in one round, essentially.
Sam: Good god!
Laura: Okay! I'm going to do that! I'm going to attack him, the guy.
Matt: Which guy?
Laura: The bad guy.
Matt: There's two bad guys in there.
Laura: The one that's in charge. Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion? All right, go for it.
Laura: Yeah! 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Laura: Okay, so I make an attack for all three arrows.
Matt: Correct. That was one of them. You fire it, it splits into three along the way, and you roll for each attack on each arrow.
Laura: Oh, that one doesn't hit. Well, probably not. 13?
Matt: No.
Laura: 18?
Matt: 18 unfortunately does not hit, either.
Laura: Jeez Louise, what a waste of a storm arrow.
Matt: And you still get a fourth attack with your second--
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Hunter's Mark?
Laura: That was the wrong thing. I can't; I'm going to Hunter's Mark him after this first one because it's a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Laura: What am I doing? 14, 15, 16, and then plus another d6, so it's basically like Hunter's Mark, right?
Travis: Nobody knows what you're doing. (laughter)
Matt: So the first arrow does an additional lightning damage.
Laura: 19 is the first one. And then I attack again. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him now. Can I do that?
Matt: You haven't used your bonus action, so yes you can. Two eyes going all--
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29 does hit, yes.
Laura: I'm so confused right now.
Liam: Us, too.
Laura: I know. 14 on the second one.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. So your arrows split, two of them embedding into the actual desk itself and exploding with a burst of electricity. A third one strikes him in the chest and you can see it stick in the armor and (boof) jolt him for a second. He backs up a little bit, catching himself on the edge of the desk as the final arrow comes and strikes him in the shoulder. He cuts off the shaft of the arrow as it hits (grunts) out of anger and frustration.
Laura: I totally shit the bed on that one, guys, and I apologize. I had things I wanted to do.
Sam: After she does that, I say  that was my grandma! (laughter)
Laura: That's right, boy!
Matt: This little boy.
Travis: Adding to the confusion.
Matt: Do you want to move at all? You would've had to move into the room to do that shot because you were outside in the hallway.
Laura: Huh?
Matt: You were in the hallway when that happened, so I'd say you'd have to be in the room to shoot them. Where would you want to be?
Laura: Oh, just right inside the door.
Matt: Right there in the door?
Marisha: What kind of armor is Sir Kerrion wearing?
Matt: Best you can tell, it looks like a very high quality studded leather.
Marisha: Studded leather?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can I say I peeked in to shoot and then went back around the side of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Keyleth, Vax.
Liam: Is it up to us?
Matt: You guys are the last ones to go.
Liam: Go.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to cast Call Lightning. And I'm going to bring down a bolt. Here we go. This way. Right in between Sir Kerrion and this guard so they both have to save from it.
Sam: Take that, Sir Korea!
Marisha: Yeah!
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell.
Matt: As a thing of note, a storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that is ten feet tall with a 60-foot radius centered on a point you can see in the air.
Marisha: Oh, so it's going to--
Matt: The room won't fit it, unfortunately.
Marisha: The room won't fit my storm cloud?
Taliesin: That sounds like a great song.
Matt: It says if you're in a room that can't accommodate the cloud, it can't appear.
Marisha: Pooper muffin. Okay. Well, then.
Matt: If you want to consider your next move, Vax can go.
Marisha: Yeah, go Vax.
Liam: I am running straight towards what's-his-name, Kerrion? Is at the desk, so I just run right towards the desk, I step against the desk, leap up in the air and go (stabbing sound) into his shoulders.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah, no, I'm on the desk in front of him, going for his chest.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First, and I get advantage on everything is a-- It's a 30! And this is surprise attack, so it's a critical hit plus the sneak attack damage. This guy is going down! One plus seven is eight-- what gets doubled?
Matt: Just the dice.
Liam: Just the dice? But not the sneak attack damage?
Matt: No, the sneak attack damage, as well, but just the modifiers don't get doubled.
Liam: Okay. So that was-- okay, two plus seven is nine. Nine, ten, 11, 12, 18, 23, 29, 33, 66 for the first attack, darling.
Sam: 66?!
Liam: 66! Here comes the second dagger into him at advantage.
Marisha: 66?!
Matt: Surprise rounds.
Liam: Is 28, so that obviously hits. And that is seven. And then the third dagger comes down. Is 29, and that also hits. So I've shanked his ass, that's an eight. (stabbing noises)
Sam: That's 15, is 70-- is 81.
Matt: Yep. 81 points of damage in one round of combat. As you land on the desk, your daggers bypass the armor and they find their way through the top of the armor and sink past the clavicles into the deep portion of the chest. He (choking noise) from the impact and you hear him choke and blood splatters up from his throat. He reaches up and grabs your hands and lifts them off out of the wound. You see a gout of blood pour from the wound as you reach back and stab him a third time with the dagger as you catch yourself on the desk. He reaches up and kicks you, forcing you to get back on your feet with your daggers at the ready. The blood's beginning to pour. It's not a mortal wound, but it's looking really bad for him. He's not on death's door, but that definitely took him down a few pegs.
Liam: I give him a Vex wink.
Matt: (laughs) He looks at you and growls. Draws two rapiers from his side.
Travis: Two rapiers?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: He draws two rapiers? Do we get any indication by what we just saw if he might be a vampire or something?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: I can make an insight check? Ooh, yeah! 27.
Matt: 27. Nothing yet has given away any sort of essence of that. He doesn't look particularly pale.
Taliesin: He's also aged. He's a bit peppered.
Marisha: Yeah, he has aged.
Matt: He definitely looks wounded and unhappy.
Liam: Can I ask a technical question?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: According to Assassinate, any hit I score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit. Any hit. So are the two subsequent attacks--
Matt: After the first hit--
Liam: That's sneak attack. This says, "in addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit."
Matt: Right. Okay.
Sam: Any? He wouldn't be surprised after the first one.
Matt: I'm usually under the impression that after the first hit, they're no longer surprised. They know you're there.
Liam: Okay. Okay. Got it.
Travis: (grunts) Ow! (grunts) Ow?!
Liam: Well, I thought they were like 0.3 seconds apart, so I thought it was so fast.
Matt: That's true. I'll allow it.
Travis: Oh!
Taliesin: What?!
Travis: Double what?
Liam: Double the last two attacks. Which were much less.
Sam: It was 15, so it becomes 30.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, he's not happy. Really not happy. Okay. All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: All right, I'm going to do some fun shit. So seeing Vax go up and get next to Lord Kerrion or whatever the shit his name is. I'm going to go and turn into a dire wolf this time. Mixing it up from Minxie.
Taliesin: That's like a normal wolf.
Marisha: But slightly bigger.
Taliesin: But dire.
Marisha: But dire. It's white, a wintery wolf from the mountains that I'm from.
Matt: You are now filling up the entirety of the double-door frame right now.
Marisha: I'm going to rush and use my pack tactics and flank Lord Kerrion.
Matt: At your size, you can't quite get to him, unfortunately. You can try and move around this way, maybe. You will probably take an attack of opportunity from this guy, but you can try and move around.
Marisha: Oh, from a random shithead? Yeah, let's do it.
Matt: What's your movement?
Marisha: 50 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that. You move around and you get over there.
Marisha: Is that flanking?
Matt: It's not flanking, no. Yeah, it's not flanking per se. I mean, you're adjacent to him. You'd have to be on opposite sides to flank.
Marisha: I know, that's what I was trying to get. All right. Well, then, since Vax has that guy, I'll go for this guy. Take him out.
Matt: Okay. So you move into that guy there.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: That is the most peasant-looking direwolf ever.
Matt: Yeah, this little peasant girl just went (growls).
Marisha: Ooh, that was a 19 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Marisha: Okay, 2d6 plus three. That's not great, four, five, six, seven, eight piercing damage, and then do I also-- oh, and he has to make a DC 13 strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
Matt: He rolled a 12.
Marisha: (cheers) So he's down.
Matt: He's knocked prone. How much damage was it?
Marisha: Not a lot. What did I say, six?
Matt: Six points of piercing damage?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: He's knocked prone. (impact sound) Falls on the ground.
Marisha: Do I get my fiery stuff for that?
Matt: What attack was it? Was it bite?
Marisha: Bite.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. Okay, he's down.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All right. That ends the surprise round. Now we're at the top again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take one step forward. I'm going to shoot that guard once, one more time.
Matt: The one over here?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Fuck it, I'm going to try sharpshooter. And that's 14, 15, 21 to hit?
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: That'll do 19 points of damage. Actually, that's more than 19 points, because it's a fire shot, so 19 plus two, so 21 points, with two points of fire damage in there.
Matt: 21 points of damage. All right, (gunshot sound) you fire. There's a burst of flame that gouts out the side of the pepperbox, (impact sound) blasting into the chest of the guard off to the side. He's thrown against the wall from the sheer force of it. Reaches down and grabs his chest and looks at it, and you can see there's this red crimson across his hand, as you've actually blown a piece of his leather armor open and you can see the wound in his chest. There's a little bit of blood trickling out of his mouth, and he looks angry at you.
Taliesin: I'm shooting him again. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's 17.
Matt: 17 hits.
Marisha: Nice.
Taliesin: That's 21 points of damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage, nice. (gunshot) You blast him, this time on the other side of the shoulder, you can see now this armor is now torn open exposing the wound here and his arm's now hanging to one side. He's (grunts). He's looking in severe pain and barely hanging on at this point.
Taliesin: Fall, damn it. Shooting him again.
Marisha: Kill him!
Taliesin: That's 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit. It hits.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Eight points of damage. All right, this is the final one as he's looking at himself; he's like (pained noises), angrily looks at you, picks his crossbow up and aims it at you. Before he gets a chance to, you aim your third shot, (gunshot) firing, hitting him right in the center of the head, (impact noise) blasting out part of his face, his body spins, and then he falls over into the plant in the corner, slumped over it there.
Taliesin: I finish walking almost into the corner over there, right next to him, about there. Spend an action surge, taking three more shots at Kerrion.
Sam: Whoa.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Damn.
Taliesin: This is a sharpshooter round.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 19, 26 to hit.
Matt: 26 hits.
Marisha: Do you crit on a 19?
Taliesin: I don't crit on a 19.
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Oh, that'll do. 24 points of damage plus a point of ice damage. So, 25 points of damage.
Matt: Plus an additional d6 points of damage for that.
Taliesin: Yay! Because he's an asshole. That's six more points of damage.
Matt: So, as you go around and fire from the barrel, the shot fires out. And as you recoil you guys, for those who are noticing off to the side, this dark smoke's beginning to slowly pour out of Percy's body, out of his eyes and his ears and the hand on the gun. There's black smoke beginning to emit from his body and beginning to envelop the gun arm.
Sam: What?
Marisha: We all see this?
Matt: For those who are paying attention, which right now would be pretty much just Scanlan and Vex.
Sam: You're weird.
Taliesin: So you don't see shit. Shut up.
Marisha: I'm not crazy! No, and I'm at this guy's throat.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a quick reload, and I'm going to fire again, with Sharpshooter, and I'm going to do a head shot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So, I'm going to attempt to make him have issues doing things. Natural 20. (cheering)
Travis: The golden snitch strikes again!
Marisha: Yeah, it did! I can see it from here!
Matt: Damn!
Taliesin: I swear it's-- yeah.
Matt: With the additional d6, by the way.
Taliesin: What?
Matt: With the additional d6.
Taliesin: Does the d6 double or does it not double?
Matt: All dice rolled double. Then add the modifier.
Taliesin: This is going to be angry.
Marisha: Yeah it is!
Liam: Gunslinger warlock.
Taliesin: So.
Marisha: That's pretty "grood."
Taliesin: 42 points of damage. Of fire damage. 42 points, and that's with 5 points of fire damage. 42 points.
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) The first blast hits and you can see the cloak is blown off the shoulder and set aflame and actually burns to cinders in the corner. Sir Kerrion looks down and is like (grunts), and is looking very, very curiously. The second shot rings out (gunshot), and at this point now the smoke is wreathing your entire arm, the gun isn't even visible, it's just this giant column of smoke. (gunshot) The second shot rings out, this time hitting him in the side of the neck and the shoulder, blowing a chunk off of it so part of the bone is now sticking out it's like (noise of pain). He reaches back with his arm and is like with the rapier up, clutching it for a second and leans over and looks back over and is (pained panting) "Ripley."
Taliesin: Just as an action, as a bonus action, I'm going to remove my hat, and I'm just going to say: Drop it.
Sam: Will this take an action?
Matt: To drop the spell? You can do it on your turn.
Taliesin: On your turn, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I think that's next.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: He thinks it's Ripley. He thinks it's Ripley with the gun! Ripley's building guns!
Laura: It's Ripley that's doing the guns!
Marisha: Fucking Ripley!
Matt: So. That finishes Percy's turn. It is now Sir Kerrion Stonefell's turn. Kerrion's going to use a bonus action to use Second Wind.
Sam: Oh no, that's some sort of healing thing isn't it?
Taliesin: That's healing. It's not much healing.
Marisha: Wait, who's doing what?
Sam: He has 6,000 health points.
Marisha: Kerrion's healing? Is it a regeneration thing or is he casting a spell?
Taliesin: No, it's a fighter action.
Matt: And that was with the head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, it was with a head shot. So that means he has disadvantage on attacks for one round.
Matt: And deals damage, right?
Taliesin: And deals damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm a good boy.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is going to, in the circumstance, is going to move this way just to hide alongside Vax, and since you're on top-- his both rapiers out, and you just jammed your daggers in, is going to do a flurry of four strikes against you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: With disadvantage on all the attacks.
Travis: His clavicles sticking out of his shoulders.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I'll use Uncanny Dodge for the first one that hits.
Matt: 16, the first attack?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right. Rolled a one on the second. That is a 21 on the third attack. And, no, that's a 14 on the fourth attack. That disadvantage just-- swinging wide, gets one hit on you.
Travis: Get that clavicle; be working.
Liam: Yeah, Uncanny Dodge on that attack.
Matt: That is eight points of piercing damage against you.
Liam: So, four.
Sam: Ooh! That's nothing!
Liam: That's nothing.
Matt: That finishes Sir Kerrion. Sir Kerrion is now going to--
Sam: Turn invisible.
Matt: He's actually going to take a step back towards the wall. You get an attack of opportunity.
Liam: All right. I throw a dagger in his face.
Matt: All right.
Liam: That is a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That is eight points of damage.
Matt: All righty. Steps back and slams his fist against the wall (thudding).
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Wait, who did that?
Laura: Kerrion.
Travis: Kerrion.
Laura: He's calling in backup.
Marisha: Wait, he's calling in backup? Shit.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, that ends Kerrion's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I keep smashing shithead that's in front of me!
Matt: Okay, go for it!
Travis: That's 24. These are just regular.
Matt: Yeah, 24 hits.
Travis: Oh, I should roll the other one first. Again, 24.
Matt: 24 hits. Are you going into a frenzied rage?
Travis: Regular rage. 23 on the first one.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And 12 on the second.
Matt: Gotcha. (whack) Is this with the fire damage as well from the hammer?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yeah. so the hammer strikes across the back, the broadside of his shoulders and back. (grunts) Looks up at you and looks over at Sir Kerrion being annihilated behind the desk and is trying to nervously gauge his circumstance. Second strike smacks him upside his body and he's like (panting) and he's trying to take in the surroundings and figure out a plan. All right, are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: It is now Master Vouk's turn.
Sam: Who?
Matt: You have not heard his name yet, but it's his turn.
Travis: The guy I've been smacking.
Taliesin: Mr. Rogaine.
Laura: I'm picturing him as what's-his-name in--
Taliesin: From Harry Potter.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Yeah. I know, me too.
Travis: Mr. Filch?
Taliesin: Filch. Filch on steroids.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's going to use a-- okay. He's going to use a bonus action to disengage from you. He's going to back away just one step that way. Use his action to--
Laura: He has magic?!
Marisha: Oh, he's going to Dimension Door out.
Laura: But Mr. Filch doesn't have magic.
Travis: Yeah, he's a squib!
Laura: He's a squib! Squibs can't do magic.
Travis: He knows this. He's making origami.
Taliesin: Don't you get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Actually, instead, he's not going to use bonus action to disengage, he's going to use a bonus action to use Misty Step. Vanishes, reappears over by the wall. Uses the action to cast a level three Invisibility on both him and Sir Kerrion Stonefell. So they are both considered invisible at the moment.
Travis: With the Missy Elliot step, I don't get an attack?
Matt: Not from that, unfortunately; it's an immediate teleport. So he just vanishes from in front of you.
Travis: What the fuck?!
Matt: We'll say, for the purposes of this, they are both currently invisible. And that's going to end--
Taliesin: That soldier hasn't attacked yet, either.
Matt: Correct, his turn hasn't come up yet. Now it becomes Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Oh. Well, I can't see anyone who's alive who I haven't Dominated already, except for the guy under the dire wolf. I will remind all my fellows to keep one alive to spread our terrorist message and I will run out to the hallway and say, Vex, get inside. Because I know reinforcements are coming, I cast Stinking Cloud out into the hallways.
Matt: Okay. Stinking Cloud appears. What's the radius on that?
Sam: (singing) Stinking Cloud!
Matt: I think it's a 20-foot radius, isn't it?
Sam: It says 90-feet range, let's see here. 20-foot radius.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you just filled this entire hallway.
Sam: Yeah. Will it seep into the room as well?
Matt: You can keep it localized to that area, you'll just be in your own cloud.
Sam: Oh. Well, can I stop just short of the door?
Matt: You stop just short of the door and fill this whole area with a Stinking Cloud.
Sam: Sorry, Vex.
Taliesin: You can hold that action until she comes into the room.
Sam: Okay, I will hold that until she comes in the room.
Matt: Okay. So Stinking Cloud is not yet up. Okay.
Sam: Laura's next, I believe.
Matt: So, next round. You are up next.
Sam: And I will inspire her, as well.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Do you want a d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. (singing) Vex be nimble, Vex be quick! Vex jump under limbo stick! Now you don't know how you're going to react because Vex has an attack! Oi!
Travis: Amazing! How?! God! I don't get it!
Matt: You take your d10 inspiration. Confused, but accept the inspiration. A chuckle in the middle of a hearty battle is always worth a little inspiration.
Laura: All right, so I go in the room.
Matt: You step into the room. At that point, you trigger your action to release the Stinking Cloud. You want to stay there? You're just outside of the radius.
Laura: Yeah, I stay in the doorway. Actually no, I back-- well.
Matt: What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, I'm staying right there. I can't see; is there a soldier right there next to the invisible guys, or is it just the invisible guys?
Travis: On that wall, it's soldier being eaten by Keyleth, and then invisible.
Sam: There two invisibles, and then another soldier who I have already Dominated. He still hasn't had a turn?!
Matt: Surprise round, and they're lowest on the initiative count.
Laura: Actually, I'm going to do Lightning Arrow because that gets everything within ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on the soldier on the ground.
Matt: Which one?
Travis: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Laura: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Matt: I will say you don't really have visual on him from that position.
Laura: Can I move to a place where I get it?
Liam: Do a bank shot off the ceiling.
Matt: Now you can see, yeah.
Laura: Awesome. Let's do it from there.
Matt: Okay, go for it. You have advantage on the attack roll because he is prone.
Laura: Nice. 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 damage to him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then anything within ten feet has to make a dex save.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that including your brother?
Laura: Yeah, that's everything within ten feet.
Travis: It's also including invisible guys.
Matt: If it's ten feet, he's not there. It'd just be Keyleth and Sir Kerrion.
Marisha: 22. 21!
Matt: Makes it, 21, actually, exactly.
Laura: 19 to little prone soldier.
Matt: Okay, 19. As it snaps and it bursts, the electricity shockwaves out, he shakes and on the ground takes in the effect. The blast seems to-- is it half damage if they make the save?
Laura: To the little prone guy?
Matt: No, it's to anybody within radius.
Laura: Anybody within radius takes 1d8 if they make the save and then 2d8 if they fail.
Matt: Okay, so roll 1d8.
Laura: One.
Matt: Okay. So one damage to you, and one damage to Sir Kerrion.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: You see a spark of energy around the invisible form as it wavers in place.
Travis: That's good; at least he (electricity noise) around some.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Vax?
Liam: I saw that spark in the air and I start knifing right into it.
Matt: All right. Was that the last thing you wanted to do with your turn?
Laura: Yeah. Does the Hunter's Mark damage him, the invisible guy, still, if he gets hit with anything? Or is it just if I attack him with an arrow?
Matt: I think if you attack him. That was more of the burst in the vicinity.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So, hearing him go (grunts) and seeing a spark right in front of me, I start knifing at that point.
Matt: All right. At disadvantage on all the attacks.
Liam: Disadvantage? But I get advantage, so it cancels out.
Matt: Why do you get advantage?
Liam: Oh, no, I don't. I'm sorry.
Matt: Disadvantage on weapon strikes because he's invisible.
Liam: The first one misses. That was it. So, the first two were terrible. That's terrible. That's also terrible. I whiff. I just (whooshing).
Matt: Yeah, you're swinging in the area, and you can't get blades to find any of his physical person. You're striking and arcing across the wooden wall behind him, causing these giant gashes. All right, that ends your turn.
Liam: Still bleeding!
Matt: Unless you want to stay where you are right there?
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stay there.
Matt: You probably would've had to move up there to attack him. Oh, you're just throwing the daggers, right?
Liam: I back up. Is Keyleth on the desk?
Sam: No, she's next to the desk.
Liam: And I'm on the desk? No, I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Okay, so you're just throwing the daggers from the desk? Okay, that ends your turn. Now, Keyleth.
Marisha: Looking up and noticing that Sir Kerrion is gone and Vax is blindly stabbing into the distance, I'm going to drop my wolf form and cast Faerie Fire in that radius.
Matt: Drop your wolf form.
Marisha: 20-foot cube.
Sam: Mark that shit.
Marisha: Right here.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Realizing my party members are clearly stabbing at something.
Taliesin: I like it when he has to go to the book. Makes me feel like there's, perhaps, things he doesn't know.
Sam: Faerie Fire is an underused thing. It's really cool.
Matt: Yeah, so both of their forms all of a sudden are outlined by this sparking purple halo that shows you directly where they are.
Sam: Yes!
Matt: All right. So that's your turn? You going to move anywhere?
Marisha: I'll back up a tidbit.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Just back up a smidge.
Matt: Okay, as you back up an invisible form that just got revealed swings out at you with a rapier, an attack of opportunity.
Marisha: Yeah, sure, whatever.
Taliesin: But, he's--
Matt: At disadvantage on the attack. He has advantage on her because he's-- although--
Marisha: I can see him now.
Matt: You can see him, that's true.
Laura: This is confusing!
Matt: Faerie Fire kind of made this weird.
Travis: To the books again!
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Faerie Fire always makes it weird.
Taliesin: Ain't it the truth? Man, that Faerie Fire.
Matt: Just a minute, folks. Lot of overlapping effects, here, because everyone has magic.
Sam: Now's a good time to go to the store and check out Critical Role t-shirt--
Matt: Yeah, it doesn't benefit from Invisible. It's at disadvantage. It has disadvantage on the attack. That is--
Sam: Brand new t-shirt for sale, guys.
Matt: And 15.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Yeah, so (whoosh) as you back up. All right. That ends your turn. Now, this guard gets up, (grunts) gets his crossbow, aims it up and, looking around the room, aims it, this would be-- seeing his friend turn on his boss briefly after you shouted that song at him, is going to turn the crossbow on you.
Sam: On me?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That's going to be a 16 to hit?
Sam: I don't even know any more. No one's attacked me in a while.
Taliesin: It's your AC.
Sam: It's 17.
Matt: 17!
Sam: Well, it's 15 plus two because I've got some thing on.
Marisha: You've got the amulet on.
Matt: All right. So, as it comes towards you, you just duck out of the way and it passes and snags into the wall behind you (arrow landing sound). No hit. The thug is then going to drop the crossbow on the ground and rushing up, pull out a mace that was hanging from the side of its belt and engage you right there.
Travis: I thought he was coming for me.
Sam: I thought so, too. That would have been good!
Matt: This guy is going to attempt to make two attacks against Master Vouk Strono. Has advantage on them because Faerie Fire. That hits. And, two attacks with a mace. That is 18. Yeah, hits with both. (whack whack) With the mace both times.
Marisha: Is that the guy who you charmed? Awesome.
Taliesin: Nice.
Sam: Wait. Who's this?
Liam: The guy you charmed.
Sam: That's not my guy, Matt.
Matt: That guy?
Sam: Oh, that guy there is, yeah. Oh wait, he's attacking my guy?
Matt: No, he's attacking the guy that's invisible. (laughter)
Matt: Doing a total of 16 damage with his mace. (whack whack) Bludgeoning. He's now going to try and make the saving throw to shrug it. What's the DC on that?
Sam: On my spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. Yeah, he does not make it. Still under control. That ends the thugs' turn. Top of the round. Percy, you're up!
Marisha: Go Percy, go Percy, go!
Taliesin: Sharpshooter against Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion, okay.
Taliesin: Do I have advantage on that because of Faerie Fire?
Matt: It does not benefit from invisibility and you have advantage. Yes, you do. Vox Machina: broken. (laughter)
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Marisha: That was with advantage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Pooper.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 does hit.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15. (gunshot) You see one blast hits the wall and causes part of the wood to splinter outward. The second shot impacts the partially invisible form. You can see a splash of blood across the desk in front. Partially spattering across Vax and one of his guards.
Taliesin: Third shot with ice. No sharpshooter. Natural 20!
Travis: What?!
Marisha: Percy rolls!
Travis: What the hell?!
Taliesin: It's making up for my gun failing four times.
Travis: Whatever, you possessed Voldemort.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: (laughing) Smoke arm.
Taliesin: Six, 16, 25, 31 points of damage. 31 points of damage with four points of that being ice damage.
Matt: So, Percy  how do you want to do this?
Travis: He said that weird.
Marisha: This against Kerrion, right?
Matt: This is against Sir Kerrion.
Sam: Wow! How do you want to do this? That's the logo that's on the shirt that's for sale right now.
Taliesin: Oh, stop it.
Travis: Is this the name on one of the barrels?
Matt: Percy.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this!
Sam: Too late.
Matt: Currently visible, at your disposal, Sir Kerrion. You have enough of a shot to finish him off. The smoke is pushing you, "Vengeance. Vengeance. Vengeance." Repeatedly echoing in the back of your mind. How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I'm going to put on the mask, since he still doesn't know who I am.
Matt: Okay. You pull the mask down, the bird-beaked element to the mask now wreathed in smoke, resembling, very closely, the entity that made the original bargain with you.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to him. Yeah, there's no way to drop the illusion. That's such a damn shame.
Sam: Oh wait, you told me to!
Taliesin: I did.
Sam: I could have; I didn't. Fuck! (laughs)
Marisha: Could you do it now, for flavor?
Taliesin: That's fine. The mask will do. I'm going to take one last shot. I'm going to look right at him, I'm going to catch his eye. This is for the de Rolos. And let me say: you were the one I was least looking forward to.
Travis: That's some cold shit!
Matt: With that, the little bit of wreathed magical energy you can barely make out an expression of horror on the face before the resounding blast sound rocks the room. The actual bullet itself a trail of black smoke behind it as it impacts the front of Sir Kerrion's face. The entirety of his head caving inward as the back splatters across the scarred wooden wall behind him. The body slumps to the ground immediately. You guys all glance over at Percy. You don't even see Percy, you just see a humanoid entity made of black swirling smoke energy with the peaked beak of his mask poking through.
Marisha: Not 100% sure what's going on. Can I take my Faerie Fire concentration that I still have up and move it over top of the black smoke figure?
Matt: Can you move a Faerie Fire?
Marisha: I don't know; can I move a Faerie Fire?
Matt: I think when you use it, it just stays where it was. Could be wrong, but I'm pretty sure that's how it works.
Marisha: 20 feet; is he in it, perchance?
Matt: From there, it's 20 foot, no. Not from where you placed it right on him, unfortunately. That's okay. Yeah, no, it just happens once.
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: With that, you recoil from it and the voice echoes in the back of your head, going "Yes."
Taliesin: I'm going to drop the gun.
Matt: You drop it (impact sound).
Taliesin: Remove my mask. Run to find something metal, something sharp, anywhere on the table. And just start scratching off the name on the gun. I'm just going to go to a corner and just start scratching the name off.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He's disturbed.
Matt: Okay, that's your turn.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is gone. Annihilated. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Percy's having all the fun. And I start smashing that fuck that's looking at Vax.
Matt: Right there, okay. So you move up to him, (whoosh) swinging the hammer wide.
Travis: Might as well make these great weapon master strikes, just for fucking why not. That's a 15.
Matt: 15 just hits.
Travis: Yeah, that's awesome. And the second one-- Yeah, that's pretty good. 28 minus five. 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: Okay. 15. 20 is the first one, with the fire damage. Oh!
Laura: Actually that's 30.
Travis: Yeah, 30 is the first one. Plus 10. And 13, 16, 26 for the second one.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, you can see, it's pulled out its mace and is swinging it in a wide arc towards Vax. As soon as you rush up, it looks to you out of the corner of the eye, drops the mace and before the mace can hit the ground, your hammer actually swings around, hits the mace, and then both your hammer and the mace slam into the side of his head, pushing him down onto the desk. Stunned, blood spatters across the wood as he's (gasping) twitching on the table, already done. And you swing the hammer, lift it up, (impact sound), like Gallagher performance, the head just (explosion noise). (groaning)
Laura: This is disgusting.
Liam: Happy Halloween, folks.
Travis: Great weapon master.
Matt: Vouk is currently looking very--
Sam: He's Vouk-ed.
Matt: Yeah, he's Vouk-ed. All right. Is going to cast Haste on himself and is going to run, dropping invisibility, and leaping through that window.
Laura: Doesn't the guard get a--
Matt: The guard gets an attack of opportunity, and Keyleth does. The guard has advantage. A three. No, the guard misses, with a mace.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Laura: Yeah! With your fire hands?
Marisha: No, it's with my staff, I'm assuming, right? Unless I wanted to deck him in the face.
Matt: No, this would be with your staff.
Marisha: This is with my staff, okay.
Matt: You just (whack).
Marisha: So it's five, so that's 11. I don't attack a lot. 13 damage.
Matt: 13 damage?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. As you smack him at that point--
Marisha: I just clothesline him. I see him running, I'm like (grunts).
Matt: It brings him exactly to zero. (cheering)
Matt: You whack him right in the face, knocking the teeth out, and he just falls to the ground. Unconscious and bleeding.
Sam: Good, yes, keep him alive.
Matt: All right. That ends his turn (laughs). Wow. Man. Surprise rounds, man. You guys are nasty. All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan's up?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: All right. I go run up to the guard I have dominated, and I just-- Is he still dominated, can I change the domination?
Matt: I mean, you can cancel it, but otherwise he's just--
Sam: I mean, can I change it from "kill your boss" to--
Travis: "Kill yourself."
Sam: To "give up"?
Matt: Yeah, you can tell him. You can't tell him to attack himself.
Sam: No, I will tell him--
Taliesin: You-- Oh, go ahead.
Sam: No, what?
Taliesin: I was going to say, tell him to go tell anybody else in the house everything's fine.
Sam: Oh. Ooh! That's good.
Travis: Yeah, because we should kill the more powerful guy.
Taliesin: Tell him that everything's fine.
Sam: Okay. You there, guard! Go tell everyone that everything's fine. Go into that Stinking Cloud out there and tell all your friends that everything's hunky-dory.
Matt: Technically, Stinking Cloud is a concentration spell.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: So if you were to maintain concentration on that, you would lose your Domination.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: So it's your call. Which one do you want to maintain?
Sam: The domination.
Matt: Okay. So the Stinking Cloud fades from the hallway.
Sam: Stinking Cloud is concentration?
Matt: I believe it is. Spells like that usually are, if it's to maintain--
Sam: It is! I never wrote down a C next to it.
Matt: This is where that circlet would come in handy.
Taliesin: Can I run over to Kerrion's body?
Matt: You will be able to shortly.
Sam: You mean the thing that Orion took from me? Yeah, the thing that I needed? Yeah.
Matt: It's all right. He's used it pretty well a couple of times.
Sam: Yes, so I tell him to go warn his friends-- not warn his friends. Tell his friends that everything's fine. All is good.
Matt: Cool. Good to know. That ends your turn. Is anyone going to take any specific actions?
Laura: I want to loot the bodies.
Taliesin: I'm running over to Kerrion and just going to rage loot him.
Sam: I'm going to go to the desk.
Matt: Okay. While you guys all do that, the guard leaves the room. You hear a few whispers in the hallway, a conversation with a person unseen.
Liam: I walk towards the door.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Sam: A giant attacks.
Matt: The conversation fades and the guard walks back, seemingly job done. Also is going to make a wisdom saving throw. That is a 17?
Sam: 19.
Matt: He remains dominated. You guys now-- For the moment, the threat seems to have subsided. At the moment. You're still in the house and there's still, apparently, things in the house. Whether it'd be guards or other individuals in the house that are on edge as they heard a series of gunshots ring out, screams, and other sorts of cacophony. The fact that this is even right now being handled is a very lucky series of rolls on his part.
Travis: I want it said that this one should die. He has magic. He's too strong. They could set better traps.
Sam: We can interrogate him, though. Get crucial information. He's an officer.
Taliesin: I can't talk yet.
Matt: So you're going through Sir Kerrion's body.
Taliesin: I'm taking his swords, and I'm going to use his sword to get that deep gouge into the gun.
Matt: He has two rapiers, so it's like holding a stiletto.
Taliesin: And anything he has on his body, I'm taking it.
Matt: He has a potion of greater healing on him. Never got round to actually using it.
Taliesin: And once there's a good gash in the name, I'm going to sit down and breathe.
Matt: Okay. As you finish gashing the name out on the side of the metal and start breathing, you can see the name itself begin to glow with a slight dull purple glow and burn away from the metal, leaving just the scratch marks. From his body, you have two rapiers, regular rapiers, studded leather armor that is enchanted with a plus one bonus, and that potion of greater healing. So you can mark those down.
Laura: I'm keeping a very strong eye on Percy right now.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Anything on the desk, papers of any sort?
Matt: Going through the desk? Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: It's a lot. Yeah, it's tons. It's 27.
Matt: Yeah. You find wax seals, you find parchment, you find pocket change, about six or seven gold pieces just left in there. On himself though, on his actual person, on Sir Kerrion's body, you find about 320 gold pieces as his own personal fund. Looking through the desk, you find mentions of the bridge plan to move between the two continents. To go across the channel to Wildmount. Basically plans, the discussion, a lot of what they were planning to do with Emon.
Marisha: Someone write that down.
Sam: I got it.
Matt: You also find a small notebook that just has some hand notes of his.
Sam: I'll take it.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down.
Travis: I start tying up unconscious guy on the floor.
Matt: He's currently-- He's got to zero hit points, he's bleeding out.
Marisha: What about the dominated guy? He's about to save from it. Domination, he can save from it at any second.
Travis: No, I know. I thought we wanted to interrogate--
Matt: Which he does not; he's still dominated.
Liam: I take a rag out of my pocket and I roll it up and I shove it into Kerrion's mouth while Grog is tying him up.
Taliesin: Kerrion's dead.
Liam: I thought he was out.
Sam: Vouk's.
Travis: The balding guy.
Liam: Balding. All right.
Travis: We tie him up, he shoves a rag in his mouth, I put one hand on the top of his head and the other hand under his chin. Should we bring him back just a little so we can ask him some questions?
Marisha: Vouk?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, but what are we going to do about dominated guy? Can we tie him up, too?
Laura: Yeah, tell him to go sit in a corner, Scanlan.
Marisha: He could save from that any second. We need to like off him or something.
Taliesin: There'll be time for that.
Liam: I got it. Could you tell him to look in the corner?
Sam: Turn away, look in the corner, Blair Witch style. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, this is so wrong.
Matt: Doesn't make his save.
Laura: Oh, terrible.
Sam: Grog, do you want to?
Laura: No, this is so wrong.
Travis: What? We're asking questions. We got to bring him back, just a little bit.
Sam: Are you on Vouk's right? Or whatever-his-name?
Travis: We're on Vouk.
Liam: Can we put him to sleep, or anything short of me knocking him out?
Sam: I can put him to sleep.
Liam: Put him to sleep, then.
Sam: But I have to drop my thing first.
Laura: Just knock him out.
Liam: I'll do it. I'm really good at knocking people out.
Marisha: Just knock him out. Knowing what's coming, I'm going to Druidcraft some pretty kaleidoscope-y flowers in front of his face. Pretty image before you die.
Matt: All right. He seems momentarily confused before the blow of the-- Are you hitting him with the blade or pommel?
Liam: Oh, pommel.
Travis: Before we knock him out, should you make sure that whatever he tells people is truly fearsome? But not too descript about us?
Sam: Well, he already told his friends in the hallway--
Travis: That everything was fine.
Sam: That everything's fine. So now we're just knocking him out.
Marisha: While all this happens, I'm going over to baldy. Lord Vouk or Mister Vouk and pop a Cure Wounds potion into him. How far down is he? He was just at zero. I brought him to zero.
Matt: Yeah, he was unconscious and he was making his death saving throws. I was treating him for that circumstance. When you go straight to zero like that, you know--
Marisha: Yeah. All right, I'll pop a Cure Wounds into him.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The guy in the corner? Scanlan, could you go stand next to him and tell him a joke?
Marisha: I was giving him pretty flowers.
Liam: You're standing next to him?
Marisha: I gave him pretty flowers to look at.
Liam: You walked over and gave him pretty flowers?
Marisha: I Druidcrafted from a distance.
Travis: Are you standing next to him?
Sam: I walk next to him and sort of distract him with a little soft shoe tap.
Liam: Thank you. That's what I needed. I got an 18. Sorry, I got a 29. And that is eight plus 14, 22, six, seven, 32.
Matt: 32. He is (impact noise) from barely damaged to nothing. He goes immediately unconscious in the corner, face down, in the middle of a bookcase.
Marisha: I drop 18 points of healing into Vouk.
Matt: Okay. (gasps, chokes)
Travis: The rag's in his throat. You are going to listen very carefully as my friends ask you some questions. You'll shake your head yes or shake it no.
Laura: What are we going to ask him?
Sam: (laughs) Percy?
Taliesin: I'm not available right now.
Sam: All right.
Liam: All right.
Liam: Come on. Come with me.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Where are the Briarwoods?
Laura: Where are the Briarwoods?
Liam: You've got to do yes or no.
Laura: Are the Briarwoods--
Sam: -- in the palace?
Matt: (muffled moaning)
Liam: Yes or no.
Sam: Just nod or nod.
Laura: This is really smart. I feel good about this.
Travis: Should we take the rag out?
Laura: No.
Sam: He can do spells.
Liam: I just want to remind you that my friend over here can split you in half like an apple, right?
Travis: I nod his head yes.
Matt: (muffled murmur)
Liam: Have you seen the Briarwoods this week?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Liam: Do you like working for them?
Matt: (sounds uncertain)
Laura: Do they know we're here?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Are they in the palace?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: Sometimes.
Laura: Do you know where they are?
Matt: (negative grunt)
Liam: Do they have pointier teeth than most?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: (sounds sad)
Sam: This is mumblecore.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Is your life worth giving a little information?
Matt: (affirmative grunting)
Liam: We want to know how to get into the palace without a problem. Got any advice?
Matt: (eager affirmative grunting)
Liam: Now I just want to remind you. He can take your head off, your knees off, your cock off, anything, in half a second.
Travis: I just give a little squeeze.
Liam: I'm going to pull the cloth out.
Sam: I cast Blindness on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Don't know if he's blind.
Matt: Suddenly he goes (muffled panic noises).
Sam: Oh, he's blind. He's blind.
Liam: I give him a pat on the cheek.
Matt: (whimpers)
Laura: Oh, now I feel bad.
Liam: I'm a big fan of efficiency, so I'm going to pull this rag out and you've got about 30 seconds to start talking about something useful. Otherwise, my friend is going to make you about six inches shorter.
Travis: Yeah. I'm going to turn your head into a dreidel.
Liam: So we're going to start talking now, yes?
Matt: (grunts in agreement)
Liam: In three, two.
Matt: (gasping for breath) "Please don't kill me. I can show you a secret entrance into the castle. I know a way in."
Laura: It's not guarded?
Matt: "I don't think so. They've closed it off. If you can find a way through, they won't expect it."
Taliesin: Is it the one in the forest?
Matt: "There is one, yes, yes, in the forest. Look, I can bring you to their project room under the castle, what they're working on. Please don't kill me."
Laura: What is the project room?
Sam: Are they working on explosives?
Matt: "They've been-- They've been working on something. It's hard to describe. I've only been there once. It's beyond my interests, but it is part of the reason they even took this place."
Liam: Lord Briarwood is a vampire.
Matt: "Aye."
Liam: What the fuck is Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "She's powerful, I'll give you that. She scares me more than the two of them."
Laura: Is it hard to talk with no teeth?
Matt: "It's more difficult than expected, aye."
Travis: I start to tilt his head and I'm like showing us won't work, we need a location.
Matt: "It's under the castle. It's under the city. All the caverns are there. I can show you how to get there, I've been there. They've taken me."
Laura: Do you know what they've done to the ground here? Do you know why nothing grows?
Matt: "Stuff grows. It's how we do the farming."
Marisha: Stuff doesn't grow, though. Not like it should. What did they do to the land?
Matt: "I don't know. Maybe it has something to do with what they're doing under the castle."
Marisha: And what exactly are they doing under the castle?
Matt: "It's an excavation, or they're building something. I don't know the details of it."
Liam: You've no idea what they want?
Matt: "Comparatively, I'm just a peasant to them. I work with-- well, I worked with Kerrion."
Taliesin: How long have you worked with Sir Stonefell?
Matt: "Five years."
Taliesin: Were you here when he took the castle?
Matt: "Yes, yes. I was part of the incursion."
Taliesin: Good. You're very lucky. Because you're going to live if you show us-- And I bring out a map.
Sam: He can't see anything.
Taliesin: I know. Drop the Blindness.
Matt: He hears the crinkling of paper.
Taliesin: Drop the Blindness.
Sam: All right. I drop Blindness and I drop Seeming.
Matt: (scared, fast breathing)
Taliesin: Look at me. Look at me. You're going to show me where on the castle is the secret entrance. Do you know who I am?
Matt: "No."
Taliesin: You will. Mark it on the map.
Matt: He looks down at his bound arms and legs.
Travis: I take his head and I shove his nose and his face right above the map. And I say: use your nose.
Matt: "It's right--" He spits and puts a little droplet. It's loosely in the area of the western side of the mountain that the castle is built on. Roughly around the entrance where you escaped when you and Cassandra left Whitestone, five years before.
Taliesin: I know where that is.
Travis: That means we don't need you anymore.
Matt: "No! I can show you-- I can show you where their project is. The tunnels. You need me."
Travis: He'll set a good trap.
Laura: I just want to ask, when do the Briarwoods come out?
Matt: "Not often. They don't need to. Kerrion does the work for them. Did the work for them."
Sam: Those giants. Who controls them?
Matt: "Lady Briarwood does. She's the one who made them."
Travis: It's all over the room.
Marisha: She's the one who made them?
Taliesin: Can I propose something to you?
Matt: "She's strong with necromancy, she is."
Liam: I shove the rag back in his mouth for a moment.
Taliesin: Mark his face, take his tongue, let him loose.
Sam: His eyes, too?
Taliesin: No, just his tongue.
Travis: His tongue?
Taliesin: Mark his face.
Travis: I stick my two fingers inside of his nose, crank back on his nose, reach in, and rip his tongue out of his mouth.
Sam: I cover Keyleth's eyes.
Taliesin: That was a bit more than I was--
Travis: You said take his tongue! That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Natural 20?!
Taliesin: Natural 20, really? I'm feeling like such a bastard right now.
Matt: There isn't even a slow scuffle. You just reach in and (wet ripping noise, pained scream) You immediately jam the cloth back in. The cloth begins to slowly soak with blood. You hold almost a pound of muscle: a now motionless tongue in your hand, bloody at its base. These tears are running down his face. (muffled sobbing and coughing)
Travis: Is that good enough for your message?
Taliesin: I take my gun. I'm going to shoot it very gently-- I'm going to shoot into the ground to muffle the sound. I'm going to take the heat of it, and I'm going to cauterize it. His tongue, so he doesn't bleed out.
Matt: You pull the cloth out. (pained cry and choking sounds)
Taliesin: I'm going to mark his head with the still-hot gun.
Matt: (noises of pain) He starts screaming in pain as you're burning what into his head, the symbol of the de Rolo family?
Sam: It's a very complicated symbol. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to do it. And then, I say we let him run out the front door and we set fire to the house.
Travis: I'm good with that. I've got this.
Sam: Where are we going after this?
Marisha: Whoa!
Travis: No. I like that a lot.
Marisha: You would, though. You would.
Sam: Trinket's downstairs. We should leave Trinket.
Travis: Have we forgotten that this entire town is full of evil, undead vampire people?
Marisha: Have we also forgotten that this entire town is looking for us?
Taliesin: They don't know we're here.
Marisha: They will after we set fire on the house and send a man screaming through the street with your symbol on his forehead.
Sam: They don't know where we live.
Marisha: They will! They're going to go, "Hm, let's look at the burning smokestack of a house and start there."
Taliesin: He's going to be missing by morning. They're going to know.
Travis: We've got the guy painted all over this room. They're going to find out one way or the other. Might as well do it with a little showmanship.
Sam: We're trying to make everyone know that we're here.
Taliesin: We're trying to start a rebellion.
Marisha: (voice cracking) Yeah, but-- yeah.
Travis: Come on, be the Mockingjay, Keyleth!
Taliesin: (giggles) Don't make me laugh. This is dark shit.
Travis: It is!
Sam: We can stay the night before we release him and burn it down.
Taliesin: Fair.
Sam: Although there are a bunch of guards around.
Marisha: We can't stay the night.
Laura: We can't stay the night.
Sam: All right, just burn it, then. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Hang on. Fellow half-elves, you look as horrified as I feel. What do you guys think?
Laura: I feel like it's a little stupid, since we have nowhere to go.
Sam: We can go back to our old hideout. We have the tavern. No one's found it.
Liam: Percival, I know what you've been through, to an extent.
Taliesin: I don't even know what I've been through, to a certain extent, but yes.
Liam: We came here to wipe out a scourge on this city. Careful lest you become the scourge you've come to destroy. These people have eaten shit for five years. I'm not saying that man was innocent, but he's had a hard road. Everyone here has had a hard road. I am maybe willing to overlook what's just happened for all the hardship you have had, but careful how you are walking.
Sam: Hey, wait a second here, Vax. That was an enforcer. He kept the people oppressed. He worked for the Briarwoods and punished all of these farmers for not bringing enough taxes and enough tithes.
Liam: Are we to turn into Jack the Ripper because of it?
Sam: Well, that's what a rebellion is.
Travis: I do like ripping.
Taliesin: There's no pretty way to do this.
Laura: I'm fully in support with burning down a house, I just feel like it might backfire a bit.
Marisha: Look, I agreed to start a rebellion and let the people have their uprising, but I'm with Vax. I was trying to tell you this before we even came here, Percy. You don't want to become the thing that you are so desperate to seek vengeance on. How are we any different than the Briarwoods, at this point?
Travis: We're not fucking vampires. Look, what are our options besides burning the house down? I'm open to other ideas.
Sam: We can just leave it as a symbol of our terror.
Taliesin: I've marked him. I'm willing to walk away.
Travis: And where do we stay?
Sam: Somewhere else.
Travis: The tavern? Do we have to find another building?
Taliesin: I know a barracks. It's not too far away.
Liam: I agree with you, with burning the house down. Let's find anyone who's in here and get them out.
Taliesin: I think they'll get out when the house catches on fire.
Liam: Your soul doesn't need to be forfeit, Percival.
Taliesin: (sighs heavily) Things are more complicated now.
Sam: Percy, is that last barrel for you?
Taliesin: No. But, if it was, would I tell you?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Why are things more complicated, Percy? Clearly, we all just witnessed what just happened.
Taliesin: That was unexpected.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I'd agree with that, yeah.
Taliesin: (sighs) That's a longer conversation.
Sam: These guards aren't going to stay out for long. We should set fire and get out of here.
Liam: We burn the house down, and we find a place to hole up for the night.
Laura: Hey, buddy. How's it going?
Matt: He looks over at the body of Sir Kerrion, which is still slumped against the wall.
Liam: Percy, we need to have that longer conversation soon.
Laura: Soon, but not now. Let's go.
Marisha: Let's get out of here. All right, we're setting this damn house on fire?
Laura: Let's do it.
Travis: I take the tongue-less one, and I throw him out. I keep him bound. He's bound amongst the chest and hands. And I throw him out the window. Bye, motherfucker!
Matt: He falls out into the rain, (boof) falling on his side. (whimpers) He's being rained on, and he's trying to struggle with his bindings.
Travis: He'll get up. His feet are free. His legs and feet are free. I'm picturing chest and arms.
Matt: Okay, then he gets to his feet and starts running.
Sam: Grog, can you carry this unconscious guard out on our way out?
Travis: Sure. Do I kill him first?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body?
Sam: Sir Kerrion's body?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body to burn with the house?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Are we?
Taliesin: Let's take him, too.
Travis: We might as well leave him out on the front step, or something. I'll grab Sir Kerrion--
Sam: Can you carry both of those fuckers?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: He threw one of them out.
Sam: No, there's the unconscious guard and the body.
Travis: I'll grab unconscious guard and the body.
Liam: He weighs like 600 pounds.
Marisha: I'm going to say  All right. Well, if we're going to light this damn house on fire and make it a symbol--
Sam: You have fire hands.
Marisha: We're at least going to make it cool and make it the message that it's supposed to be.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: I turn into an eagle and I fly to the roof.
Matt: Flying out the window that you just shattered.
Marisha: Give me your symbol.
Taliesin: I give her one of the parchments.
Matt: You fly up. The rain is coming down on you. It's a little hard to fly. You get up to the top of the roof.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere.
Matt: You transform into yourself again?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: We're all going to start going out the way we came.
Travis: I throw unconscious guy and Sir Dead.
Marisha: Hope you guys were ready to get out.
Laura: I open up a bottle of wine and take a giant swig.
Matt: Okay. As you guys head back down to the cellar?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all head back down to the cellar. You throw them both out the window, including the body of Sir Kerrion (boof) out into the yard. You head back down into the cellar.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere, and I start moving it around on the roof and start drawing the shape of the de Rolo family crest on the roof.
Matt: Okay. It will take you a few minutes. You now see, as you're finishing the symbol, Vouk running to the front of the building, and you hear the voices of two guards going, "Master Vouk? What happened? Tell us. Unbind him!" "Yes, sir." And the two guards at the front of the building are talking with him. You finish the symbol.
Marisha: And I take my Flaming Sphere, and I throw it right at the feet of where the guards are.
Matt: Okay. You're on the roof, so you don't see them, but you know they're off to the side of the roof, so you can roll it off the roof down to them. They both freak out and react and seem to get into a defensive position. They start arming themselves, and you hear crossbow bolts being set into place.
Marisha: I run over to the edge where the cellar was, and I go, (whispering) Grog. Grog!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Come to the side of the roof!
Matt: You guys make your ways back down through the cellar, where Trinket's waiting patiently. (bear grunts)
Laura: Hey, buddy. Let's go.
Travis: Hi, Trinket. Get out.
Matt: You guys come out of the cellar now.
Marisha: (whispering) Grog! Hey!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Catch me!
Travis: Okay!
Matt: Catch Keyleth. You guys are now out in the open, still during the day, rain pouring down.
Laura: Running toward the woods? Where are we running?
Marisha: Get the fuck out of here.
Taliesin: Let's head back to the inn. Let's try the barracks. We'll try the barracks.
Matt: The barracks are attached to the castle.
Taliesin: Shit. Okay.
Sam: Back to the tavern, then.
Taliesin: Back to the tavern for now.
Laura: They're going to notice--
Matt: Stealth check real fast, guys.
Marisha: I was going to say, do you have Pass Without a Trace, can you summon any more spells?
Laura: I don't. I mean, I can cast it right now.
Matt: If you want to quickly, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, before we move.
Matt: Stealth checks?
Sam: 19.
Liam: Did we get the Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: So, plus ten, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: 34.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 25.
Travis: 21.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Sure enough, both guards rush around the corner. You guys have already leapt over the fence. However, they see the fence. "The fence is bent!" And they go rushing toward that direction. You guys have already disappeared into the various alleyways, making your way back towards the inn in the center of town.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace, I mean, Dust of Tracelessness.
Travis: Okay, yeah, just throwing it down behind us.
Matt: Okay. They're giving chase. They're hearing the sounds of your footsteps a little, but eventually their sounds fade. You do hear in the distance a bell start going off.
Taliesin: We're going to go into the basement.
Matt: You start seeing people emerging from their homes, hearing the bell. And, you would know this, this would be a warning bell for whenever a fire breaks out in the city. You see smoke beginning to rise up, even through the rainstorm. The fire is fighting the rain. But the smoke is black and it's starting to fade. You gather the building itself did not catch fire enough to burn into rubble due to the rain, but you've probably left a very visible mark on the roof.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: People begin to gather from the outside, and you see folks running past the alley as you make your way back to the tavern that you currently have as your base of operations. You all make your way in safely from the rain. Take a deep breath and come to understand that you've definitely started the motion of whatever it is you're intending to do. We'll see how it plays out in the near future. We'll call the session there for the night.
Travis: Shit got hairy.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Laura: That was dark, you guys. Super dark.
Sam: I found seven gold.
Taliesin: I have a sword, now.
Travis: It's October.
Marisha: Speaking of Percy and his crazy storyline--
Taliesin: So that's about to happen, yeah.
Marisha: I'm guessing by now if you go on the Geek and Sundry website, you can find his playlist.
Taliesin: Music to burn a house to. Music to violently murder people to.
Marisha: I was gonna say, music to murder to. Go check it out, it's great.
Taliesin: Music for a midnight murder. There we are. Actually, I have some art that I would love to-- can I put on the--
Matt: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: Taliesin art.
Taliesin: Yeah, I drew pictures. Just in case everybody wants to see, this is the terrible thing we keep carving into people and things.
Marisha: Or burning on rooftops.
Taliesin: And then this is actually the de Rolo family crest. Just another fancy thing.
Matt: Very, very cool, and well done, sir.
Taliesin: Thank you. I drew a picture. So that shit happened.
Marisha: Glad I'm not the only one who thinks you're crazy anymore.
Taliesin: I think I'm crazy now. It's gonna be interesting.
Marisha: You're all crazy, we've all seen it. Now we can handle it as a family.
Zac: Yeah, y'all's fucked up.
Taliesin: That got way darker than I was expecting.
Zac: Yeah. I'm sure that won't have any negative repercussions whatsoever.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I hate you, Matt.
Laura: Hey, man. Did we hit 10k?
Zac: Yep. (cheering)
Zac: 10,060. Currently Starburns is winning.
Marisha: Starburns! Do it!
Taliesin: Starburns! Do it!
Zac: Here's what they forget  Jess and Steph are the ones doing it. If anyone's watched Jess and Steph's craft show, it will most likely end up being just a shaved face. If you think Jess and Steph can pull off Starburns, you're lying to yourself, and it will just end up being a clean shave.
Taliesin: I got a straight razor, we could go for this. You trust me, I mean, you know. I can get in there.
Zac: Moving on.
Taliesin: I can Sweeney Todd that.
Zac: Okay, so. Tonight, guys, we're just gonna be reading off the names and we're gonna knock through 'em pretty quick.
Matt: We're trying to keep time down for weeknights. All right, guys, so we have donating tonight to Extra Live, we have Connor Brown, Steven Sudeban Davis, Ravi Persuad, Mitchell DeFow-- sorry if I ruin any of these names, guys, by the way-- Tom Revely, Caleb Popum, Michael Holloway, George Rinn, PumpkinSpiceThisBitchTheFourth, Anonymous Donator, we have Patrick Toro, the Lost Tigers, Rebecca Case, Lewis Letter, Emma returns, Emma Engquist, I hope I'm not ruining that too bad, Pernil Ilfsen-- that's a cool name-- Arthur Gibbs, another wonderful anonymous donator, Maxine Poloquin, another great anonymous donator, Christian Huntlee, James Bell, John Reap, Killer Penguin, Monica Dahl, Kayla Ernest, Tim Pearson, another great anonymous donator, PumpkinSpiceThisBitch twice more--
Zac: Well, one's the original and one's the second.
Matt: Oh, it carried over, I see. I see. The original and the second. There's a third one in there, probably. Guys, thank you so much. It's really incredible, each one of you that donated to help Extra Life. We really appreciate it.
Zac: Since this weekend is the 24-hour Nerdist Extra Life stream, starting next week we'll go back to 826LA and get those donations rolling back in for 826--
Marisha: But in the meantime, don't forget to go to LA2050 and vote for 826LA so they can win 100k.
Zac: I would also like to throw out there the other-- it currently looks like it's a race between Starburns, Freddie Mercury, and Fu Manchu.
Laura: Oh, I like Freddie Mercury.
Taliesin: Starburns' really kinda rocking it for me.
Marisha: I was gonna suggest-- we had the Hunger Games reference, so what was his name? Kerrion or whatever? The Gamemaster in the first one?
Zac: There is no way Steph and Jess have the ability to do something like that.
Matt: I almost wanna see the tristache. Tristache is when you shave the handlebar, and then a smaller handlebar, and then a smaller-- (laughter)
Zac: Poll's out. The poll's out, dude.
Sam: Is the Hitler on the poll at all? (groaning)
Taliesin: You're a terrible person! That is the worst thing I've heard yet.
Sam: The Charlie Chaplin.
Zac: We also have a video to show you guys from a community member about their own D&D Extra Life stream they're doing this weekend, so we are going to show that to you guys here once you guys sign off, so.
Matt: Fantastic, thank you so much.
Zac: Stick around tomorrow for Jess and Steph's birthday, where they cut my fucking face up. (cheering)
Matt: That's gonna be worth its own weight in gold. Well, all right, guys, we'll be back next week for our special Halloween episode of Critical Role. We'll see how the story progresses darker and darker down this hole of horror and moral conundrum. (laughs) I'm excited. I hope you are too. Once again, guys, thank you all so much. Our love to the Team Hooman, Critter crowd out there, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week.
Travis: Damn straight!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, a special Halloween edition. My name is Matthew Mercer. I am the dungeon master for this show. This wonderful show, where a bunch of us crazy voice actors get together and roll dice as a bunch of nerdy DND players. So. Welcome. For all the newcomers, I am not normally dressed this insane. We'll be revealing the rest of our cast here in just a moment. But yeah, before we get to that, I wanted to get through some quick announcements overall. Let's see. First and foremost, for those who missed the announcement yesterday: unfortunately, Orion Acaba is no longer with Critical Role going forward. He has his own Twitch channel; he's pushing forward on all of that. Please go and show him support. We wish him the best; much love to him. Just to clarify, too: there's been a lot of speculation stuff like that this was a corporate thing, and people putting all the blame on Geek and Sundry. This was a joint decision between Critical Role and Geek and Sundry-- all parties agreed. Please try and be respectful to everyone involved. Appreciate that. Other things going forward. We have our "How Do You Want To Do This?" shirt up on the website. We put that up last week and announced that, for those who are interested in getting that. Hopefully, they have restocked, because they were sold out really fast. Keep an eye on that and grab one if you're interested. Let's see. Also, today we had Vax'ildan's song playlist on Spotify go live on the website. So you can go watch or listen to "Songs to Stab People To," which is a pretty great little rendition there. Also, my interview went up today on the Geek and Sundry website, so you can go ahead and check out my talk and discussion and Q and A about the show and people involved and go read that and see if it tickles your fancy. [Geralt voice] I feel like I should be doing it like this for the rest of the night.
Travis: Yes, you should!
Matt: Dungeon mastering down here for the remainder. It's a good plan. Let's see. Taliesin, you had an announcement?
Taliesin: I did. Hi, sorry. For those of you on Twitter, you now know what I was just doing. Yes, I'm going to be at Oni Con. I'm flying to Oni Con in Galveston, Texas at 6:30 tomorrow morning. Yay.
Marisha: Yay!
Taliesin: Huzzah. So you can see me at Galveston, Texas between now and Sunday. I'll be there. I'll be rolling around. I'll be a little jetlagged. It'll be great.
Matt: All righty, good announcement. I like it, it's a good announcement. Let's see, next up: Liam, you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yes, I have two announcements. One, Sam and I have returned to the podcasting scene and released a new episode of All Work No Play. It's been an eight-month hiatus, so that's out; you find that on iTunes and elsewhere, but even bigger than that, I wanted to announce the show's partnership with Wyrmwood Gaming. We are now all using gorgeous custom-made Wyrmwood boxes with character names etched in and all that. They're gorgeous. And if anyone heads over to wyrmwoodgaming.com and uses the coupon code CritRole, then you will get a discount on any purchases you make there from here into perpetuity-- that's not true at all. As long as we're having a good time with Wyrmwood. So thank you, Wyrmwood, for the boxes, and everybody please go check them out.
Laura: What was the code again?
Liam: CritRole. I want to lick mine and make love to it all night long.
Matt: I recommend waiting until after the stream.
Marisha: Yeah. Which one did you get, Liam?
Liam: This is the darkest ebony they have.
Laura: They have all kinds of wood. It's really freaking cool.
Marisha: This is the rosewood?
Travis: I got the unicorn walnut wood.
Matt: Yeah, you did. You're a unicorn.
Travis: I'm getting crumbs in my bosom?
Laura: Yeah, you are, actually.
Liam: It's all good.
Travis: Like cookies in bed.
Taliesin: I do know Sam got Purpleheart. Since he's not here, we can show it.
Travis: He's here. He's just getting ready.
Marisha: Purpleheart.
Matt: Looks fantastic.
Travis: Chicken heart.
Marisha: Chicken heart.
Matt: Oh man. That costume, Travis. I think I mentioned it before-- I'm pretty sure in one of my games we've had a time. (laughs)
Travis: Do I get advantage all night?
Matt: No.
Laura: Do we all get to see what we're dressed as?
Marisha: Yeah, trade me seats for a second, Liam.
Laura: Get out of here, Dread.
Liam: I'll take this.
Matt: There you go. So ladies?
Laura: This is Rat Queens.
Marisha: We're Rat Queens. I'm Violet.
Laura: I'm Hannah. You should check it out. It's an awesome comic book.
Marisha: You should.
Liam: You've got to swear.
Laura: Huh? Oh, I'm conjuring up a little fuck you.
Marisha: And what does Violet say? We're going to put the kick-ass back in team. Something like that?
Laura: It's pretty great.
Marisha: Rat Queens. It's great. Yeah!
Matt: Travis, what are you dressed as?
Travis: I'm Helga the angry tavern wench, and I only love one man: Scanlan.
Matt: (laughs) That's fantastic. Other side of the table, let's see.
Marisha: Oh, look who just showed up.
Matt: Who are you dressed as, Sam?
Sam: I'm either a porn actor or Burt Reynolds. I can't smile. (laughter)
Sam: It's Smokey and the Bandit. I can't get him to stay.
Matt: That's okay, we'll find some duct tape for you.
Sam: My costume is awesome.
Matt: Awesome, it is awesome. Yeah, your monkey's been a little rough.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so sweaty.
Zac: Our mustaches need to take a picture with each other.
Travis: Oh that is some 'stache love.
Matt: Oh, that's amazing.
Travis: Dirty, dirty 'stache love.
Matt: All right, Taliesin.
Taliesin: I am Quentin Quire, Kid Omega of the X-Men, for those of you who read way too much X-Men, so this is my throw-together, because he has a mohawk and so few people do.
Laura: But we skipped over my brother.
Matt: Yes, indeed, because he vanished.
Liam: I'm the Dread Pirate Roberts, and I will most likely kill you in the morning-- or myself, because this is actually very sharp
Travis: Do you have a comment about my perfect breasts and the shortage of them? Oh no! Careful, they are expensive.
Matt: Put that right there. Be careful, or there's actually stabbing in real life as opposed to just the game today. That'll be fun.
Liam: Liam doesn't know how to use knives or swords at all.
Matt: He'll learn in time.
Matt: I'm dressed as Geralt of Rivia from the Witcher Series. Witcher 3, specifically, for this set of armor and outfit.
Liam: How about that costume, ladies and gentlemen?
Marisha: He made all of that, by the way.
Liam: He's a full-size action figure.
Sam: He made that?
All: Yeah.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Matt: I have a problem. Well, the problem is being a huge fan of the Witcher series for a long time. But yeah, that's our crazy Halloween-ness. We'll kick back here in just a minute to start the game and see what the wonders and dangers of Whitestone bring to Vox Machina. See you in just a second.
Laura: We're all going to die when we're goofy looking. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So to get you guys up to speed with the current situation, in our currently non-air conditioned studio-- great day for this to coincide. Vox Machina had an encounter with two individuals known as the Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, who currently control Whitestone, the city that Percival-- Taliesin's character-- once lived in, his family once essentially ruled, before they were usurped and most of them murdered by the Briarwoods. So upon meeting them, a vengeance urge kicked up within Percival. The rest of the party following him to Whitestone to attempt to free the city from the clutches of the very seemingly evil and in some cases undead Briarwoods, as the Lord Briarwood appears to be vampiric in nature. After arriving, they had some stealth missions, they went around and discovered a fair warning on the Sun Tree, one of the central items of Whitestone, a relic of Pelor from long ago that the city was built around, now dead and holding a series of bodies hung from it, all dressed and painted to look like the members of Vox Machina. While they were there, they managed to find and hole up in an abandoned tavern. Closing the windows off, and after doing a little bit of digging, spoke to the head of the Lady's Chamber, the temple to Erathis to which Percival and most of the team seems to be interested in starting a rebellion in Whitestone. They planted the seed there to return to germinate at some point. And then began to follow a couple of individuals, or at least an individual that was partially responsible for the really honestly shitty social atmosphere in Whitestone. Following him back to a home, it was discovered that Sir Kerrion, one of the individuals responsible for the death of Percival's family, was still part of the ruling class here. The party then snuck in through the bottom of the building, stealthed into a full surprise ambush upon him and his compatriots. Murdered most of them. They took his toady, essentially, Vouk, and instead of murdering him, tore out his tongue and then burned the de Rolo family crest into his forehead--
Liam: You say they. Not quite how I remember it.
Taliesin: The way you're putting that is a lot worse than actually--
Matt: I know, but it's fun to push it that way.
Taliesin: I feel this is a little one-sided.
Matt: But yeah, with his tongue removed and the symbol burned into his forehead, he was thrown out the window, and the party then escaped into the night rain, returning to their tavern, and that was where we left off. So. As you guys come in from the soaking-wet rain that seemed to have been now pouring continuously through the city of Whitestone, you come to the quiet of your tavern, the sun beginning to find its way, setting across the evening sky. What would you like to do?
Liam: I'm having a real hard time roleplaying right now.
Matt: I don't know what you mean. What are you doing Vax? Come on.
Laura: It's actually really difficult to play a character when you're dressed as a different character, not going to lie.
Matt: Well, we're going to learn!
Laura: We're going to learn how to do it.
Marisha: You wanna roleplay as the character you're dressed as. Yeah, it's hard. Don't do that.
Travis: I don't know, I feel as groggy as ever.
Matt: I don't think Scanlan's going to have a problem tonight.
Sam: Nope, this is how I imagine myself to be.
Liam: I am not going to look at that table at all tonight. All auditory for you three. Sorry.
Laura: So we are-- wait, I forget.
Matt: You guys just now returned to the tavern.
Laura: We're in the tavern. It's nighttime now?
Matt: It's starting to push later into the evening, now you guys have returned to the tavern.
Sam: And as we returned to the tavern, did we see hustle and bustle of people rising up in rebellion, by any chance?
Matt: Not yet.
Marisha: Overnight rebellion!
Matt: It's been fairly fresh since you even started the word of it.
Travis: We were very discreet and discreetly putting the Dust of Tracelessness on the ground.
Matt: Yes, you were, and you're finding your way through, there doesn't appear to be anyone following. Plus there was a large distraction with Sir Kerrion's homestead being lit on fire. The rain taking care of most of it, but it drew people out of their homes to see this giant blazing symbol of the de Rolo family burning across the rooftop. So a message was definitely left and probably received by somebody, and what are your plans?
Travis: One down, how many left? How many are there left?
Marisha: Four? Four.
Taliesin: Four.
Travis: There are five total? Whoa, I did math.
Marisha: There are six barrels. One is empty.
Sam: Do you think the other two are-- the barrel names: so two are Sylas and Delilah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: And we know that one of the other two barrel names resides in that place that we found. The countess, what was her name? The doctor?
Taliesin: Doctor Ripley.
Sam: And what's the fourth name?
Taliesin: Professor Anders.
Laura: Are we really going to talk about names right now and not about the giant creepy smoke monster that came out of you, Percy?
Liam: I think we need to find a place to lay low. Not here, not where we've been. Somewhere else. I think we need to scope out another place.
Laura: I don't think it's safe to leave tonight.
Sam: I agree with Vex that we can't leave tonight. The streets are going to be crawling with guards and people looking for us.
Marisha: Are we back in our hole where we were?
Matt: You're back in the tavern where you guys were.
Laura: It might be smart to be down in the cellar tonight, not up.
Taliesin: I agree.
Sam: Is there any sort of way you can close us in and make it look like it's a single-story dwelling?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, we'll go down to the tree and we'll make it look like no one's ever tunneled down there before.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean we can literally camp next to the roots of the tree if we want to. I made it look nice in there.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I can clear out a bit more space.
Laura: Burt, your mustache is falling off.
Sam: It is?
Liam: (giggles) You know the situation is very dire, I don't know why I'm laughing, it's a nervous habit. I'm sorry.
Marisha: Speaking of nervous habits.
Sam: One of us has a nervous habit of ejecting smoke from his rib cage.
Marisha: I was also thinking about the weird cough that you have. I don't think you're getting sick. What's going on? Oh, and we've tunneled, right? We're below the ground.
Matt: You guys have made your way to the inn, if you all wanted to go down and to the tree--
Marisha: Let's go down into the cellar. I'm going to go ahead and throw up some walls.
Travis: Walls, or the false ground?
Marisha: I can do the false terrain--
Laura: Yeah, do that.
Marisha: I'll do Hallucinatory Terrain, and I will make it look like she said. One story, no cellar.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So the opening to the cellar will be just a dirt floor.
Marisha: Just wooden floor, yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: No one's here, looks like it hasn't been touched.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Those eyes make you look far more sarcastic than you normally do.
Matt: Do they?
Taliesin: (shouting) Argh, god! (laughter)
Laura: And he doesn't even smile at all.
Travis: Jeez, you're the worst.
Liam: So Percival, spill your guts. What the fuck is going on?
Taliesin: I don't entirely know. Where to begin?
Liam: You didn't look surprised when that happened.
Marisha: No, in fact, you pulled down your mask, which you don't normally do in battles.
Taliesin: It felt-- it didn't feel like a surprise. I don't know. It didn't feel good. I was hoping it would.
Laura: You didn't seem to mind it as it was happening.
Taliesin: I think I wanted him to recognize me.
Marisha: Who?
Taliesin: Kerrion. I don't know. I was hoping it would feel better.
Marisha: Could you feel it happening while it was? Were you conscious? Do you remember what you did?
Liam: What the fuck is it? What is it, Percival? What is it?
Taliesin: A few years ago, I had a dream. I had a very intense dream, and in this dream, something asked me if I wanted revenge. If I wanted the means to have revenge. And all I would have to do in return is offer up the souls of those I took.
Laura: (flatly) Oh, that's all.
Sam: Wait, what?
Taliesin: It was a dream! It was just a dream.
Sam: And yet you've fashioned your entire life's goal upon this dream.
Taliesin: I woke up in the morning with an idea, and I built that idea. I thought it was prophetic, and lately I've been feeling a bit of strain, and recalling it, but it was just a dream!
Sam: So the day after this dream was when you first developed your Pepperbox?
Taliesin: It's not the first time I felt inspired in my life. I just-- it wasn't real.
Marisha: And Percy, how long after the coup and after you lost your family was this dream?
Taliesin: (sighs) Maybe a year. I was fuzzy at first; I wasn't really me anymore. I was a fisherman for a while. I didn't do anything. This was something to do with myself; this was something to work towards.
Liam: Well, we're clearly not talking about a dream anymore. We all saw it. Do you have any theories?
Taliesin: I don't. I don't know. I've never thought about it. It didn't matter.
Liam: It matters now.
Taliesin: I don't know what to do.
Laura: Who is the last bullet for?
Taliesin: (sighs)
Laura: We don't want to lose you, Percy.
Taliesin: When I started this, I talked to a man, at one point. He was the captain of one of the vessels I was on. I told him what I intended to do, and I showed him what I was building. And he said that if I really wanted revenge, if revenge was what I was after, that there would be no stopping it. And there would be casualties along the way, and I would have to give up things, and I would have to hurt people. And that was the price, so that last barrel is because it's not just five names; I know I'm going to have to keep hurting people and that this thing existing is just going to keep hurting people. It's the knowledge that it never ends. It's because I haven't just killed five people. I've killed a lot of people on my way here. I've killed them with you. And it's to remind me that this is what I've chosen.
Liam: I don't understand. We've killed with reason.
Taliesin: And I have tried to. And I certainly have reason for these five names. They are not good people. These are not people who should be allowed to live.
Liam: None of us debate that the Briarwoods and their circle should be allowed to go on. We all understand what they're capable of. We all understand that they need to be removed. But what we just saw goes beyond, and you're telling us that this is going to continue after the Briarwoods and their like are gone. What are we to look forward to, Percival? Where are we going?
Taliesin: I was hoping that once I'd finished serving revenge that perhaps I could serve repentance.
Marisha: You're speaking of these as if they're metaphysical beings. You're serving revenge. That sounds very literal, and from what I've seen, isn't inaccurate.
Taliesin: I no longer feel in control. I no longer trust myself. I wouldn't expect you to trust me.
Liam: Stretching a little thin right now, Percy.
Taliesin: But I trust you.
Sam: Can I just do a quick insight to see if he's being entirely honest?
Matt: You may.
Sam: Well, that didn't work. Much better. 18.
Matt: 18. Go ahead and roll a dice, Percival.
Taliesin: Dice plus what?
Matt: Actually, I'll roll it for you. What's your bonus?
Taliesin: For which?
Matt: For both persuasion and deception.
Taliesin: Persuasion and deception? Persuasion, six. Deception, two.
Matt: Okay. He seems very earnest, very broken. Confused, but driven, and there isn't any part of his voice that seems to conceal or attempt to hold back any information.
Travis: Are you afraid you're going to hurt us?
Taliesin: No. I'm afraid I'm going to disappoint you.
Marisha: How would you disappoint us?
Taliesin: I trust that you are all here in the service of justice and maybe friendship. But I'm not. I'm here for revenge. And as much as I would like to believe otherwise, I know that's not true. And I think I need people here who are not here for revenge. I don't know how to stop this.
Marisha: Just because you started on this path for revenge doesn't mean you can't find other motivations along the way. Do you believe you're not doing this with your friends or for your friends? Not even a little bit; it's only a hundred percent revenge?
Taliesin: No one does anything purely for one reason. And I could justify it, but I'd be lying. I want to hurt them. I want them to know it's me. I want them to feel remorse for what they have done. I want them to pay, and if this thing is real, if this is really what is happening now, I hope that wherever they go, they suffer forever and beyond.
Travis: I think that sounds fair.
Taliesin: And I'm so grateful there is justice to be found in it, but it is not justice that I am motivated by. And I couldn't pretend it would be. I am so grateful there is justice in this. But even if there wasn't, I would still be here.
Liam: I want to talk about a plan, because our desires are in lockstep up to a point. Once we have gotten rid of the last of them, I want to know what happens then, Percival.
Taliesin: I've never had to think of this before. I think if we get out of this, either I'm going to need you to save me or finish me.
Laura: No, we won't do that.
Taliesin: If it comes to it.
Laura: Damn it, where is Pike?! She would know about this.
Travis: She would.
Marisha: I miss Pike.
Taliesin: Well, I do want to save this city.
Laura: Can we do any kind of religion check to see if we know anything about this kind of entity?
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make a religion check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: Suiting.
Marisha: (laughs) Suiting.
Laura: 17.
Matt: I mean, there are all sorts of extraplanar entities throughout the realms that have their own individual descriptions.
Marisha: Whenever he starts a description with "I mean," it's not good.
Matt: You don't have a whole lot of experience outside of the realm of mortals. You've had a few interactions with things that skew beyond that realm. While you get that he's saying it may just be a dream, you know that there are multitudes of creatures that thrive on these types of bargains. You do know that many of these bargains in the long run do not end up being wholly in the person's favor who struck it.
Travis: Well, look. It's going to help him on his quest, get revenge and kill all the people that killed his family, right? So can we do that, and then if it gets out of control, we bop him on the head and take him to a temple?
Laura: I think that's the best plan we have, actually.
Travis: I mean, you were really awesome in that last fight.
Laura: You did look pretty amazing, I'm not going to lie.
Travis: A little bit of pee came out. It was that good.
Laura: But I don't like how dark it went, Percy. It went really dark.
Liam: And here's the thing. There's a thing. There it is, right there. Here's the thing.
Taliesin: Oh god, I hadn't even noticed. So sorry.
Liam: Your chances of succeeding here alone are pretty fucking slim. And if you want us all to work with you, you can't go from door to door, bringing wrath and ruin the way you just did, or you won't have our assistance. Not all of us.
Sam: Now now, Vax, what are you talking about? We all knew what we were doing when we-- pay attention to me! I'm trying to be serious here. Don't you turn your eyes away from me. Look at me when I'm talking to you. We all knew what we were doing when we went into the house. It was an assassination mission. I don't understand why everyone's harping on how dark it got. We knew we were there to kill everyone in the whole place.
Liam: This is a city oppressed. These people did not invite it upon themselves.
Laura: That guy deserved it, but we did rip his tongue out, which I think was a bit harsh.
Travis: He said take his tongue.
Liam: These people don't want to exchange one warlord for another. We need to maybe dial it back a tick or two.
Sam: No, I disagree.
Travis: I do, too, Pedostache.
Sam: We have to make a strong appearance. This is shock and awe. We're not going to win over the people by half measures and hey, let's hold an election, or something. We have to kill everyone in as dramatic a fashion as possible.
Laura: This is beheading a pony all over again.
Liam: You think we're going to win them over by showing them how disgusting we are?
Sam: No, how disgusting they are, and how disgusting they die.
Liam: No. I mean the civilians here.
Laura: We're not going to kill civilians!
Liam: Of course, but we're trying to win them over, and if we're showing that we're ripping out their tongues and pulling their ears off and flaying their balls, they're going to be just as scared of us as they are of the Briarwoods.
Laura: They'll probably be pretty happy that the people that have been hurting them are being punished.
Marisha: Yes, they've been oppressed, but we've also seen there's plenty of cases of people being charmed by them. We might have an army of people who will die for the Briarwoods at any cost and not even realizing they're being charmed that way.
Sam: I wouldn't mind a few people being scared of us, too.
Taliesin: I will say it did get out of hand. And if I had known then what I know now, I would hope that you would restrain me in those moments where I seem to be going further than I should.
Laura: Done.
Travis: Are you saying for your final bullet, you want us to stop you?
Laura: No, he's saying that if he goes dark, if he goes against his person that we know--
Taliesin: Knock me out and take me to a temple.
Travis: You don't want to scratch the name off the barrel?
Taliesin: I didn't know it was going to disappear, to be fair. I thought that maybe I could stop what was happening to me. I panicked.
Marisha: Percy, do you realize we tried to talk to you for a good 15 minutes after all that last night, and you were unreachable? Do you remember that? So us saying if you start getting out of control, and you think that we're going to be able to be like, yo Percy, calm it down a bit--
Laura: We're not going to do that. We're going to knock him the fuck out!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Don't worry, Percy. We've got you.
Sam: I don't think I would knock him out.
Travis: I'll knock you out if you really want me to.
Taliesin: If I start to turn against you. If you think for a moment that I am out of control. Please, please, do what is necessary. The moment that I turn on any of you, the moment that I even threaten any of you is a moment I am not in control. No matter what is happening.
Travis: Yeah. Okay.
Laura: I walk up and I kiss him on the cheek. and I say: Don't you worry, we've got you.
Taliesin: Especially with the cough, thank you.
Laura: I don't believe you're really sick, darling.
Sam: Vex, I've heard a cough like that, and it's probably syphilis.
Laura: Lovely. Thank you, Scanlan.
Taliesin: I barely sl-- I don't, I--
Sam: Personal experience, that's all I'm saying.
Travis: Shall we rest and then we go find another house?
Marisha: Well, maybe we should, now that we have the knock-Percy-out-in-case-of-emergency plan, should we have a revolution plan? Because we seem to be divided on that.
Taliesin: There's still two more lords in the city. And there is the castle. They know we're here now.
Sam: It might behoove us to spend a day or two finding another shelter, and also seeing what our actions have resulted in, and seeing if we can't sway some opinion in our favor, because we're strong, but we're also pretty weak these days, and I wouldn't want to go against the big guns yet until we have the people behind us. Or at least possibly turn one of those giants to our side or something. We need some help.
Laura: We have a map of the city, yes? I think it best to stay off the streets. Is it possible, Keyleth, to tunnel through the city, underneath it?
Taliesin: Good idea.
Marisha: I can, actually. Yeah.
Sam: Can't really talk to people that way.
Laura: No, but they know we're here. It's not safe. We can come up in secret, leave symbols to rally the people, and hide again.
Marisha: You want to get a beat on the vibe of what people are saying out there?
Sam: Hey, hep cat, yes. I'm wanting to get a beat on the vibe. Yes, I think we need to hear what people are saying. In the privacy of their homes, maybe. Do some snooping.
Marisha: Well, there's a few people in our party who are good at that.
Sam: And we need to find another potential safehouse.
Marisha: Okay, that's plan number one, then. I think it's not a bad idea that we spread this de Rolo family crest around.
Taliesin: Have we been to the Alcove yet?
Matt: You went to the Alcove-- no, you have not been to the Alcove.
Taliesin: We haven't been to the Alcove or the barracks yet. The barracks are right against the castle, though.
Matt: Correct. You went to the Lady's Chamber and you spoke briefly with Keeper Yennen.
Taliesin: Yeah, with Keeper Yennen.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to the barracks.
Matt: And you went to Beyond the Horizon, which was abandoned and partially collapsed.
Taliesin: The barracks will be our last stop, I believe. Just because it's outside the city proper and it's up the hill. We might be able to stay at the Alcove, which is a magic shop that used to be in town. I know the proprietor, or I did, if he's still alive.
Travis: Yeah, let's go there.
Marisha: Magic shop? Okay.
Taliesin: It was a magic shop, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's an arcane boutique, yes.
Taliesin: An arcane boutique.
Marisha: Are we tunneling there?
Laura: Are we going there now? Are we resting?
Sam: We should rest.
Marisha: It's nighttime!
Matt: Right now, I would say, based on preparation, the illusion-casting, conversation, you're looking at about 9:00, 9:30 in the evening.
Taliesin: We could get an early start once the light hits.
Sam: If you fall asleep, is that illusion going to vanish?
Marisha: No, I think Hallucinatory Terrain lasts for--
Laura: Can I sense anything near us? Can I sense vampires above us?
Matt: So you're looking for undead?
Laura: Undead.
Matt: Okay. You feel a surrounding presence scattered throughout the city, some large, some small. You can gather over a period of time of concentration, you can feel the slow movement of the zombie giants moving through the city, the sentinels slowly tromping through, and a number of other undead entities there.
Laura: Does it feel like there's more in motion than there were before we set off the blaze?
Matt: I would say yes, there appears to be a little more haste and movement to what entities you can-- and you can't pinpoint specifics, but you do sense that there is a heightened state of movement, to what you've previously sensed.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Yes I've a thought that at night, obviously, these streets are full of dead things. Tomorrow, the Briarwoods and the people that work for them are going to start pulling people out of their houses and telling them to look for us or anyone who's not from this city, so I don't think that the beggar routine is going to work for much longer.
Laura: That's why we stay under the city. That's what I said.
Liam: Of course, but if you want to talk to people, I think we could probably get away with poking about first thing in the morning and that's it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: So we should probably get up early.
Laura: All right.
Sam: And in addition to your excellent illusion spell--
Marisha: Which lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: That's wonderful to hear. Is there any other means of protection we have? I mean, if they are magic wielders, they might be able to sense our presence or something. Is there any way to obscure that? I guess I'm asking this, but I'm one of the only two magic wielders here, so I should know the answer.
Marisha: I was going to say, it would be probably a me and you thing. In terms of making us not as noticeable, Seeming is probably going to be our closest thing. I don't have anything--
Sam: It's just a visual, though.
Laura: Nothing like a bubble of protection or anything?
Marisha: I've got my Antilife Shell.
Laura: But they're undead. Lovely. Well, first watch. Who's taking it?
Marisha: We can all get a good night's sleep, I think, if I tunnel us in and we've got Hallucinatory Terrain.
Laura: I still think we should keep watch.
Travis: Percy's got it, yeah. I'll take second.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you're all down at the bottom of the tunnel by the roots of the Sun Tree? And you have Hallucinatory Terrained the cellar?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I hate that he's asking for clarification.
Matt: What?
Laura: Don't 'what?' me.
Matt: What's the DC of your spell?
Marisha: Of Hallucinatory Terrain?
Matt: Of all your spellcasting, what's the DC?
Marisha: It's 17. No, 18. But I know they have to make an intelligence save to see through Hallucinatory Terrain.
Matt: Correct. If something were interested in doing so.
Marisha: Exactly, hypothetically.
Matt: So who's taking first watch?
Travis: Percy.
Sam: I will watch with him.
Marisha: Yeah, Percy can't watch alone.
Taliesin: No, that's fine.
Sam: I'll watch with him.
Liam: I mean, I raised my hand before, but that's all right. I'll get some sleep.
Matt: Okay. It's tight quarters. And you know, other than either a magical light or torch someone wants to put up, there is no light source. It is pitch black down here. What are you guys using as a light source, or are you leaving it pitch dark?
Laura: Well, you can light your little flaming warhammer.
Travis: Fine. I take the Flaming Warhammer, and I whisper the magic word, bacon. And it turns on fire.
Laura: I'm pretty sure he just said bagel.
Marisha: Bagel?
Matt: All righty. So, you guys take first watch, rest is till about 11PM or midnight or so. You guys finish. Who's taking second watch? All right, we've got Grog and Vax. All right so, you guys--
Liam: While Percival is sleeping, I pull Grog over and we look at him for a while, and I say, where do you think the smoke comes out of?
Travis: Oh, that's a good question.
Liam: Do you think it's the nostrils?
Travis: No, it looked like it was coming from the bottom up, and there's only two holes down there, so it's either--
Liam: Yeah, that's right.
Travis: Either the dirt button--
Liam: It could just be his pores. You're right, it's probably--
Travis: It's probably the periscope. You're right.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, the air down here, it's damp earth. It's chilled in the night, anyway, but it's a little warmer because you're under the ground, and it's absorbed some of the heat of the day. But it is getting noticeably colder.
Marisha: It's getting colder?
Matt: Yeah, just as the evening progresses. The temperature at night here--
Sam: Colder than it did last night? Because it also got pretty cold last night.
Matt: Comparable, yeah. There's a low mist begins to form within the tunnel from the temperature.
Liam: I wake up my sister.
Laura: What, what do you want?
Liam: There's fog or something. What's going on?
Travis: It's just cold.
Laura: Can we see if it's magic?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: Do that thing again. You can tell when stuff's around.
Laura: Oh good, I rolled a one.
Travis: Can I do a nature check to show them it's just fucking fog?
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and roll.
Travis: A 13.
Matt: Okay. You step forward and take a good long look at the fog that is slowly beginning to form at the base of the tunnel you guys are in. As you lean forward and take it in, the fog begins to form into a physical humanoid essence and reach out for you. For the three that are conscious, roll initiative.
Sam: Oh god!
Laura: Shit. It's a teeny tiny tunnel.
Marisha: It's another damn ghost wraith thing ghosting in.
Matt: All right.
Sam: So what if the Sun Tree is like--
Laura: The source of the bad?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: It's possible it is.
Marisha: That's kind of funny. (laughter)
Laura: What if the Briarwoods are right under the Sun Tree, and we're right above them?
Travis: What if they didn't hang the bodies, the tree just grabbed people?
Matt: So Grog back in the fog, Vex is waking up the back, Trinket asleep next to her. Percy, Scanlan.
Taliesin: Actually, can you move the Wyrmwood box, because all I'm--
Liam: Yes, Wyrmwood Gaming, check them out. Beautiful boxes.
Matt: Indeed, all right. This will go there for now.
Laura: You look really good, Matt.
Matt: I can't move in this. Great. All right, so. Get some initiatives on this. For Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, all righty. Okay, Laura?
Laura: Oh, 22.
Matt: 22, all right, and?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. Good to know.
Sam: Are we spooning?
Taliesin: We're sporking.
Sam: Oh, we are?
Marisha: You guys might be sporking.
Matt: So Vex, Grog, then you rolled a what?
Liam: 18.
Matt: Oh, sorry, Vax. Vex, you rolled a--
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22, right, Grog you were a--
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So Grog, this is technically a surprise round on you, then we'll get back to you guys on top of the initiative. You can see now, the mist has formed into a pale humanoid, with two more now that have rolled in. These pale-looking, intensely feral human beings with elongated fangs emerge from this mist and immediately lunge out towards you.
Laura: Are they vampires?
Marisha: Can they do that?
Laura: They can. They're fucking vampires.
Sam: No, they can only become bats. I read about this.
Liam: (sings) Let's do this.
Matt: So, first and foremost, the one that lunges out at Grog is going to shift to the side there. Is going to make a claw attack against you. That is a 20 to hit?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That hits. All right, you take eight points of slashing damage-- or no, you do not, actually. Instead, it is going to attempt to grapple you. Not attempt, it grapples you. So it reaches out and grasps on to some of the hide armor you have tied around your shoulder, pulls you in, and is going to attempt to sink its teeth into your actual body.
Laura: Don't forget that we all have our amazing metal around our neck that Scanlan got us.
Matt: That's true. (laughter)
Liam: You're so intimidating in that costume.
Matt: Good. That is a 17 versus armor class.
Travis: That misses.
Matt: Okay, so it attempts to bite into you, you move out of the way just in time, and that little bit of chain mail, that practically useless piece of chainmail wrapped around your giant thick neck does manage to catch its fangs and deflect the attack initially.
Liam: Hey!
Laura: Hey!
Sam: What, that piece of metal thing? Hey, I made that. I call it a Scanlan. I call everything a Scanlan.
Matt: This one is going to swoop in as you are now currently grappled by the other one. It's going to attempt to grab you on the other side. That is a 21 to hit, so it's going to grapple you. And this one is also going to now reach up with its claws to pull down the chain mail, grasps you there. Since it's a surprise round, natural 20. All right, so you take five points of piercing damage, and--
Sam: And you're a vampire.
Matt: And 11 points of necrotic, and your maximum hit points are reduced by 11.
Travis: Okay, really?
Laura: Oh no, we haven't had another feast yet.
Sam: Oh, and the feast is gone too, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So this third one over here is going to attempt to come after you, Vax, closest to it. That is a 24 to hit.
Liam: Well, that hits, but I'm going to use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay, to reduce the damage?
Liam: Yeah, by half.
Matt: That's 2d4 slashing against you. Ten points of slashing damage.
Liam: Is the half?
Matt: Yes, it's going to try to claw you again. That's a 12.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: Yeah, so the first one slashes across the side of your shoulder, but you manage to pull out of the way just in time to lessen the impact. This, however, sets you up for the easily dodged second blow. You swoop out of the way just barely in time, feeling the wind (whoosh) above your head. That ends their turn. Now we're at the top of the initiative order: surprise round. This would not have been enough noise to wake you guys yet, so you're going to hold on until somebody can get your attention. Top of the round will be Vex.
Laura: I'm going to say  Wake the fuck up! And I am going to-- can I hide? Is that what I do as my bonus?
Matt: You have nowhere to hide in this room, unfortunately.
Laura: Even if it's super-duper dark?
Matt: You get the idea that these creatures probably aren't largely affected by the dark.
Laura: That makes perfect sense. I'm going to Hunter's Mark the one that looks the strongest.
Matt: Okay. The one that's most visible to you would probably be this one going after your brother. You mark that one.
Laura: I am now going to attack him with my blazing bow.
Matt: All righty, go for it.
Laura: All right. Natural 20!
Travis: Nice! Wyrmwood Box.
Taliesin: Breaking in the new box.
Laura: That's right.
Liam: (sings) It's my dice in a box.
Marisha: Dice in a box, yeah.
Taliesin: Dice in a box, yeah.
Laura: I add all of my dice together and then I double it, and then I add the modifier? Okay. And I Hunter's Marked him, yeah.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31 definitely hits.
Laura: That's 31 damage.
Matt: Oh, 31 damage. (laughs) Okay. All righty.
Laura: The second one was a three. It was a 14 to hit.
Matt: No, unfortunately it dodges out of the way. Its reflexes are very quick.
Liam: Be honest, the karma will come back to you.
Matt: Right, so as you pull back, you release, and with a flash of burning energy, your arrow ignites mid-transit. It blasts and bursts into the vampiric creature, who hisses at you (snarls) through the dark. The second arrow, however, it's completely ready for and actually manages to swipe it out of the air with its clawed hand. Okay, that ends your turn. Next up is Vax.
Liam: All right, there is one vampire right in front of me, right? The one who hurt me.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But I'm looking past his head at the one next to Grog, the one that's got a blade down there on the map. No, the other one. Yeah, I think I've got a pretty good shot at him. I'm going to ignore the vampire in front of me and since Grog is right up against that guy, I'm going to sneak attack him and go (daggers flying) Oh no, first I'm going to go click with my heels, and then I'm going to (daggers flying).
Marisha: Click, click. Dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Dagger, dagger, dagger! What you got?
Liam: It's all right. It's a 19. The second is a 28. And the third is a 21.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All three hit?
Matt: Yeah, the first one was?
Liam: I don't remember.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. Yeah. They all hit; not a problem.
Liam: Okay, so the first one is the sneak attack, and that one gets-- oh, I should be using the Wyrmwood box. Eight plus 12, 15, 18, 25. 25 for the first one. And for the second dagger that sinks into his head, that is eight. And for the third one that sinks into his fanged fucking face, that is nine.
Matt: All righty. Cool, so you click your Boots of Haste. You feel the influx of adrenaline hit your body, the magical push. You take the daggers and (daggers flying) the vampire in front of you tries to swipe out of your hands, but you're too fast; you've already released all three before he even gets to your wrist and pull back, grinning at it. All three daggers (dagger impacts) repeatedly, hitting nearly the same point like an amazing throwing of darts. Just smack, smack, smack into the center of the chest of the vampire across the way. It's distracted by Grog; it doesn't see them coming until it is too late, and it screeches out in pain (screeching) towards you. The eyes help on this, huh? A nice and sizable chunk of damage. All righty, that ends your turn, unless you want to try to move?
Liam: Yeah, actually I'm going to-- no. nope. I'm good.
Matt: All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to rage. (laughter)
Matt: Please do.
Travis: And I would like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and pound that shit to the left of me twice in the head with my fiery hammer.
Matt: All righty, go for it.
Travis: Oh, yeah. That is a 15.
Matt: 15 just barely hits.
Travis: And that's a one.
Liam: It's so hard to roleplay tonight.
Travis: It's so difficult.
Marisha: I'm Jimmy Falloning so hard over here.
Matt: Yeah, you are. (chuckles)
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16 on the first one. All right. That guy on the left, the one that just got three daggers to its chest. As the dagger vanishes from its wound, it looks over at you, at your already big grin, mid-swing (wham). The warhammer blasts into its chest, a burst of fire wreathing around its torso for a second. It gets pushed up against the wall. This time, you go to swing with all your might on your second blow, trying to smash it up against the earth that you guys have carved this tunnel out of. It ducks out of the way in split-second timing, and your hammer gets wedged into the side of the wall. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: Pull that shit out.
Travis: Shit. Nine.
Matt: Nine. It's pretty well wedged in there right now.
Liam: Next weapon.
Matt: All right, so. Now this one's going to shift over this way towards you, Percy. As you're on the ground prone still, just coming to consciousness. He just (snarls) and lunges out towards you. This one's going to move here, placing in that position, this one's going to stay there. All right, so the one rolling against you, Grog. It still has you-- no, the one that had you grappled walked away towards Percy. The other one's going to attempt to grapple you. That was 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Misses. You slap aside with your hand as you still try to pull the warhammer out of the wall, and then it gets clotheslined by the grip you have on it. It's going to try to strike you with its claws for the second attack. That's a ten. Yeah, no.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: You (swish) out of its way, laughing in its face. The one against you, Percy, where you're on the ground prone. Oh okay, that'll be an 18?
Taliesin: I'm an 18.
Matt: It grabs you by the front of your shit and lifts you up with that hissing sound. Yeah, that'll be a 25. It pulls you in and sinks its fangs into the side of your throat. You can feel yourself gasp out in pain as the cold sensation pulses through your body, the actual life's blood being drained from you. Okay, you take four points of piercing damage, and you take eight points of necrotic damage, and your maximum hit points are reduced by eight.
Travis: I forgot I have advantage on strength checks when I'm raging.
Matt: Roll again.
Travis: A one.
Laura: Wow, really?
Taliesin: It's as if the gods defy you.
Matt: So you're now grappled and held there. It's pulling the blood out of your throat, you're caught off guard and completely just confused, frightened, and in serious pain at this moment. All right, and the one that's Hunter's Marked, that's against you. It's going to attempt to grab you. That's a 20?
Liam: Yeah, that works.
Matt: Okay, no damage. It's just going to grab you. And it goes in to attempt to go through your throat. You being prepared for this, having been subjected to this once before, you bring a dagger up towards its face and it just barely manages to pull out of the way before you thrust it up through the bottom of its neck. You manage to deflect the attack. All right, the people who just woke up, roll initiative, please.
Sam: Initiative?
Matt: Which, for the record Scanlan, as a fan mentioned to me this last week, your jack-of-all-trades ability as a bard that gives you plus two to all things you're not proficient in also adds to your initiative, technically. So you have a plus two to your initiative. I've had this brought up multiple times, if it's not true.
Sam: I know it's been brought up to me. I thought it was a hypothetical. Is it true?
Matt: It's been clarified by a couple of publications that have been sent to me when I questioned it.
Liam: What is the bonus for that hat?
Matt: We'll consider that hat the plus two bonus.
Sam: (chuckles) So I get a plus two. I rolled a 20 initiative, then.
Matt: Oh snap. Scanlan next to Vax. Nice.
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12. All right, Percy?
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: Wow.
Taliesin: I have really good initiative.
Matt: All right, so we are now at the top of the round. This puts us to Vex and Percy going simultaneously.
Taliesin: I'll go first. I'm going to try and break grapple, obviously, since that's what I have to do.
Laura: Can I aid him by shooting him at the same time as he is trying to break the grapple?
Matt: You know what? Yes, go ahead and roll your first attack.
Liam: Go for the ear. It's a one.
Travis: You have the sage, still?
Taliesin: It's still at home.
Laura: It's been a lot of ones today, man.
Marisha: It's only our first hour.
Matt: Yeah, all right. So unfortunately, the first arrow-- there is too much movement to the bodies. It doesn't strike true, so you do not have advantage on this check. Acrobatics or athletics, your choice.
Taliesin: Acrobatics!
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Let's be clear, that was the shitty plastic die, not the Wyrmwood Box.
Taliesin: 28!
Matt: 28. You manage to break the grapple.
Taliesin: So that's my action, but if I now spend an action surge, I can get an action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: Do I get three attacks with the sword I just picked up? Since I'm too close to use my gun right now?
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to draw the rapier that I just picked and start stabbing at the terrible thing, all the while screaming. (screams)
Matt: All right, go for it. (laughter)
Laura: Is your little butt flap down? Are you in the long johns?
Taliesin: The butt flap of my soul is down. I'm well-dressed at the moment.
Matt: It's a plus-one rapier. But your archery you took, I think was your combat?
Taliesin: Yes, so I get a negative two to attack.
Matt: Correct, to what you normally get. So you have a overall plus one.
Taliesin: So I get a plus one to attack, on top of my--
Matt: No, sorry. Minus one is the total from what you get for your pistols, for your Pepperbox.
Taliesin: Minus one, not minus two. Got it.
Matt: The magical rapier offsets that a bit.
Taliesin: That's 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: That's a one. Misses.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a third time.
Taliesin: And that's a 14.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike sinks true. That's 1d8 plus what's your strength modifier? Well, no it would be dex.
Taliesin: Dex, thank you! So that's 1d8 plus dex.
Matt: Plus one damage on top of that because it's a plus-one weapon.
Taliesin: That's a nine.
Matt: Nine damage. All right. So your first swing, the speed of your ability to break this grapple and then immediately pull this weapon and jam it forward. It pierces part of the body and pull out, the creature all of a sudden reaches over and grabs its side instinctually. You go for two more strikes; however, being the first time in a long time that you've ever held a rapier and still with your other hand holding your throat in severe pain, it flings forward twice. The second time, the creature actually grabs it and pulls you in towards it.
Taliesin: (yells)
Marisha: What?
Matt: So yeah. You're now considered re-grappled.
Taliesin: (yells)
Matt: So you can take another attack.
Laura: I'll do my second arrow and try to hit him again because I don't like that I missed.
Travis: Fucking hit him this time, will you?
Laura: I know, right? Don't suck so hard, me.
Liam: Come on, don't do that again. You're my sister.
Laura: That's better. That definitely hits. It was an 18 plus--
Matt: Oh, 18 plus stuff? Yeah. Go ahead and roll damage. This is against the one that's on Percy, still, or the one that's against your brother?
Laura: I said it was the one against Percy, even though the other one is Hunter's Marked.
Taliesin: Don't sound so upset about it.
Laura: Well, I'm just saying.
Matt: Too late.
Laura: Yes! 16.
Matt: 16, all right. This arrow, however, does manage to sink into its side. It protrudes about four inches from its body; it's pretty deep into its torso, breaking a couple of ribs, but you see the creature, being the undead nature of its physicality, it's not looking too great, but it's not at the end of its rope right now. All right, that ends that. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay, so there's three of these things?
Matt: There are three of them, yes.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to use my movement-- can I see them all?
Matt: You can currently, yes.
Sam: I'll use my movement, because I just woke up, to pee. Because I just woke up, I've got to pee.
Travis: Do you have morning--
Sam: It's midnight wood.
Travis: Okay, so it's probably going to go everywhere.
Liam: You're acting like you're botoxed.
Sam: I can't move my lips.
Matt: So Scanlan, you use your movement to pee.
Sam: While I'm peeing, I whip out my Wand of Magic Missiles and I point it, and I use four of the slots for it to shoot... four times three is 12 missiles.
Matt: Can you do that?
Sam: Each slot is one Magic Missile spell, which is three missiles.
Matt: I don't know if you can use multiple slots on a turn, can you?
Sam: It says so on the wand. "For one charge, you cast the 1st-level spell. You can increase the spell slot level for each additional charge you spend." So I'm going to use four of them.
Travis: Like a battleship.
Marisha: Like a level-4 magic missile.
Sam: Which is 4d4 plus four for each one that I hit.
Taliesin: Like a Rhinestone cowboy.
Liam: It's the mustache.
Travis: (sing) Rhinestone cowboy.
Taliesin: (sing) Rhinestone cowboy.
Marisha: (sing) Rhinestone cowboy.
Laura: Burt Reynolds should play with us more often.
Travis: He has the best old man laugh right now.
Sam: This guy is the brains of the operation.
Liam: Let me break the fourth wall just for a second to say that this game is totally fucked.
Matt: It creates an additional dart per spell level, so it's initially three, and it's three levels higher, it gets to six.
Sam: Oh, so it doesn't increase it three darts per level. It's one. So if I do a level four, I get two darts for each fucker.
Matt: Essentially, yeah. I'd be 6d4 plus six.
Sam: 6d4 plus six. Okay, so 2d4 plus two for each guy. I'll do that.
Matt: And they hit automatically. There is no roll for it.
Sam: Great. And it can't hit my friends or anything, right? I mean, they're Magic Missiles.
Matt: No, they unerringly hit. They're like homing arcane projectiles.
Sam: Do I have to roll this six times or just two?
Matt: Six times. I know.
Sam: So, three plus two for the first guy.
Matt: Okay, so five against him.
Sam: Ten for the second guy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And seven for the third guy.
Matt: All righty. So as you get up--
Sam: By the way, I'm holding my dick with one hand and the wand with the other. I'm dual wielding.
Marisha: Dual wielding! Are you proficient in that?
Matt: I think Scanlan is pretty proficient in this. I'm just saying. All right, so.
Sam: And they're both spraying everywhere.
Matt: Happy Halloween!
Travis: Are you writing your name with your left hand?
Matt: Okay, so. As you sign your signature on the ground, you also burst forth with a series of arcane bolts that streak across the room, slamming into the sides of each of these vampires. They all look towards you as a reaction to the pain, and their heads all turn curiously as to what they see. Not what they were expecting.
Sam: Don't worry, I won't wash my hands. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that's your movement and your action. I think that's your turn, right?
Sam: Do I get a bonus?
Matt: If you want to use one, yeah.
Sam: Sure, so I'll inspire Grog. (sings) I need Grog to rage and get us through this semi-fucked kind of fight, baby, baby. (laughter)
Travis: Wow, way back.
Sam: (sings) Kill-kill-kill kill-kill-kill-kill!
All: (sing) Kill-kill-kill kill-kill-kill-kill! (laughter)
Matt: All right. Take your d10 inspiration die, Grog. Oh man, I get a d10 inspiration for that.
Liam: Oh, that's so Ravenloft. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Matt: Good night, everybody! And we're done.
Sam: Take the inspiration back.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: No, I'm not. I'm going to hold for a turn.
Laura: Are you really?
Matt: All right, Vax is now going after Grog. Right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I want to hammer in the morning, and I want to pull my hammer out of the wall.
Matt: Okay, you can use one of your attacks to. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Yay, that's better. That's a 28.
Matt: Yeah you (sucking noise) pull your hammer out without an issue. You're embarrassed at the fact that it was even embedded in what is essentially hard earth, and you still couldn't pull it free. But now it's blazing with flames; it's tight in your grasp. What are you going to follow it up with?
Travis: Can I use the great weapon master on these attacks, and I'll use reckless attack for advantage on them, and anybody that attacks me gets advantage, as well?
Matt: Okay. Yes, you can.
Travis: Thank god. 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: Beautiful, and the second one. That's landed on the side. That's 24.
Matt: Yep, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage plus ten to each.
Travis: (sings) Yeah, nipples.
Matt: To which one, the one that's next to Percy or the one that's in front of you here?
Travis: The one that's next to me!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 14 and 15, so 25 for the first one.
Matt: All right.
Travis: (sings) Stanky. (giggling)
Sam: Did you just say stanky?
Laura: Yeah, he did.
Liam: There is no difference between our old home game and this.
Sam: Except we don't have air conditioning.
Travis: 29.
Matt: 29 damage, jeez. So, the one that's harassing you. Chuckling at the fact that you've currently been unable to really prove your might as a goliath in front of these individuals, you grin as you pull it back and (wham) slam it directly in the face of it. It rears back, (growls) confused for a second. You can see a crack in its jaw and blood beginning to trickle down its jaw. You pull back and slam it a second time, this time with a resounding crack sound, as part of its jaw is dislodged and set to the side, its tongue dangling out, and dark black blood begins to pour from the center of its mouth as it looks to you with absolute fear. That was pretty rough.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: All righty, you want to do anything with your movement?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Actually, I'll put my back against the wall.
Matt: This one?
Travis: Yes. To open it up in case somebody wants to take a shot at him.
Matt: Okay. It will get an attack of opportunity on you. Are you cool with that?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. With advantage because reckless attack. That is a 22.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All right. You are raging, so you take ten points, so now five points of slashing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Vax. Now it is your turn.
Liam: Right, yeah, I'm good now. So the vampire is still in front of me, right? I give him a look like, yeah, go fuck yourself, and then I keep throwing at the other guy who's with Grog still, right?
Matt: No, Grog moved away.
Liam: All right, then I'll handle the guy up front. I'm going to go for his guts. I'm going to go low. One, two, three right in his guts. First attack. Hit, way hits; that's a 30. And the second attack is a 24, and the third attack is a 17.
Matt: All right. So those all hit.
Liam: Okay, they do. That's 11 for the first and eight for the second and eight for the third. Right in his vampire guts.
Matt: (dagger impacts) You jam the dagger into its torso. It's trying to stop and slap the hands away, but you're too fast and the final hit, you push it up, and you're right in its face again; you can see its fangs still wet with the blood that it pulled from your throat, and you grin at it back as you withdraw the dagger with much force and anger.
Liam: And the last thing I say is, vampires ain't shit. (laughter)
Matt: Getting that on a jacket now. Vampires ain't shit. All right, cool. That ends your turn, unless you want to move or do anything else?
Liam: Nah.
Matt: All right. Now it's their turn. You notice, by the way: this round, specifically, as they're looking a little more wounded, their flesh begins to slowly reform. The wounds they've taken begin to seal up and the pouring of blood begins to slowly turn into a trickle.
Liam: So what? So does Scanlan's mustache.
Matt: It's true.
Sam: I would smile right now if I could. (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to tickle you. See what happens.
Matt: All righty. This one's going to move up to here.
Marisha: Did I just get seriously boned in initiative? Am I still sleeping?
Matt: Yeah, you're last. I mean, you'll be getting up this turn.
Marisha: I'm still asleep, guys.
Matt: Well, you're awake. You woke up, you're just prone.
Marisha: Well, I'm real groggy.
Matt: Real Grog-gy. Sorry, I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's never going to stop being funny.
Sam: You're so attractive tonight for some reason. Have we been together?
Travis: What? Oh, you and I have been together. Did you see?
Sam: Look at that.
Travis: I carved that in with a pen, myself, after our night together. Where have you been my whole life?
Matt: It's canon. (laughter)
Liam: This is our least serious episode ever. We cannot wear costumes but once a year.
Matt: Yeah. Only time that it works.
Sam: And Purim, also.
Taliesin: There will be a pajama night for Christmas.
All: Yeah.
Matt: Speaking of which. Percy, it's your turn. Oh, I'm sorry, it's their turn on you. There's two of them now, ganging up on you. Natural 20.
Marisha: How many's left? Three?
Liam: They're all still here. They're taking hits.
Matt: That's a 20 and a 15.
Taliesin: The 20 hits. The 15 does not.
Matt: All right. Well, you take 14 points of slashing damage from the claw. The second attack, it attempts to slash you a second time. You manage to dodge out of the way, putting your back up against the wall to barely avoid its grasp. However, the second one lunges towards you, attempting to grab you. That is a 19?
Taliesin: 19 hits.
Matt: 19 hits. No damage, but now it's grabbed you and shoved you up against the wall. It takes one hand and jams it up under your chin to push your head up and goes for your throat. Rolls a one. As it goes to bite your throat, you pull Pepperbox up and jam it into its mouth. It (choking). It has to pull back from the attack, and you can see now this vampire saliva is all over the barrel of the gun, and it may have chipped a tooth. All right, that finishes their turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Whoa!
Sam: Not a dream.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it was for a second.
Liam: Real vampires.
Marisha: Okay! What's the situation with the vampires? That's all of them clustered there?
Matt: There's two of them right there on Percy. They have him grabbed and shoved against the wall. There's one over here that's battling back and forth with Vax.
Marisha: Vax? Where is Percy?
Taliesin: Against the wall.
Marisha: You're against the wall. I get up. Can I reach around Scanlan, doing another reach around--
Sam: You're doing a reach-around? Okay. My dick is out.
Marisha: And I see as I reach around. I'm like, aw, really? And I'm blasting--
Sam: Little privacy, please?
Marisha: I'm blasting a Sunbeam.
Matt: At which one?
Marisha: Those two. It's a line. Are they in a line?
Matt: You're probably going to have to move to get them both in a line.
Marisha: Can I shift to where I can?
Matt: You can move there to do it, yes.
Marisha: That's what I want to do.
Matt: Okay, so you slide alongside Scanlan--
Marisha: And I yell to the party  Shield your eyes!
Sam: I instinctively cover my penis. (laughter)
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Sam: It's more important than my eyes.
Travis: Take my eyes, not my penis.
Liam: It's the third one.
Matt: Yeah, no, you were technically in melee with this guy, but there is no attack roll, so you don't have disadvantage, which is good.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: I roll a bunch of d6s?
Matt: Well, yeah, go ahead and do that. Each creature has to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: How many d6s do I roll?
Matt: It's 6d8 radiant damage, and they have disadvantage on the saving throw because they are undead. So the first one-- that is a 14, nope. Second one, no. Third one-- no, rolled a one. All right, so all of them take full damage.
Marisha: Full damage. Okay, so that is 15, 19. Not bad. 21 plus 12, so that's 33 radiant damage, and they are blinded.
Sam: What? Is that true?
Matt: Okay, well. (chuckles)
Sam: (singing) Let the sun shine, let the sunshine in.
Matt: So both of these vampires currently have Percy pinned up against the wall. One of them is trying to bite his throat, and Percy's trying to keep it at bay with his weapons. Keyleth, you step forward--
Marisha: Where I can also not look at Scanlan's penis.
Matt: Right, you feel the inspiration, based on the presence of the Sun Tree, and what previously you were attempting to try and repair it with. Using that, you close your eyes and a burst of sunlight energy cascades forth, slamming into both the vampires and barely missing Percy in the process. Both of them look over out of the corner of their eye as they see the flash of light. They both scream out (screeches) as the blast shoots through both of them. Both of them immediately turn to ash and are strewn against the far wall.
Travis: Whoa! Damn!
Sam: That was so cool.
Marisha: That was cool.
Sam: Zip.
Travis: Bonus action.
Marisha: So there is one alive?
Matt: There is one alive, yes, that's right next to you.
Marisha: And he's on Vax?
Matt: Currently, yes.
Marisha: Okay, I see that. I turn and I see him, and I'm gonna take a Grasping Vine and wrap around it and yank him, trying to beat him up against the wall on the other side.
Matt: This side here?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: Okay, is it a bonus action for Grasping Vine?
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Matt: What's the roll for that? I'm looking for the roll for Grasping Vine real fast.
Marisha: I conjure a vine-- I think it just happens.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw. With the DC, it's 17.
Marisha: Nope, 18.
Matt: 18. No, that gets it.
Matt: Damn, all right. So. It pulls it (impact sound) into the wall over that way, the vines now currently wrapped around its torso. It tries to pull itself free.
Laura: We should probably use sunlight on them always, because don't they turn into mist if we don't kill them?
Marisha: Yeah, I think so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to the top of the round. Vex and Percy, it's your go.
Laura: I don't know, should we attack him or should we let--
Travis: Stake.
Laura: Oh yeah. I bust out one of the wooden daggers. I walk up and I try to stab it into his heart. In front of my brother.
Marisha: Nice! Wood dagger!
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for a melee attack.
Laura: Okay, I still get two attacks, right?
Matt: Correct. And you're using your dexterity as the bonus. Simple weapon, which you're proficient with.
Laura: 19?
Matt: That is a 19? Does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, then what do I do?
Matt: Roll for second attack.
Laura: Probably no. 14.
Matt: 14 does not hit. All right, so go ahead and roll 1d4. Add your dex modifier.
Laura: Nine?
Matt: All right, so you take the heavily-sharpened wooden dagger, essentially. You jam it into its chest. It screeches out in pain, the wooden stake itself partially destroyed in the process of jamming it in to do so much damage. It reaches up grabs it and breaks it off, and part of it still in its chest, goes (growling hiss). Hisses at you angrily.
Laura: Wooden stakes don't work! I back up a little bit.
Sam: You got some damage in, no? Yes? That stake was well done. Yeah! (laughter)
Travis: That was so CSI Miami, man.
Liam: Your mustache is almost down to your chin for a goatee.
Sam: Soon it will be creeping across my face.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn?
Laura: I guess so.
Matt: Yeah, that was two attacks.
Laura: Can I move away, since he's grappled?
Matt: Well, he's not currently grappled per se; he's just held against the wall. You can still move away if you want. It'll just take a swipe at you.
Laura: I'm going to stay right there.
Matt: Okay. Trinket is cheering you on (bear noises) from the back wall.
Laura: Thanks, Trinket.
Matt: Percy.
Taliesin: Is it true that we can't kill it except with sunlight?
Laura: Sunlight and water.
Matt: You're not entirely certain. You know that sunlight is very damaging to it, and from your research, you know that vampires of certain levels of power, as opposed to dying, turn into a mist form and attempt to retreat.
Marisha: They misted in.
Taliesin: I'm going to hack at his neck with my sword a couple of times.
Marisha: I wrote all that stuff down.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: All right, all three hit.
Taliesin: Ten points, 15 points.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Ten points.
Matt: Ten points, got it. All right, so you slam the rapier three times into its body, leaving these large gaping wounds. It's looking like it's hurt, and its eyes are darting about, gauging its chances. That'll be your turn, unless you wish to move.
Taliesin: I'll back away from it.
Matt: Okay, so you're back there. As you back away, it sees the opportunity and reaches out with its claws towards you. That is a nine.
Taliesin: That does not hit. I'm going to really quickly also do a second wind.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Should we ask it questions or something?
Sam: Does it talk?
Taliesin: I think we should probably just kill it.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Percy. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? I'm not ready. I guess I don't need to see it. Can I see it?
Matt: Yeah, it's right here. You're right there.
Sam: Okay. Can I do this? I will just taunt it. I will use Vicious Mockery on it, and I'll just say: What's up? What's up, toothy? Hey, bite me. That's it. That's all I do.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: It's 3d4.
Matt: Yeah, it is. That was about 3d4 worth.
Sam: It's all I got. I wasn't ready.
Travis: What's up, toothy? Bite me.
Sam: I think it's a wisdom.
Matt: There we go. Yeah, it's a wisdom saving throw. No, it does not make it with a six.
Liam: But his singing skill makes it very bassy and full.
Matt: So, you cast Vicious Mockery at 3rd level?
Sam: Because I'm a level 11.
Matt: It's 3d4 damage. It does take it and it has disadvantage on its next attack roll.
Sam: Can I do it at an even higher level?
Matt: No, I was thinking of another spell. Go for it.
Sam: Four, two, two. Eight!
Matt: Eight points of damage. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Sam: That's how I want to do it. I want to do some pelvic thrusting while I'm saying it: Bite me. Bite me hard. Bite me, motherfucker, bite me!
Taliesin: Urine flying everywhere.
Sam: Oh shit, I forgot. Oh, there's urine everywhere. My mustache is falling off; it's terrible.
Matt: So as it's trying to take its chances, it turns to go ahead and flee. Sees Grog, looks over and hears you going: "Hey, toothy!" Looks over back at you. One of the weaknesses of a vampire is running water. Technically, it needs to be a large amount of running water, but this creature is on death's door and based on the fact that it is right on the edge of passing out, anyway, the bit of your--
Travis: Constellation Urine.
Matt: Yes, streaks across the front of the vampire as it turns around. Grog just instinctually slams it with the hammer and smashes it into the ground. It's hard to say which killed it, but you're pretty sure it was you.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan!
Sam: High five! (impact sound)
Travis: Chest bump! (impact sound)
Matt: Which, for the record, as you high five him, there is a bit of spatter across your hand.
Laura: Future reference, the fog is bad. Not totally natural.
Liam: Oh, there is no gnome like our gnome. Oh my gods.
Laura: Seriously, though, put your dick away.
Sam: I'm sorry. You're right, I'm sorry. Please don't judge me. It's morning, it's also unseasonably cold in here. That's why it's so small. Don't judge me.
Travis: So newsflash  the fog is bad. We probably need a new hideout.
Laura: We probably gave away our location.
Travis: Nope, no, we killed them all.
Liam: He just rolled a die.
Laura: We should probably get the fuck out.
Marisha: What time is it, midnight?
Matt: Right now it's a little after midnight.
Sam: So we have not had a full rest?
Taliesin: Let's have a full rest.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: They don't know where we are yet. We killed everybody.
Sam: What if they have some sort of psychic communication, and what if this is their spawning ground? What if the Sun Tree is their spawning ground?
Marisha: Can I do some sort of check to see if the Sun Tree is their spawning ground?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Just a straight intelligence check?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That's a natural one.
Laura: Yay. Hey, that's what I rolled when I was trying to check things out.
Matt: It's hard to say. You don't understand a lot of the nature of undead; it's not your forte and things have been weird around here. You have no idea.
Liam: Here's what we're going to do. I've got one silver piece right here. I'm going to flip it.
Sam: Wait. Did you grow that mustache for tonight?
Laura: Yes.
Sam: That's awesome.
Liam: It was a goatee a scant five hours ago. Now it is an Errol Flynn mustache. Thank you. We'll discuss it at break. I'm going to flip this coin because that's all we fucking got. If it's a 20, we're gonna stay here. If it's a one, we're going to find another place.
Marisha: Sure, fuck it. Leave it up to chance.
Laura: We find another place.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Can we tunnel our way to the tree?
Laura: Let's tunnel. I don't want to go up. No, we can't tunnel
Marisha: I can't. I blew all my natural energies doing that Sunbeam.
Liam: It's still night, though. We've had a short rest. We've got to get out of here. They know we're here.
Laura: It's night. We can't travel at night.
Travis: I know.
Liam: You're a badass.
Laura: There's vampires.
Travis: Yeah, we step outside, it's game on.
Liam: As opposed to down here in the hole?
Laura: I feel like we're safer down here. At least there's only so many places they can attack from.
Sam: But the coin said we should go.
Liam: That's fine. When you went down that cavern that one time, that worked out really well. So let's do what she says.
Marisha: Wait, are you talking about when Vex and I came back with Clarota and he helped us for quite a while? Is that what you're talking about?
Laura: That worked out really well because we probably wouldn't have defeated K'Varn without him.
Marisha: Yeah, you're right, Vax. Vex, let's stay.
Liam: That's very open to interpretation.
Travis: Until he betrayed us and tried to eat Scanlan's brain.
Taliesin: I'm agreeing with the women because I want to live to see the morning.
Sam: I still think Clarota was a pretty good guy.
Travis: We decide to stay.
Matt: All right.
Travis: We stay.
Laura: We're stupid.
Travis: No we're not. We'll be fine.
Laura: What if we went up above ground and went into the second floor? So we're not underground.
Sam: All right, sure, let's do that. That's no good, either.
Marisha: Are there two stories? I technically used my Hallucinatory Terrain spell to make it look like a one-story tavern.
Sam: What about this? How about we don't sleep in the tunnel? We barricade that up and we just sleep in the cellar. Not the tunnel, the cellar.
Laura: All right, let's do it. It's fine, whatever.
Liam: Back and to the left.
Sam: Can we barricade the cellar somehow?
Marisha: That I can do. I'll do a Wall of Stone where I tunneled.
Laura: We're very packed in. It's nice and cozy and warm.
Matt: It is, and you're surrounded by a number of bottles of wine--
Liam: And bear farts.
Taliesin: And all the wine we stole. We stole a lot of wine.
Marisha: Can we pop open a bottle of that wine?
Taliesin: And try and relax?
Travis: Yeah, we can. I guess I'll allow it.
Matt: Pop open the wine, share a bottle, and you all manage to find your way back to sleep. Who's taking watch now?
Marisha: I'll go with Vax because I haven't been yet.
Matt: Okay, so you two take the next watch.
Laura: I stay awake because I don't want them to be alone.
Matt: (chuckles) All right, the three of you take this watch.
Marisha: Half-elves, what what.
Sam: I go back to sleep.
Travis: Half-elves, what what.
Liam: Hello, my half-elven brothers.
Matt: All right, a few hours of awkward conversation--
Liam: (shushing noises) Jeralt is speaking.
Matt: It's Geralt, thank you very much.
Laura: Sigil.
Liam: I haven't played that game, but is your name Solid Snake?
Matt: I will attack both of you.
Marisha: Cue internet rage.
Matt: (laughs) Oh man. All right, so after you guys take your watch, with seeming no incident, although some awkward conversation and a few jabs here and there. Final watch, who's taking that?
Sam: I've already watched.
Laura: I need to sleep. You need to sleep.
Travis: Fuck it, I'll do it.
Matt: All right, Grog is up.
Laura: Trinket stays awake with you, though.
Matt: And Trinket does like staying awake with you, Grog. You both understand each other on a very feral and unintelligent level.
Travis: We play hand slaps. (impact sound) Fuck. Claws catching every once in a while.
Matt: Eventually, everyone's managed to gather your evening's rest. You come to consciousness, the cold morning greets you. No seeming further incident in the cellar during the evening.
Travis: You're welcome.
Matt: I would like everyone to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Travis: No problem.
Taliesin: Wisdom saving or just wisdom?
Matt: Wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Saving throw? Oh right, because we've been in a cursed land for a while.
Sam: Does my thing help me?
Matt: Your thing help you?
Sam: I have some thing.
Liam: The cube?
Marisha: Jack-of-all-trades?
Sam: No, shit. I'll find it. Don't worry, come back to me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 17.
Travis: 11.
Sam: What is this? Wisdom?
Matt: Wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Advantage.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: 14.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth?
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: Eight.
Marisha: Oh, not Percy!
Laura: Oh, not Percy!
Travis: You don't know.
Marisha: Oh god, look at that smirk on his face!
Taliesin: Fuck you, Matt.
Matt: So as you all come to consciousness, I would like you to put another point of corruption on your sheet.
Laura: Oh no, how many can you get before you're totally evil?
Marisha: What does that mean? Now what?
Matt: Tell you in a second.
Taliesin: Am I still coughing?
Matt: Oh, you're still coughing. You guys all come back to consciousness. Cold morning greets you. Food probably is going to be in order pretty soon. You guys didn't get much of a meal the evening before, and you're all still a little sore after your evening's rest. You've pushed through and recovered from your exhaustion from your frenzied rage.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: Ring of Mind-Shielding, is what I was going to say.
Taliesin: That mustache is getting very iffy.
Sam: I don't know what you're talking about.
Travis: Do we want some dried food rations?
Laura: Plus, there's probably dried food in this cellar.
Travis: I have a ton in the bag.
Marisha: Can we do a check to see if there's any jerky or anything in the cellar? Did we already do that?
Matt: You guys looked through. You found some jerky, some dried food that's serviceable. Not the best, but serviceable. All right. Going forward, the sadistic tendencies that you've been exerting through a lot of this event are becoming harder and harder to control. Be mindful that when you strike to kill, you strike to torture before you do.
Sam: Whoa, that's so cool. I mean terrible.
Laura: Is he the only one that was affected this time, again?
Matt: Yep. Everyone else rolled above a ten.
Taliesin: I have a very low wisdom, and I rolled really badly.
Matt: All right, so. You finish your meal. Looking outside, what little bit of the windows you can see, since you covered them all with cloth, there's a little bit of daylight peeking through. It's soft daylight. It looks like, while it's not raining, there is still a cloud-covered sky. What is your plan of action?
Travis: I have a question. My 11 points of permanently lowered hit points from the necrotic damage, can that be healed with a potion of greater healing?
Matt: Those hit points have all come back, by the way, guys. Over the night, the hit points you lost on your hit point total have been returned.
Liam: I didn't suffer from this, but permanently lowered health?
Matt: Yeah, from the bite? That recovers after a long rest.
Travis: Literally what I just asked.
Sam: What about the hit points that were lowered?
Travis: Literally what I just asked.
Matt: What? Don't-- My brain doesn't work-- (laughs) It's hot in here.
Travis: Are we going to find another house to kill now? I mean, to carefully investigate and thoroughly due diligence the heads before we smash them.
Liam: Scanlan, I think you and I going to go see how people are feeling in the town while everybody else looks for a new hidey-hole, yeah?
Marisha: Are we tunneling through this entire city?
Liam: I think you are, but if it's first thing in the morning, I don't think the Briarwoods could have gotten to everybody yet, so I think you and I could do our father-son act for like an hour.
Sam: Did you just say fart the son act?
Liam: Fart the son and the vampires, they're done-- father and son.
Sam: Oh, father and son. Oh! Seeming!
Liam: Because you're little, and I'm tall.
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Why don't we Seem all of us so we can go take a look around while you talk to--
Travis: Yeah, we've got to find a different spot.
Liam: Quickly, though, because even though we don't look like ourselves, they know that there are strangers in town.
Laura: Grog, give everybody a little bit of the Dust of Tracelessness.
Taliesin: And we have the earpieces.
Sam: Do we? Do you?
Taliesin: I have one now.
Marisha: I have one.
Liam: I have one.
Sam: Okay. So I am to Seem us as peasants again?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Same peasants, yes.
Travis: Different-looking peasants.
Sam: (sings) Seeming. Feel me, touch me, heal me.
Liam: Sorry, folks.
Sam: All right, so we're all peasants.
Matt: Gnome bard wizard over here.
Sam: I'm a cute little boy with a lazy eye. To match my grandma.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I have the Hat of Disguise on underneath, just so even if it drops, I'm still not me.
Matt: Okay, good to know. All right.
Marisha: So are we breaking up? Are you two going to scout the town and the rest of us will--
Liam: We're going to talk to a few people, right, kiddo?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: The rest of us are finding a new hideout?
Laura: Yeah, we're looking for a new hideout.
Taliesin: Where should we meet?
Marisha: We've got the earrings.
Taliesin: We've got the earrings, so once we find a place, we'll let you know.
Liam: We'll come to you, yeah.
Laura: Check in every 30 minutes. It's dangerous.
Marisha: Okay. I like that plan.
Travis: What's the safety word?
Sam: I'd leave that up to Percy.
Marisha: I was going to say I'd leave that up to you.
Laura: Meet back here in two hours--
Liam: Too long.
Laura: Hold on. Meet back here in two hours if we haven't heard from everything.
Taliesin: If everything goes wrong, we meet back here in two hours. Otherwise, check in every 30 minutes. Do we need a code word?
Sam: Yeah, we need a code word.
Travis: Doritos.
Laura: I was thinking Dorito, too! How weird.
Travis: Married.
Marisha: Dorito. I like that.
Matt: Dorito. A strange elven term for flatmate. All right, so, as you guys press out into the day's sun, we'll take a quick break. We'll be back here in five minutes to continue this.
Marisha: Hot. I might have to de-armor.
Travis: I'm taking this wig off.
Matt: See you guys shortly. [break]
Zac: Hey, what's up, everybody? Welcome back. Real quick, couple announcements, the first of which: tomorrow, here on Geek and Sundry, we have a special episode of Group Hug; it's going to be Alien versus Predator versus the Alien Queen. Cthulhu might be thrown in there. We're still working out the details, but we're going to kick off Halloween. It's going to be pretty rad. And the chat room bought those figures for us, so we're going to play with them, and it's going to be awesome. And then after that, we have a really awesome band tomorrow night, and they're going to be coming in costume, and then we've got the game Nightmare on VHS.
Matt: Oh, yeah! I used to have that, man.
Zac: Yeah. We're going to be rocking out Nightmare tomorrow night, and Felicia's probably going to be stopping by, and Ryon Day. We're going to have a big old Halloween party with Rock Band and everything else. So you guys are more than welcome to join us and celebrate Halloween.
Matt: You should be Baron Samedi for that one.
Zac: Baron Samedi?
Matt: He's one of the characters you can play in that. God, that thing was so awful. It's going to be so great.
Zac: It's so bad-good. I cannot wait.
Matt: Whose turn is it? You. You are banished. Oh, that guy was so good.
Zac: I can't wait, guys, so tune in for that. And for all the people last week that voted for me to have sideburns and a Freddie Mercury mustache, I have kept both all week, and tomorrow I will not have to anymore, so thank you for that. I love you guys. You're great. Good times, good job. That's all I have to say.
Matt: (laughs) Man, Nightmare. That's almost as good as Experience Bij. All right, so. Quick announcement we have for you guys right now, as well. Tonight's episode, if you haven't seen from the setup, is actually sponsored by Tor Books, which is awesome. If you guys aren't familiar with Tor, you need to go check out what they have. I grew up reading a lot of the stuff that Tor published. They're one of the major publishers of science fiction and fantasy out there. They've been going for a long time. I was raised on a lot of their spectrum. Right now, they're pushing the awesome New York best-selling book Shadows of Self. Yes. That's the one. Which Felicia really, really enjoyed, and if you guys have the opportunity to go check it out, please do so. Their stuff is awesome. So thank you, Tor. I think that's it. So if everyone's back here, let's go ahead and-- oh, there he is. I was waiting for Burt to return.
Sam: I didn't want to disturb your announcements.
Travis: Sit down, you dickless wonder.
Matt: Oh, it's a sleeping monkey.
Sam: Easy, Helga. You meant nothing to me.
Travis: (laughs) Oh?
Liam: Still so little expression on that face.
Sam: I don't know what you're saying. I can perform perfectly.
Travis: I've moved on from Scanlan, and I've cut my hair as a sign of change.
Liam: Like Vasquez.
Laura: Yeah, I like it.
Travis: Yeah, Aliens. Such a badass, Vasquez.
Marisha: I've taken my scarf off because it's really hot. It's really hot in here.
Matt: You ever been mistaken for a man? Come on, you've got to know the response to that.
Laura: No, have you?
Matt: Thank you, Laura.
Laura: You got it.
Matt: Grog has disadvantage on his next attack. (groaning)
Laura: And Vex has advantage?
Matt: Yeah, probably. We'll see when we get there. All right, so.
Liam: (explosion noise)
Matt: Down. (laughs) I will Quen all over your ass. I got Aard signs all day, yo. All right, anyway. So. What are the groups? You guys are splitting up across the city?
Laura: Oh, right. Yes.
Sam: Is that a thing? Are we doing this?
Laura: This is the dumbest idea, by the way.
Travis: No, it's the best.
Liam: Daddy Daycare. You and I, we're going to go talk to people.
Sam: Papa, let's go.
Laura: Keyleth, you and me.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: No, the four of us are sticking together, I thought.
Laura: All right. And Trinket.
Taliesin: Trinket the donkey.
Sam: Oh, yes.
Taliesin: We'll go to the Alcove.
Travis: We're going to the Alcove.
Matt: Good. So.
Liam: What was the name of the guy that Grog de-tongued and kicked out the window?
Sam: Kerrion.
Travis: Kerrion.
Marisha: That was Vox.
Matt: He was shot in the face by Percy. This was Vouk.
Travis: Got it.
Liam: Thanks.
Sam: So Vouk is alive?
Laura: And I'm sure he told everybody what we looked like. We can't look like the same Seeming that we were before.
Taliesin: He can only tell them what we look like if he's a very clever artist.
Laura: Yeah, but he can write it down.
Travis: He's really good at charades.
Marisha: But they already know what we look like.
Travis: Should've broken his fingers, too.
Laura: Seeming.
Marisha: I thought we dropped Seeming, though?
Laura: We didn't.
Sam: Would I have been smart enough to Seem us slightly differently?
Matt: Based on this conversation happening now? No. You have already transformed everybody into the original--
Sam: Except I gave myself a lazy eye.
Matt: Except you have a lazy eye, which is different.
Liam: I don't think it makes a difference. I think there's no new people in this town.
Marisha: True. Even newer people might be suspicious.
Travis: We don't give a fuck. We're walking around. We don't give a shit. You people have got lazy eyes. We've got a donkey. No problem. Recognize us, I dare you.
Laura: I have crazy eyes.
Matt: Yeah, you do. Crazy old woman eyes.
Laura: They're like (growls).
Matt: Just like that.
Liam: But you guys are tunneling around, looking for new digs, right?
Marisha: No, we're walking around.
Sam: Well, that's up to them.
Liam: That's up to you. I thought-- who cares what I thought?
Matt: Indeed. So you and Scanlan continue off into the city.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on them before they leave. On all of us.
Matt: Okay. All right. There is a radius to it, I believe.
Laura: Oh, there is?
Matt: They have to stay within a certain area of you.
Laura: I really should read about spells more.
Matt: I can just look it up right here. I would do that, yeah. I would recommend looking up your spells.
Laura: Oh, within 30 feet of me.
Taliesin: What part of town is the Alcove?
Matt: The Alcove would be on the northwest side of it.
Liam: She's not even here. You're with me. Gavroche, come on! And I swat him as hard as I can in the back of the head.
Sam: Thenardier is our precious father.
Matt: The four of you head off towards the Alcove. Heading out into the day, the cloud cover is pretty thick. There is just general moisture and mist to the air. It probably could rain any second. You continue moving towards the northwestern side of the town. You do notice, in comparison to previous days, there is a little more energy to the streets. People seem to be moving back and forth with hustle and business. You do also see, as you head on your way out, there is still a slight bit of smoke slowly swimming up from the house in the distance, and what minor embers were not put out by the rainfall, it's just a little trace of smoke.
Taliesin: Was it the north, the east, or the west manor?
Matt: That was the eastern.
Taliesin: Eastern manor.
Matt: Yeah, that one is partially burned down. So as you continue heading northwest, you eventually make your way to where you recall the Alcove was. Now, when you get there, it's a relatively plain-looking building. Dark woods. There's a sign out front that says The Alcove. It's old. The metal that holds the sign has rusted a bit. The doors are open, and as you push into the building, it's largely empty and seemingly unkempt, compared to the previous oddity shops you've been to. Many books about enchantment look left out on one of the nearby tables, partially read and abandoned as if they were being flipped through. And then as you look across the room, behind the counter, there's a young girl in her late teens, a blonde waif of a girl, who's currently thumbing through a book and notices you guys enter. "Oh! Hi. Can I help you?"
Taliesin: Yes, we're looking to buy a few things, and we were wondering-- actually, I used to do business with Simon. Is Simon around?
Matt: "Simon was called away for a special project by the Briarwoods about six months ago. He told me to look over the store while he's gone. I'm sorry, we're mostly out of stock. We don't have much here at the moment."
Taliesin: He was called away on a special project? What sort of special project?
Matt: "I don't know. He lives in the castle now. I mean, he would visit every week or so, but he hasn't been back in almost a month, and I'm a little worried."
Travis: He lives at the castle?
Taliesin: He lives at the castle? Oh.
Marisha: Did he ever tell you about any details of this special assignment?
Matt: "No, unfortunately. He was the real enchanter here. I'm just trying to do my best to learn what I can while he's gone."
Laura: Speak up, girl! I can't hear you. MATT "I'm sorry, miss! I'm sorry. I'm Jordana Whisk. I'm Simon's daughter."
Laura: Simon's daughter. Now, did he like the Briarwoods?
Matt: She gives you a look and looks about the room for a moment. "The Briarwoods have been very fair and just rulers of this land."
Laura: I'm trying to look straight at her, but I'm really looking that direction and over there.
Matt: She's gathered as much and is seemingly offput by the whole presentation. "The Briarwoods are just and fair, and we should not speak ill of them in public."
Travis: Can somebody see if there's something watching?
Marisha: Yeah, can I do a perception check around the room and see if there's any indications that the Briarwoods might have--
Travis: Monitoring?
Marisha: Yeah, a bug? Like some sort of something where they might be monitoring this place.
Sam: A small electronic device.
Marisha: Yes. That kind of bug.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Not bad. 26.
Matt: Looking around the room, there doesn't appear to be any specific devices installed, whether magical or otherwise, that would pertain to immediate--
Travis: No blue poo. Got it.
Laura: (whispering) Lean in, girl. Lean in.
Matt: She leans in a little bit and goes, "Hold on." And she runs off behind the counter. Heads back and closes the doors behind where you guys entered. Heads back and gets behind the counter. "I'm sorry. I don't recognize any of you, and you're bringing up rather dangerous statements. What can I help you with? We don't have much." And she reaches down and pulls out a couple of small glass vials. Simple healing potions, you can already see. You've worked with these type of things before.
Taliesin: We're actually looking for something a bit more complicated and a little more dangerous.
Matt: She pulls up a small metal rod. "One of these?"
Taliesin: I don't know what that is. Let me show you. And I'm going to walk over to the wall, find a dusty wall, and I'm going to trace the symbol on the wall.
Matt: Okay. She gives you a look and says, "It's dangerous to draw that around here, sir."
Taliesin: I'm going to wipe it away.
Matt: She gets a little more comfortable as soon as you do. "What are you doing here?"
Taliesin: We're hoping that we could purchase a brief amount of sanctuary.
Matt: "Here? Why?"
Taliesin: We need to keep moving so that they don't catch us.
Matt: "The Briarwoods are after you? I can't have you here! You'll bring them right to me!"
Laura: Dear, the Briarwoods aren't after us. They're after everybody. What we need is a place to stay that we know is protected.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: (growls) Eight is-- 16.
Sam: 80 60?
Laura: 80 60.
Matt: Yes, big number. It's a very large die.
Taliesin: Can I try and pour on top of it?
Matt: I'd say no. Not at this point. You're the one that originally spurred her worry. She gives you a look. "Look, if I'm going to let you stay here, I need to know more about what it is that you're trying to accomplish here. Raising the symbol of the de Rolos? I've never seen any of you in the city before in my life."
Laura: Do you miss the de Rolos, dear?
Matt: "Anything's better than this misery."
Laura: Well, we may know a couple de Rolos. We may know some. No big deal.
Marisha: It's true.
Matt: She shakes her head and, "Foolish minds. The de Rolos have been dead for five years."
Taliesin: Not all of them.
Matt: "Really?"
Taliesin: I can't drop the Seeming, can I?
Marisha: (laughing) No, you're stuck.
Travis: Just drop that phat name of yours, buddy.
Laura: Only one person would know the entire name of Percival de Rolo.
Marisha: Miss, do you know the full name of Percival de Rolo?
Taliesin: I was wondering if you were about to do it. Can you do it?
Travis: Yeah, it's Museldorf Musketeers--
Sam: Percival Sanchez Vicario--
Laura: de Rolo III.
Liam: The Nina, the Pinta, the Santa Maria.
Marisha: Percival Von Musel Von Lichtenstein de Rolo III.
Sam: Kevin Dorff, Wesley Snipes.
Laura: Magneto de Rolo III.
Marisha: de Rolo III.
Matt: This moment of tension with Jordana awkwardly staring at these all very intently looking dirty peasants. With a donkey. Just talking about names.
Taliesin: Simon Whisk was a good friend to Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.
Marisha: That's it.
Taliesin: Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.
Marisha: Percival Fredricks Von Stein--
Travis: You can call him Percy.
Taliesin: Percival lives, and he's coming.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. [no audio]
Matt: And one you're not sure the nature of, and says, "Take these." And she pushes them ahead to you. "It's not much." Two regular healing potions, one greater healing potion. She explains what the metal thing is. She picks it up and clicks part of the metal cusp of it, and it stays in the air on its own.
Marisha: Oh my god! It's another Rod of Holding.
Matt: Immovable Rod, but yes.
Marisha: Immovable Rod. That one. I was combining Bag of Holding and the Immovable Rod. Combining them.
Sam: What's a movable rod?
Laura: Two greater healing and then another regular?
Matt: One greater healing and two regular.
Liam: It's like a ladder rung that you can put wherever you want and hang on it.
Sam: Did we already have one of those?
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Sam: What happened to it?
Marisha: Tiberius put it somewhere, and it never came back.
Sam: He put it on the magic carpet?
Marisha: He might have. Tiberius had one. We didn't use it much.
Liam: He's a mysterious motherfucker.
Matt: All right. She pushes it all towards you guys and says, "I have practically no one, and I can't be much help. I'm not a fighter."
Marisha: I'll take the rod.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I will make sure that you are compensated when this is over. Can we sleep here for the night?
Matt: "Follow me." She leads you to the back, and there's this very, very small room that looks like it used to be her father's room. It's dusty. Most of it has been untouched, except for the bed. She walks in. "This is all I have to offer. It's not much, but it's available."
Laura: Is it safe at night?
Matt: "As safe as anything is here. Just don't go outside."
Travis: What does the ceiling look like?
Matt: It's about nine feet up. Maybe about two feet of rafters. Very simple. Very plain.
Travis: That's where we need to be tonight. Remember when we were in the branches?
Laura: Can I insight check her and see if she seems to be truthful?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Laura: I never know which one. It's too much pressure to choose. That was the wrong one. I chose poorly. 13.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell. She's young, and she seems definitely earnest and plain with her forthrightness. Yeah, there doesn't appear to be any sort of deception.
Travis: We are allies. With us comes change. Keep our secret and all the better we'll be for it.
Matt: "It's kept, but I recommend talking to Keeper Yennen if you haven't. He's one of the social centerpieces of the remaining good folk in the city."
Taliesin: We have spoken to him. We will speak to him again today.
Matt: His reach is far. He'd be the one to talk to. Well, don't stay here long. That will draw attention.
Marisha: Also, we're going to have two more staying with us, if that's okay.
Laura: One's a child, though. You won't even notice him.
Matt: Her shoulders slump a little bit. She's like, "All right. I'll prepare as best I can." And she starts reaching over and starts pulling these thin blankets out from a nearby cabinet and goes, "Well? Go!"
Taliesin: Good day. Everyone, let's meet over at the Lady's Chamber once you're finished with your business.
Matt: All right, now you guys.
Liam: I'm dragging you along by the scruff of the ear.
Sam: Pa, please!
Liam: Shut up.
Sam: I'm tired.
Liam: I'm going to look for anybody walking by. Is there anyone nearby?
Matt: After about a minute or so of walking, you do see what looks to be a young man carrying a satchel over his shoulder. It looks like it's filled with a few small pieces of parchment that are rolled up. He's in a brisk walk somewhere.
Liam: I walk right up to him and I awkwardly put a hand on his chest, and I make sure that I flip my pencil and spit as I talk and say, I need a hard drink. I need a hard drink right now. Where?
Matt: "If you're looking for a drink," And he points over down the road, and he's really put off by it and is trying to keep his face out of your breath. "You're going to look for the Journey's End. Two blocks down that way, to the right. It's not much business during the day."
Liam: I spit at his feet and I pull Scanlan by the ear. Come on, you shit.
Sam: (yelps) Call Child Protective Services!
Matt: As you walk away, you hear him mutter under his breath, "What's this world coming to?" And he continues on his brusque pace.
Liam: I'm following his directions and going there. Journey's End, yeah.
Matt: You are now at the Journey's End tavern. It's pretty barren. You walk inside. There are two employees. One who is behind the bar and is currently reading through a book. The second is currently pouring a drink for the one patron that's in there, what looks to be a slovenly looking gentleman who's sitting at a table drinking his woes away. He's currently going through what looks like a ledger of some kind, and there's a tavern employee with an apron on. He's this younger, red-headed boy, who's trying to fill a flagon while this gentleman at the table is cursing at him to the side. Other than that, it's empty.
Liam: Empty. So how many in here?
Matt: Three.
Liam: Three. All right, I pull Jimmy-John after me, and sit down next to one of them.
Sam: My name is Tad.
Liam: Shut up! Your mother's going to kill us both. (sighs) Two! Two here, and a water for him.
Matt: "All right. Okay, I'll be right back," and he walks off, looking a little confused.
Sam: I'll have one of what he's having, as well.
Matt: (chuckles) "That's cute. Water it is." And he's walking off.
Liam: I swat him in the back of the head for the bartender to see.
Matt: The patron now, a closer look  man in his late forties. Has a protruded jawline, little bit of an underbite. Thinning brown hair, and he's got some smears of dirt on his face. Looks like he's been crying, and is slumped over the table, looking over this ledger. He slams it shut as you sit down with a very, very loud (impact noise). Glances sidelong towards you and says, "What the fuck are you doing coming and bothering a man in the middle of his meal?"
Liam: Can't fucking earn a living in this land. Come up from a mile out of town, been trying to grow fucking carrots for these fucking people. Can't earn a living!
Matt: "You're telling me. Ain't no living to be had in Whitestone these days. It's nothing but misery."
Liam: Something's got to change here. I can't live. I can't give them what they want. I can't feed him. What are we fucking supposed to do here?
Sam: I haven't eaten in three days.
Matt: "That's the worst fucking part, is you know there's always an easy exit."
Sam: What?
Matt: "What, you think the folks who've taken their life to this point? You think that's the end, but no, not in this town. No, they just get right back up the next day. There is no way out."
Liam: The fuck are you talking about?
Matt: "Talking about the whole business. There is no escaping this misery. Either you try and stay alive and exist in this bullshit, or you die and become one of them. I've been trying to find a way out of this city for months now, but they're always watching."
Liam: I take a huge drink of the mug in front of me. (sighs) Someone should run these fuckers out of town.
Matt: "That ain't going to happen, mate. Sorry."
Sam: I have a friend named Kevin. He says there is someone trying to do something about it. He says that that's what caused that fire yesterday, over at that big fancy house. He says there's rebels afoot!
Liam: I take the mug that I have, and I pour the rest of it out on this little one's head and say, you speak when you're spoken to.
Matt: "No, it's okay. Let the boy speak. Let your boy speak! What were you saying?"
Sam: Oh, I'm just saying what I overheard. My friend Kevin, he's truthful. When he lies, his papa beats him, so I believe him. He said that someone really strong took out someone who was at that big fancy house that was all aflame the other day. He said that there's lots of them, and that they're going to free us all from this hell we live in!
Matt: (laughing) Man, that's a layered check. Make a persuasion and a deception roll, back to back.
Sam: Wait, two rolls?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: It was that good.
Sam: Okay, persuasion and deception, you say. Oh Jesus. Okay, persuasion. 39. (laughter)
Taliesin: What?!
Laura: How?! Is that even possible?
Sam: Deception, 15. Wait, or 29. It's a lot.
Matt: What's your bonus?!
Sam: No, it's 16 plus 13.
Matt: Okay, so 29.
Sam: That's 29. Sorry. It's a lot.
Matt: I was like, (explosion sounds). All right. Gives you a stern look. "Huh. Well, it'd be nice, for a change, that there'd be someone up to fucking fight for this shithole of a place."
Liam: I start fake-weeping into my cup.
Matt: He goes, "Oh no. No need for that. Going to make me lose my appetite. Hate the sound of a grown man crying. Chin up!" And he takes and flicks a coin at your face.
Liam: Ow, fuck!
Matt: "Look, if what he's saying's true, and we've got some sort of savior making their way into town, well. Let's hope they're at least a little more prepared than the last ones."
Sam: The last ones?
Matt: "The uprising three years ago. Are you new to this fucking town?"
Sam: Three years ago, Papa wouldn't let me out of the closet, so I didn't hear much of what was going on.
Matt: "Okay, first and foremost, you've got to treat your boy better. Going to raise someone no better than the motherfuckers running Whitestone right now if you keep this up."
Liam: (retches)
Laura: Did you really puke, or did you fake puke?
Sam: I'm sorry about my papa. He's had such a hard time these last few years. Our crops are not performing well, and he's under a lot of pressure. And I think Mama doesn't love him anymore. I'm sorry. We can go.
Matt: "I think you should. But one thing  if he ever does anything else to hurt you again, you come tell someone. Two: if you hear anything else about this savior coming into town, go ahead and talk to Trevor over there, at the edge of the bar." And you see over there, there's the guy who's behind the bar with his book. He doesn't even notice all this happening. Guy in his mid-thirties, glasses at the end of his nose, his hair's slicked back and pulled into a taut ponytail, and he's sitting there reading. And he says, "Go ahead and tell Trevor, because the rest of us would like to go out in a blaze of glory than live in this bullshit."
Sam: What was your name, sir?
Matt: "Not important to much, but you can call me Patrick."
Sam: Thank you, Patrick. I don't know if my papa has enough money for these drinks.
Liam: I'm going to insight check Patrick.
Sam: From the floor?
Matt: He's listening in. Go for it.
Liam: All right, that's not that great. That's a 17.
Matt: He seems honest. Seems he's got not much to lose and his interest is piqued, but he's not wholly invested in this whole idea. But it's definitely caught his attention. "Well, let's get him up." Stands up, reaches over and grabs you by the arm, lifts you up onto the stool on the side of the table and says, "Up, you." Pats you on the back. "You need to sober up, drink the water you got for your boy, there, and get your ass out of here."
Sam: Come on, Papa. Let's go. I turn around and I take the rest of his drink. (laughter)
Liam: And as he pulls me away, and I slovenly turn after him. I turn back for a second, and I completely sober up. Pelor has returned. Walked out.
Matt: He gives you a keen glance and nods slowly as you walk away. Looks over at the bartender for a second, and, "Psst! Trevor!" And then you exit the building. All right, you guys all convene at the Lady's Chamber. The other day, there were a few folks walking through the courtyard. Today, there's a group of about 25 people, all different dress, from what would be considered a Whitestone middle class, the few there are, to a number of other peasantry, farmhands, and other folk that look destitute by nature of existence here. All gathered in the amphitheater, and what appears to be a relatively hushed sermon or discussion currently going on by Keeper Yennen.
Marisha: Let's not make ourselves known. I want to see this. I want to hear what's up.
Taliesin: Sit in the back.
Matt: Okay, sit in the back. He begins talking for a while about a long tangent, speaking of, "This land, once cherished, is a burning light and a beacon of good existence, of kinship, of honesty and loyalty, dragged down to the muck by the imposition of darkness, the return of the evil that once scourged this land. Now given new faces, they push us down, and as hope crumbles, the light peeks through once again, for whispers have come to my ears, friends, that this unrest now has a name. I'm sure you've seen it, the fire atop that building this morning, watched as one of your oppressors was cut from his high throne. One of his close advisors scarred, tortured, shown the strength of this hidden ally of us, the oppressed peoples of Whitestone." And he looks up over the group a little bit and past the streets, carefully. "I have come to believe that perhaps this is the time for us to band together and show our support. Now, the information is still vague, but just keep your eyes open. Be careful, be quiet. As things progress, word will find you." Bows his head and says a prayer that-- none of you speak Celestial?
Taliesin: I do.
Sam: You do?!
Taliesin: I speak Celestial.
Matt: All righty. The essence of the prayer is  By the guidance of the Lady, may civilization flourish and those that keep progression at bay be squashed beneath our feet. At which point the sermon breaks, and people begin to walk away and scatter.
Laura: I want to watch people as they walk away and try to read their lips as they're walking away to see if everybody seems loyal to what he said, or if anybody seems a little--
Matt: Everyone is silent. Everyone is quiet, and everyone is looking warily and making their own separate paced exits, so as not to draw attention.
Laura: Can we try to memorize their faces? Of everybody that was here?
Matt: Okay. You keep as best a mental image of everyone who's passing by. Not too many notable folk. They look like, especially where you're from, the peasantry doesn't really interest you visually, but you do manage to gather details of certain scars here and there, and people, hair color, age, stuff like that.
Travis: Did we recognize the guy that was talking?
Laura: Yeah, that was Keeper.
Matt: Keeper Yennen.
Marisha: Yeah. Any familiar faces in the audience?
Matt: Actually, Scanlan, you and Keyleth both recognize some of the farmers. You guys have all gathered.
Sam: Oh, we gathered again. Okay.
Matt: You recognize two of the individuals at this were the farmers you initially saw on the outskirts of Whitestone when you did your little scouting mission earlier.
Sam: Oh, nice. When we flew in?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So from all the people you've encountered, those are the only two that you specifically recognize so far, but it does appear to be made up of--
Marisha: Working hands, farmers.
Matt: Yeah, the foundation of this city that have been so long oppressed.
Travis: I elbow Percy, and I go, do we talk to him?
Taliesin: I think we do. Maybe he talks to us. I try and catch his attention.
Matt: Okay. You can see as he begins putting out some of the incense, he looks over and sees, "Ah, yes. You've returned. Please, follow me." And he steps outside of the amphitheater and around the back of it.
Taliesin: We follow.
Matt: Okay. Around the back of the amphitheater, you see there is constructed, attached to the very far end of this round half-dome, a square brick building. Very simple. And as he ushers you all inside, it's essentially a tea room. There's a table, there's a tea set up there, there is a small stove in the far end with a little fire-burning stove, and shelves and shelves and shelves arranged with all different manner of small sculptures, metalwork, holy symbols of Erathis that have all been put on display. Each one has a name carved beneath it. And you recognize this, Percy. This is the legacy of all the Keepers of the Lady's Chamber over time, their symbols. This is basically a Hall of Previous Keepers. "Please, sit. Have tea if you like, if you're so interested. We have much to discuss. So. I am to believe that these allies you spoke of previously were responsible for this dastardly attack on Sir Kerrion?"
Taliesin: That could be inferred.
Matt: "Well, I have spoken privately with a number of the remaining community leaders of our town, and they are unconvinced. Understand, this isn't the first time an insurrection has been attempted, and much sorrow was endured after previous failures. We keep hope best we can, but without a solid plan, we are sending the rest of our able-bodied into the abyss."
Taliesin: What happened last time?
Matt: "Well, in a similar fashion, we had a number of fed-up individuals decide to finally raise some sort of aggressive act against the castle and attempt to storm it by force. We figured we had the numbers. There are many dangers in that castle that go beyond what we were prepared for. As such, the few that survived, well. They met the fate most do at the Sun Tree these days. So we've been remiss to put ourselves in a similar position for many years now. To make matters worse, our informant within the castle has gone silent these past few weeks. We have no idea of the progression of the Briarwoods' plot."
Marisha: Was your informant by chance named Simon?
Matt: "No. Simon has been missing for some time, actually."
Taliesin: Who was your informant?
Matt: "I don't know the name. The information comes through-- actually, he should be arriving here in just a moment."
Taliesin: What did they find underneath Whitestone?
Matt: "All that we know is they've been rebuilding or repurposing something old and terrible beneath the city. I've only heard whispers of it referred to as the ziggurat."
Laura: The ziggurat.
Travis: The ziggurat.
Marisha: The ziggurat.
Matt: "Now, to go into the deep history of this city, as you are outsiders, legend speaks of a seed, that the Sun Tree was placed by Pelor himself to seal a wound in the light. Whitestone rose around it. The fable has long been told, but ever since those fiends took the city, their interest beneath the city has kept me thinking on this fable. Leaves me very unsettled. And as the Sun Tree slowly died, so did our confidence. Further--" At which point, the door across the room opens. (creak) And another enters the room. A very elderly man steps in, his ragged robes draped on his very thin, frail form.
Laura: I wink at him.
Matt: His weathered skin is dark and leathery. He's nearly hairless on his head and has liver spots all over his scalp. One of his eyes is clouded over and white. He shimmies in very slowly. "I ask you strangers, what makes you so sure you can change the tide of this battle?"
Travis: (whispers) Drop Seeming. Drop it.
Taliesin: Do I recognize this person?
Matt: As old as he may be, there is a subtle power and resonance and confidence to his voice. There's a force of personality and conviction that immediately leads you to believe that this man is or once was a man of great power and respect.
Travis: Are there windows in the room?
Matt: There are two windows. They are currently shut with curtains.
Travis: You should show him.
Matt: You, Percy, recognize this man. He was once the chancellor to your father, and a long-respected philosopher in Whitestone known as Archibald Desnae.
Marisha: Archibald Desnitt?
Matt: Desnae. He was very well-respected. Very stern, and crotchety at times, but very much aided your family in holding the city together in times of strife.
Sam: I pull out Sir Kerrion's notebook and I hand it to them and I say, this should be some proof that we mean what we say.
Matt: Reaches out, and his long, spindly fingers wrap around the tome, pull it towards him. "So you bring a trinket. That is helpful. But to kill one mortal man is no feat compared to the darkness that lies in that castle. You need more than that."
Taliesin: I remove my hat.
Sam: Can I drop it on one of us, or do I have to drop it on all of us?
Matt: I'd say you can drop it on an individual, if you prefer.
Sam: All right. I will drop Percy's Seeming.
Matt: Okay. There's a slamming sound as the tome he's holding hits the floor.
Taliesin: Hello, Archie.
Matt: "Percival? Sweet Percival."
Taliesin: Not so sweet these days. I did not think you would have lived.
Matt: "I thought you had perished in the subjugation. Percival, you have no idea the joy this brings to my heart." And he reaches out and touches the edge of your face like he's still in disbelief. "Your hair. It seems age has caught up to you, as well."
Taliesin: It was difficult, leaving.
Matt: You see a smile creep across his very tense old-man face, and he looks about the room with a renewed energy that wasn't there before.
Taliesin: My friends are strong.
Matt: "With you here, Percival, we've two de Rolos spearheading the rebellion. We have the guiding light the people need."
Taliesin: Who else survived?
Matt: "We must succeed, Percival. If this fails, there won't be anyone else left to rise up. They are nearing their goal, according to your sister Cassandra. We haven't much time. Your sister lives, Percival."
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: "She survived the attack and was taken as the personal assistant and slave of the Briarwoods and used as an example, a symbol of their dominance. She has been feeding us information for years, whenever she could. She was the helping guide, the last two attempts we've made. We have not received a letter from her in weeks now, but know you are not the only surviving member of your family. I will talk to your people. I will talk to mine. We'll have your militia. Guide us, Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel Klossowski de Rolo III. Guide us, Vox Machina."
Sam: Wait. You know who we are? How does he know?
Matt: "Some of us have information all over these lands. We've had a few friends come from Emon over the past couple years. They met some dire ends. Don't think that we haven't heard of your exploits. Help us bring a dawn back to this land."
Taliesin: I may have a plan. How fares Professor Anders?
Matt: "Professor Anders has been lost to us since before the insurrection. He is a man taken by what promises the Briarwoods have given him. What little he has shown his face in this town, he is not the man he once was, or at least the man we thought he was was never who he truly claimed to be."
Taliesin: He lives in the house in the east? House in the north?
Matt: "He lives in the castle with the Briarwoods, as well."
Taliesin: Lady Ripley lives in one of those mansions.
Matt: "She did. There have been reports in recent days that she's been quick to pack. We know not where she resides now."
Taliesin: Who lives in the third house?
Matt: "Here." And he takes a moment to think of which house you're referring to.
Taliesin: We burned one of them.
Matt: "Yes, you did. The house is Kerrion's house, and then there are two other homesteads of the new nobles, one of which is currently held by the Duke," he says with disdain. "Goran Vedmeyer."
Marisha: Goran Quagmire?
Laura: Vedmeyer.
Sam: Vedmeyer.
Matt: "Vedmeyer. He has supposedly been put in watch at the temple of Pelor, but he's left that to ruin. The other home houses Count Tylieri, a rather sadistic man who oversees the timber production of Whitestone."
Laura: The what production?
Matt: "Timber."
Sam: Is that the house that the Countess was briefly residing in?
Matt: "Briefly."
Sam: Count Tygieri?
Matt: "Tylieri."
Sam: Tylieri. How are these men, the duke and the count? What do the people think of them?
Matt: "The Briarwoods, when they took Whitestone, did not take it alone. They came to this land with a small army of cutthroats, mercenaries, sell-swords they brought over from whichever forsaken land they came from. Each one of those men that then proved to be of utmost use to them in that rebellion, they were given titles and nobility and homesteads. They were given responsibilities over the land, the people beneath them. I can only assume that was part of their payment for their service."
Sam: But they're just thugs who were particularly successful.
Matt: "As far as I know, yes."
Laura: Are they supernatural? Are they undead?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge."
Travis: If we were to continue working our way up this totem pole, which of the two is less powerful?
Taliesin: Which of the two is reviled most?
Marisha: Yes, what would start an uprising?
Matt: "Count Tylieri is known for being quite the sadistic individual. Beating, torturing his servants, sometimes publicly to show his hand to those who would cross him. He would definitely be a message to send, if there were one."
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: I've got one, too. Kill him.
Taliesin: Well, that's part of the plan.
Matt: "I would warn, the longer we wait making these messages, the stronger we build this part of the city, but also the more warning and preparation time we give to those in the castle. So the choice is yours."
Liam: We act now.
Marisha: Act now?
Laura: Against the Briarwoods?
Travis: Count Tylieri.
Taliesin: Here's my plan.
Matt: The name Tylieri catches your ear's memory. If you recall, your captive back at Greyskull Keep was previously the owner of the driver of the Briarwoods, Desmond. The one that beat him senseless until eventually Lord Briarwood saw this and then took him as his own driver.
Sam: I'm just a small boy, but we've seen mists at night, strange things that come out when the sun goes down. Are those focused around a central area of town, or are those everywhere?
Matt: "The mists are a means of intimidation. It's merely a magical precursor to the undead minions of the Briarwoods. They slink through those mists, use them as cover. If you see it, run."
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: We heard about green fog here. Is that something?
Matt: "In the castle, yes. There are vents in what was once the garden. I know not the nature of these vents or what is being utilized to produce this foul, noxious odor, but it has put a scent on the city for many years."
Laura: Do we know what killed the tree?
Matt: "We know not."
Travis: And in your time, do you know anything about Lady Delilah? What she is?
Matt: "The few times she's walked the city, it's been procession and power. She seems to enjoy the attention. She's a vain one, that one."
Marisha: Who's this?
Laura: Lady Delilah.
Travis: Lady Delilah.
Laura: Does she come out during the day?
Matt: "She hasn't in almost a year, but she has before, yes. She walks in the sun, unlike her husband."
Sam: Unlike her husband?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: I don't think she's a vampire.
Marisha: She may not be a vampire.
Travis: I think she's a bitch.
Taliesin: What do you think of a distraction?
Laura: What kind of distraction?
Taliesin: What if there was a way to start a ruckus at the Vedmeyer estate? Start a fire, maybe. Start a ruckus of some kind.
Sam: The Vedmeyer estate?
Taliesin: The third house.
Sam: The duke's. Okay, yes?
Taliesin: They're going to be waiting and expecting us, so if they think we're attacking one of the houses and then instead we attack the other while everyone's rushing to deal with what they think is the next attack, we attack the second home, and then when they prepare for us to attack the third home, that's when we attack the castle.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Wait, you want to go bam-bam-bam?
Taliesin: Today, it's just one. We've already dropped one.
Laura: The next attack will be on the Briarwoods.
Sam: Well, he's saying create a distraction.
Liam: We make a big stink in the house we're not going into.
Marisha: That I'm cool with. Percy, how much do you want people to see the de Rolo family crest? How much do you want people to know of your presence here? Do you want a big proclamation? Because I might have that.
Taliesin: Will it put my sister in danger?
Matt: "It's hard to say."
Taliesin: They don't know that I know she's alive. Perhaps keep her, just to surprise me.
Sam: That symbol is not the de Rolo family seal, is it? It's modified.
Taliesin: It's a part of it. Definitely. I want them to know. They need to know.
Matt: "It's a tough decision. The symbol does carry the weight of the people and does carry a beacon of hope. But it, as you said, may put your sister in danger. It's hard to say. The choice is yours in how you wish to use it."
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Yes. Because I learned a trick back in the day from my father and the Air Ashari people. We used to do it as kids for fun, but it might be perfect in this circumstance.
Sam: I did it a little in college. It's fun.
Marisha: Dual-wielding. I can Skywrite for you.
Liam: How do you mean?
Laura: Like a giant sparkler.
Liam: Like a what?
Marisha: In the future, they came up with these awesome things called--
Sam: Nope!
Matt: Nope!
Travis: Nope!
Travis: Skywrite with clouds?
Marisha: Yeah, skywriting with clouds.
Liam: You control the clouds?
Travis: Can you actually write letters in them?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: That's crazy talk.
Laura: Can you clear out clouds? Then if you can do that, can you make these gray clouds go away?
Marisha: Do we want the gray clouds to go away?
Laura: Well, sunlight would be nice as opposed to this misty fog.
Travis: That's a good point.
Marisha: Maybe temporarily.
Matt: Yeah, controlling weather on that scope is a little beyond your grasp. You can alter elements of it and you could darken elements of the cloud to form a message or a symbol if you would like, but actually removing the clouds, that would be--
Laura: Can you poke a hole in them?
Marisha: Temporarily, yeah.
Travis: We'll remember that. Let's go pick a fight with a house!
Taliesin: From a distance. We pick a fight with a house from a distance so we can get to the other house and pick a fight there.
Laura: Is there just one of us who can make a big stink in the decoy house?
Sam: I can probably make a big stink.
Laura: You could definitely make a big stink.
Liam: But you can catch up through one of those little doorways.
Sam: Please, it's big for me.
Laura: How about this? I use one of my exploding arrows you gave me.
Sam: Oh, those are so cool. Save those for a person.
Travis: It's a good ranged stink.
Sam: I've got Magic Missiles. I've got all sorts of shit. I can do Stinking Clouds, I can make them see things, I can blow open their doors. I can do it. You guys go have fun.
Taliesin: But you can also do this from a distance so we can get you far away. You could do both.
Sam: I'll start on the distraction.
Taliesin: And I'm going to give you a second arrow as well.
Laura: Of what?
Taliesin: The arrow?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: It's a question-mark arrow.
Taliesin: It's an arrow?
Matt: Yeah. Write down arrow with a question mark. It looks heavily tinkered. It's a little front-loaded with the weight.
Taliesin: You know what it will do to the roof if it works?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, cool.
Sam: It's a kill-Trinket arrow.
Laura: Oh man, you know what? I forgot I-- okay, cool.
Matt: (laughs) Yes. What?
Laura: Just don't. I have thoughts.
Matt: Cool, have thoughts. Keep them going.
Laura: Arrow?
Matt: Arrow?
Travis: All right, can we do something now, please?
Marisha: All right. Let's do it.
Sam: I'll head over to the other house. Show me on the map where it is so I know where I'm going.
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: By this point in the day, it's probably around three in the afternoon.
Taliesin: We're going to do this now.
Marisha: When do you want the symbol to go up?
Taliesin: Actually, we may not need it yet. That may actually work out well once we've--
Marisha: Lit the houses up?
Taliesin: Once it's up, can you actually write it in smoke coming off the house?
Marisha: Yeah, I think I could.
Matt: With a crack of thunder, rainfall begins to hit on the city.
Taliesin: Really?
Laura: Of course.
Marisha: Why is it raining again?
Laura: Because it's this fucking town. It's fucked. No offense. It won't be fucked soon.
Sam: Your town sucks, weather-wise.
Taliesin: So the northern house or the western house?
Matt: "The northern house is the one that Count Tylieri currently resides in. Or no. My apologies. The northern house is the one that Duke Goran Vedmeyer currently exists in. The other is Count Tylieri."
Taliesin: So this is the mess and this is our actual?
Sam: I'm the mess?
Taliesin: You're the mess.
Sam: All right. So you'll earphone me when you're in position? Let's go, quickly. We're burning daylight.
Taliesin: So probably from about here.
Marisha: I'm going with Scanlan.
Laura: No, come with us, Keyleth!
Sam: If I've said it once, I've said it a hundred times. I don't need help.
Marisha: I wasn't trying to help you. I was trying to write the de Rolo symbol in smoke. I don't really care about you.
Taliesin: You can do it from the other house. It's sight-based.
Sam: They need your magic.
Liam: It's no knocks against you. He's going to catch up quickly.
Sam: And if I die, tell Pike I love her.
Laura: You won't die, Scanlan.
Sam: I might. I'm a little wee man.
Marisha: All right, I'm going with them.
Taliesin: You're a little boy. We're making very reasonable plans with this.
Matt: All right. Did you put your hat back on?
Taliesin: I have put my hat back on, yes.
Matt: Okay, yes, because you're very much visibly Percy.
Taliesin: Not anymore, I'm not!
Matt: All right. So you groups divide, Scanlan heading towards the northeastern house, the rest of you heading towards the northwestern house. Eventually, you get to the outskirts of both abodes, and you can see the dark clouds in the sky, occasional claps of thunder and flashes of light. Even though it's midday, it's pretty dark right now. The few folks that are out and about have their heads covered with hoods, and they're trying to stay under overhangs to stay nice and as dry as they can. You are all soaked to the bone at this point, just pushing through. Your cough is still setting in pretty heavily at this point, too. You guys make your way to the outskirts of the home. You, Scanlan, skipping along, the boy that you are with your one weird wandering eye, find your way to the other abode. So. What's the plan?
Sam: How far is the gate from the front door?
Matt: It's about 25, 30 feet. And the house that you're looking at right now, it's very well-crafted. Looks like it's made from a lot of the fine timber of Whitestone, the lighter woods and dark woods contrast with each other, stained to show the variation in the two. It's a very beautiful home.
Sam: Okay. Any guards? Anything around?
Matt: Currently, you can see there is one guard visible at the front. That's all you can see at the moment.
Sam: And if I walk around back, is there any guards around back?
Matt: There is a second guard around back that is just now stepping out of an outhouse that is situated behind the building.
Taliesin: That would excite you. I don't know why.
Sam: Sure. Because they haven't phoned me to tell me that we're ready to go, I will become a dragonfly and buzz into the dwelling.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Meanwhile, the twins are looking at our home, sizing it up.
Matt: All right. Keeping a close eye. Through the dark rainy atmosphere, you can see on both homes, the interiors are slightly lit. There appears to be individuals at home in both homes. You just can't see who it is, necessarily. There is light in the interior. As you turn into a fly and make your way, this little boy just walks and (zip). Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: Okay. You turn into a fly and make your way through the bars and begin (buzzing) over the yard with your one-twentieth of a hit point in fly form. Make your way. Any of the nearby windows all seem to be shut. The front door is closed. There might be a gap, but the guard is standing in front of the door.
Sam: Okay. Again, they haven't phoned me, so I'll perch on the handrail or door frame or something just above him and wait.
Matt: Okay. He takes notice of your buzzing as you go by and goes back to his watching. The rest of you guys?
Liam: We're sizing up the other home.
Laura: Yeah. Oh, how about this? Maybe we can tell Scanlan to set off the thingy. I'll come running out as my old crazy lady, saying, (screams) the house is under attack! Toward the guards guarding this house. And then I'll just stand there as they react.
Liam: I like it. Could we look at this house first?
Laura: I thought we did.
Taliesin: I thought you went to shoot the arrows in the other house.
Marisha: No, that's what Scanlan said.
Liam: What do I see? I'm looking all over this house.
Matt: Right. This house is also well-built, sturdy. Mostly wood construction, but it's all dark wood. It almost seems to disappear against the gray skies above it if you're looking from a downward perspective. It's a very dreary-looking home, built to look pretty for someone who doesn't like a lot of color. It's two stories; there are a number of windows on both stories. Looks like there is a small garden out front that has been long-ignored and died and dried up. Just browns. Abysmal-looking. Other than that, there's not much else to say on the building.
Liam: No guards, nobody watching?
Matt: Not currently any guards outside of it, no.
Liam: I want to go for a circle around.
Laura: Stealthy. Stealth. I cast Pass Without a Trace on him.
Matt: (laughs) And you stay within 30 feet of him?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: Can you stay within 30 feet of him?
Laura: I guess I stealth behind him.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys roll stealth.
Laura: Oh no. Which one should I use?
Liam: 28.
Laura: Add ten.
Liam: Good.
Laura: 36.
Sam: Jeez!
Liam: That's pretty good. What did you add? Oh, because of Pass Without a Trace! Oh, 38.
Matt: There you go, 36 and 38, boom.
Sam: You're both discovered and killed.
Matt: (laughs) Immediately. Just like that. You push into one of the nearby alleyways, curve around the side, and make your way to the back portion of this. And the gate is buttressed up against one of the surrounding buildings-- it's a warehouse of some kind-- to the point where there's a little bit of space you can get over, but it's about eight feet up and it is a spiky top, but looking over, you do see there is one guard that is slowly patrolling around the outside, and you see through the nearby window what looks like two humanoids that just crossed paths at the front of the window.
Liam: Two humanoids are in the house, there's a guard between the home, and the warehouse thing you just described?
Matt: Correct. Basically, you didn't see it from your perspective. Once you went around the alleyway to the other side of it, you do see there is one guard that is slowly patrolling the outside.
Laura: (whispers) I can perch and take him out with an arrow.
Liam: You do your thing, yeah. Yeah.
Laura: Do you want to sneak-attack him? That might be smarter.
Liam: I'll start, you follow.
Laura: Got it.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Should we let Scanlan do his thing first and then we sneak attack him? Set it all in motion?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: All at the same time, then. On the count of three.
Marisha: What are we doing? Wait, what?
Sam: What? All I heard is on the count of three. What's going on?
Liam: Scanlan, whatever you're going to do, I want you to get ready to do it.
Laura: And then we'll count to three and we'll attack.
Sam: Shouldn't I do mine first?
Laura: Yeah, you do. Tell us when.
Sam: Oh, you want me to do mine first?
Travis: Whenever you're ready.
Sam: How about wait 30 seconds and go?
Laura: Got it.
Sam: All right. I turn into a triceratops. (laughter)
Liam: A what?
Matt: I'm going to say, roll an intelligence check.
Liam: Come on, Burt.
Sam: Intelligence?
Matt: With advantage, because you're a bard. Just add your intelligence modifier.
Liam: He gave you advantage. Roll again.
Sam: I already get advantage for intelligence checks. 19.
Matt: Okay. Through your bardic research and hearing many tales and seeing scribblings in books of presumably madmen, apparently, that there were certain creatures that existed long before the civilization had taken root. You have heard of some of these, one of which is the mighty and frightening triceratops. You hear it's just a fable, but it's fun to pretend to be one, sure.
Sam: Three horns and big.
Matt: Yep. And out of nowhere, this tiny fly (boosh) into a triceratops. (boom) Lands, crushing the man beneath you. He's going to attempt to-- oh, rolled a 20 on his saving throw. So he's only going to take half damage. Go ahead and roll 3d6 crushing damage.
Sam: d6? I don't even have a d6. (laughs) Wow. 17.
Matt: 17? Whoa, okay. He did not like that. Okay, he is crushed and he is prone beneath you right now, (groans).
Sam: And for my move, I bash down the door.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Sam: d20? 18.
Matt: Okay, yeah. Go ahead and roll another 3d6.
Sam: Three, six, that wasn't anything. Nine.
Matt: Nine plus three. 12 points of damage. You turn around, and with a loud cracking sound, the whole outside of the doorway and most of the outside of the room is thrashed and destroyed. Wood chunks go flying everywhere with a large roar. You see part of the inside of the foyer collapses from that side of the building. You basically take out a whole support and start thrashing around. You hear voices begin yelling out from in the household, and immediately five guards start rushing in from different rooms towards you. All right. Two of which are holding already armed and ready crossbows. We'll get to that in just a second.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You guys?
Liam: I'm going to run up behind the one guard and beat him in the back of the head with the back of my dagger.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll an attack. He does not see you; this is considered a surprise attack.
Liam: This is a surprise attack? Oh, that's good. Ooh, that's not that good. So that's 17.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That hits, all right. And then the second attack, which'll also have advantage, is 23.
Matt: 23 also hits, yeah.
Liam: Okay, so sneak attack, yeah? So here we go. Plus, get them. (mutters) 25 for the first attack. Or no, 25 for the first attack--
Matt: Sneak attack?
Liam: That was it.
Matt: Right. It's a surprise round. Don't you get double damage for being an assassin?
Liam: Yeah, so 50. All I want to do is gunk him. Like I do.
Matt: And that's all you needed. He had 45 hit points. (whack) With one hit to the back of his head, he crumples onto the ground, smacking into the wet grass around this field.
Liam: And I look over my sister's shoulder and say, Grog! You want to play? Come on, you want to play?
Travis: Grog always wants to play!
Liam: Go for the door!
Travis: Fuck it. I rage.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We're just going straight into the house?
Marisha: What are we doing? We're watching all this happen? We're all like, oh, there goes Grog.
Liam: Yeah, because you've said nothing.
Matt: You guys right now watch as now Vax runs over and tells Grog to run in and go after the front door.
Liam: Well, that's not what I said. I said, do you want to play?
Travis: No, I took off running.
Matt: Grog is running toward the door now. You guys see him bolt off, burst through the gate.
Travis: Activate the flaming warhammer.
Taliesin: I guess we're going.
Marisha: I guess we're going.
Liam: Everybody's running at the door.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a strength check just for the hell of it. There is a closed gate. Athletics, this would be.
Travis: Oh. 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. It's not immediate impact. It takes you a second; you have to force your way through the gate. You essentially grab the two sides of it and pull and pull until eventually the chain snaps and the bars bend and you shove off one of the old doors. The gate (creaks, impact) onto the ground before you, leaving a straight look to the front door. You bolt for it. The rest of you guys give chase afterwards. You all rush to the front door of this homestead. It is currently closed.
Liam: We saw front door, we saw some sort of warehouse, and a side window with two people going, right?
Marisha: Let's flank.
Laura: Let's go in the window.
Liam: Let's go in the window.
Travis: I'll meet you in the middle!
Laura: Yeah, we go in the window.
Marisha: You said there was a door around back?
Matt: There's windows around back.
Liam: There's windows around back.
Marisha: I'll go around back.
Taliesin: I'll also go around back.
Laura: Oh, but that's only Grog in the front now.
Marisha: He's fine.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I give him Trinket. Going in with you.
Travis: You want to send him in with me? It's going to be nasty where I'm going. It's all-day buffet.
Laura: He's going in the door.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Can we see any of the damage? Is there any smoke rising from the house yet?
Matt: No, there's no smoke. There's no smoke. There's nothing sending smoke at that point.
Liam: I'm trying to get a better look and listen as I run closer to the windows.
Matt: And we will pick up at this moment next week. (yelling)
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Sam: But I'm a dinosaur!
Matt: I know.
Marisha: I'm waiting for smoke.
Matt: I know, and we'll see how this plays out next week, because right now if we keep where this is going, this could be-- we could be here until late, and I need to get out of this costume.
Liam: Still a dinosaur. Open the door.
Sam: Scanlan on the floor. Everybody flee; there's a dinosaur.
Matt: (laughs) Triceratops. Damn it.
Travis: Damn it. (laughs)
Zac: So I have a couple requests from the community. One of which is that every single one of you post a full-body picture of your costume and post it to Twitter so they can get a good look without being blocked by the table. I think everyone just really wants to see his legs because he's not wearing pants under that dress.
Laura: But he is wearing a little petticoat.
Zac: And the other request was for you to explain how in the hell you made this, because this is amazing. They want a really quick run-down of what you did here.
Matt: Okay. Well, for the armor pieces, the base is Sintra, which is one-eighth of an inch thick PVC sheeting. You can buy it at sign supply stores.
Liam: (snores)
Matt: I know, Liam. Shut up, they asked me. So I cut those into sheets. You heat them up with a heat-gun or really hot hairdryer and you can bend it, so that was the shape for these. I ordered aluminum chainmail off eBay, straight from India, and cannibalized it to make the sheets of chainmail that I then epoxied onto the plastic. And this is a pleather that I stitched together and then adhered across it to make the trim, and that's how I made the armor.
Zac: Would you be willing to come on Mines N Crafts and do a little more detailed show-through of it? Because it's really cool, and there's details you guys can't see. Everyone was like, let him show off his swords, and I'm like, they're not real swords.
Matt: Nah, you can pull them out.
Zac: Yeah, you want to show them off?
Matt: Sure. I can't really grab them from here.
Zac: That's very ineffective for battle, Matt.
Matt: I know.
Liam: So less dexterous than the video game.
Marisha: You can't put claymores on your back, which is a big fallacy.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately I don't have the lack of clipping that an actual warrior would have in this armor. Trust me, it's a sword.
Liam: Here's a little secret for people who love video games: when the heroes pull out a gun, put a gun away, pull out a sword, put a sword away, there's a guy on the performance capture set who just catches it and walks away. Hands it into your hand, so all this, they just go (pfft) and they don't put it anywhere. They just let go of it.
Zac: Actually, I posted that video today on twitter that one of the Critters posted and I retweeted it of Laura and Travis doing their motion-capture for Halo 5. Which guys, you should definitely check out Halo 5. Travis and Laura are both in the game.
Laura: We meant to announce that, yeah. It just released this week.
Zac: Yeah, it just released this week and Travis did some of the mocap for Fred and for Nathan Fillion's character, and in the video it shows you guys basically just throwing down--
Travis: Some magic item.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: So great. Yeah, and Minecraft released this week.
Sam: Story Mode!
Matt: Story Mode, yeah.
Zac: Yeah, we showed a little bit of that. It was like, oop, that's Matt.
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Taliesin: Is there anybody else in Story Mode of Minecraft that we should mention?
Matt: That are friends of ours? I mean, Cat Taber's in it--
Laura: Ashley fricking Johnson!
Matt: I know. I thought I mentioned it previously, but yeah.
Zac: Just assume if a game's coming out, one of these guys--
Matt: You can't escape us.
Zac: You can't escape. It gets really weird now every time we turn on a game and we're like, and who is this this week?
Taliesin: Now you know our pain.
Matt: Sorry about that, guys.
Marisha: Ruins every game.
Travis: Sorry not sorry.
Laura: Sorry not sorry.
Taliesin: We heard your voice at Target.
Matt: What?
Taliesin: We were walking through Target and were like, "Hey, guys."
Matt: Oh right, yeah, the Playmation toys.
Taliesin: You started talking at us--
Matt: You guys have seen the cool Marvel Playmation toys for kids, the imaginary stuff. I do Iron Man and Loki and a few other guys.
Marisha: It's the toy that all your kids are going to bitch and scream and want, and you're going to be like really, it's the most expensive toy? It's like $150. It's like the toy of the year, man. It's cool.
Matt: Yeah. I'm going to go play with mine. Yeah, anyway.
Zac: Well, we had some donations today for Extra Life. This was our last week for Extra Life donations, guys. As a whole, okay, we'll get through these and then I'll read the total overall, because it's something everyone in our community should be proud of.
Matt: Okay.
Zac: So, list starts right here. [end of transcription]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and welcome to Critical Role, the game where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight we have an interesting continuation of the story; we'll be picking up here shortly. First and foremost, we're going to get ourselves through a few announcements and some cool things you guys should know. So, first and foremost for returning fans and people watching the show, thank you, and if this your first time live or your first time seeing the show, hopefully you're not too confused and welcome as well. First and foremost, for those who haven't seen it yet we've been doing Spotify playlists for each of the players and the characters; we just finished that whole sequence with mine that went up today, so if you haven't had a chance to check it out you can go ahead and check it out. I did a playlist based around many of the NPCs in the world of Exandria that Vox Machina have come across and just a couple little tidbits about their characters and their backgrounds and one song per NPC that rounds out their personalities, so check it out if you're interested. Hopefully you like it and you also get an eye into my taste in music, too.
Sam: A lot of classic rock!
Matt: We had a new comic come up this week, didn't we?
Taliesin: We have a new comic!
Marisha: New comic!
Liam: Drink!
Marisha: Yes, based off of real events that happened in real life and in game.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: Who won that drinking contest in real life?
Laura: Ashley.
Taliesin: I was trying to remember.
Marisha: I think Ashley.
Taliesin: Who lost that drinking contest, if I recall?
Matt: Laura. (laughter)
Laura: I lost so hard.
Marisha: But the pitchers is actually how you have to do it, so, but we just didn't post-- it's like the rules are for alcohol commercials. As long as you're not actually physically drinking it, it's fine.
Matt: I will say, Laura, you plop down drunkenly very adorably.
Laura: Shush, you. (laughter)
Laura: I don't know what you're talking about.
Matt: All right, cool, so go check out the comic, drawn by our wonderful artist Wendy, and this is all leading into a retelling of the Winter's Crest festival, the first one that Vox Machina had in the city of Westrun, so go check it out and see. Other updates: my class update also went up yesterday and it was actually just updated before the show tonight with a couple of fixes to some of the text and stuff, so if you've already downloaded, go to the website and download the newest one, it's 1.2. It's called the Bloodhunter; it's a retool of the Witchhunter, taking it away from the promotional aspect that it was tied to back in October. I was able to retool it and make it something a little more wholly my own and my own unique design as opposed to being tied to the preexisting IP. So it's got some cool abilities. I hope you like it. If you feel like running it in your game or allowing your players to do so, have fun.
Marisha: And it's got the seal of approval.
Matt: Not the seal of approval, I would say. I did manage to have some wonderful feedback from Mike Mearls from Dungeons and Dragons at Wizards of the Coast. He was very very sweet enough to give me notes and ideas when I was going through the redesign process so thank you tremendously Mike for that. It's still my real first homebrew class that I've ever designed, so it's far from perfect and there'll be adjustments as time goes on and play tests and balance things come through, so be gentle. But it should at least be fun. Let's see. Marisha! You wanted to talk about Super Power Beat Down real fast.
Marisha: Yeah, there was a new Super Power Beat Down that came out today where we are challenging Darth Maul versus Spider-man. Because, why not?
Taliesin: Because it's Christmas.
Matt: (laughing) Because it's Christmas?
Marisha: Why not. But you should check it out because we have a very fun cameo by someone who I don't want to spoil.
Sam: (laughs) It's not me!
Marisha: It's not Sam.
Sam: No, it's really not.
Marisha: No, it's really not. But his name might rhyme with Pan Me.
Sam: Bahn mi, the Vietnamese sandwich that you can get in many places?
Marisha: Yes. It rhymes with bahn me. No, it doesn't, actually.
Liam: You got Ang Lee to be in your short?!
Sam: Ang Lee!
Matt: That's crazy!
Taliesin: I'm really lost right now. I'm genuinely lost.
Marisha: The chat room gets it, don't you?
Travis: Pan Me?
Laura: That's major!
Marisha: His name... yeah! There's a cameo in there.
Liam: He directed The Hulk! And The Ice Storm!
Matt: The not-good one!
All: Oh...
Taliesin: And now that cameo's being edited out.
Matt: Just saying.
Laura: You'll never work on broken... what is it? Mountain? Brokeback Mountain II? That was a horrible joke. Just forget I said that. (laughter)
Matt: No. If the internet's been watching--
Ashley: I thought it was funny.
Matt: If the internet's been paying attention, they'll know that I've practically already been in Brokeback Mountain II.
Taliesin: Speaking of which, you're in a thing this week.
Matt: Oh yeah.
Liam: Get it, girl!
Matt: So, on Hulu, there's the new Rocket Jump series that went up, and our dear friend Ashly Burch, a very talented girl, wrote and directed a very awesome, really hilarious sketch that is a loving parody of fanfiction on the internet and fan cultures colliding. And I had the pleasure of briefly having a cameo as Loki in it, and I'm not going to spoil the ending, because it's a whopper. (laughter)
Liam: It's a happy ending.
Matt: It's a very happy ending with multiple happy endings. All over. So, you can go check that out. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: "And I'm sorry."
Matt: And I'm sorry.
Liam: You're welcome.
Matt: (laughs) Depending on who I'm talking to. Another quick awesome announcement, this is huge: Ashley, can you please wear headphones, a slight echo is coming through?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Thank you. So, if you guys could all help her do that, that would be great. Next week is our last episode before the holiday break.
Laura: Ever.
Matt: No, don't even say that! We've already had that rumor go around apparently, like, "Oh my god, is the show going to end forever?" I'm like, no!
Liam: As long as they'll let us do this, we're going to do it.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Or as long as Matt doesn't kill us all.
Matt: Oh, we'll just reroll characters. Yeah, and we'll all play Rifts. It'll be good. No. So, next week will be our last episode before the break. We'll be returning on January 7th. But in the meantime, everyone will be enjoying time with their families and such. Enjoy your two week break off. I know we will. Also, once again just a reminder, we have our Critmas sweaters available.
Sam: I'm modeling one right now!
Laura: Also available in green.
Sam: It's lovely. The fabric is soft. It fits snugly and warmly... but not too warm. I think... I would pay 50 dollars for a sweater like this.
Taliesin: You look like you're snugly in there, I must say.
Liam: It's got your poops right on it.
Sam: It keeps my poops nice and snug.
Laura: Poop through a cone.
Sam: It's got two pockets for two poops.
Matt: You can't beat promotion like this, folks. Check out the Geek and Sundry website. They have all of the awesome stuff up there so you can get those last-minute presents for your friends and family who hopefully haven't seen the show so they're really confused what you get them.
Marisha: Yeah, like, "Dude! I got you something I like!"
Matt: Yeah, hey, works out well. It's the season of the Homer bowling ball. Marisha, you want to talk about the Boonzy Arts candles?
Marisha: Oh, yes, the Boonzy Arts candles. I meant to grab those. The D&D-related candles that I plugged back when we were doing the Slayer's Take episodes forever ago. They had a Kickstarter. They are out now and you can buy them on their website at BoonzyArts.com. Yes, and we have a set that we were going to be doing in a giveaway as well that she delivered that I'll find during break.
Matt: There you have it. Also as a reminder, we have Wyrmwood Gaming that does the really awesome high-quality gamer stuff.
Liam: An excellent Christmas gift, or Critmas gift, a Wyrmwood Gaming box would be. If you use the code CritRole, you'll get free shipping. And they are lovely and fancy and they will make a nice, handsome Christmas present.
Travis: And they will poop in your box for the delivery.
Matt: You have to request that.
Taliesin: That was only you.
Liam: Sam will do that.
Sam: I will do that if you request.
Ashley: Oh man, I can't wait to get mine! (laughter)
Ashley: Including the poo.
Sam: Ashley, we can see the sparkle on your eyes is messing with the cameras. Can you also wear something over your eyes? So, headphones and also cover your eyes.
Ashley: (laughs) I don't know.
Travis: No promises, you guys.
Ashley: I didn't have a comeback for that one.
Matt: Couple of last things. The Critter's Guide to Critmas is going up tomorrow, isn't it?
Marisha: Tomorrow. At 6AM.
Matt: 6AM.
Sam: You're going to wake up for that?
Marisha: Like the Macy's Day Parade. No. But it'll be up that early. Now that we've had an awesome year of amazing Critmases, we've had a few ideas that the Critters actually gave us to focus the idea of Critmas a little bit.
Taliesin: The spirit of Critmas.
Sam: On what it originally was, Jesus Crit. (laughter)
Sam: That's what the holiday was always about.
Travis: No.
Sam: And now we're getting it back to Jesus Crit. (laughter)
Sam: No?
Marisha: Yep. We'll leave it at that.
Travis: You can't do any better that.
Matt: So, tomorrow you'll be able to read this really inaccurate description by Sam Riegel-- the Critter's Guide to Critmas. And last but not least, if anybody has any other announcements or projects coming up that they'd like to mention. There's a Wii U game that just came out called Xenoblade Chronicles X where I voice a character named Lao, that just came out recently, so if you're a fan of those awesome RPGs, I will be really subdued and arrogant in your face.
Travis: Subdued and arrogant.
Taliesin: We get that for free.
Matt: Exactly. Every week. Anything else, guys? We good?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Now let's get down to the nitty gritty. (sound effect noises)
Travis: Was that "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?"
Sam: Yeah. Of course. It's got to be, right?
Matt: The lights swish. All right. So, to get you guys up to speed as fast as I can-- this is a really long arc. The Briarwoods, being a family that five years ago took over the city of Whitestone, where Percy hails from, murdered his family, and he barely escaped with his life, years later, came back into the folds of Vox Machina's existence, and it was decided to go ahead and hunt them down and save the city of Whitestone. Upon arriving, they began to stir rebellion in the town against this horrible undead menace controlled by Lady Briarwood herself. After this rebellion was incited, fires were burning, individuals were killed that were responsible for keeping the people down and just generally bad people all around were being slaughtered by our intrepid adventurers. They made their way into Whitestone Castle, where they had uncovered some information about the ziggurat, a project in which the Briarwoods had been developing something beneath the city of Whitestone, and discovered that Percy's sister Cassandra, who was thought to be dead long ago, actually still survived and was being kept in the castle. She joined the party as you guys fought your way down underneath the city of Whitestone through a series of tunnels, finding yourselves unintentionally locked within a trap, a retooled version of what was previously an acid distillery for the whitestone that's actually mined from the surrounding mountains, and thought left for dead by the Briarwoods themselves. In which Vax was charmed and taken along with them, and Cassandra showed herself--
Laura: You were the one who got us into the acid in the first place. Thank you for that.
Liam: You don't think they would have done that?
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: We'll never know.
Laura: We'll never know.
Marisha: Acid sucks. I never want to encounter acid again. Every time we do, it's bad. It's always bad.
Matt: Well, acid's bad in general, you know, it's not like, "Oh, this acid's fine."
Liam: Citric acid is pretty good.
Laura: Pretty delicious.
Marisha: Preserves apples.
Matt: I stand corrected.
Liam: Could it be a citric acid trap?
Matt: No. It's probably not going to happen.
Travis: Damn it, we should have done that check last time. "Can we check for citric acid?" "You can certainly try." (laughter)
Matt: It's not acid resistance on your armor, it's citric acid resistance.
Sam: You don't get scurvy?
Matt: Very possible. Anyway, back to the story. Upon facing the danger of this trap, and seeing Cassandra turn redcoat to them with the Briarwoods, the party managed to think their way out of the trap before too much damage was taken, and following the Briarwoods to the final chamber where the ziggurat was constructed, where apparently there is some sort of ritual underway to some entity they worship or work with that they refer to as "The Whispered One." Upon following, the party dividing up and following up the sides of the ziggurat, they managed to catch an encounter with the Briarwoods, a charmed Vax, and Cassandra before they could enter the actual ritual chamber. A battle commenced where, thanks to proper preparation, did not go all so poorly, and in the process Sylas Briarwood was destroyed through a combination of Sunbeam via Keyleth and some Pike shield deflection-- a very "Avengers" moment with a hint of phallic imagery. Sylas's destruction sent Delilah into a mournful wail and she decided to try and complete the ritual herself, although it may or may not have been too soon to do so. Dimension Doored her way into the ritual room, which you guys followed over the wall. She seemed to complete the ritual, creating this small vacuous spinning black sphere that is locked in place. Vex was nearly felled by a spell as she attempted to fly in and stop it. The party then rushed in to aid Vex. Percy took a shot that intentionally did not finish Lady Briarwood, just taking off her right arm as she fell unconscious, bleeding out. Vex, unconscious from the fall and also on the cusp of dying, the party rushed in to help her and realized seemingly the vicinity around this orb had cut all magic. So thus, they were snatched up and escorted off the side of the ziggurat, and that was where we left the last game. To pick up where we were, who had Vex in their arms last time? Was that you?
Liam: Grog.
Matt: Grog, you have Vex in your arms. Who has Delilah? And who has Cassandra?
Liam: Grog has both.
Laura: He has both of us. I'm piled on top of Delilah.
Matt: Okay. So, you have Delilah and and Vex. Who has Cassandra?
Taliesin: I think I have Cassandra.
Matt: Okay. So, as you guys are rushing down the steps of the ziggurat itself, the green glass-like jade material slowly fading into the whitestone as you rush towards the base with what little bit of light was available to you from the small bits of torches placed at the bottom of the ziggurat and what light sources you brought with you. You find yourselves at the very bottom of the dirt, looking around. There's the exit where you guys originally entered this chamber. You do also see a number of small metallic carts, some turned on their sides; you can see crumpled bits of whitestone and shards of that green glass residuum material left out. You can see there's piles of leftover building materials that are scattered about the floor of this area.
Liam: Are you saying that Keyleth and I are caught up, at this point? Because I know that people started going out of the temple, Keyleth ran in, I handed Vex to Grog, I ran after.
Matt: So you guys are still a little bit behind the rest of the group. You're on your way now, you're just now rushing down the stairs of the ziggurat while the rest of you have reached the bottom.
Travis: She rolled that natural 20 that kept her from probably getting sucked into Uranus.
Marisha: Yep. Probably.
Matt: Save versus Uranus.
Marisha: That would have been bad. Save versus Uranus? Is that what you said?
Matt: That is what I said.
Liam: Put it in the handbook.
Taliesin: It's like we're 12.
Matt: The next errata document.
Travis: And Lady Briarwood is manacled.
Matt: She's manacled behind you. And Cassandra is tied up. As the rest of you rush down to the bottom, minus Vax and Keyleth, do you wish to wait for them, or push on to the tunnel where you entered?
Travis: Fuck them. We keep running. We're trying to get out of the area, right?
Laura: I'm barely conscious right now, right?
Marisha: I was yelling in the earpiece, fuck it, run!
Matt: So you know that they're following you.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yes?
Laura: Get this bitch off of me.
Travis: Oh, sorry. Yeah, fuck it. It's like carrying coats. Hold on. So I put one in each arm. There you go.
Laura: Are we leaving?
Travis: Yeah, we're trying to get out of here as fast as we can. How are you feeling?
Laura: Grog. And I reach up and grab onto his beard. This is a beautiful beard. Watch out for traps.
Matt: So at this point, as you're having this discussion, you guys are rushing down, and you guys see this as you're rushing down the ziggurat, the radiant energy that is currently the form of Pike seems to have slowly dwindled and she looks over her shoulder with a look of immediate fear as it blinks out.
Marisha: What? Why the-- why?
Sam: Because of technology, and also the story.
Travis: (laughs) I didn't even know she was gone!
Marisha: I didn't, either!
Sam: Pike, no! No, Pike!
Matt: It seems as if whatever anti-magical aura has slowly pushed the divine connection that keeps her present from the current vicinity.
Marisha: Did your computer die?
Sam: Also, the battery died on the computer.
Liam: It's that black orb!
Laura: I didn't know. Where can we plug it in at?
Matt: So, you guys push on, making your way to the cavern and heading back towards the undercroft vicinity of Whitestone.
Travis: Yeah. Let me know when we leave that big-ass room that the ziggurat is in. We're still in it, right?
Matt: You guys have just now made your way towards the exit tunnel, so you're just now leaving.
Travis: I remember the tunnels sucking booby-trap-wise.
Taliesin: Not until we're past the gold room. The glass room.
Liam: I marked all the traps.
Taliesin: All the traps are marked.
Sam: All the traps that we found.
Laura: No, remember? There was one, the poison dust one which we're immune to still.
Taliesin: But that already got set off.
Travis: Can I check for traps as I go?
Matt: Sure. Well, you push and make your way into--
Sam: You're checking for traps?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You're holding two ladies.
Matt: As you guys rush behind.
Travis: Normal Saturday night, my friend.
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: You head back into the tunnel having to lower your head a little bit as you're carrying this payload, you're lumbering through, giant goliath body just stomping through--
Marisha: A payload? He called you a payload.
Matt: Yeah. You come to where there is the partially-dissolved stone door, and you rush underneath and using all of your back muscle-- make a strength check.
Travis: Okay. That's good. 24.
Matt: (grunts) Tensing the entirety of your muscle structure--
Laura: I'm not that heavy.
Matt: Oh, it's not about you being heavy. It's about the door itself not being quite large enough for him to come through carrying that large of people. You (grunts) lift it, and you hear the stone (scraping noise) shift as it's forcefully pushed up. You hear snaps of things breaking or supports that were keeping it in place as you, essentially, break the door and jam it upward, giving you enough space to pull through the rest of the party.
Travis: I fucking hate doors. Don't we all?
Sam: We do.
Matt: Indeed. Greatest nemesis of Vox Machina.
Taliesin: Is Cassandra awake or is she unconscious?
Matt: She's unconscious now.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Matt: You make your way into the top level of the distillery room, down the pathway into the upward ramp to the opposite side, the door open, and you are now outside of the distillery trap.
Travis: It's the danger area.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: You're out.
Sam: Wait, so who's at zero health?
Travis: One point.
Laura: I'm at one point of health.
Sam: We have potions, now. We're out of the magic--
Travis: Can't you heal some people?
Taliesin: We can try a--
Travis: I have potions, too, but--
Marisha: Are we out of the room?
Laura: We're out of the room.
Travis: Yeah, we're out of the room.
Matt: You're not currently with them, though. You're behind with Vax, trying to catch up.
Travis: I have a common. Can I try giving Vex a common healing potion?
Matt: Yeah. You want to stop for a second and pull it out?
Travis: I fucking drop Lady Briarwood on her face, hard.
Sam: Oh no, she might die.
Laura: Oh no, she could die, die.
Matt: Okay. She (thudding noise) rolls, bounces a little bit from the sheer force of the throw. You're not even paying attention as to whether or not she's still breathing. You reach in your pouch and bring out your potion. Set Vex down and hand it to her.
Travis: Please work.
Matt: You go ahead and heal 2d4 plus two hit points.
Laura: Oh! Really?!
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. Where's my d4? Plus two. Oh, that's good. That's a whole eight points.
Matt: There you go. That's actually a pretty good roll.
Travis: And it stays? It works?
Matt: At this point, as you guys have pushed outside of that room, it appears to be functioning again.
Laura: Yay!
Travis: Oh, good. That took. Can you heal people? It's a yes or no question.
Laura: I'm awake enough.
Taliesin: I can try.
Laura: I'm awake enough. I wake up and I cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll for that.
Taliesin: I can't do that.
Laura: I'm like, "Ooh, I love me so much. Cure me."
Matt: At 1st level?
Laura: I think 2nd level. I have enough.
Matt: So 2d8 plus your spellcasting modifier. Whatever your wisdom modifier is.
Laura: That was not even as good as the common potion. Oh. Well, sort of. 14.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Still pretty low.
Laura: So, basically full hit points at this point.
Travis: I feel like we should heal you up just a touch more. What are you at?
Laura: 23 points.
Travis: That's pretty fucking low.
Sam: All right. I'll give you my greater heal.
Travis: I have one. She can have mine.
Laura: Really?
Travis: Yeah, I'm a giant.
Sam: No, I'll take this one. I want you to have my greater healing potion. It would mean so much to me if you would take it, drink.
Laura: Thanks, Scanlan.
Sam: No problem. If Pike were here, I'd give it to her, but...
Laura: Understandable.
Sam: She's not, so. You're pretty cool, too.
Laura: Okay. Thanks, buddy. What do I roll for that?
Sam: 4d4 plus four.
Laura: Whoa. I feel so strong now.
Travis: You'd better roll strong.
Laura: 11. So I'm at 34 points.
Sam: Hey, as a thank you for that.
Laura: What?
Sam: What about that gun?
Laura: Scanlan!
Sam: Just let me hold it!
Travis: Oh, he did just give you a potion.
Laura: I'm just letting you know, you're not skilled with ranged attacks.
Taliesin: There's nothing he can do with it, anyway. I have all the ammunition.
Laura: I know.
Sam: That's what you think. My pickpocket fingers are faster than you could ever imagine.
Taliesin: I really don't think they are.
Travis: Sounds like a challenge!
Matt: At this point, Keyleth and Vax catch up to the rest of you guys.
Sam: I'll take that.
Travis: How did it go? Did you kill the little black thing of death?
Marisha: (slowly) No, I didn't.
Travis: Vex gave Scanlan a gun. I don't think it's loaded.
Marisha: Oh, god. Be careful.
Sam: Does it look cool?
Taliesin: No.
Laura: We need to take care of that orb.
Marisha: No, I tried to jam a piece of the magic glass. The jammy magic glass into it and-- I'm probably lucky that I was able to pull away as quickly as I did, because I think it eats everything around it.
Laura: So wait, it's still there?
Marisha: Still there, yeah.
Travis: Is it moving at all?
Marisha: It's doing its really fast spinny thing.
Travis: What about all the bodies in the room? Are they still like, (moans)?
Marisha: I thought I could maybe go into my wildshape and bring down the building, I thought maybe if I collapsed the building, maybe it was drawing some sort of energy from the net of intertwined bodies, but I couldn't, because it was blocking all magic capabilities.
Laura: Can I look over at Lady Briarwood and do a check on her to see if she looks stable?
Matt: Sure. Which, at this point, just a note, in all the chaos and all the intent, trying to get things out of there, you're just now starting to realize that the Seeming spell that you placed on the whole party has also been canceled as part of whatever this trigger anti-field was. So you all look around and realize, oh, we aren't a bunch of Percys and Cassandras.
Travis: I'm beautiful again!
Taliesin: Thank you?
Laura: That's good, because I noticed your beard.
Travis: That's right.
Laura: That's right.
Taliesin: Are you checking on Lady Briarwood?
Laura: I am.
Matt: Trinket's nuzzling the body.
Taliesin: Keep her unconscious.
Laura: Trinket, careful.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and wake Cassandra up.
Matt: Okay. (Skype sounds)
Sam: It's the magic.
Laura: That's magic.
Matt: All right, so. You go ahead and check on her. Go ahead and make--actually this is pretty easy, you just go ahead and take a moment, you just feel her for a pulse. She is currently still alive. And with a flash of divine energy just past the outskirts of this anti-magic field, you can see Pike's radiant ethereal form all of a sudden reconstruct itself.
Laura: Pike!
Marisha: Pike!
Ashley: I'm back!
Sam: Oh, thank god.
Ashley: We were killing Lady Briarwood?
Sam: No, we're okay. Everything's okay. Thank Sarenrae you're back.
Ashley: Okay. Can I heal somebody?
Sam: We did that a bit while you were gone, but yes.
Laura: But I'm still pretty low! If you feel like it, I would take it and I would be grateful.
Ashley: How's everybody else?
Travis: Can you heal a couple of people?
Ashley: Yeah!
Marisha: I'm a little shaky.
Taliesin: I'm a little shaky, as well.
Laura: Pike, heal us all. We love you.
Ashley: Okay. Let me do a Mass Cure Wounds. I have that.
Liam: Gather together, everyone, gather together.
Marisha: Group hug!
Laura: Oh wait, but wait! Don't let Lady Briarwood in the circle of healing.
Sam: Wait, is she alive? Did you check her?
Matt: She is currently alive. She's unconscious. And she's, thankfully from the blast and the sheer force of it, part of the wound was cauterized, but she has been bleeding quite a bit on the run down here, and she would probably need some sort of--
Marisha: Should I stabilize her?
Travis: Yeah, wait, stabilize her first.
Laura: We're away from the fucking sacrifice area. Maybe we should just kill her.
Taliesin: I want to quickly check my gun. Is Lord Briarwood's name still on it?
Matt: You go and inspect the barrel. No. Sylas Briarwood is currently erased from the barrel.
Taliesin: Let's hold off just a bit before we kill her.
Travis: I have some really dirty rags. Could I do a medicine check and try and stabilize her bleeding?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: Dirty rags?
Travis: 18!
Sam: Do you have medicine skills?
Travis: Zero!
Matt: So yeah, as you guys are having this conversation, Grog comes over and pulls out a mottled mass of really filthy rags from the Bag of Holding, probably used in various nose-wiping circumstances.
Travis: Or other things.
Matt: But somehow it manages to stop the bleeding and keep her relatively stable for the moment, yeah.
Travis: Okay, and then I take her by the foot and I drag her on her face away from the group. Very gently, but still by her foot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Double-check. Perhaps gag her, as well.
Travis: Oh right, yeah, she talks that shit, doesn't she?
Taliesin: We don't want her speaking, and she only has one arm, so magic's going to be tricky.
Liam: She can't do this kind of thing, but she can still talk.
Matt: Pike, did you say you wanted to cast Mass Cure Wounds, you said?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Okay, you can choose up to six creatures in a 30-foot radius, so it's your choice who you want to heal.
Taliesin: She can't see us. Why are we holding our hands up?
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: Actually, you can see us on the screen. Never mind.
Ashley: I know, I have you guys on my iPad down here, but you're delayed.
Liam: There's six including all of us.
Ashley: Okay, so I'll cure all the six people in my family.
Matt: All right, so that's 3d8 plus five for you.
Laura: Wow!
Liam: Pour one out for your homies.
Marisha: Roll high!
Matt: Oh, to have a cleric in the group again.
Travis: I know, right? Shit! Life!
Laura: She's rolling.
Marisha: She's rolling.
Ashley: 26!
All: Ooh! (laughter)
Matt: Oh. Let this be a lesson to all the people out there who think clerics are lame and nobody loves them.
Travis: We love them! Can I tear a piece of fabric off of one of the three remaining fancy robes and I tie it around Lady Briarwood's mouth? But like-- (muffled) in, and you know like (muffled) in the teeth all-- she can't really enunciate.
Matt: Okay, so you pull it and you gag her around the side of her mouth and as you end up tying it, you see one of her eyes lulls open and she kind of, (coughs, sputters).
Travis: (yelps) Shit, she's awake!
Sam: Punch her in the face!
Laura: Punch her in the face!
Sam: No wait, don't. You'll kill her.
Matt: Up to you. What do you want to do?
Sam: Blindfold her!
Travis: I slap her.
Matt: (laughing) Roll a strength check.
Sam: Shit! (laughter)
Sam: He's going to kill her with a slap.
Laura: She'll be knocked unconscious and she'll have to save three times again.
Travis: 21.
Sam: Oh that's good!
Matt: (whack) Right across her face. You hear a resounding crack sound as it appears some part of her cheek bone probably is going to be fairly bruised tomorrow. But she is straight to unconsciousness again. (cheering)
Travis: If you're curious, she's still alive.
Taliesin: I can tell.
Laura: She almost killed me.
Marisha: Is she just unconscious?
Matt: She's still breathing.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and wake up Cassandra.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I did bandages on her real good.
Matt: As you're standing in the tunnel, they're off to one side. You go over to where Cassandra is. You briefly set her down to have this conversation. She's still bound on her arms and legs-- she was nearly hogtied by Grog when you guys finished up at the top of the temple. She's breathing. You can see, the dirt from being tossed to the ground is caked in on where the tear marks are down her face. You shake her gently and eventually she comes to consciousness and her eyes roll around for a moment, she glances over at you. "Percy?"
Taliesin: We will have a discussion later. In the meantime, do you know what that thing in there is and how do we stop it?
Matt: "I don't... what? What's going on?"
Laura: The spinning orb of death.
Matt: She starts moving around, looking around the tunnel real fast at everyone. "What happened? What's going on?"
Travis: You betrayed some bitches, that's what you did.
Matt: And as you say this, you see she reacts as almost someone had just punched her in the chest and the tears begin to flow down her face again, and she, "I'm sorry."
Taliesin: I'm going to slap her in the face.
Matt: Okay. (slap) Go ahead and roll a strength check.
Sam: That's your sister, Percy!
Laura: She might be unconscious too!
Taliesin: Not with my strength!
Travis: (jokingly) Natural 20. (laughter)
Taliesin: 16. Well, actually my strength is still thin because I still have a--
Sam: Oh! Negative two strength, right.
Taliesin: So, 15.
Matt: 15, yeah okay. You smack her to get her attention in this circumstance. She stops for a second and gathers herself. Her breathing slows and she stares off into space for a moment.
Taliesin: I need my sister back. Are you awake? Are you a terrible person? Do I want to strangle you right now?
Matt: "Probably."
Taliesin: Good. Then we can work with this. They were building something down here. The Briarwoods are no longer a problem. They were building something-- what do you know about it? It maybe started, it seems to be affecting magic. I think.
Matt: "I don't know. They wouldn't let me near it."
Laura: Don't lie to us anymore!
Matt: "I'm not lying! Do I have a reason to lie right now?" And she looks over at you with an intensity to her gaze that catches you not as desperation, but as passionate self-loathing.
Liam: You seem to really believe your words, but you know your word is worth fuck all right now. Fuck all.
Matt: "I know. I know." She leans her head down on the side of this cavern wall and stares off into space. "All that I know about this is that they've been building it under the guidance of some other person or entity. They referred to him many times as the Whispered One. They're very secretive about it. The only reason I knew was because I overheard a few conversations and questioned them about it. To which there was punishment. But they mainly kept me to try and keep the people at bay. My job was to keep in contact with anyone who would attempt to rise against them, and inform them. I would prevent any surprises, although apparently (chuckles) and thankfully, I didn't do a very good job." And she looks around the room at the rest of you.
Sam: Can I check my history memory banks to see if I know anything about the Whispered One or if that jogs any memory?
Matt: Roll a religion check, Mr. Bard.
Sam: Religion check? Well, that's not good. 20.
Laura: What?! Natural 20?
Sam: No.
Laura: Damn it! I had a really strong reaction to that.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: Yes, the whispers!
Marisha: He's whispering about the Whispered One!
Sam: He's gone! Where is he?
Travis: This is the pre-show days!
Liam: It's not new, it's just been a while.
Travis: It's been a long time.
Laura: Yeah, but he's on this side of the table.
Taliesin: None of us have rolled this well in so long.
Travis: We used to play-- don't over-listen to it!
Taliesin: (starts singing In the Hall of the Mountain King)
Liam: He is licking the inside of Sam's ear.
Laura: Look at his eyes!
Liam: Matthew is the Whispered One.
Laura: He is the Whispered One! This is normally the time when Sam would--
Sam: It was all tongue in my ear the whole time! (laughter)
Sam: It was so dirty. The Whispered One! I have a memory! I don't know where I learned of this knowledge-- I am very old-- but I did, at some point in my travels, I remember reading about something. A lich king?
Matt: A lich entity, yeah.
Sam: Who wanted to be a god. And his name was Vecna, and they called him the Whispered One. That's all I remember, he tried to achieve great power, and I don't know if he was successful or not.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Laura: Cassandra, does any of that sound familiar?
Matt: Cassandra shakes her head and says, "Honestly, I didn't know anything beyond the name. I just knew they were very close with this individual."
Laura: When you betrayed us, you said you were serving a higher purpose. Did they plan to sacrifice you to him?
Matt: "I know there was a blood ritual involved. I did not know more than that. There was to be a gift of power should I give an element of my life to this ritual." She shakes her head for a second. She blinks her eyes, and she says, "I don't feel like I was right in my head. I look back on so many decisions I've made, and all the people that I've--" The tears just start flowing again.
Liam: Insight check. (rolls) I'll take that. 14.
Matt: 14. Best that you can read off her is there is a deep look of regret and sorrow in her face. And you do notice that, through most of this conversation, as much as she's been able to talk to all of you, she has been unable to make eye contact with Percy.
Liam: I'm going to walk over and plop down in front of her and say, you've backed a losing team. And that's not surprising, you having been through what you've been through. That's all gone now. Sylas is gone, Delilah is on death's door. Whitestone needs to be tended to and protected. Do you know anything that can help us save your birthright here and now?
Matt: "I mean, you've already done half the job." Her eyes look over at the unconscious Delilah in the hallway.
Marisha: Cassandra, is there any reason why they'd want to sacrifice you in particular?
Matt: She thinks hard for a second, her eyes squinting. "I don't. They spoke very little-- intentionally, I think-- of what they wanted to do. To be honest, I think there was an element that even they didn't know quite what they were doing. I was a tool. I was to be used. I had my purposes. I did my best to fulfill them."
Travis: I've got a question. Do you care if I smash the shit out of Lady Briarwood's head now?
Matt: She glances over at her, and with a stern look on her face she goes, "Someone needs to avenge my family." And for the first time she looks over and makes eye contact with you. You feel a pulse in your hand, like a heartbeat. (thoom) The gun itself seems warmer and warmer, and you guys all notice as a bit of smoke begins to billow out the sides of Percy's sleeves. You hear a familiar voice creep up in the back of your head. "Percival."
Taliesin: I walk up to Lady Briarwood.
Matt: "Here at your mercy."
Taliesin: I put my gun to Lady Briarwood's head.
Sam: Wait, Percy, you're going to shoot an unarmed woman?
Travis: Hush!
Sam: Don't shoot an unarmed woman.
Travis: Unarmed? She tried to kill us.
Taliesin: You changed the deal. Take her name off the gun.
Matt: "The deal was never changed."
Travis: Who's he talking to?
Matt: "The deal was made."
Taliesin: I pull the gun away. Things have changed. We need to talk.
Travis: All right?
Sam: Who's he talking to?
Liam: I hold up my hand and shush the group with my hand.
Matt: "You made a great sacrifice for my gifts, Percival. Do not let it be in vain."
Taliesin: (sighs) Did I even want revenge before I talked to you? Did I? I don't remember anymore. What does she die for? What do I even need? I want my country. I want my sister! I've killed two of those who have wronged me and nothing is better. Nothing feels better, nothing is avenged. What is this worth to you? And I put the gun back at her head.
Matt: "Pull the trigger."
Travis: I take out my hammer...
Taliesin: Pull it back, put it to her, put it back. "Maybe I will."
Matt: You're placing the gun against your own head?
Taliesin: And back to hers.
Laura: Percival, don't!
Matt: "Percy, no!" "Percival, don't do this. We made a deal."
Taliesin: I put the gun to the side-- no, I'm holding the gun on Briarwood. That deal was a soft deal. It was a dream. It was a vision.
Matt: "What are visions if not a window into the future? You understand so little, Percival. Do not make me regret sharing this with you."
Taliesin: I need more from you if you want anything from me. I don't trust you anymore. Besides. I put the gun to the hand of Lady Briarwood and pull the trigger. The gun's broken anyway. I drop it. I'm not satisfied. I want my money back.
Matt: (chuckles) The smoke still billows out from you at this point.
Taliesin: It's actually also still around her, it occurs to me.
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: (mumbles) You have advantage.
Taliesin: I have advantage! Thank you!
Matt: You do.
Liam: I'm not doing anything, but I'm holding a dagger and just watching Percy, and aiming at Percy.
Taliesin: Yay! 20.
Matt: 20. You feel that warm pulse that was in your hand earlier that was coming from the gun? It pulses like a heartbeat in the hand that was holding it, and for a second you feel like something grabbed your wrist and slapped it away towards your back, reaching for where Bad News is.
Taliesin: Which does work.
Matt: And then you (grunts) rip control of your hand once again.
Taliesin: Delilah. You are going to die tonight. Whether or not it is a merciful, quick death or a slow and agonizing one, controlled by something darker than I know, is entirely up to you. How do we stop that thing?!
Matt: Delilah, whose eyes are still rolling after all the shouting that's been going on as she comes into consciousness with a gag around her mouth and goes (breathes heavily, struggling) And her eyes dart around in fear. You can see that her makeup has run down her cheeks from her own lamenting over Sylas's loss and the confusion over the ritual. And the fear all of a sudden turns to seething, burning hatred as they dart around. And then (struggles again). She can't talk.
Sam: I will Mage Hand to remove the gag from her.
Laura: Oh god! I pull an arrow and aim it right at her head.
Marisha: Yeah, I prep my fire hands.
Taliesin: I know the pain you're feeling right now. I know the rage. I know every moment of it, and I guarantee I can make it worse. I can make it so much worse. Fix this. And join your beloved.
Matt: As this is happening, the gag falls away from her mouth from the magic hand. She's glancing at you and the smoke is now billowing up stronger to the point where you can barely see Percy's torso. You can see his head now, and what little bit of a view you have, his eyes have gone completely dark. There is just pitch black, completely encasing the entirety of his visible eye. You can see his feet still dangling beneath the smoke, and his feet are digging and tensed into the ground.
Taliesin: Delilah, don't make me hurt you.
Marisha: I reach over and I grab Vex's hand. And I look at her and I say, what do we do?
Taliesin: Grog, be ready to restrain me.
Travis: I'm ready!
Laura: Percival Frederickstein von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III, you will fight this monster inside of you!
Matt: Delilah is looking at you right now and the anger and fury in her eyes clarified, she just looks up and, "You've already taken everything from me."
Taliesin: I really haven't. You still have your sanity and your life. I will take your life tonight, but I can leave you your sanity.
Matt: "Interesting. You seem to be struggling, Percy."
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to be an asshole. Fine. Fine. Casting Minor Illusion.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm changing my form into the screaming, writhing, slowly-melting visage of Lord Briarwood.
Laura: Oh shit!
Taliesin: And I'm just going to scream in holy high hell and pain.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Suck it, girl!
Matt: So Minor Illusion, as a limitation, it wouldn't be a full-body illusion, but you can take elements of your features.
Taliesin: I'm in smoke. I'm just taking--
Matt: Yeah. Where once Percy's face existed, it twists into this shimmering apparition of Sylas Briarwood looking down at her as his face contorts into horrible, screaming pain. The head rises up and almost soundlessly, he screams out as the flesh begins to melt from the bone. As it does, Percy's voice rings out in this cacophonous roar that shakes the cavern around you.
Taliesin: That pain you're feeling, I've felt for years. Don't think I've imagined every way to hurt you! I could spend years hurting you before you die, in ways you cannot imagine. Now, how do we stop it?
Matt: "I don't know. I don't even know if it worked. We've been preparing for this ritual for... five godforsaken years. All to repay a debt. And that's all. You forced us. It was too soon."
Taliesin: Why? Why was it too soon? What were you waiting for?
Matt: "We were waiting for a particular date. There is a time each year in which the barriers between realms grow and grow very weak. You recall Erevan's attempt generations ago to blur between the realm of ice and this one, which you call the Winter's Crest. Well, this is too early, and you saw our failure. He will not be happy, I imagine. And I still owe him for what he gave me. For what he gave us."
Laura: What did he give you?
Matt: At which point, her eyes well up with tears, and she looks over. "He gave me my Sylas back. And you took him from me again. So do what you must do. I know I've paid my penance, and I know that no matter what steps you take now, it will only drag you deeper into this dark hole you've drawn yourselves. And you will hear me laughing."
Taliesin: No, I really won't. Knock her out again.
Travis: Oh. Fine! (punching sound)
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19? (impact noise) You hear (clinking) across some of the lower rocks as two of her teeth go scattering out the side of her mouth.
Taliesin: Collect them.
Travis: They're not pointy, right?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Check her person for anything.
Laura: Oh, I will gladly do that for you.
Travis: Hold on a second. Are you sure you don't want to smoke this bitch?
Laura: I check her person for anything valuable.
Taliesin: I think we're just going to throw her into the acid pits. No, I don't feel...
Liam: What's the plan here, Percy?
Sam: I pick up the Pepperbox off the floor to give it to him, and I try to sneak out a bullet.
Taliesin: They're different bullets.
Sam: I don't know that!
Matt: Okay. Make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: Three!
Travis: Shit!
Sam: Plus two! Plus two.
Matt: So five. (giggles)
Taliesin: The three, in theory, is actually low enough to break it further.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Plus two, it's five.
Taliesin: Fine.
Liam: Natural one.
Taliesin: Nope. That's a 16.
Matt: So you watch as Scanlan looks around, grabs it. Picks it up and (clink) the full barrel comes off of the gun.
Sam: I back away from it.
Laura: You guys, he's got smoke billowing out of him right now.
Sam: Kick it off away to the corner.
Taliesin: Scanlan. Give me the other gun.
Sam: Oh, it's on the floor right there.
Taliesin: The other gun.
Sam: You were talking to something out there. What was it? I was very scared. I'm a little man!
Travis: Just change the subject.
Sam: Who were you talking to?
Taliesin: I need another gun.
Sam: Are you going to kill me with it? (laughter)
Taliesin: Maybe?
Liam: I walk between them and say, Percy, what are we doing here? That woman deserves everything that is brought upon her, but what are we doing for Whitestone? What are we doing?
Marisha: More importantly, what was that just now?! Who were you talking to?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: What?!
Taliesin: Things have gotten a bit weird.
Marisha: Percy, you cannot honestly tell us you don't know anymore! We just watched you have a full-fledged conversation with yourself!
Taliesin: Did they not hear any of the voice?
Liam: Yeah, was he talking out loud?
Taliesin: Oh shit, I came off like a crazy person just then!
Travis: You did! Yes, you did.
Sam: Here's what I know.
Travis: We were trying to answer you for a little bit.
Sam: Here's what I know. Vecna is possibly, maybe on the loose, maybe coming back. We know that this ritual has been started, and we don't know whether killing her is going to end it or not. So I propose that we start leaving right away.
Laura: Pike, do you know anything about Vecna?
Marisha: Anything further?
Matt: Pike, you go ahead and make a religion check.
Sam: Matt, fly to New York to whisper in her ear. (laughter)
Matt: It's tempting.
Marisha: Yeah, just text her!
Liam: 47!
Ashley: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Not a whole lot more information than what Scanlan was able to ascertain from this. You just know that this entity known as Vecna, once a very powerful arch-lich, had once attempted to ascend to godhood, and was supposedly halted in the process, a battle that occurred on another plane, amongst heroes that only a few came back from, but apparently stopped a very terrible thing. But that was hundreds and hundreds of years ago.
Marisha: I wonder what Erevan has to do with this.
Laura: And he created a vampire? He made Sylas a vampire?
Matt: You do know that-- sorry.
Marisha: Go ahead.
Matt: You do know, and Pike relays this too. In particular, Vecna is known as, for lack of a better term, the patron saint-- or lesser god to those who worship-- as the deity of secrets. Dark secrets, things that wish to be kept out of the knowledge of most of the world at large. And these secrets are coveted.
Ashley: Jeez.
Taliesin: Things are complex, and I don't trust myself to take her life. I'm in over my head.
Laura: Do you need someone else to do it for you?
Taliesin: I don't know if that will help.
Travis: She almost killed Vex, she didn't kill Vax, we've got to do fucking something with her.
Taliesin: This thing wants her dead, and the only thing I can think to do is to say no.
Liam: This thing? What thing?
Taliesin: This thing in my head--
Laura: Your thing?!
Liam: What thing is that, Percival?
Taliesin: I don't know!
Liam: Well, start fucking talking, Percival, because we've all watched you talk to yourself for five straight minutes, and we're not going to deal with it for much longer!
Marisha: Sorry, Percy. I'm with Vax, here.
Taliesin: I had a dream, and that was all.
Marisha: You mentioned just now that you wanted your money back. Was this a dream? Did you pay somebody? And with what?
Taliesin: It was a dream where I was offered a means to revenge. It was a dream!
Marisha: Well, clearly it wasn't!
Taliesin: Well, I know that now.
Liam: Percival.
Taliesin: This is as new to me as anyone.
Liam: It feels like you are lying to us.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Taliesin: Please.
Laura: (laughs) "Let me know if I'm lying, because--"
Marisha: Fucking fuck!
Taliesin: Why do you all keep rolling so poorly against me?
Marisha: 16.
Matt: Taliesin, tell me what your persuasion and deception skills are.
Taliesin: Persuasion six, deception two.
Laura: 23! Ooh! Two in one!
Travis: You got a whisper?!
Matt: Inter-party insight.
Marisha: We have to title this "Whispers!"
Travis: Whispers!
Taliesin: I think we've already had an episode called "Whispers."
Sam: Well, this one's called "Secrets and Lies!"
Liam: This one's called "Whisper-Sync."
Taliesin: "Ear-tonguing."
Sam: This one's called just (whisper noises).
Travis: For the record, I like the shadow stuff.
Marisha: (squeals) I get one, too!
Sam: He whispers to you all the time. (laughter)
Laura: It looks like there was more tongue with you, though, Sam.
Matt: Way to point that out.
Travis: Didn't get sufficient tongue in yours?
Taliesin: You don't seem very satisfied.
Sam: Remember, these shirts are available online at geekandsundry.com!
Laura: I knew you were going to do that. I almost did it when he was whispering in your ear, just for your sake!
Matt: I would also like you to make another wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Natural 20!
Travis: (yelling) Shut the fuck up!
Taliesin: Breaking the game!
Travis: What the-- what?!
Matt: At this point, you feel your hands tense up, and once again begin to reach towards your back. You close your eyes and with all your will and might, you just scream "No!" Instinctively, it wasn't even a conscious thought, it was just an animalistic response to feeling your physical form being taken over, and in that moment, every muscle in your body tenses. And you guys watch the smoke momentarily drift from his form behind him.
Laura: Behind him?
Travis: Off of him.
Sam: You don't need to yell at us, Percy. We're just trying to help you.
Travis: The smoke dissipates or goes behind him?
Sam: I don't think he's rational.
Matt: Behind him.
Liam: I'm aiming at the smoke and just watching and waiting.
Matt: At this point, you can see this smoke that was once billowing from Percy is now standing in this outer human-like shape.
Sam: Unbeam-say!
Marisha: Cashed out-say.
Matt: As it stands there for a moment, it begins to swell and grow larger, filling almost the height of the ten-foot tunnel that you guys are standing in, looming over Percy's body, still connected through his shadow through the floor of the tunnel itself. It just looms over and as it peeks forward, you guys for the first time hear the voice that's been poking through him this entire time just say, "Percival. Do it."
Laura: I shoot a holy arrow at it.
Matt: Then let's roll some initiative. (yelling)
Marisha: We're fighting the thing that's been in your head!
Taliesin: Therapy!
Marisha: There's so many allegories!
Taliesin: Therapy!
Marisha: We're fighting the demons in your head.
Matt: (laughs) That's pretty great, actually.
Taliesin: My therapist would be so proud right now.
Laura: Oh man, we're out of like everything, aren't we?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Oh, we're great, we're fine, we're good.
Sam: We got a guy with a hammer. We're fine.
Laura: Oh jeez, okay. Well, I've still got two 3rd-level spells.
Taliesin: I need stats on Lord Briarwood's sword.
Matt: You haven't taken a short rest.
Sam: You know what we have? We have fucking Pike.
Laura: We have Pike!
Travis: Yeah, we do! We've got Pike!
Ashley: Yeah, I'm pretty low on spells, guys, but we're going to be okay.
Taliesin: I have been dreading this for years.
Liam: What? What have you been dreading?
Taliesin: This moment right now.
Laura: Oh my god, this has been in him for three years, four years.
Marisha: Forever! Since the beginning.
Taliesin: Since you've met me.
Travis: I've been standing in front of Lady Briarwood.
Matt: Yeah. So right there with her.
Taliesin: I'm either going to be a new Percy or a new person entirely.
Laura: No, don't say that.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry. It's so fun to torture you.
Sam: As everyone's drawing their weapons, I shout, maybe we should check and make sure it won't kill him if we kill it.
Laura: It's too late. I shot an arrow at it!
Matt: It's too late. Who's standing where? I'm going to say Pike's probably--
Taliesin: You have a little cavern for this!
Liam: Where's Percy?
Matt: Percy is currently right here. Well, more in the center there talking to everybody.
Taliesin: Do you have a mini for the dark specter of my soul? I love you! I love you so much!
Matt: With Cassandra on the ground there.
Liam: I'm next to Vex.
Matt: Right, so you guys would be probably back here. Your daggers ready. Trinket is probably over by you, of course.
Laura: Yeah, of course he is.
Matt: And Keyleth? I'd say you're probably on this side, talking to Percy.
Laura: Oh wait, but we were holding hands at one point, so we would be close.
Taliesin: And Grog was covering me, so Grog would've been closer to me, because I had him--
Travis: Yeah, I was in front of Lady Briarwood, though.
Matt: I have you right here between him and Lady Briarwood. Right there.
Laura: That seems good, we're good.
Liam: Do I have a clear shot, not that I'm going to do it, but I was aiming at Percy, so I would have a clear line of sight. Is there nothing between us?
Matt: You would have a clear line of sight. The two gnomes are between you, so you're fine.
Taliesin: I am so happy right now.
Laura: How did my holy arrow do?
Matt: We're going to find out in just a second. So, first and foremost, initiative order. We have 25 to 20?
Laura: 25.
Matt: Wow, okay, so we have Vex.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Two 20s. 19 to 15?
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Marisha: I didn't suck it up this game.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. Oh, 17, all right.
Travis: Oh, sorry, did I miss that section?
Matt: You did. That's okay. Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Eight!
Matt: Eight! Yeah! All right. First and foremost, Vex, you're up with the initiative on this. You go ahead and you bring your holy arrow and you release it.
Laura: Is it a surprise attack?
Matt: Technically, no, it knew you were there, it was very aware of everyone's position. And was essentially after being forced out of his body at the moment preparing itself for some sort of assault, so not a surprise round, unfortunately. So go ahead and make your attacks with your arrows, if you'd like.
Laura: Yes! 28 and 27.
Matt: Both of those hit.
Laura: Awesome. Okay. These two... balls. So 15, 16, 17, plus holy damage?
Matt: I'll consider that, do 1d4 radiant damage to it. In addition to that, so 17 plus--
Laura: 17 plus four is 21.
Matt: 21 for the first one.
Laura: And then ten for the second.
Matt: All right. So--
Laura: And then I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I didn't say I Hunter's Marked him at the beginning-- I'm explaining this to you guys, because I'd already said I shot at him.
Matt: You did.
Laura: So I was being honest. I'm looking at the chat room, because I know they're going to tell me I forgot my damn Hunter's Mark.
Matt: That's okay. All right. You pull back and release the first arrow. As it goes and hits, you can see the smoke itself is obscuring its place and keeping it hard to hit, but you still strike true, the arrow striking into its form. And there's a flash of radiant energy as it hits, and you see the creature takes from the impact and stares down at its chest. As it looks up, its face turning towards you, and it is this formless humanoid body, but the face itself does pinch into this elongated crow skull--
Laura: Ooh, I didn't do holy damage for the second one!
Sam: Did the arrows hit?
Laura: Yeah. Plus two more for the holy damage.
Sam: They impacted?
Matt: They impacted.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. Takes both the hits and looks over at you, and you can see as it turns the head, you can see better, even in this low light, the shape of its face, and its eyes burst into this angry burning purplish energy expression and it looks very unhappy with the current circumstance. Do you want to move you or Trinket?
Laura: Trinket moves around and in front of me to protect me.
Matt: Okay. There you go. That's it, you're just going to keep there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up next.
Sam: How tall is the tunnel?
Matt: It's about 12 feet.
Sam: Okay. No? Okay. Precious little I can do. I will Lightning Bolt it. Ooh, I'm right next to it.
Matt: You are, which means you could blast towards the wall and hit it.
Sam: All right. I will turn around and I will, I will Lightning Bolt it, yes.
Matt: Okay. All right. So you, it's right there in front of you as the smoke rises up, and you see the arrows strike it, there's the flash of holy energy from Vex's attack, and that moment, as it's distracted, you use that to conjure a lightning bolt and (lightning sound). For a moment, the flashing of light lights up the cavern around. The bolt passes through it harmlessly.
Marisha: What? What did you, what was that?
Sam: Lightning.
Laura: Either or magic. One of the two didn't affect it.
Matt: The lightning bolt passes through it and it strikes the back of the wall and you can see the electrical energy discharge across the stone and earth, arcing and spidering off until it dissipates, seeming to not have any sort of impact or effect on the billowing smoke entity.
Sam: Shit.
Matt: You want to stay there or you want to move? You are in its melee range. You are in its melee range, so if you move it will get an attack of opportunity if it chooses to take it.
Sam: (stammers) I will not move and instead I will inspire Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I'll say, you feel good in this motherfucker! Your whole hood in this motherfucker! (laughs) That's it. (laughter)
Matt: All right, take your d10. This moment of intensity, as you turn around now at this point, seeing everyone striking, you've looked your head over and you can see for the first time in full physical form, the creature that has haunted your dreams for the past five years. While it is not present, you can feel it smile. It's your turn.
Taliesin: I'm going to run over to my sister.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And cut open her bonds.
Matt: Okay, so you pull out the-- okay.
Taliesin: Take out my sword and cut open her bonds. Get back! Run! And then, if I still have enough timing beyond that, I'd love to take a swipe at it with my sword.
Matt: Unfortunately, it's going to, to free her entirely of her bonds and give her that, it's going to be your action.
Taliesin: Okay. We haven't had a short rest, have we?
Matt: No.
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: We're not looking good.
Matt: All right. It is now Vax's turn.
Liam: Oh? Good. So I've got advantage because the smoke demon hasn't gone yet, so dagger and a dagger. First one is, that's 29, and the second one is a 24, so 29 and 24.
Matt: What's giving you advantage on this? Because he hasn't gone first in the first round? That is correct, yes. All right. So both of those hit.
Liam: The first one is eight and the second one is eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Keen dagger, life-stealing.
Matt: Right. Do you want to sneak attack with this? Because in theory, it's in melee range with an ally.
Liam: Oh, with Percy.
Matt: With Percy and with Scanlan.
Liam: Thanks, boss! Yeah.
Matt: Don't rob yourself of what you do.
Taliesin: Matt's understanding that we are all screwed.
Liam: Seven, eight, nine. It's hard to see over there. 15 points of sneak attack damage. Yeah, I'm not used to the screen.
Matt: We're working out the bugs. It's a process. We're working on it. All right, cool. 15 points of sneak attack damage. So as you throw the two daggers, plunging them both, both of them, their little aura of magical energy flashing as they both impact the smoke form, seeming to sink slowly as they hit and then finding the edge of their blades sunken into its torso. As it rears back.
Liam: Eight and eight and 15.
Matt: Correct, all right.
Marisha: So the daggers did it.
Matt: Cool. That, are you going to stay where you are, Vax?
Liam: Yeah, I am.
Matt: All right. Now it is the entity's turn. As it rears and the daggers both vanish from its torso, returning to your belt side, it is glaring down at you to its side, and it says, "Percival. Don't make Orthax regret working with you."
Sam: Orthax?
Marisha: Orthax.
Taliesin: Orthax.
Sam: I hired them to get rid of some termites in my house, once.
Taliesin: Well that was really your mistake, then.
Matt: Shifting this way twice. Percy, you will get an attack of opportunity with your rapier if you'd like.
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Matt: All right.
Travis: You're using Briarwood's rapier?
Taliesin: No, I haven't. No short rest.
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: 25 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Nine points.
Matt: Nine points of damage. All right. Good to know.
Taliesin: All right. Yeah.
Matt: Now, on the rest of its turn. As it shifts up, it doesn't walk or move, its form drifts along and the shadows meet it there, the smoke almost appears at the spot where it intends to go and then it meets it in that moment. As it does, it now stands between a bunch of you. Its eyes flare with dark purple, and you just hear this scream, this screeching (scream) echo out from it, and as it does, all of you hold your ears for a second. I need everyone to make a wisdom saving throw. You have advantage.
Laura: We have advantage?
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: With the ten, 23.
Sam: Natural 20. On the first roll.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 16.
Laura: 18 for Pike.
Matt: Okay. So. All of you guys hold your ears for a second, and everyone that rolled higher than a 17 takes six points of psychic damage.
Marisha: Psychic damage?
Matt: Correct. You guys both take 13 points of psychic damage.
Taliesin: 13 because he's evil.
Matt: Both of you feel all of a sudden like your brain fill with this urge to strike something, this overwhelming need to slash out at whatever's near you. Both of you get a brief move. Grog, that's going to pull you this way, and Vax, it's going to pull you this way.
Liam: Right at each other.
Matt: I need both of you guys to roll an attack roll. As you rush up with your hammer, flames, and you swing it down towards Scanlan.
Laura: Scanlan!
Travis: Don't dap me for hitting Scanlan!
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words to try to dodge out of the way.
Matt: Okay, roll the attack.
Travis: Oh shit. 19?
Matt: Okay, so 19.
Sam: I'm going to say, you gonna fail that attack, so you better sit your ass on back, because I ain't no hollaback gnome, I ain't no hollaback gnome.
Matt: All right, roll a d10.
Sam: d10. Three? So that, what does that do?
Matt: All right, so Cutting Words, if I recall--
Sam: It lowers his attack by three.
Matt: Right, so that brings it from 19 to 16. What's your armor class?
Sam: It's 17.
Matt: With that, the bard's words ring true to your mind, and for a second, you feel this new, this not Grog-based rage, this outside forceful rage that it confuses you, and as he says that, you're right! He is no hollaback gnome. (laughter)
Matt: And you resist with the hammer, giving him just enough time to step out of the way, and it slams into the ground harmlessly, cracking the stone at the base.
Travis: "You know what? You're right! He is no hollaback gnome."
Matt: Vax, I'd like you to go ahead and make a dagger strike against Pike.
Liam: I rolled a 13.
Matt: Rolled a 13. Pike, you look over your shoulder as all of a sudden Vax appears behind you and slams forward with the dagger. You whip around with your shield and, with a large striking arc of sparks deflect the blade blow across the dark air of this interior tunnel, harmlessly. You take no damage.
Laura: Badass Pike!
Taliesin: She also ain't no hollaback gnome.
Marisha: Ain't no hollaback gnome.
Taliesin: Ain't no hollaback gnome.
Ashley: Ain't no hollaback gnome!
Matt: And with that, you know what? It's going to go ahead and do this. The entity then moves backwards. Pike and Scanlan-- oh, you already used your reaction to do Cutting Words, so you don't get that. Pike, go ahead and make a melee attack.
Sam: Damn it. That's a reaction?
Ashley: What do I roll for that, again?
Matt: One reaction per round.
Laura: Your d20.
Matt: Just roll a d20, roll for your normal mace attack.
Ashley: 17?
Matt: 17, unfortunately, does not hit. It seems like it should've, but the smoke is obscuring the vision around it, and where you swing, you do not manage to get quite close enough to hit its body. As it steps backward into the wall and out of visual range.
Marisha: What!
Laura: What?
Sam: Into the wall?
Matt: Into the wall. It just vanishes into the side of the tunnel. That brings us to Grog.
Liam: The cloud went in the wall?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And move in front of the rest of the group. I put my back to the rest of the group.
Matt: Okay, so like right there?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What the fuck, Grog, you just tried to kill me!
Travis: I did?
Sam: Yes!
Travis: I don't remember that.
Sam: Are you okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: If you want to, you can hold. You can use your action to ready an attack so whenever a trigger of your choosing happens, you can then make your attack.
Travis: I would like to do that.
Matt: Okay. What trigger would you like?
Travis: When he reappears.
Matt: Okay, and comes within melee range?
Travis: Yeah, when I can see him with my beautiful eyes.
Matt: Okay, so you're holding your action there. Good to know. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Not trusting this guy, I'm going to go ahead and cast Faerie Fire. It's a 20-foot radius. Just right in this bubble that we've been hanging out in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Because I'm assuming he's going to be up in our faces.
Matt: All righty. Faerie Fire. Where do you want it? Just in this vicinity?
Marisha: Yeah, just right, right around us.
Matt: Okay, so, 20-foot radius so we'll say probably in the back here and forward this way, so this area between these. So as Keyleth, you put your arms up and this burst of glowing luminescent pinkish-purple energy begins to sparkle through the air like glitter suspended in low gravity, and it drifts through the air in the entire vicinity, you can see it clinging to you guys a little bit. All right. Are you going to move or you going to stay where you are?
Marisha: I'll step back a bit.
Matt: Step out of the Faerie Fire or into it?
Marisha: Step out of it.
Matt: Okay. Am I?
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: Just ten feet? Okay. Ending your turn, Keyleth. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. Is Guiding Bolt considered the same thing that Lightning Bolt would be?
Matt: No, as far as you know--
Liam: Radiant damage.
Matt: Yeah, it's radiant damage and, let me pull up the--
Travis: We can't see him right now, though.
Matt: Yeah, you have no visual on him. The smoke entity has moved into the wall and is nowhere in your visible range right now, so you have nothing that you can attack in theory that you know of.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: If you have any buff spells, anything you want to do in preparation for it, or hold your action as well until it reappears, you can do that.
Ashley: Okay, I'll hold my action.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Are you staying put? Are you moving at all, or do you want to stay where you are?
Ashley: I think I'll stay. I can't see where I'm at, but I think I'll just stay.
Matt: Okay. Cool.
Sam: I'm going to just call out to everybody, the thing seems to want Percy. Should we surround him?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So you shout that out at the end of that? Cassandra, now, who has been unbound, gets up. Her weapons were taken from her when you bound her, so she stands up and puts herself to the wall and looks at you with a--
Taliesin: I hand her my sword.
Matt: Okay. She takes the rapier and looks at it and goes running away, back towards where Castle Whitestone is.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: She runs?
Ashley: Can I do something?
Matt: If you want to, instead of holding your action, cast something, you can do that.
Ashley: Yeah, I'm going to go up to Percy and cast Protection from Evil on him.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Ashley: Which...
Matt: What are you going to choose? You get to choose a certain type of creature which he's protected against.
Taliesin: Do we know anything about Orthax?
Matt: You have no idea. You saw it briefly. I'm going to have you roll a religion check. Being a religiously trained individual, let's see if you can ascertain the nature of this creature, this entity.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22? Okay. In the brief moment you got to see it, the way it moves, the way it completely cast aside Scanlan's attack, and the way that it housed itself within Percy for so long. There are elements of it that make you think of a shadow demon. But usually, they're not this large. They're not this powerful. Either this is just a powerful entity of a similar type, or it's been feeding over time, or it's something beyond that, but you get the sense that this thing is demonic in nature, based on the brief appearance you had with it.
Ashley: Okay, I'd like to protect him from shadow demons.
Matt: Okay, so that would be fiends. So you choose fiends? Great. So any attack rolls against you from fiend creatures have disadvantage.
Laura: He's a demon?
Matt: She's thinking he might be, based on her roll.
Laura: I have favored enemy as demons.
Matt: Then, knowing that going forward, that may change your next round of combat. Good to know! So you are currently are protected from fiends.
Taliesin: If only that were true in real life.
Matt: Vex, you're up first.
Laura: Oh. So demons are my favored enemy, so I have advantage against recalling information about them. Can I recall anything about something that looks like this?
Marisha: Orthax?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. Just roll a d20 and add your intelligence. And you have advantage on it because he's your favored.
Laura: I'm not that smart. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. You know that these creatures are incorporeal. They can generally shift in and out of solid matter as a way of moving and defending itself. You know that they're difficult to fight in the dark. You also know that they, because of their form, are generally resistant to a lot of types of elemental-type damage. And lighting and cold: no effect whatsoever.
Laura: Got it.
Matt: As well as poison.
Laura: Good to know.
Matt: That's as much as you can ascertain with that roll.
Laura: Okay. All right, then I'm going to cast-- where is he? (shouting) He's in the fucking wall!
Sam: Just hit the whole wall.
Laura: Hunter's Mark. Can I sense anything about where he is?
Matt: Yeah, you can actually sense him. He's maybe ten feet inside the wall.
Laura: So he's hiding?
Matt: He's currently hiding in the wall, yeah.
Laura: All right, then for my bonus action, I'm going to hide, as well.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Liam: Advantage.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Really?!
Liam: I didn't roll it. The cape had nothing to do with your rolls.
Matt: What?
Liam: Three and a three.
Laura: Well, hold on, let me add my stealth to it.
Sam: That's a 33.
Laura: That's a 12.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So you (wind noise) flatten yourself against the wall, best of your ability.
Laura: I do pretty much nothing. And I'm going to hold my turn until he appears.
Matt: Okay, so you're going to hold your action until he appears.
Marisha: How dark is it in here?
Matt: Other than the torches you guys have been carrying through here?
Sam: And the glowing off of our bodies.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, right. I'm glowing. No wonder I rolled so poorly.
Matt: Glowing from the Faerie Fire. But it's a gentle glow, so it's very low light in this area.
Taliesin: Like inside of Groot gentle glow.
Marisha: It's like we have body glitter on.
Laura: It's beautiful.
Matt: Yeah. It's like a nice basement bar. A good dive.
Sam: Get this shit off me!
Matt: (laughs) Ending your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I say to Keyleth, get this shit off me. I don't want it to see me. Please. And then I will walk to the other side of Percy. We don't see the thing, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: You can just move out of the Faerie Fire. It's only a 20-foot radius.
Sam: No, but isn't it on me now?
Marisha: No, it's a radius. If you move out of it, you're not in it.
Sam: I walk out of it.
Matt: All right. You step out of the area and it all drifts off your body, and you're no longer affected by the spell.
Sam: We don't see the thing, right? Yeah. There's not much we can do without seeing our enemy, right?
Matt: Not currently, no.
Sam: I'll just hold my turn? Is that a thing? Can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Sam: I can say to Grog, Grog? You're sure you want to-- are you okay? You're good?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right. Ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to back out of the Faerie Fire.
Matt: You're just stepping out of it there. You can keep going if you want.
Taliesin: I'm going to go a little further back behind Scanlan. And I'm going to pull out Bad News and hold my turn.
Matt: Okay. Ending your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to practice an old trick that my sister and I have done, where I hide behind Trinket's gigantic bear ass and hold my turn and aim at the spot that my sister is aiming at.
Matt: All right, good to know.
Taliesin: Ditto.
Matt: All right. At that moment, as you vanish to the side, the entity pops out from this side--
Laura: Right behind him?
Matt: Right behind you as you're preparing. And all of a sudden (whoosh) smoke billows out. You turn out of the corner of your head. At that point, everyone who was holding your action, you're doing your attacks simultaneously.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: And he's in that Faerie Fire, right?
Matt: He is, currently, yeah.
Marisha: So you get advantage, yo.
Matt: He didn't see it being cast. He withdrew before it happened, so he steps right into it.
Taliesin: All right, starting with Bad News with a sharpshooter.
Laura: We get advantage on attacking him?
Matt: Yeah, all of your attacks on him currently have advantage.
Taliesin: Thank god, because I rolled a one. 14?
Matt: 14 unfortunately misses. You fire and (ricochet noise) it seems that, in a strange way, the gentle pink dust is actually obscuring your vision with the dark shadow in that vicinity and it blasts a piece of rock off the side of the wall.
Taliesin: Firing again.
Matt: So fire, reload.
Taliesin: Better! 26.
Matt: 26 does hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's... That's pizza! I'm looking for my dice. I didn't think this through. 25 points of damage.
Matt: All right, good to know. This is piercing, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The blast hits, but it appears that the expected impact from the blast of Bad News-- a bit of smoke dissipates its impact and it seems to not be as damaging as you expected it to be. All right, that brings us to the next person who was holding their action. I believe Scanlan, you were? What do you want to do?
Sam: There's precious little I can do, so I will viciously mock it. (laughter)
Matt: Good.
Sam: Through the Hand Cone, I will say, don't you know smoking is the number one cause of cancer and emphysema and will shorten your life by an estimated ten to 20 years? It's not cool, and you shouldn't do it.
Taliesin: Is that all true?
Sam: I'm BS-ing!
Taliesin: Oh, okay.
Matt: Okay. It does not make its saving throw; it rolled a four, so it takes 3d4 psychic damage. Go ahead and roll that. And it has disadvantage on its next attack roll.
Liam: That fiend has low self-esteem.
Sam: Five points.
Matt: Five points of damage, boom.
Sam: And it has disadvantage on what?
Matt: On its next attack roll. Its eyes go darker purple for a second, like it can't contemplate the fact that it just got insulted mid-battle, and then they flare up again, even more furious. As part of that, it's going to use its reaction.
Sam: Oh shit. Okay.
Matt: It turns towards you and in-- what languages do you speak?
Sam: Gnome, Common. That's it. (laughter)
Matt: You hear a muttering through your ears. (mutters in foreign language) And for a second, you feel your field of vision close down like it's focused entirely on you. You're currently marked by its Mark of Vengeance.
Sam: Marked?
Matt: Yeah. So, essentially, there's an effect that's intent on you at the moment.
Sam: Is it a charm effect?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: All right, that ends your held actions.
Sam: Is it a fear effect?
Matt: No.
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: You're up.
Liam: Yeah, I just saw him mutter in Scanlan's ear as I take both of my blades and I'm just going to slash both of them across and he's surrounded, so this is a sneak attack, as well.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: With advantage. The first one...
Liam: (groan)
Laura: (groan)
Liam: Is 16. Oh no! And the second one is a 27.
Matt: Second one hits.
Liam: All right.
Matt: You go to strike the first time, and as you swing outward, you catch smoke and it dissipates around the blade and you stab into the side of the wall.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Second attack (impact noise).
Liam: Here comes that sneak attack damage. That's four plus six is ten plus... sneak attack, motherfucker! Ten, 16, 21, 22, 26, 28, 29 total.
Laura: That was 38.
Liam: Huh?
Laura: Just kidding.
Liam: 29 total.
Laura: 29 total.
Laura: (singing) My math is awesome!
Matt: Okay. This blade, however  as you stab into this cloud of smoke, you feel there is more physical presence to where it was and it sinks in and you feel this reverberation as it reacts to the pain. This dull (hoarse growl) growl sound.
Liam: I shout, hands off the gnome! as I do it.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: On my roll, do I still get a bonus?
Matt: You used it last turn. That was his reaction to you holding your action.
Sam: No, but do I get my bonus action as part of my move, or no?
Matt: That would have had to be during your turn. When you hold your action, you just get the action when it triggers.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: All right, so that ends Vax. Do you want to do anything else?
Liam: No. Oh, I'm right up against it? I'm going to use disengage and back up further back by my sister. Is that Vex and Keyleth?
Matt: Right there, yeah.
Liam: I'm going to move between my two favorite ladies.
Matt: All right, there you go. Good to know. And you were holding your action?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: And you were holding your action.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So everyone make your attacks.
Laura: Yes. Here's my question.
Matt: Yes?
Laura: Because I want to be honest and I don't remember if I said I dipped arrows in the second holy oil flask or if I put them on Trinket's claws. Do we remember?
Matt: You did all arrows.
Laura: That's fine. Then I'm going to shoot two more holy arrows at him. Okay, well, I'll roll for that.
Marisha: With advantage!
Laura: With advantage, which is good. I'm going to switch things. New ones. (gasps) What just happened?
Liam: Well, one of those was a 14, so that hit. There's 14 and eight. 14 plus your attack. The second roll, she got a one and a two, so.
Laura: Seriously?! So one was a 25. And then 17.
Matt: 17 misses, unfortunately.
Laura: I mean 19. 19 and a 25.
Matt: What's the 19 from?
Laura: Was the first roll. And the second--
Matt: Right, so you rolled a one and a two?
Liam: No, that was the second roll. The first was an eight and a 14, plus her modifiers.
Laura: Oh. See, I was rolling-- I understand. I was rolling it in my head differently, but we'll count it as that. I was counting it as that was my first attempts at my first two attacks and my second attempts at my first two attacks.
Matt: Yeah, it doesn't work that way.
Laura: Yeah, okay, that's fine. So, 25.
Matt: Okay, so one of them hit. All right, so you go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: I won't roll like that anymore. Where am I? That's radiant damage and that's that. Here we go. All right.
Liam: Oh jeez, we've got a smoke demon, don'tcha know?
Laura: 17 plus five is--
Liam: 24.
Laura: 24 points.
Matt: 24 points of damage. So one of them flies forward and misses--
Laura: 22.
Matt: Yeah. Nearly grazes the top of your head, just vanishing. You don't notice because you're currently (growls) right in his face. Second one manages to strike it and splinter inside of its torso, and you can see a flash of energy from the impact and it (squawking groan, growl) surveys the area around it. The smoke around it gets even more intense, and you can see it flaring up.
Laura: I'm still against the wall, glowing.
Matt: Yeah, so the smoke gets even thicker and obscures it even further.
Laura: We should probably light up this area as much as possible, FYI.
Matt: And Grog?
Travis: I'm going to light it up with my flaming war hammer. I turn and I swing at it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So metal.
Travis: Hey, that's good. 28?
Matt: 28 hits. Second attack.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: Nice. Oh, is it still covered in the holy oil?
Matt: Yes, so an extra 1d4 radiant damage on each strike.
Travis: 21 for the first one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: With the radiant, fiery damage.
Matt: Burning, holy wrath.
Travis: Fuck yes! 19, 20, 21. 22!
Matt: 22. All righty. (impact sounds) Both hammer blows strike it, battering the smoke around, and you can see as this hammer swings through its body, the smoke almost swallows the light and for a second, it's almost like this dull orb of darkness beneath the surface of a deep lake. And then as the hammer emerges from its body, the light flares up again. It's almost like it's swallowing the light as you strike it. But it seems to be taking the impacts pretty hard. All right, that ends your turn. Now, Orthax can take his turn.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: All right, so let's see.
Ashley: Wait, do I get my--
Matt: That's right, you were holding, too. Yeah, you can do it, too. Thank you for reminding me.
Laura: Yay, Pike!
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to Guiding Bolt it.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Your punishment will be more severe. (laughter)
Ashley: All right, so 4d6--
Matt: What level of Guiding Bolt are you doing?
Ashley: Say one more time?
Matt: What level of Guiding Bolt are you casting?
Ashley: I'm going to do it at 4th because I have a couple of 4th-level left.
Matt: Okay, so that will be... (chuckles) Roll to attack first. You have advantage on the attack roll because it's currently inside Faerie Fire, so take the higher of the two rolls.
Liam: I would just like to say that Pike is very eerie, yet beautiful in this iridescent glow of astral projection. It's hard to hear her sometimes, but god damn it, she makes it look good.
Ashley: Oh. Oh my god. I rolled a one and a natural 20. (cheering)
Ashley: What?
Matt: Okay. So at 4th level, that would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Laura: Whoa!
Marisha: Whoa!
Marisha: Wait, what did you cast?
Laura: Guiding Bolt.
Travis: Guiding Bolt.
Marisha: Oh, fuck yeah!
Taliesin: 7d6?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's a lot of d6.
Taliesin: Times two?
Laura: Is it times two after that because it's a crit?
Marisha: It's a crit? Oh, right, because that's-- well, it's straight dice rolls. Or does she roll dice twice?
Matt: For the purpose of ease, I usually double. I'm just confirming one thing real fast.
Liam: She has just blinded us all in holy light is what I'm assuming.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and do your math.
Marisha: Little holy nuke.
Sam: That's my Pike.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: What was it, Pike?
Ashley: 21.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21. All right.
Laura: Times two?
Marisha: Times two, right?
Laura: Please?
Matt: Yep, so that would be times two. Just confirming. It has been a while since we've had any sort of spell-based crit. So that would be 42 points of radiant damage.
Laura: Whoa!
Ashley: Whoa!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: As you release this bolt of energy out of your hand, you see it charges up and fills up your hand, shaking, as you're waiting for the moment where it might be too much to control, and your holy symbol flares as it releases and streaks forward, right behind you. You were technically in melee with it, which would have given you disadvantage on the attack, but you had advantage on him because of that and... we'll say it's fine. It stays there because there were a lot of things giving advantage against him and then disadvantage. We'll stay with it. As you turn around, you release it. Point blank, it slams into the front and you can see where the smoke was swelling around it, it almost seems to be scattered away from the impact of this radiant bolt, and for a second, this image of this obscured, shadowy humanoid becomes very clear and you can see this extremely muscular humanoid torso with elongated, exaggerated arms and fingers. Seemingly featureless across its body other than its black, obsidian torso. No legs. They disappear into the smoke beneath it. Its head has the long, hooked, birdlike skull beak, and where the eyes are, it's just this smooth, almost leathery texture across the dark body itself. You can see what looks like faint horns that curve around the back, that curl upward. And as it takes the impact, its head rolls back and you can hear this billowing scream: (moaning cry) As it leans back forward towards you, it looks like it's having a rough moment. Now we get to its turn.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: All right.
Travis: It farts a little cloud of smoke.
Taliesin: A lot of us are outside the Faerie Fire.
Matt: Based on that, it zeroes down on the little ball of radiant energy staring before it that just blasted a hole in its form. It's going to take all three of its strikes at you, Pike.
Taliesin: It's got disadvantage on its attacks.
Matt: And has advantage because she's in Faerie Fire, so it cancels it to a natural attack. That is 21. What's your AC?
Ashley: 20.
Matt: 20, so that hits. 27. And a natural one.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: It was like 19... one.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: All right, so... That would be 14 points of psychic damage.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Oh. No, I'm sorry, because of the roll there-- that's 14 plus an additional 12, so that's 16 for the first strike.
Sam: (quietly) 12? That's 26.
Matt: Right, it was 12 on top of the original amount, which I said was 16?
Sam: 14.
Taliesin: 14 and then 12.
Matt: 14 and 12, yeah, so it was 26 psychic damage you took on the first strike and the second one was seven, too. 21.
Ashley: I thought the second one failed?
Matt: The third one. It has three attacks.
Ashley: Oh, there's three.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Okay, so what was the total, sorry?
Matt: It would be 26 and 21, so yeah, 47 points of psychic damage as its arm reaches out towards you and strikes. Also, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Matt: With advantage.
Sam: And with beauty.
Taliesin: Grace. Dignity.
Liam: Skype.
Ashley: Okay. 20.
Matt: You're doing your Hunter's Mark damage?
Laura: Oh. Yeah, I did.
Matt: So what was that?
Liam: 20.
Ashley: 20.
Matt: 20. Yeah, you feel as its claws move through your body, elements of its shadow essence reach up and try to grasp an element of your willpower. You shrug it off. The might of Sarenrae is too strong and it has no way of grasping your intent.
Travis: Yeah, it is.
Ashley: Yeah, get out of here!
Matt: Unfortunately, that used all of its movement. It cannot withdraw into the room. That will be the end of its turn. Let's see if that recharges. Oh, it does. Okay. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: It does?
Matt: Yep, you're back up to your turn now.
Travis: (grunts) I want to hit it again!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have advantage?
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Faerie Fire. That's better. 24.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: The second one is... 21.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Just barely.
Travis: First one is 15.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. You hit the side of its body and you can see now, small cracks in its black form are starting to form and you can see a bit of that purplish energy leaking out. It's starting to actually visibly show a difficulty in keeping its corporeal form. As both blows slam into it, you can see it shaking, and there is a struggle to its movement. Do you want to stay where you are, or do you want to move?
Travis: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: He's totally surrounded, pretty much, right?
Matt: Essentially.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm actually going to throw up-- I'm going to maintain my Faerie Fire.
Sam: You're going to throw up?
Marisha: I'm going to-- yes.
Taliesin: (retching noises) (laughter)
Marisha: (retching noises) (laughter)
Marisha: (dry-heaving noises) It's purple.
Sam: I hold her hair back.
Marisha: And I say, (slurred) I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
Sam: That's okay. It's okay.
Marisha: (laughing) How tall is the ceiling?
Taliesin: 12 feet.
Matt: About 12 feet, yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to take a Daylight beam and go (bing) right over top of it like a nice pretty spotlight.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Ah!
Matt: All right. Which, that is a concentration spell.
Marisha: It's not, actually. It's an action that lasts for an hour.
Matt: Interesting! I would assume that was.
Marisha: I looked it up just now.
Matt: This little spark ball of daylight opens up on the ceiling like a bright spotlight that fills the area. As it does, you can see the creature (howling groan) shrinks away from it, and its smoke actually dissipates, lowering its armor class again.
Sam: Oh, that's a good move!
Matt: All right. Are you going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Marisha: I'll take another step back.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: All right. With that... Okay. There's a momentary whisper in the shadow around you. And the sound of chains. I want everyone to make a perception check.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Damn!
Travis: So close.
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: 26.
Travis: 19.
Laura: 20.
Liam: 20.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: 16.
Sam: Pike?
Ashley: 17.
Matt: Okay. So all of you continue focusing.
Sam: Oh, whispers! Whispers and whispers.
Liam: The whispers are back! It's like we're back in Casa de WillingBlam.
Marisha: Whispers are so exciting.
Laura: I know. I really did miss the whispers. I hadn't even realized how much I missed them until today.
Sam: Ashley, Matt is whispering in Taliesin's ear, just so you know.
Marisha: Sweet nothings.
Taliesin: Fuck. Really?
Laura: He's licking his ear a lot.
Ashley: He's giving him a wet willie?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Really, really.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up. What's your turn?
Ashley: Oh. Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt it again.
Matt: Okay. Same deal?
Taliesin: I can't tell you yet. It's not my turn.
Matt: Go ahead and make your single attack roll right now because the previous thing is--
Ashley: (sighs) Ten.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, so this time, it's ready for you and it dodges out of the way. The blast hits the stone wall behind it and cracks it slightly. Do you want to move or stay where you are?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll move away from it.
Matt: It will get an attack of opportunity on you.
Ashley: Wait, hold on a minute. I should probably take a potion or something.
Matt: It's up to you.
Laura: Are you low?
Ashley: I'm pretty low.
Laura: Pike!
Marisha: Oh, I could have done something about that.
Ashley: Nope. It's okay. I'm going to take a-- what do I have in here? It just says I have a healing potion. God, I don't know what that means.
Matt: That would be the lowest. That's 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Didn't you get healed from your own healing?
Ashley: Well, I don't have enough-- I don't think I have enough left. I want to save them.
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Okay. Two. Six. Okay, eight.
Matt: Okay, you heal eight and did you want to move back or stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay.
Matt: Okay, so you stay where you are. All right. Cassandra keeps running off this way and halts for a second.
Sam: Wait, who's that? Who's going? Oh, that's Cassandra? We're okay with her running away?
Laura: She's running away.
Matt: He sent her running away. Top is Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay. Who all's around him? Pike and Grog?
Matt: Pike and Grog and technically Trinket, as well, are all in melee.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to shoot a couple of arrows at him again, man.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I can't do anything. But he's still advantage, right?
Matt: It's advantage against him, yes.
Laura: 21?
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: And 28.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: These will be your last holy arrows because you've used six.
Laura: No. I'm out of holy arrows.
Matt: Okay, yeah, that's right.
Laura: Because one of them was my exploding arrow.
Matt: Yeah, so these are just regular.
Laura: So that's... 21 for the first.
Matt: Nice, all right.
Laura: Shitballs. Well, there you go. Goodbye.
Liam: It was a 20.
Laura: 21 for the second.
Matt: Nice. 42 points of damage this round. These arrows now find their way towards the cracks that are starting to appear in its chest and as each one strikes in, these arrows are actually visibly staying in its body. What was once this amorphous smoke, after the impacts from Grog and as it begins to wear itself down, it's starting to find it harder and harder to keep this ethereal form, so now these arrows are sticking out of these cracks of purplish, glowing energy and it's moving a little more sluggishly.
Laura: I hide again for my bonus.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan's up?
Laura: 21 stealth.
Matt: Good to know. All right.
Sam: Do I have my wits about me?
Matt: You do.
Sam: Oh, that's nice.
Matt: You just feel like there's an aspect-- you get the sense you probably don't want to be close to it.
Sam: Okay. I charge at it! No. (laughter)
Matt: That's the Scanlan I know and love.
Sam: I have so little that I can do.
Matt: Suddenly there's a stained-glass wall behind it.
Taliesin: Wow, in-joke.
Sam: As my bonus action, I will-- as my movement, I (sighs) tragically, flip the gun to Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: It's two pieces.
Laura: No, the one that I gave him.
Sam: No, the good gun. In the-- what's that Martin Lawrence movie? Bad Boys. They did it all in slow motion. Just throw the gun. Okay. As a bonus action, I will Healing Word Pike.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Did she heal herself okay?
Laura: No, she didn't.
Sam: Okay, I will Healing Word her, and I'll sing, believe it or not, you're made mostly of air. I never thought you could feel so free.
Matt: All right, what level are you using Healing Word at?
Sam: Just at one.
Matt: Level one? Okay.
Sam: d4 plus five. Lame.
Matt: 1d4 plus five.
Sam: Eight. Eight, honey. I love you.
Ashley: "Thanks!" I blow him a smoke kiss.
Sam: Oh! I love it. And then for my move, my action, my whatever you call it... I've got fucking nothing, man! I say to the beast, to the whatever it is, I say, and another thing! Your smoking encourages minors to smoke and creates an aura that makes going to restaurants not pleasant and it's just horrible. It makes your clothes stink. It's terrible. So another Vicious Mockery.
Travis: (laughing) Please. Please be enough.
Taliesin: Please let this be what kills him.
Marisha: Please. He's laughing like it is. Wouldn't that be the third time this has happened?
Matt: All right. Roll damage. 3d4 psychic damage.
Laura: Come on, come on.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Eight. All right. You can see now, it turns to you for a second and the Mark of Vengeance fades as suddenly you feel like you've damaged it mentally enough to the point where it doesn't even want to deal with you anymore. You're far too mean.
Travis: (laughing) You're too mean.
Sam: Take that!
Matt: You're going to stay where you are?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I yell, Delilah's getting away!
Matt: You guys all glance over. The shackles that are on the ground are now collapsed and empty.
Sam: Oh shit!
Matt: With the gag safely removed from her mouth during this allowed her to cast Misty Step, which is a verbal-based spell. She is currently--
Taliesin: How far away?
Matt: I'm calculating that right now.
Taliesin: And can I see her?
Matt: I'm going to have to ask you to roll a perception check here in a minute.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: And the question is-- yeah, I'm curious how far she got.
Travis: We didn't bind her?
Laura: Because we're morons.
Travis: Well, she got out of her manacles.
Marisha: She Misty Stepped, so she turned into air.
Matt: She landed, cast Invisibility, and vanished, and you just hear the footsteps down the hall. You're not quite sure where she is or how far she's gotten, but you know she's down that way.
Laura: (gasps) Cassandra!
Taliesin: Cassandra's right there.
Matt: Yeah. Cassandra doesn't notice. She's just been running because you told her to run. She did hear you shout and she looked over her shoulder, but not in time for her to see anything happen, because this all happened during the last round, during your realization. You guys look around and Delilah's gone. You're the only one who really saw the direction she's going, but it's your turn.
Travis: Son of a bitch, we left her alive.
Laura: I cannot believe we left her alive!
Sam: I'm sure it'll be fine.
Travis: I'm fucking pissed.
Sam: Maybe she's learned the error of her ways.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: Fuck! Ugh. Okay, I'm going to--
Sam: Chase her?
Marisha: Tell us where she is.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- fuck! Ugh, goddamn it. I'm going to double my speed. I'm going to burn my turn double-speeding, trying to--
Matt: Trying to catch up?
Taliesin: Trying to catch up.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And then as I pass my sister, I yell, she went this way. She's invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Do I hear that?
Taliesin: She went this way! She's invisible!
Sam: I hear it.
Marisha: We hear it.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: All right, so that's Percy's turn.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry, everybody.
Matt: For the situation, make a perception check.
Taliesin: All right.
Ashley: You've got to do what you've got to do.
Taliesin: Do I have--
Matt: No. You do not have advantage on this.
Taliesin: I'm adding my bonus die.
Sam: You have inspiration.
Taliesin: Yeah, I haven't used my inspiration die. 23.
Matt: 23. Okay. You see a couple of the recent footsteps, but you don't see them freshly being made, so you know she's not too far yet.
Taliesin: I'm going to follow that path of footsteps. I'm keeping an eye on them.
Matt: Good to know. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use my bonus action to dash and run 60 feet after Percy to catch up.
Laura: What? You're not going to kill the smoke beast?
Liam: You're going to kill the smoke beast.
Matt: Okay, so you use your bonus dash, your movement to get there, so you move up 60.
Liam: So that's 60 feet from where I was? Okay, and I'm going to throw a dagger after-- well, can I do a perception check and that, or is that two different things?
Matt: Honestly, once the creature's invisible and you don't know where it was, you don't even get a chance to check at this distance, so it's just attacking at disadvantage.
Liam: All right, I'm going to attack at disadvantage, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: That is a 14.
Matt: 14 is a miss. (whoosh) It returns to your belt. Finds no purchase.
Liam: No, it was an 18.
Laura: It was an 18. He rolled 18.
Matt: That was an 18?
Liam: Yeah. Seven plus 11 is 18.
Matt: Seven plus 11 is indeed 18. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: See?
Liam: Thanks. Thanks, sis.
Laura: No problem. This is why I look over your shoulder even when my math is bad.
Liam: Okay, that is eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay.
Laura: But she was almost unconscious.
Matt: At this point, as you're running, you're rushing forward. To the left of your ear, you hear (impact noise) and you glance over your shoulder. And there, face down on the ground, is Delilah, sprawled out, face down in the dirt with a single dagger sticking out of the center of her back.
Liam: For a second.
Laura: And then it's gone.
Matt: And then it disappears. And blood begins to pour out from the wound.
Sam: She's dead. You killed her.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Is she dead?
Matt: You'd have to go and inspect. Now it is Orthax's turn. Orthax is going to move here, still remain in melee, and is going to use a secondary rampage pulse, since it recharges. Gives out another desperate scream (raspy roar) outwards in the vicinity. 20-foot radius. I need Keyleth, Vex, Trinket, Pike, and Grog to all make wisdom saving throws with advantage.
Marisha: I'll take a 12.
Matt: 12?
Marisha: 25 total.
Matt: Oh, 25 total.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12.
Laura: Wait. 19 for me.
Ashley: 22.
Laura: 13 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay, so Vex, Keyleth, and Pike, you guys all take five points of psychic damage as you cover your ears momentarily. Grog and Trinket both take ten points of psychic damage. Both turn immediately, flanking Pike, who has been the radiant blaster across this entity. I need you to make an attack and I need Trinket to make an attack against Pike. You guys both have advantage because she's in the Faerie Fire.
Marisha: Fuck.
Travis: Yes! Three and a four. 13.
Matt: 13. Okay.
Liam: Trinket rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Matt: All right, so Pike. This blast comes out ringing in your ears and as your vision comes back to you and you look up, all you see is Grog lifting this giant hammer with his eyes clouded in the same black smoke material. You bring up your shield and as the hammer comes down, striking at you, you know there's a bruise going to be on your forearm tomorrow because the sheer force of it hits you, but at the same time, you know it's not the friend you grew up with. And you look up into his face as the cloud fades and you can see an expression of immediate regret on his face.
Travis: What? What did I do?
Matt: Before you can respond, though, the bear behind you. Trinket snarls (roar) and latches on. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Do you want a bite attack or a claw attack?
Matt: I'm going to have to probably go bite on this.
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: So roll the dice and then that times two.
Laura: Oh, right, I have to-- no, yeah. Okay. That's 11.
Matt: So you take 11 points of piercing damage as all of a sudden, Trinket sinks his jaws into the back of your shoulder.
Sam: Times two?
Liam: Yeah, times two. Natural 20.
Matt: Oh. Oh, that wasn't with the multiplier. What did you roll on the dice?
Laura: I rolled 11.
Matt: On the dice? So 22, plus whatever the modifier is.
Laura: What? No!
Liam: That's eight plus the modifier.
Laura: Oh! Okay. 15!
Matt: Okay, so 16 plus whatever the modifier is.
Taliesin: 19, then.
Laura: No, I rolled four. Times two is eight.
Liam: Plus the modifier of seven.
Liam: Is 15.
Laura: Is 15.
Matt: There we go. Thank you so much for clarification. 15 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Math, everybody!
Matt: And Trinket clenches down. You feel the armor plates jamming together and it wrenches your shoulder out of the socket. Not enough to actually do too much serious damage. And immediately Trinket pulls away and you hear this whine behind you, this (sad moaning). His nose rubs against your head.
Ashley: I put my hand out and touch his nose and tell him it's okay.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Okay. Orthax is at a point where-- no. Orthax is going to turn and begin to chase after Percy now.
Taliesin: Attack of opportunity.
Matt: Yes, I know. Grog and Pike and Trinket all get attacks of opportunity.
Marisha: Kill him!
Travis: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage, yeah.
Travis: Natural 20. First roll. Don't even need to do it again.
Marisha: Nat 20s all up in this bitch.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay, and Pike?
Ashley: 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately. So Pike, you swing, but, still in pain from Trinket's attack and Grog coming at you, you swing wide and it passes through the space behind it. Grog, remember to roll with an additional d12, too, because of your brutal critical.
Ashley: Kill him.
Laura: 13 for Trinket.
Matt: 13 for Trinket. Awesome.
Travis: (muttering) 20, 21, 22. (louder) 31 total.
Matt: 31 total. How do you and Trinket want to do this? (cheering)
Ashley: Wait, did you kill him?
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Oh, yes!
Travis: I'd like to pick up the hammer and slam him down to the ground just so he's at Trinket's head height.
Laura: And then right when he gets to his height, Trinket reaches up and bites him as hard as he can and lashes him around like dog with a toy.
Matt: Okay. As you slam it on the ground, (boof) the smoke billows out around it and dissipates for a moment where, as opposed to its obscured form, you now have a very clear view of its physical body. Just a little bit of smoke trailing about where its lower torso and legs would be. As its arms reach out (slashing noise, grunt) and it looks up, its head shaking as the purple cracks are rising up its body, it looks up straight into the face of Trinket, who snarls. (growl, chomp) And just lunges out, clamping onto its face and tearing upward, its head arcing in the air. As it does, the body (whoosh) dissipates into smoke and sinks into the ground into this black shadow in the dirt that (whoosh) races up the hallway in the direction of Percy. Percy, as you're stopping and looking over, you look down just in time for the shadow to (whoosh) reach your legs, and you feel this cold rise up your body and then slowly dissipate into this little nugget of cold in the center of your chest, and then vanish.
Ashley: Wait, but doesn't he have protection?
Marisha: How about the protection?
Laura: He disappears. It disappeared. Maybe it disappeared forever.
Sam: Or maybe it's always going to be there, haunting us.
Liam: While he's thinking, I walk up to Delilah, grab her by the clothes, drag her to the side of the wall and prop her up, and turn to Percy. And say, end this.
Taliesin: Cassandra?
Matt: Cassandra, who has now stopped, looks at you. She clutches the rapier in her hand, and you can see her hand shaking, the tension of the muscles in her fingers clenching it as hard as she possibly can, as she walks up with each slow, quiet step echoing across the stone. (footsteps) Delilah up against the wall, blood spilling out of the corner of her mouth, (coughs) coughing, conscious, with her one missing arm to the side. Blood's beginning to ooze now from the wound as the sheer force of all the movement has torn the wounds fresh open. And she's there and she looks over out of the corner of her eye and turns, seeing the rest of you, and sees Cassandra. As Cassandra steps up, she holds the rapier at her side, staring down. This time, a single tear cresting down the side of her cheek. Delilah looks up and goes, "You could have been my daughter." She looks down at Delilah and says, "No. Cassandra is a de Rolo, and you took them away from me. And now we're taking everything away from you." And thrusts the rapier forward, right into the chest. As it hits her, it actually pulls her up about a foot against the wall. The sheer force of the wound. (gasps, sighs) Last breath escaping from Delilah's mouth. Her arm falls limp to the side. The moment of tension passes and Cassandra's still holding her there, her head down, her hair in front of her face, just shaking, keeping her pinned against the wall.
Laura: (whispering) Percival.
Taliesin: I put my hand on her shoulder and gently pull her back.
Matt: The rapier withdraws and the body tumbles to the ground. She looks back at you, face just a mess. "Thank you."
Taliesin: We have a lot to do.
Matt: "We do." And she hands the rapier back to you, and she grabs the scruff of Delilah's collar and begins dragging her up the hallway towards the castle.
Laura: Wait, I meant to loot her earlier and it didn't happen. Sorry, I just really like that part.
Matt: She drops the body and gives you a look. "Hurry. If there's one thing I've learned here in Whitestone, it's that things do not stay dead long."
Liam: Seeing as I'm 50 feet ahead of my sister, I walk ahead of her.
Laura: Don't you fucking do this to me.
Liam: Is she wearing a cloak?
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Inspecting the body, you find a very fine pair of metallic bracers.
Laura: (gasps) For archery purposes?
Liam: You're not here.
Laura: I'm like five feet away from you, at this point.
Matt: Her robe, though soaked with blood, is very, very well-made.
Liam: I roll that up.
Matt: Okay, so you roll up the robe. Her cloak is--
Liam: No, that's what I meant. The cloak. I leave the robe.
Taliesin: No, take everything.
Marisha: Take everything.
Liam: Yeah. All the fabric. I take it.
Matt: Okay, you take all the fabric. The robe and the cloak. So mark those down. The cloak itself looked like cloth at a distance. Close up, you can see it's actually a very fine dark black/purple fur, and down at the side of it, you see dangling these two long tentacles that end in these little cupping spiked elements. It looks like it was carved from a creature at one point.
Liam: This is the cloak?
Matt: The cloak.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Because I think I know what it is.
Laura: I get up in time to smack him upside the head.
Marisha: 29.
Matt: Yeah, you've actually fought these creatures before. This is a displacer beast. It's a Cloak of Displacement.
Liam: I got the cloak and I walk away from it and leave my sister to go sick on the rest of it.
Laura: She's naked. Good job, brother.
Matt: Yeah, she's mostly nude, other than her undergarments.
Liam: I toss the robe back on her.
Taliesin: Vax, Cassandra, let's take her to the acid pits.
Matt: The only thing she has left is a ring on her finger.
Laura: What about those bracers you were talking about?
Matt: Cassandra, remembering this, drags her body through what remnant is there on the ground. There's a big groove left behind her as she's being dragged through it. You get to the second trap that she marked, and you guys make your way around it. You make your way to where the road diverges, the one way to the castle, and the one to the acid pits. And Cassandra heads towards the acid pits.
Laura: Cassandra, what are you doing?
Travis: She's throwing them in the acid pits.
Matt: She doesn't look back at you. She just keeps walking. You follow her for about five minutes.
Marisha: Are we sure this won't make anything bad happen if we throw a body into the acid pits?
Taliesin: I think it's fine.
Travis: I think it's acid.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: After about five minutes of following her, the path leads up and then crests, and there is a room that smells awful. It's similar to the acrid scent the room was filled with when the acid was pouring into the room. There's a whole series of other chemicals and inside, you can see there's a number of laboratory set-ups near you. You get the feeling this is probably where a lot of this particular acidic concoction that was fine-tuned for this stone of Whitestone was created, or at least, honed by Ripley. Without a beat, Cassandra walks up to the edge and just throws Delilah's body in. (plop, sizzle) Then it disappears beneath the surface as the hissing, bubbling noise takes over the silence of the room. She sits there and just watches it sink.
Laura: Well?
Liam: She brought a lot of ill to this world. Don't feel too bad.
Matt: Cassandra turns back around.
Taliesin: She was too dangerous to let live.
Marisha: What about you? How do you feel?
Sam: How's that gun barrel of yours?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I pull out the broken barrel and inspect it.
Matt: Looking at it, you can see, Delilah's name is missing from the barrel entirely. Cassandra's name is still on the barrel, and so is Ripley's. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: I had some thoughts but yeah. 11.
Matt: Okay. Just looking at it, it looks like the names are there, emblazoned as to where they were before.
Taliesin: I'm going to just take the broken gun and point it at my sister. What do I feel?
Matt: Currently, nothing.
Taliesin: I think I'm all right. I think I may be all right.
Sam: Why don't you toss that thing into the acid just in case?
Taliesin: I'm going to do something else.
Sam: Are you going to shoot your sister like you just pointed your gun at her? What was that about?
Taliesin: You were the one who wouldn't give me the other gun.
Sam: I gave you the other gun.
Taliesin: I'm going to go over to the little lab setup. Is there some acid there?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17? Yeah, a brief look around you can see there are many different compounds, different strengths of acid, what a lot of the initial experimentation was.
Taliesin: I'm going to start trying to scar her name off the barrel.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment and eventually manage to scar and dissolve enough of the exterior of that barrel until the name is no longer visible.
Taliesin: I think it's fine.
Sam: (scoffs) You think it's fine?
Laura: Lovely.
Taliesin: You're going to have to have some faith.
Sam: I don't have any faith! Here, we'll make a deal. I'll let you keep that gun if you give me the other one.
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Laura: So glad that your smoke monster is seemingly gone, Percy. That's wonderful news. The spinning orb of death, however, is still back there, so we should probably figure out what to do about that.
Taliesin: Well, I think perhaps we can talk to Keeper Yennen. Perhaps put together some priests to deal with that. Enlist the help of the entire town now that there's no longer a revolution to be fought.
Travis: Yeah, that's a solid plan.
Marisha: Oh, the revolution.
Taliesin: We forgot about that.
Marisha: We should go stop the fighting. Right? We should probably let them know it's over.
Laura: Probably.
Travis: Well if they're fighting, wouldn't it mean it's not over?
Marisha: Well, I'm sure they don't know that the Briarwoods are dead.
Taliesin: So perhaps if we tell everyone the Briarwoods are dead. Cassandra?
Travis: Maybe we'll see Ripley on the way out.
Taliesin: Wouldn't that be nice?
Sam: I just had a thought, Percy. I cast Friends on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I think I know how to fix your gun, if you hand it to me.
Taliesin: Never in my right mind would I hand my gun.
Matt: Go ahead and make a-- it'd be a persuasion check. And you go ahead and make an insight check. But you have an advantage on it. No, he has advantage on the persuasion, you do not have it.
Liam: While they're talking, can I attempt to pull it off of his belt?
Matt: Pull it off of Percy's?
Taliesin: My insight is 21.
Sam: I rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: You are going to cost me so much money.
Liam: I see Scanlan kill it, and I just step back.
Matt: Okay. You look down at this gnome, and while he's normally pretty silly and jovial, in this moment, there's an honest spark of his own inspiration in his eyes.
Taliesin: (whimpers) I'm so upset that I have to do this.
Sam: Wink!
Taliesin: Going to kill you. I'm going to kill you.
Travis: You don't know. He's your friend. You're not mad at all.
Taliesin: For another three minutes.
Liam: Yeah, roleplay for three minutes, Taliesin.
Taliesin: I hand him the broken gun.
Matt: Begrudgingly, you reach out and place it in his hand and release.
Sam: I say, thank you, Percy. I think, in due time, you will thank me for this. And I toss it into the acid. As I say, when the spell fades he's going to be super pissed, somebody protect me!
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: You want to hop on my shoulders?
Sam: Yes. I go run and jump on Grog's shoulders.
Matt: As you watch it arc forward, in your head, you're like, "That fucking gnome." The spell fades, you hear him say that, and just as it (plop, sizzle).
Travis: You're not going to get that, are you?
Taliesin: I reach in to try and grab it out.
Laura: No, Percy! And I reach out and I grab his hands.
Travis: He threw it! You threw it, though, right?
Taliesin: No, he dropped it!
Matt: He lobbed it. It wasn't a huge throw.
Marisha: I cast Hold Person at 3rd level.
Matt: On?
Marisha: Percy!
Laura: As I reach up and I grab his hands as well!
Taliesin: That was so expensive!
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw with advantage.
Marisha: Son of a fuck.
Matt: Heroes' Feast, workin' against you!
Liam: You're the lord of Castle Whitestone.
Taliesin: Wisdom saving throw?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: What's your DC?
Marisha: My difficulty class? 18.
Matt: You're like, "That cost a-- (cracking)"
Marisha: (laughs) I always fail rolls against Percy! It sucks!
Matt: A few moments pass. You don't even see it beneath the surface now. You just see a little bit of some fume released from whatever slow process is dissolving your gun.
Laura: I step in front as he's unconscious and I go, Percy, dear. You'll thank us for this later, I know it.
Taliesin: He's paying for a new one.
Laura: I kiss his cheek and say, I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: He's paying for a new one.
Marisha: We'll get you a new one, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to have to-- oh god!
Matt: As you're watching this, from the fume, a small plume of black smoke goes (whoosh).
Laura: See?
Marisha: See?
Matt: And that cold nugget in the center of your chest is gone. (cheering)
Laura: It feels good, doesn't it?!
Marisha: Doesn't it feel good?
Travis: You fucking genius!
Laura: It feels good! (laughter)
Taliesin: It was so expensive.
Travis: Aw, come on!
Taliesin: Oh, just throw the carpet in there now, why don't you?
Marisha: Oh, Percival, that hurts.
Matt: Cassandra steps up to you and takes your head in her hands and forces you to look at her and goes, "Brother. We've all made sacrifices for this." She slaps you.
Taliesin: (yelps)
Matt: Oh! That's a 21. 19 plus two.
Sam: He's held right now.
Marisha: Still holding him in place.
Liam: I hold my fist way up high to Scanlan on Grog's shoulder for a silent little exploding fist bump.
Matt: And she looks to you and goes-- Cassandra gives you a look to--
Taliesin: You were never Mother's favorite.
Sam: Let's not be petty.
Taliesin: She told me!
Sam: Let's not be petty, Percy.
Marisha: You sure you want to let him go? You sure? Did you hear what he just said to you? You sure?
Matt: It came out as (muffled angry sounds).
Marisha: I let it go.
Matt: Okay, your muscle control comes back to you and Cassandra is holding your freshly slapped face, gives you a look and goes, "Brother. Let's go to our people. Let's tell them that for the first time in five years Whitestone is free."
Taliesin: Oh god. Yeah. I'm letting it go.
Matt: She reaches over and she takes your arm in her arm.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: She takes your arm in her arm and begins walking both of you back towards the tunnels.
Taliesin: That one was enchanted. Okay. Two enchantments. Yeah, all right.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a quick bathroom break. Meet you guys back here in a few minutes.
Marisha: But you're still alive!
Taliesin: I'm not alive!
Laura: You're not controlled anymore! [break]
Matt: Welcome back, folks! So. Let's go ahead and pick up where we left off. So, as you guys return to the undercroft of Whitestone, Cassandra carrying you, arm in arm. You make your way up through the stairs to the main base floor of Castle Whitestone. Are you guys heading towards your-- where are you heading from here?
Marisha: I'm going to head straight for the front door and look in-- is there a balcony on top?
Matt: You can check for the second floor if you want to.
Laura: Overviews the city?
Matt: You have a pretty high view. It's already elevated on this platform, so even from a ground-floor area you can look down into the city.
Travis: Front door.
Matt: Front door? All right, Grog walks up to the front door, being careful of the scattered caltrops you guys left there. The door is still ajar from where you left it. As you step out and look into the daylight, and it's at this point now, probably mid-afternoon, pushing into evening. You guys have been traveling underground for quite some time and taken a few short rests, and have had a lot of conflict and things happen. So you started at the start of the day. You're now pushing into towards dusk. But as you open up and look outside, with what daylight is still there, you see little plumes of smoke coming from the far city. Down the pathway that leads up to Castle Whitestone, you see about 70 to 100 armored humanoids marching up towards the front of the castle.
Sam: Humanoids?
Matt: Bipedal.
Travis: Can I pick up my caltrops?
Matt: You begin to pick up your caltrops.
Laura: I know what this is.
Travis: Well, they're good guys.
Sam: No, it could be an undead army.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I know what this is. Do I need roll perception if I know what it is?
Marisha: Yeah, I was going to say.
Travis: Wow! 19 minus...
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 27.
Sam: Five.
Laura: 15.
Matt: All right. As you guys get your weapons at the ready--
Taliesin: 25, sorry. Did the math wrong.
Matt: 25, okay. Percy and Vax, you notice the people approaching, spattered in mud and various types of ichor or blood. As they get closer, you can see beneath the helmets: tired human faces. Stepping up the side, weapons at the ready. As they approach the very front of the line, you see Keeper Yennen, equally exhausted, stepping forward, essentially ready to storm the castle. You see behind them as they approach a scattered cluster of broken corpses, some human, some a little less human. It looks like the rebellion army seems to have cut its way through the remaining defenders of Castle Whitestone and are making their way towards the front of the castle. As they get closer, they meet your gaze, and the front of the group draw their weapons, and Yennen steps forwards a little bit. "You there! Percival."
Taliesin: I step forward.
Matt: "Vox Machina. Are your wits about you?"
Travis: Yes?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: The Briarwoods are dead.
Marisha: It's true.
Liam: Serpent's head has been cut off, but there is much to do.
Marisha: Is it still cloudy?
Matt: It's a little cloudy. It's not rainstorm ready, but there's still sort of an overcast feel.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and at third level, because that's all I got left, cast Skywrite again, and throw up the de Rolo crest once again in the sky.
Matt: Okay. As you begin to coalesce the clouds and the symbol and the shapes, you see a bunch of the soldiers look around and Yennen steps forward again towards you and goes, reaching up holding his holy symbol of Erathis to his chest, he goes, "Are you certain this is done? Percival."
Taliesin: There's still a great evil beneath the castle, but the Briarwoods are no more.
Matt: He turns around, looks to his men who are all looking at him expectantly. "Well, you heard the man. The Briarwoods are dead. Whitestone is free once more!" He looks up to the sky as the symbol finishes from Keyleth's spell. "The de Rolos are in power once again!" At which point the entire crowd shouts "yeah!" Their weapons to the sky, and as the shouts begin to echo down into the valley of Whitestone, you can see little lights begin to burn in the distance, little notification lanterns that are being lit and set at windowtops, at the top of the mountain, and you can see this look of relief and joy on every soldier's face as they all realize that the death they were all marching to face is no longer a threat. Cassandra, at this point, is still standing behind you at your side, and really for the first time since all of this went down beneath, you see a smile on her face. Yennen turns around again and approaches you all. (sighs) "I don't know what to say. Well, come. There's much to discuss. Let us step from this foul place for the time being. Men! Walk through, make sure it's clean." And the some of the soldiers--
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: There's still a matter of some things beneath the castle that we must deal with first.
Marisha: No one should be allowed in for right now, until we figure this out.
Matt: "Very well. Men, seal the doors, seal the entrances. Keep watch."
Marisha: We really need to rest.
Matt: "Then come. You've certainly earned it." And he motions to a few of the guards.
Marisha: What time of day is it? Do we have a sense? Is the sun still up?
Matt: The sun's still up, but you can see from the light source and the darkening of the sky and the color pushing from a general white-grey. It's going a little more reddish-orange.
Marisha: Before we take a rest, I'm going to look at Percy, and I'm going to be like, I'll catch up with you guys. I think the people need to see the sun. And I'm going to go into my air elemental form, go up into the sky above Whitestone, and do my Whirlwind ability and start trying to just push all of the clouds out of the way to let the sun in.
Matt: All right, as you guys begin--
Laura: Oh, did she freeze?
Sam: She's frozen in a beautifully surprised expression.
Matt: She can still hear us.
Laura: Oh, she can still hear us but she's frozen.
Sam: Surprise!
Matt: You guys begin to march down towards the city with the rest of the army. A group of about ten men stay behind just to guard the castle. As you make you way to the northern side of Whitestone and you enter the streets again, you can see families beginning to walk out of their homes in the streets. In the entirety of your time here in Whitestone, most folks that didn't need to be out in the open stayed indoors, and you begin to realize this seeming ghost city was hiding a lot more life and a lot more hope than you had expected, and you see families, and children, stepping out, and as you walk through the streets you can see the kids wave. You meet eyes with some of the possible widows, who mouth to you, "Thank you".
Liam: Seeing that--
Taliesin: Can we pass by the Alcove?
Liam: Seeing that, I'm going to do the buddy arm around the shoulder and pull my sister in close.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (clears throat) I walk up to a particularly handsome widow, and I say, your husband--
Laura: Pike is right here.
Sam: Oh. Your husband died for a good cause, thanks, bye. (laughter)
Taliesin: Pike is shocked. Pike is shocked and offended.
Sam: Why are you looking at me like that, Pike? Pike, stop it!
Matt: As you walk away, she looks really confused and clutches her chest in horror for a moment as one of the soldiers walking with you steps by her side, looking at you curiously, and gives her a kiss on the cheek. She goes, "Who was that man?"
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: Can we-- definitely want to go, let's stop by the Alcove.
Matt: Okay. You eventually start making your way towards the Alcove as you enter deeper into the city.
Liam: Pike, you there? Can you hear us?
Marisha: Have I cleared up enough of the sky at this point?
Matt: We're going to get to that right now, actually.
Marisha: I want to get to that.
Matt: As you guys are stepping-- I'm sorry, what?
Sam: No, it's okay.
Matt: Pushing further in you can see now the clouds beginning to dissipate, and also for the first time since you've been here you see blue sky directly above the city. The vibrant orange-red-purple colors of the sunset now come cascading along the city of Whitestone, and there's a collective (gasps), an inhale and gasp of awe from the soldiers and the people alike as this opens up above you. You begin to walk past. The Alcove's to your left, if you wish to--
Taliesin: I want to stop in.
Matt: Okay. As you start heading towards the Alcove you can see Jordana is already out on the front stoop looking up at the sky. She looks over and sees you. "Percival!"
Taliesin: I give her a big hug.
Matt: It takes her by surprise at the moment, and then she gives in and continues to give the hug back.
Taliesin: This would not have been possible without your help. Thank you for everything.
Matt: "Of course." She leans into the hug a little bit, then nods and then raises her head. "Did you see my father?"
Taliesin: I have not. We have not searched the castle yet, though.
Laura: We just left it? We haven't searched the castle?
Marisha: We searched a little bit.
Laura: But there could be live people in there when we sealed it?
Taliesin: We don't know. It's not airtight or anything. I mean, they're breathing.
Sam: Ripley's gone and also there's a goliath on the loose.
Matt: As you say this, Keeper Yennen goes, "Not anymore, there isn't. Follow me."
All: Ooh.
Sam: Are there any young boys around?
Matt: He stops in his tracks and looks over his shoulder and goes, "What?"
Sam: I just need a young, fleet-footed boy.
Travis: See, the last time I asked for a young boy people gave me shit, too.
Taliesin: No, we're going to give him shit. There's no problem here.
Matt: He slowly turns away and keeps walking forward.
Sam: Or a girl! No, wait, that sounds weird.
Travis: Yep. You can't say it in a right way. It's impossible. Innocent request.
Matt: The people have begun following behind your procession towards the center of the city.
Liam: Bring me your smallest, most helpless child. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh god.
Travis: That's fucked up.
Taliesin: That's going to explode.
Sam: All right. Show us what you want to show us, Yennen.
Matt: You see behind you soldiers reuniting with their families, friends gathering in the streets, and the people of Whitestone are now beginning to join the sides of your procession towards the center of the Sun Square in the middle of Whitestone. As you crest into the outskirts of the square, Yennen gives a couple of whispered orders to a couple of the soldiers, who rush off. You can see people are now gathering in the center and there's actually people gathering around the Sun Tree. As they all step to the Sun Tree, it's a little quiet, and Keeper Yennen reaches up and pulls his holy symbol of Erathis again, looks up to the tree and looks back at the rest of you and goes, "For generations, it was those of the Zenith who looked over this tree and these people here, and it was by the evil that once held foot in this town that Father Reynal, the last of his line, was slain. We will work to find those who wish to take up the mantle to clean and rebuild the Zenith, the pinnacle of Pelor's grace here in Whitestone. But until that I, Yennen, swear to make this tree's safety my responsibility. This symbol of hope, this center of the crest of your family has held the slivers of light in our hearts for a very long time. Let us all take a moment and thank the heroes who made this freedom possible: to the strong mountain of joy and bravery, Grog. To the gentle, to the kind, to the just soul, Pike. To the swift of bow, keen of sight, and the most adorable creature to accompany her--" as Trinket steps forward and nuzzles your side-- "Trinket. By the agility, by the cunning, by the loyalty of Vax. By the cleverness, by the wit, and the strange interests of Scanlan. By the honesty, by the nature and connection with the world, and the wonder of Keyleth. And by the strength of blood, and the willingness to sacrifice-- "
Ashley: (mic bump)
Matt: "Pardon me." (laughter)
Matt: Damn it.
Sam: Start that one again?
Liam: It's still very beautiful.
Marisha: So beautiful.
Taliesin: Two years on a sitcom. I can hold this all day. (laughter)
Matt: God damn it.
Laura: Percival's just waiting for his introduction.
Liam: To the stone-cold motherfucker on air.
Matt: "To the return of those valiants we once thought lost, and those who rise up to restore the joy of these people. Percival. May we raise our weapons, our glasses, and our children, who accept this future to rebuild. Raise to Vox Machina. Hyah!" And everyone raises as one loud--
Travis: Yeah! Vox Machina!
Matt: As the sun slowly sets, the light coming through in beautiful colors now. You see what was once a very bleak town suddenly be renewed with a spectrum of new accents. You begin to hear music being played, as now the celebration begins with the sun's setting. Folks are turning this into a full celebration now. People are starting to bring out food and--
Marisha: Block party!
Matt: (laughs) You feel this sense that this is the first time in a long time the people have ever really been allowed to be happy about something. And the energy is infectious in itself. As the celebration begins, though, Yennen puts up his hand and people begin to slow and calm as men begin to bring forward two individuals in chains. One of which you see is a half-orc female in dark brown leather armor. She is chained and thrown onto her knees onto the ground, and she spits; you can see there's a few cuts across her face and she looks dirty. And right next to her, taking four men to do so, a goliath who's bruised is also thrown onto his knees and they're both just held at that place. Yennen says, "The two remaining new nobles, given power here as they aided the Briarwoods in taking this city. We have Duke--" which the people spit at the sound of the name-- "Goran Vedmeyer. And Countess Jazna Graben. You have been found guilty of treason against this town, of the responsibility of many lives lost, innocent. And for furthering the plans of the evil that has oppressed us so long. I would wish that you, the ones who freed us, deliver the judgment."
Travis: (laughs)
Laura: Come on.
Travis: No, that sounds fair. I've known to preside over many legal matters in my time as Judgeface of Northwind.
Liam: Define "legal."
Marisha: Define "Judgeface."
Travis: It would just baffle all of you. It's all right.
Sam: Grog, if I may. I can assist you in this, if you'd like.
Travis: Oh, why of course, Sub-judge Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you, Grog. Percival, this is your kingdom, so if you--
Taliesin: I leave it to you.
Laura: No.
Travis: Yes. Even better.
Sam: These two have done much violence to this place. They represent all that is evil.
Matt: "Wait." And Goran, who is now down on the ground, looks up at you and goes, "I know you."
Sam: Never saw you before, friend.
Taliesin: This is what I really wanted to see.
Sam: You have a lovely house, by the way. Or had one. (laughter)
Matt: Spits on the ground at your feet.
Sam: Might need a new roofer. Anyway. In a show of grace and to demonstrate our new hope that we have for this place, I suggest that we don't kill these two.
Travis: What?
Sam: But rather force them to help rebuild the place that they helped destroy.
Laura: In chains. Very heavy chains.
Sam: One of them at least is extremely strong. The other one must have some sort of skill.
Matt: She for the first time looks up with this gnarly toothy grin. You can see these partially broken and jagged teeth in her mouth, and she goes, "Come closer. I've never tasted gnome."
Sam: Okay, so maybe we'll kill her.
Laura: Would you rather die?
Travis: What kind of weapons did these two have on them?
Matt: The men look about themselves and Yennen, "Not entirely certain. However, she has been known to carry a quiver or two, and this one here wields a blade as long as his body."
Liam: The Briarwoods are broken and gone. You can die today, or you can take your licks and help rebuild this city. No one is here to protect you or save you. You can work hard, start again.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. With advantage, based on their current circumstance.
Liam: Intimidation, you said, or persuasion?
Matt: Whichever you'd prefer.
Liam: It's average, it's 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. You can see the goliath, Vedmeyer, lowers his head. "I accept. Jazna?" She looks over. "It seems you lack what has kept me alive all these years: a spine. Kill me. I'd rather not stay at your beck and call."
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Grog.
Travis: I reach over and I take out my greataxe and I aim it for her neck.
Matt: Okay, as, did you swing or just aim it?
Travis: Yeah, swing for the neck. Beheading-style.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: Natural 20. (laughter)
Liam: Merry Christmas, Travis.
Matt: As you pull the axe out and you walk alongside with it almost like a cane, look down at her--
Travis: Yeah, like a cane.
Matt: (impact noise) And with speed and deftness where no one sees the blade make contact, there is a moment where the head just drifts off the form, leaving the base, the throat cleanly cleaven. Cloven, if you will, sorry. There's a moment of pause before the blood begins to pour from the wound, it was so fast and so immediate, and the body just slumps forward. There's a gasp in the crowd suddenly, and then a cheer as the locals now see one of the people that probably oppressed, tortured, and killed many of their folk now lies on the ground, killed.
Travis: I look at the axe and look at the blood covering it and I look over at Duke Gonad and I say, so, where are you from and how did you come to be in the service of the Briarwoods?
Matt: "I was hired in Wildmount."
Travis: Do I know where that is?
Matt: You don't. You've heard it said before. You've heard it mentioned, but you have no idea where it is.
Travis: Right, the holy lands of the sacred-- all right.
Sam: Are you okay, your honor?
Travis: Yes, thank you for-- I am quite tired. Would you like to take it from here?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: While we always must dispense our justice, this is now a town of mercy as well. And I will expect nothing less from all of us than to give what we have lacked for so long. Duke.
Sam: Let hers be the last blood shed.
Taliesin: Earn your life again.
Matt: He nods and looks down. You can't tell if it's shame or just defeat, but his shoulders slump and that little bit of fire that was in him when he arrived is broken. The men look at you, they get your nod and they lift the chains and pull them off while a couple of the men pick up the body of the half-orc woman and pull them out of the crowd. The music swells up once again, and the celebration continues without a beat. You can now see tables being brought out to the center and glasses are set about and drinks are being poured as a giant central table right at the base of the Sun Tree is set for you.
Taliesin: They've just had this shit in a Tupperware container, like in those big bins in the back for the last five years with like duct-tape lids.
Matt: It's not a grand meal, there hasn't been a lot of time to prepare for it, but basically what it looks like is whoever is preparing dinner or whatever food was readily available, they're just bringing it out. It's more of like a share-with-whoever's-there type effort.
Marisha: Aw, it's a potluck.
Matt: Kind of.
Sam: I find a young boy.
Matt: Yes, Scanlan?
Sam: Or a soldier, and I give him 15 gold and I say, for the love of god, find me a fucking beret.
Matt: "All right, sir." And the boy takes the gold and rushes off, looking in his hands at the boon he's been given by this practically-same-height man. They don't see gnomes here very often; it's been very confusing.
Taliesin: I want to take some time to tell Keeper Yennen about what is beneath the tree and let him start to macerate some theories on what to do--
Travis: Macerate? That's a big word.
Matt: After you finish this conversation, he sits there and--
Taliesin: It's a word for big name. Thank you. Do it.
Matt: A few moments pass before the boy returns, in his hand a (singing) raspberry beret, the kind you find in a secondhand store.
Sam: Oh, feels good.
Laura: Make it look cooler on him, because he made it look dorky.
Taliesin: It's a beret. I don't think he made it dorky. I think it comes with that already sewn in.
Laura: There it is, looks good. It looks good, Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you, young boy. Whatever your name was. What was your name, young boy?
Marisha: Make it good.
Matt: "Randall?"
Sam: Thank you, Randall. You've made me a very happy small man.
Matt: And he brings you the change.
Sam: Oh no, keep the change, it's all right. Go buy yourself a goose. The biggest goose in town. (laughter)
Taliesin: With a beret.
Matt: And he darts off excitedly. You catch him out of the corner of your eye like stealing a swig of beer--
Sam: Brandon Gilmore, that was his young name.
Laura: Brandon Gilmore?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Thank you, Brandon. So after you finish regaling this tale to Keeper Yennen, let's see if I have a proper song for celebration.
Travis: I'm doing my best to empty the cask of ale into the town patrons and myself.
Taliesin: I don't know if that's-- less aviary than celebratory.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately.
Marisha: Can Keyleth go over and check out the Sun Tree?
Matt: Sure, as you're walking over there, we'll finish this conversation here. Yennen nods to himself and goes, "That is disconcerting. I'll reach out to a few of my contacts, see who we can bring here to inspect it. I may go down tomorrow myself and have a look. Is it safe?"
Taliesin: No. There are traps. We've marked them. It's also disturbing.
Matt: "All right. I'll bring a trusted team down, then. If there's anyone you know who has vast historical or arcane knowledge, I would recommend possibly having them come take a look as well. Unfortunately, I'm rather limited in my teachings."
Sam: Pike?
Laura: Allura?
Sam: But she's not in town.
Taliesin: We can send word.
Matt: "Please do."
Laura: What about Ryndarien?
Marisha: Eskil?
Matt: There was Eskil Ryndarien, the archmage in Westruun.
Liam: Yes. Either, both.
Matt: "Good, good, yes, anyone at all. Maybe I'll be able to glean something, but unfortunately most of our books were confiscated when the town was taken. However, I appreciate that, and at least for the time being, there doesn't seem to be any dead rising from the grave."
Sam: If I may, Percy, may I make a suggestion?
Taliesin: Is it going to be throwing the rest of my guns into a pit of acid?
Sam: No, but it will be spending some of your kingdom's money.
Taliesin: Replacing the guns that you threw into a pit of acid.
Sam: Let's not talk about the guns.
Taliesin: I really can't think of what else I'd want to talk about. Please, go ahead.
Sam: If most of their books have been taken from them, perhaps we could use some of the treasury to build a library.
Taliesin: That is not a terrible idea, and it's possible that the books are still within the castle.
Laura: It's possible that the Briarwoods have hoarded all of them. In fact, we might find something about this entity inside the castle.
Taliesin: And we do need to build three new structures where the lords' houses were, and I find the idea of rebuilding those mansions to be a bit distasteful.
Sam: Perhaps we could even name one of the libraries Gilmore's Glorious Books.
Travis: Set up a satellite chain?
Taliesin: We will discuss it. It's got a ring, I will admit.
Matt: While you guys are having this conversation--
Liam: Oh, I was just going to add to that, I'm sure the man can help in this city's time of need.
Taliesin: You were doing something, as well.
Matt: Yes. Keyleth, at this point, as you've walked away from this conversation, you approach the Sun Tree. It stands there with a little bit of light as the sun's just now passing over the distant mountain range that surrounds this valley. The sky's growing more purple and dark blue. But now lights have been lit and lanterns have been brought to the center, you can see the Sun Tree in full before you.
Marisha: I reach up and I put my hand on it and I cast Commune With Nature. Do I gather anything?
Matt: What does Commune With Nature do in full?
Taliesin: It lets you commune with nature.
Marisha: Essentially.
Matt: Oh, look at that, first page I open up to. Okay.
Taliesin: It's like a DM version of natural 20.
Laura: It is. Except he does it all the time.
Matt: Okay, so which do you want to know, of all the things that you can choose from?
Marisha: Oh, what are my choices?
Matt: You can choose from terrain or bodies of water in the vicinity; prevalent plants, minerals, animals, or peoples; powerful celestials, fey, fiends, or elementals or undead within 300 feet of it-- or sorry, within three miles of it; influence from other planes of existence; or buildings.
Marisha: The influence of other planes of existence sounds promising.
Matt: Okay, you gain three facts. So, first off, you notice as you touch the Sun Tree and you cast the spell, whereas previously you felt just dead wood and a lack of any presence, there is a small seed of life in the tree once again.
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: We'll call that the first one, as a given. As you inquire about any other planes of existence, you do sense that at least some element nearby relates to a realm of shadow.
Laura: That's obvious.
Marisha: Yeah, sure, okay.
Matt: And what's the third one you want to know?
Marisha: Oh, I get a choice?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: I didn't know I had a choice.
Matt: You don't have to ask anything else if you don't want to, if you got everything you wanted.
Marisha: I want to know if-- god, so many options. Is it going to be a good growing season this spring? Crops going to be good? It's going to be a good harvest moon?
Laura: Ask how it's feeling, can you ask how it's feeling?
Marisha: How's it feeling? Can I ask the tree how it's feeling, can I be like, "Hey tree. How are you doing today?"
Matt: That is very Keyleth.
Marisha: You doing all right? How do you feel between all this, about all this?
Matt: You sense--
Sam: Hey, boo.
Marisha: Hey, boo.
Matt: You sense weariness, like something very old that has been asleep for a very long time has woken up.
Marisha: Does it feel positive?
Matt: Positive.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: The Sun Tree, seemingly kept at bay, locked away, what bit of its life force it managed to maintain had been contained for so long and is now finally free.
Marisha: Can I just say, good morning, old friend.
Matt: You sense the tree saying, "The sun just set. It's not morning."
Marisha: I go, oh shit. And then I turn to Percy and I say, the tree talked to me.
Taliesin: In that ancient way that trees talk.
Marisha: You just had a smoke monster you were talking to, is it that hard to believe?
Matt: (Ent voice) It's... not... morning...
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: I watched her walk up to the tree and I followed her--
Travis: Oh no.
Sam: Oh no.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Here we go. I follow her up and I don't say anything, but I see one hand on the tree and without saying anything--
Travis: I walk up behind Vax and I pants him.
Laura: Yes!
Travis: And I grab the back of his collar and pull backwards.
Sam: That's the revenge.
Liam: Are you going to roll anything?
Matt: Okay. So.
Liam: I'm not sure what he did though. Pantsing?
Travis: I grabbed your pants and I pulled them down to your ankles.
Liam: But what's the part about the collar?
Travis: I grabbed the back of your neck and pulled you backwards with your pants around your ankles.
Liam: Okay. He's got to roll, but if it happens, it happens.
Matt: Right. I would consider this a grapple check. So it's your athletics versus your acrobatics.
Laura: What about the pantsing? Is that included?
Matt: That is the pantsing.
Travis: 20, plus--
Matt: Wait, natural 20?
Travis: No, 19 plus-- 26. My athletics is plus seven.
Liam: I rolled a 32.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: As you reach out and are about to grasp the sides, he leaps straight up in the air and then lands a foot in front of you. You grab nothing and see him glance over his shoulder and tsk-tsk.
Liam: I knew that was going to happen.
Travis: That's all right. It could've been now. It'll just be worse later.
Sam: Nice try, Grog.
Liam: You already took my left nut off my body.
Travis: Oh, please. That was but appetizers for the main course, my friend.
Liam: All right, so that's challenge number one, now challenge number two. So, I still don't say anything besides (inhale) as I jump to the side really fast to not loose my breeches. And she's got one hand on the tree, and I just quietly, with her free hand and my free hand, try to lace my fingers with hers.
Matt: Against the tree?
Laura: Oh my gosh, you guys are boyfriend and girlfriend now.
Matt: As you finish your awkward it's-not-morning conversation with the essence of the Sun Tree--
Taliesin: It's morning somewhere.
Marisha: As I'm talking, good morning, Sun Tree.
Matt: You feel a strange alien hand in your left free hand for a moment, unexpectedly.
Marisha: I jump and I yank away instinctually.
Matt: Okay, she pulls away from it and looks over her shoulder with a bit of surprise and sudden horror.
Liam: I shrug and look.
Marisha: I was just talking to the tree. It talked back.
Liam: I don't say anything. (long pause)
Marisha: (giggling) Everyone is hiding.
Sam: I'm giving them privacy.
Laura: You get privacy. It's your moment.
Matt: So? Vax just stands there, not saying anything, just looking at you.
Liam: I already said it.
Matt: Don't look at them.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I don't know. I'm really confused.
Liam: Vax says, all right. And walks off.
Marisha: Wait. I'd be lying if I said often at night when I go to sleep, your face isn't the last thing that crosses my mind. But with the weight of the world and the weight of the contact-embarrassment from our fellow party, currently, it's hard to focus on. (hesitantly) You said that when you were near death. We say a lot of things when we're near death. How do I know that's what you were truly feeling?
Liam: I didn't say it out loud, I just thought it.
Matt: No, you told her.
Marisha: Oh yeah, no, you said that out loud. Yeah, no, that wasn't in your head.
Liam: I wore a mask for a long time, where I grew up. And I'm not going to do that anymore. I'll wait.
Marisha: Wait?
Liam: For you.
Marisha: Okay. I don't know what else to say right now. I'm really tired. Really tired. I think there's also a part of me that's just afraid.
Liam: I feel like I'm going to get pantsed by a goliath at any moment. Don't do anything. Don't change anything. I haven't lied. I've told the truth. If you'll have me, I'm yours. If you don't want me, I understand. And that's all there is to say. And then I actually walk off.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay by the tree.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening and he walks off, you guys are there at the table, just now noticing the both of them have been missing. You see Keyleth, stunned, standing by the Sun Tree as Keeper Yennen approaches you once again and goes, "My friends. We have a lot of work to do and it would not be fair for me to assume, as you've already done so much for us, but it has been a while since we've had much to celebrate in this town, and this evening seems a fine improvisational event. But we have two weeks until the Winter's Crest festival would be happening here in Whitestone, something we have not celebrated in near five years. I would just ask, should you be interested, if you would wish to stay with us these next couple of weeks to help us rebuild and perhaps aid in preparing the first real shining moment in Whitestone's history since you were gone."
Laura: Percival?
Taliesin: I would be very grateful.
Laura: We're here.
Taliesin: We shall.
Matt: Cassandra nods, as well.
Laura: Keeper, may I ask for a small request? Could you maybe send a wonderfully worded letter to Uriel and let him know how we saved the day and how much you love us?
Matt: He looks very confused. "I imagine that could be-- I assume that could be done, yes."
Laura: That would be wonderful. Make sure you mention how terrible the Briarwoods were and how Vox Machina saved the day. Truly saved it--
Sam: We can write it for you if you just want to sign it at the bottom.
Liam: That guy's going to wake up this morning and go, "oh, I'm an asshole."
Laura: Please? Yes, that would be wonderful.
Matt: "All right. It'll be done."
Laura: Thank you.
Travis: Facepalm.
Liam: "Aw, what was I thinking. Oh."
Matt: And so as the rest of you join in the merriment, or whatever else you wish to do for the evening, looking about post-sunset as night descends on Whitestone, to the first clear sky since you've arrived. To the first evening where you can hear smiles, cheers, and laughter, we'll pick up next week with the Winter's Crest festival in Whitestone. (cheering)
Laura: You should've kissed her, it was the perfect moment!
Liam: I already did it.
Laura: No but it was the perfect moment!
Liam: You don't want it to happen anyway.
Laura: I don't care, this is out of character! It would have been the perfect moment!
Liam: I never said I was smart.
Matt: It makes for fun drama. That was crazy.
Travis: How am I going to beat your acrobatics?
Liam: You are not.
Zac: So we gotta get ready for Critmas. So we're going to go offline and back up so we can make sure we get this episode uploaded to you guys on Monday. The longer the video, the longer it takes to transcode and sometimes makes it take longer to get up, so we'll be going offline and then right back up for Critmas, guys.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: See you back here in just a few minutes, guys. Don't leave. We'll be here!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, here, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: Damn it! Damn it! It was perfect.
Matt: No, I got it right this time. Careful what you wish for. But yeah, so thank you for joining us! Last week was kind of a crazy episode, and this week we continue that theme. However, I do want to go over some quick announcements, so we can get the show on the road, get as much game time as possible. Looks like we are going to be down one Scanlan Shorthalt tonight. Unfortunately, Sam Riegel had scheduling stuff he couldn't get around, but we do have our other fantastic gnome, Ashley Johnson, joining us from New York. (cheering)
Travis: Ashley Johnson. Pike is amazing.
Matt: So yeah, that's cool. This is our 40th episode. 40th episode. That's crazy to me.
Marisha: Which we could have waited and celebrated 50th episode, but fuck it. 40 it is.
Laura: Well, we'll celebrate 50th like a motha.
Liam: We told ourselves 40 and done.
Laura: So this is the last episode, you guys. Hope you've had fun.
Matt: Hopefully not. I certainly hope not. We'll see how tonight goes. So yeah, that'll be cool and we're gonna have our anniversary coming up in March too, which will be fun, so excited for that. Yeah, so--
Laura: Oh my gosh, will our 50th time up with our year? We got to figure this math out.
Taliesin: Four episodes in February.
Matt: Close, we'll see. That would be crazy.
Taliesin: No. No, it won't, but close.
Matt: No, I don't think so, but anyway, couple of quick announcements, just a reminder we're going to be at Wizard World Portland, February 20th-21st, so if you guys are in the area and want to come say hello, we'll be there for those two days.
Travis: Come out and say hi!
Matt: Yes, do it. We'll be doing signings. We'll have panels Saturday and Sunday, so it should be a fun time and hopefully we'll see you there. Me and Marisha will be in Denver for Colorado Anime Fest the weekend before that, for Valentine's day weekend in Denver, Colorado. So if you guys are in that area, you can come and visit us, also for fun panels and insanity that shall ensue. So look forward to that. Also, me and Marisha will be in Ireland, we can now announce, at the beginning of March. For Kaizoku Con. In Ireland so--
Liam: That's as Irish as it can gets.
Matt: Yeah, Kaizoku? I know, isn't it? It's an old Gaelic term. (laughter)
Matt: But we've never been. We're excited to come out and see that side of the UK and that part of Europe real fast. It's going to be really cool. So we look forward to seeing you guys out there hopefully.
Taliesin: I've got one, too. I've got one too. I'm going to be, the weekend before that as well, the Valentine's Day weekend, at Amazing Arizona Comic Con. Amazing Arizona Comic Con. It's going to be amazing. In Arizona. With comics.
Marisha: Are you going to be raising Arizona?
Taliesin: Wow. You're fired. You're razing Arizona with fire.
Travis: Get those out of the way now.
Matt: 2d6 damage. (laughter)
Matt: Anybody else have any other events coming up they want to mention, if anything, anyone? No? If one pops up, you're welcome to jump in. Let's see, we also have a few projects that recently came out. Liam, since you are partly at helm of both of these projects.
Liam: Oh, I voice directed on two games. They're the exact same game, basically. One is called 'The Witness.' Mastermind Jonathan Blow has created a very, very unique game. There's no shooting people in the face or any of that, but it looks to be one of the best gaming experiences of the year.
Travis: It's getting amazing reviews.
Liam: And then I also directed the voices for-- And Ashley Johnson is in The Witness. And I also got to direct most of the voiceover for, what's it called? Lego Marvel Avengers, which everybody--
Laura: Oh, what's the name of that? Oh yeah, Lego Marvel Avengers.
Liam: You've heard of it. Show of hands, who's doing a voice in the game? Aww. Well, next one.
Taliesin: That's okay. I'm down to play it. I don't want anything spoiled, and casting for Ms. Marvel.
Liam: She was the first and last person I thought of.
Ashley: Wait! Who did they cast as Ms. Marvel?
Matt: Ashly Burch.
Ashley: (gasps) Really?
Matt: Yeah. First canonical voice for the new Ms. Marvel.
Taliesin: Isn't that hardcore?
Liam: Also unique fun fact  Ashley is playing the character she played in the Avengers movie, so her Lego figure looks like her.
Laura: What? That's amazing.
Ashley: Forgot about that. (laughter)
Ashley: We did it a little bit ago and I think I completely forgot. Very excited. (laughter)
Matt: You know you've made it when. Well, cool. So congrats! Yeah, go play them, guys. Let's see. Also, a reminder for Wyrmwood Gaming, who makes awesome wooden game stuff. They're still supporting our special code to get free shipping when you order from them.
Liam: That code is 'critrole'. Critrole. You get free shipping if you type in 'critrole', but you got to do it on their website, not other websites.
Matt: Yeah, doesn't work well if you go to like Bed, Bath and Beyond. We don't have a relationship with them. Yet.
Taliesin: We should register at very least, at this point.
Matt: We're working on it. We're working on it. We think there is a lot of great crossover, like the Venn diagram between Bed, Bath and Beyond enthuasiasts and Critters. So, do we have any other announcements anyone wants to make or shall we dive on in?
Marisha: We haven't plugged them in a while. Our wonderful charity that we support: 826LA. Go check them out. There's still a huge portion of our proceeds that go to 826LA every week and-- Well, they tutor children through the ages of kindergarten and 18, because kindergarten is an age, and help in creative writing and storytelling, and they also have cool store fronts all the way across the country. There's one in like San Fran. I know there's one in New York.
Taliesin: There's a pirate store. There's a superhero store.
Marisha: I think there's one in Seattle.
Travis: Plus you are handing out D&D to young kids, getting them started and hooked at a young age.
Marisha: Yes. Yeah, if you have an 826 in your area, you should go there and tutor, and you should be like 'Hey.'
Laura: You should go to there.
Marisha: You should go to there and you should tutor to there and you should introduce D&D to them.
Taliesin: Run a D&D game for kids.
Marisha: Run a D&D game for kids. It's very fulfilling.
Matt: That's cool.
Ashley: Oh, I want to give a shoutout.
Matt: Yeah, Ashley, go for it.
Ashley: There's this place that pretty close to where I live called The Brooklyn Strategist. Yeah, and when Laura and Travis came to visit-- It's basically a gaming shop and you can play D&D there on Wednesday nights and Saturdays. And play board games. It's also a coffee shop. It's rad.
Liam: Brooklyn?
Travis: They got like cookies and a little coffee thing.
Laura: I bought a Millennium Falcon cookie when I was there.
Travis: It was pretty dope.
Ashley: It was delicious.
Marisha: What was it called again, Ashley?
Ashley: The Brooklyn Strategist. Check it out if you're in New York or Brooklyn.
Matt: There you go. Do it.
Travis: What else can we do to put off dying by four ancient dragons?
Laura: I know.
Liam: What else can we talk about for the next four hours?
Taliesin: Look at all that--
Matt: Nothing. We're going to jump right into it. All right, guys, so welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role. So to get you up to speed real fast: the group Vox Machina, after finishing their foray in Whitestone, finding a member of the council, Riskel Daxio, was a cult member for this entity called Vecna, bringing him to justice and executing him in the throne room of the palace of Emon, they discovered during the search the traveling troupe of Dr. Dranzel's performance troupe, which Scanlan used to be a part of. During this time, they hatched a plan to have Vox Machina seek this house that had fallen into disarray, and the owner disappeared for a while, that may contain some goods. The party went and investigated. They had previously been in the house and were curious as to where it stands at this point in time, especially if more people are disappearing into it. Upon going into what was once General Krieg's house where they once fought a blue dragon, they discovered the corpse of Krieg, long-buried from the collapse of the cavern and picked apart by some other large clawed creature. And immediately got into some sort of a fight with a purple worm and a frost worm that were essentially battling over whatever it was that was moving in that tunnel that seemed to be nice and tasty. These adolescent worm creatures, not even fully grown, proved a nice little challenge, but the party managed to succeed in escaping after killing them, before the mother showed up. They returned to Emon, managed to help Scanlan's now-discovered daughter, Kaylie, out of a little pinch in getting imprisoned after she'd gotten into a major bar brawl. And the party returned to their keep, where they were notified that Uriel, the Sovereign of Tal'Dorei and the city state of Emon, had an announcement to make in the Cloudtop District. So gathered Gilmore, gathered the rest of the party, and everyone went to the Cloudtop District around noon at the presentational stage-- not at noon, at dusk. Sorry, the other one. So, at which point Uriel announced that he felt he was no longer a worthy leader or ruler of this entire realm he has under his watch and is deciding to step down. During this announcement, however, a number of strange entities came through the clouds in the sky as a series of chromatic ancient dragons swooped in and began to destroy the city of Emon. Many of the townsfolk gathered at that square were immediately killed. The party as well as a few straggling survivors ran away as both the large, gargantuan black and green dragon begin to chase you down. Right before they honed in to pick you off, an even larger ancient red dragon shoved them off to head east to continue their plot after slamming down into the center of Emon and claiming it as his own domain. The party escaped via the druid's Transport Via Plants spell and just stepped through the tree to land in the center of their keep of Greyskull. So now we pick up where that left off. So as you all come rushing through the other side of the transport spell, each one of you comes stumbling out into the center of the temple to Sarenrae that's constructed on the base floor of your keep. The sheer intensity and force that pushes you all through one after another, some of you end up tripping and catching yourself, but nevertheless you all make it through safe and sound before the large tree trunk behind you, the portal, snaps shut, the magic exhausted. The adrenaline still pumping in your head, you're all still thinking over and processing what exactly had just happened and what it means.
Travis: Are we all here?
Marisha: All those people.
Taliesin: Yes? Yes?
Travis: Is anyone hurt?
Taliesin: That's a good question.
Marisha: Can we see anything from here?
Matt: Looking around right now, you have the stained glass of the complex. The keep seems to be in order. From this perspective, you don't see anything because the city is on the opposite side of the keep. This portion of the temple is actually facing southward.
Taliesin: I suppose I'd like to get a vantage point, to see what we can see. Is there any way to-- I think we all took damage. I think we're all hurt.
Travis: We're all hurt a little bit.
Liam: Pike, heal?
Ashley: Yeah, let me do some healing.
Matt: Pike, be aware, as part--
Ashley: I don't know where I'm at.
Matt: Yeah, I'll let you know where you are at. You cast, let's see, you cast Heal once, which I believe was your 6th-level spell, and then you cast Mass Cure Wounds, so a 5th-level spell. So you've cast a 6th and a 5th.
Ashley: One 6th and one 5th?
Matt: Correct.
Ashley: Okay. All right, and then healthwise, where am I at? Went down 66?
Matt: Healthwise, you were down 66 and then you healed up, I don't remember the exact number. It was like 24. We'll go with 24. It's fine.
Ashley: Okay guys, let's do a Mass Cure Wounds then at fourth level.
Matt: Okay. Which one is this? Are you casting Cure Wounds?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: On who?
Ashley: A Mass Cure Wounds, sorry.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds is a 5th-level spell.
Ashley: How low is everybody?
Travis: I'm all right.
Liam: I'm all right.
Laura: 43, but if we can take a short rest, we can roll some dice.
Marisha: I'm at 32, so same thing.
Taliesin: 57.
Travis: Short rest?
Ashley: Short rest.
Marisha: We should get inside, anyways.
Taliesin: Let's get inside. I want to see if I can get a vantage from the top.
Liam: I think in the short term, we need to take care of two things: one, get a vantage point and see how the keep is and what we can see from above. We also need to get the staff out of here, we need to send them away immediately.
Taliesin: Do we send them away or do we send them down below? Like for shelter?
Laura: We don't need them running out.
Taliesin: It's safer than running around outside, that's where I want to end up.
Laura: Send them below.
Liam: Out of the city, though, into the wild?
Laura: If we need to, we can bring them through the portal into Whitestone.
Marisha: We don't know what all is safe right now.
Liam: I'm all right, so I'm going to go find the staff and herd them down below and tell them what has happened.
Taliesin: You can put them in my workshop. Actually--
Marisha: Why don't we all head down there?
Taliesin: Yes, let's head down to my workshop because I have to unlock it anyway.
Matt: Pike, are you not casting Cure Mass Wounds? You have one more 5th-level spell, so you could do if you wanted.
Ashley: Yeah, let me go ahead and do it.
Matt: Okay. So I believe that's 3d8 plus five, unless I'm mistaken.
Liam: This one's on everyone?
Matt: This was on, this would be on up to six creatures, so 3d8+5. Well, everybody but one.
Laura: Everybody but Scanlan.
Matt: Sure, everybody but Scanlan, we'll put it there.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Plus five?
Ashley: That's plus five.
Matt: Okay, so everyone heals 18 hit points.
Ashley: Rolled a little low.
Matt: That's all right. Okay, you're heading off--
Liam: I'm going to start moving through the entire place, I'm going to start at the front gate and see if anybody's outside.
Matt: As you head into the foyer, the first thing you see is Laina currently panicking about, running around with Erwin falling behind, trying to calm her down and going, "Laina, it's all right calm down." And Laina is like, "I don't know what to do, I, I--" She turns around and sees you, "Oh, Master, Master Vax."
Liam: It's actually not all right, we need to gather everyone right now, quickly, I'll explain after we've gotten everyone in the keep. We need to go to Percival's workshop, can you help me with that?
Matt: "We can do that, we have a problem--" She points out. The front of the keep is currently opened, the doors and the gate's there and you can hear what sounds like a cluster of very loud voices, shouting and screaming and yelling over each other.
Travis: Outside of the keep?
Liam: But I'm on my own, right?
Matt: You are, yeah.
Marisha: What are the voices speaking?
Matt: Are you following him to the foyer? Currently only Vax is.
Liam: Go to Percival's workshop, go, I will handle it.
Marisha: I figured we'd all be moving outside, at least.
Matt: All right, as you guys move into the foyer to follow, you see Vax having this conversation with Laina. She and Erwin go head back down, to head down to the workshop. What are you doing?
Liam: I'm going to go stealth toward the door to see what the hell is going on out there.
Matt: Okay. Roll stealth check.
Liam: Yeah, it's a 29.
Matt: All right, good to know. All right, so as you go to the door and look out, you can see, along the top wall there are three figures. Takes you a moment to focus, and you realize that it is Kendrick, who's one of your general guards you keep around, as well as Cordell and Shayne. All three of them have crossbows ready, and they're yelling to each other and aiming them over the wall towards the front. However, what you can hear from this point is a chorus of 20, 30 or more voices muffled from the other side of the wall.
Liam: I'm going to start running up towards them. I'm going to join them on the wall.
Matt: Okay, so there is a ladder at the side, and you climb up the ladder, and as you get closer, you hear people shouting, different voices going, "Let us in, let us in or we'll die!" Voices going, "What are you doing, you going to leave us out here?!" Other people are screaming, you hear crying children, you hear people shrieking.
Liam: How many people am I seeing down there?
Matt: Well, as you get up to the top and crest over, you can see the three guards are all yelling at each other and yelling over, "We can't, we can't do anything right now, we're waiting for th--" They look over and see you come over the edge, and you can see there's probably close to 50 or so people that are all pressed up against the gates to the inside of your keep, that are all shouting to be let in.
Liam: If I look past, do I see anyone else coming towards the keep? Is it just a cluster and that's it, or--
Matt: You can see people that are fleeing from the town in little bits, two or three at a time, trails of individuals that are just now managing to make it outside of the city of Emon itself. Some of them are heading out into the distance, getting far away as possible. A few more are heading towards the keep, and you gather that this crowd has been gathering here for the last few minutes, at the very least.
Liam: All right, slapping my hand on Kendrick's shoulder. We are going to let these people in. The city has come under attack, everything is fucked beyond belief. There are at least four large, old dragons attacking the city, and these people need to come inside. I don't know what we're going to do with them, but we're going to bring them in now. And you and I are going to wait by the gate for those stragglers to come in. The rest of you, take them inside, join the others.
Matt: They all look at each other. Cordell gives you a nod, "Right, sir, we'll open the gate, hold on." And you guys all, are you heading out to the courtyard as well? Or are you staying inside the keep?
Laura: Yeah, yeah, we see them.
Matt: So you come out and see this happening and hear them shouting at the top of the wall.
Marisha: Keyleth stands in the middle of the foyer, unable to move.
Taliesin: Keep them out of my workshop, but put them into the spare rooms and anywhere we have room.
Laura: Maybe the cathedral?
Taliesin: The cathedral is a great idea.
Matt: At this point, you hear this strange high-pitched whine sound. Vax, as you look up, you can see there are these columns of smoke that are billowing out of the city in the distance as mass areas are burning and smoldering. You see coming out of one of the clouds something spinning slowly towards you, and you look up and see it's one of the skyships from the Cloudtop District, one half of it currently in flames.
Laura: Inside, now!
Liam: I scream out, get the gates open now!
Matt: At which point, you can see now Shayne and Cordell are pulling on the ratchets, pulling the chains up as fast as they can while putting their eyes up and seeing this as it careens in your direction.
Taliesin: I'm running up to the tower as quickly as I can.
Liam: And I'm fireman's pole down the ladder, down one side of the ladder to get to the gate.
Matt: Okay. The gate opens a little bit, enough to get one or two people through, and begins to push through, and you can see now people are yelling in pain as they're being crushed, as the whole mass of them are pushing through the small opening.
Liam: I scream out  if you rush, you will die!
Matt: It doesn't seem to be affecting anybody, unfortunately. There's this inlaid fear, this animalistic need to survive.
Laura: I start to grab people arms and pulling them through and helping people get through safely.
Matt: At this point, the skyship has passed overhead, missing the top of the keep and the highest walls by about 40 or so feet. For a few seconds of silence, and you hear impact, shaking the ground for a few seconds. Not far from here, you can see another blast of red fire and a couple of sparks of arcane energy that arc out, as another column of smoke south of you begins to pour up into the sky.
Marisha: Feeling that, I snap out of it and run to the south exit of the castle to look for the explosion.
Matt: Okay. As you start rushing in that direction, to the south side of the castle, looking back to where the skyship came through, you can see the smoke parts once more, and you see unfurling from within two large white wings bearing down, and you can see as it swoops down, there are groups of people that are rushing 100, 200, 300 feet away, that are pulling themselves out of the ravine that sits between the south walls of Emon and the north walls of your keep. As they're pouring through the mud and the stream there, it's about four or five feet deep, it swoops down and unleashes a blast of freezing cold energy that freezes that whole section of the river solid and every person in that vicinity as well. Locked in place.
Marisha: Does Keyleth see all of this?
Matt: You don't see this because you're inside the wall. You see it come down and swoop by. You see it circle around. You, however, have a good view of this, right as you're about to go down the wall on the ladder.
Taliesin: Vex, I need you on the roof.
Laura: All right. I run up.
Matt: As you go running up, you guys see now it circles back around and its wings tilt to one side as it begins to make its way towards the keep for a second sweep. I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Travis: Yeah, we got to get down.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Travis: You want to go first?
Matt: Put you there. Percy and Vex, you guys are up on the wall, technically, right?
Taliesin: Up here, so we can get down real quick.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so the ladder is there.
Taliesin: Well, shouldn't there be a door that leads to that anyway?
Matt: The way this is designed is it's a ladder getting up and down.
Taliesin: Okay. That'll do.
Matt: Did you still go down the ladder, or are you staying up top here?
Liam: No, I already said I went down.
Matt: Okay, so as soon as you see it swoop overhead, you come back down to the bottom there. Scanlan is currently inside for the sake of this, and may come out here in a moment, he's figuring out what's going on. Grog, where are you?
Travis: I guess I was out in the courtyard, trying to help the cattle come in.
Matt: All right, so let's go ahead and place some cattle.
Laura: Jesus.
Travis: The door to get back inside is located where?
Laura: Yeah, where's the cathedral at? Is that what the other entry is?
Matt: This is the entrance to your actual keep, there. Essentially, these two sections here are the doors that lead through to the interior. People are pouring through at this point, trying to get through as fast as possible. Whole cluster of them.
Taliesin: Got to get that thing finished.
Laura: There's more on the outside there? Is that what you're putting there?
Matt: Pike, you are where?
Ashley: Yeah. Somewhere around there.
Matt: In the center, keeping watch there, all right, and Trinket is with you-- or Trinket can't make it up the ladder, so Trinket is staying in the courtyard, probably keeping close to Pike right there. All righty, so. Initiative. 25 to 20.
Liam: 24.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: 27. 26, 26.
Matt: What did you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: 22.
Matt: All right. Who got 20 to 15?
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15. Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Three!
Matt: Three. Grog?
Travis: Nine.
Ashley: I can do some cleanup. (laughter)
Travis: Three!
Ashley: Matt, real quick.
Travis: He said 'yeah', you can go ahead.
Ashley: Oh, I think I do have a sixth level because I think that sixth level was used for Liam with the worm, and then we came back to the keep to rest.
Matt: That's right, that's correct, you do have a sixth level spell, still. Yes, thank you for the reminder. Good on you. All right, and so here we have Cordell, we have Shayne, and we have Kendrick right there on the top, as well. Top, currently the dragon is about, I'd say, 120 feet off this direction. You're up first, Percy.
Taliesin: Does it seem like the dragon has noticed us?
Matt: The dragon at the moment is currently seeing the keep. It doesn't notice anyone in particular, it just sees a swarm of people trying to get inside, and it's circling around to try and do another dive attack.
Taliesin: How dumb am I?
Matt: That's up to you, buddy.
Taliesin: Okay, cool.
Laura: Don't be real dumb because I'm standing next to you.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to pull out Bad News, and I'm going to make a targeted shot at its wings and try to put a hole into its wings.
Matt: Okay, go for it, go ahead and take the shot.
Travis: What the fuck. Come on, golden snitch.
Taliesin: Natural 20. (cheering)
Travis: Get the hell out of here.
Taliesin: I'm back, baby.
Matt: Go ahead and roll some damage on that.
Liam: A little, tiny ray of sunshine.
Matt: 4d12 for the hit on that, and then what's the save, to see if it can maintain height?
Taliesin: It's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right-- (laughs) It rolled a four.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: It is plus 14 to its constitution saving throw, so it's 18. What's the DC on that?
Taliesin: Eight plus my proficiency mod plus my dexterity mod-- So, I don't know-- six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 18.
Matt: So it just makes the save.
Taliesin: Hold on, is that right? It's proficiency bonus.
Matt: Proficiency bonus plus four.
Taliesin: Plus dexterity, which is six.
Matt: Six, which is 18, and it just makes the save.
Taliesin: Stupid dragon.
Matt: Just makes its save, but still does damage, go ahead and roll that.
Travis: At least you hit it, you got to bleed it a bit. Longshot.
Taliesin: 27 points of damage. Let's see, one more, yeah, one more shot at the wings just to see if I can take it down. Make it.
Matt: Okay, the second attack is reload, third attack. Another grit point to try and take it down, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: 25 hits. It rolled a three, that is 17.
Taliesin: (laughs) Drop, fucker!
Matt: Terrible, terrible-- All right, so that will effectively reduce its speed, or its height, by what?
Taliesin: Height by 20 feet? And I imagine that would throw it a bit.
Matt: It might.
Liam: Now it's angry.
Taliesin: And let's do some damage. And damage is 20 points of damage.
Matt: 20, nice. All right. 27 points of damage on the round.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my movement until it's so close that I want-- I'm going to hold my movement until--
Matt: You can hold an action, you can't really hold movement.
Taliesin: Okay, then I'm going to use my bonus action to turn to Vex and: fight or flight? All right, you can answer next turn, yeah.
Matt: However, as the first bullet hits, you see it takes the hit in the wing, but it hits the muscle on the edge. As it goes into its glide to head down, you fire into the other wing, this time blowing a hole through the leather flap, and you can see it lose about 20 feet and is actually now skidding towards the roof of the keep.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Taliesin: That was a good plan?
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to dive by that tree.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'm going to hold my attack until it is on the ground or low to the ground.
Matt: All right, got it. So you're holding your attack if you can. All right, cool. Keyleth.
Marisha: Where am I in regards to everyone else?
Matt: You are right here, because you were heading to the south wall when all this went down.
Marisha: Oh, okay.
Matt: This is the north direction this way. It came this way, swooped past, circled around, and now it's coming back from this direction.
Marisha: Okay. I want to use my movement to get under that tree.
Matt: Under this tree or that tree?
Marisha: Yeah, let me-- No, towards the entrance-- heading for cover.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Here.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the tree.
Marisha: And now I'm going to cast Fog Cloud at fourth level, which makes it a radius of 80 feet.
Matt: 80-foot radius?
Marisha: If you cast it at higher levels, it goes up by 20 feet for each level higher you cast it. So I'm casting it at fourth level. Okay, so I go all Storm for a second, get all misty-eyed, and I want to create a nice low-level fog. Across the whole castle.
Matt: Okay. Okay, so heavily obscured. Heavily obscured will give everyone a 3/4 cover bonus-- Let me see what heavily obscured would actually do specifically, to be sure real fast, pardon me.
Travis: I don't even know what 3/4 cover bonus is.
Matt: It's when you're blocked by something, it gives you a bonus to--
Travis: Never happens to me. I'm usually a 3/4 cover bonus.
Matt: All right. It blocks vision entirely, creatures suffer from the blinded condition. So everyone in the entire Keep is now blinded.
Marisha: Well, I want to make it like a fog cloud over top, so we're blinded by--
Matt: So it's above you guys, is what you're saying?
Marisha: Yeah, so we're blocked from the dragon as we flee. I hope you guys weren't wanting to shoot at it, by the way.
Taliesin: Well, we're above it, the cloud would be between--
Matt: The cloud now is-- encompasses this whole area here. Which means the only people that are affected by it are the people at the top of this tower right now. Got it. Was that your turn? Your movement?
Marisha: That's it.
Matt: Cool, stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved.
Matt: Right, you moved there. Are you done with your turn? Okay. So now it is the white dragon's turn. The white dragon, as it comes down, you don't see it anymore because the fog cloud obscures it, but you suddenly hear the sound of a heavy object slamming into stone, and the cracking and breaking of stone against the surface, as the dragon has now, due to the fall of height, slammed into the top of the Keep and is tearing its underside against the roof. Who knows the state that the roof of the Keep is going to be in right now, but because of that, I'm going to ahead and--
Laura: We'll just have Riskel fix it-- Oh, wait.
Matt: Well, he was the overseer. He actually had somebody else build the actual thing by hand.
Laura: Oh, okay. Well, good.
Matt: So it suffers 14 points of damage--
Laura: That's it?
Matt: Yeah. It's dragonhide, man.
Travis: What about all the spires that are up there, that have anti-dragon poison?
Matt: Yeah. That was a dream, unfortunately. However, it does somewhat emerge-- you can see its form somewhat as it comes down in this direction, ending its movement here.
Travis: Oh no.
Marisha: Wait, it skids to a halt right there?
Matt: It's just the fog cloud. As it slams into the keep and tumbles off the top of it and catches itself in the air (wingbeats).
Travis: How high above us is it?
Matt: It is currently 20 feet above you guys. For its turn, it is going to pick a random direction to try and blast its cold breath at. So let me go ahead and roll the direction on this.
Laura: Because it's all covered in fog?
Matt: Yeah, it can't see right now. Currently it's obscured. Oh, hold on! But it has blindsight 60 feet, so it has no effect on him, unfortunately. So as it stops in the air, it still manages to use its sense of smell and the general atmospheric ability to sense what's around it. It seem to move its head and search--
Liam: Can I attack right now? I was holding my attack.
Matt: You can. Now, what's the range on your daggers?
Liam: 60, because I'm Sharpshooter.
Matt: 30, 40, 50, 60-- it's just at the cusp. Like just barely cusp, but yeah, you can get your attack.
Liam: So I'm going before him, and it's a surprise attack because I'm hidden and I'm going first--
Matt: Yes, you're essentially interrupting his attack because the moment he came into range--
Liam: So it's an advantage and it is an automatic crit?
Matt: It's not a automatic crit, it's not surprised.
Liam: It's not surprised?
Matt: No, it know you guys are there.
Liam: Even hiding behind a tree? All right.
Matt: A surprise generally means that it has absolutely no idea that you are there or there's any sort of threat from you.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: All right. And then the second dagger I throw-- I can only throw a second one-- is also a 24.
Matt: Both hit.
Liam: So the first one is double dice, so eight plus-- 14, 15, 18, 23, 25. Double dice is 50 plus seven is-- Yeah, 57 for the first.
Matt: Ooh, nice.
Liam: And the second one goes bink. That is a ten.
Matt: Ten, all right. 57 points of damage, that's-- Is that straight-up dice rolls? That's crazy.
Liam: That's Sneak Attack, I've gone up a level to 13--
Matt: Right, so it's a d6 or 7d6.
Liam: 7d6-- Oh, wait.
Matt: It's not doubled, though.
Liam: Sorry, sorry, sorry. 25 plus seven is 32. Sorry, 32.
Matt: 32, there you go, I was like, that's really high for a non-crit.
Liam: The second one was ten. 32, ten.
Matt: So 42 points of damage. Still not shabby by any means. Gotcha, as you chuck both daggers in the direction where you can see as it's now at the very bottom of the fog cloud. You have enough visual to strike towards it without missing and both daggers sink into the bottom of the creature. One of them you know was a nice, impactful wounding for any other creature, but it doesn't seem to have taken much issue with the impact of the blade. Appear at your side again. That ends your reaction. Now Vorugal is going to go. Looking at the area of most density--
Liam: What was his name again?
Matt: Ah, you will know that shortly. The white dragon. The white dragon rears up in the fog cloud and dips down a little bit, (exhales) outside of the fog cloud, hitting everyone in this vicinity here. That's going to be Grog, Trinket, and everyone here over. I would like all of you to make a constitution saving throw. Well, I'm not going to roll that many dice, I'm going to use my dice roller.
Ashley: Come on, guys.
Marisha: "I'm not going to roll that many dice." Always a good sign.
Liam: Grog's about to lose ten percent of his hit points.
Matt: I don't have enough d6s, it's 16d6. Or sorry, 16d8, my apologies. All right, so that comes to-- Grog, what's your--
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, that's a success. What's Trinket's?
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15? All right, that is 63 points of cold damage to Trinket.
Laura: Trinket is unconscious.
Matt: All right. Trinket actually freezes in place. Now you can see the armor itself has about an inch-thick layer of ice as currently the eyes go dull as unconsciousness takes the bear, but unable to show or reveal that. Grog, you take half that, so you are at-- you take 32 points of cold damage. Let me roll some saves here. Average saves-- Okay, so these four here survive, the rest of these are all entirely wiped out. And you can see now, the people that were rushing in are now rushing away from the keep. The rest are getting the fuck out of Dodge. So yeah, that's going to be the end of the white dragon's turn. That brings us to Vex. You're up in the fog cloud right now, so you have no visual range on the creature. You hear all these screams and hear the blast.
Laura: I can't see it?
Matt: No, unfortunately, the fog cloud is just high enough where it covers this area for you guys. However, you could jump off if you wanted to, make an acrobatics roll and then maybe do your attack afterwards. If you wanted to try that, your call.
Laura: Wouldn't I still be in the fog cloud if I was on the ground?
Matt: No, the fog cloud is elevated up here. It starts here and then goes upward. Keyleth created it in the air. You guys are at the base of it right now.
Laura: So I can use my movement to jump down?
Matt: Yes, if you want to.
Laura: All right, I'm going to fucking Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: You can't see him right now, unfortunately.
Laura: I'm going to jump fucking down on the ground.
Matt: So you jump. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. As you leap off the highest part of the wall of your Keep, all of a sudden the fog dissipates and you see the ground rushing up towards you.
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14. You manage to catch yourself. You aren't knocked prone, but you do suffer five points of damage from the fall. But you catch yourself (grunts), get up, and now you can see at the very, very base of the fog cloud, the head peeking though and the wings occasionally (wingbeats) from out underneath, and you have visual on the dragon.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. And I'm going to shoot him through the Sky Sentinel.
Matt: You already used the Sky Sentinel if I recall against the green dragon, didn't you?
Laura: On the worm.
Matt: Was it the worm? Okay.
Laura: And I multiclassed today, so I'm a rogue, so I get Sneak Attack on this.
Matt: It currently does not have--
Laura: Does it know that-- does it see me?
Matt: You haven't tried to stealth, so technically yes. As soon as you jumped off and land, and hurt yourself and your ankle, you look up and it sees you.
Laura: Never fucking mind. Balls, all kind of balls around here right now. The first attack is 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: The second attack is 24.
Matt: Both hit.
Laura: The third attack is 16.
Matt: 16 misses.
Laura: Okay, so. Let me double-check. An extra d6 for those two. 15 plus seven is what?
Liam: 15 plus seven is 22.
Laura: 22 on the first arrow. 15 plus four is 19 on the second arrow. I'm a little upset right now. And then I'm going to shoot the third arrow through the Blazing Bowstring. I mean my second attack.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And that doesn't hit him, so. Good times.
Matt: So as you land, you get up, pull out your arrow, and as you pull back and release it, you can see it bursts into arcane energy and splits into three different arrows, two slamming into the fog cloud and hitting the sides of the dragon, and it's knocked around for a second. It looks around and its eyes peer at you-- You did the additional Hunter's Mark damage on it, right?
Laura: I did.
Matt: Cool. You see now it's looking around, choosing what its next round is going to be about, and you seem like a tasty morsel, though not entirely drawn to its attention at the moment. You still have a little bit of movement if you wanted to move.
Laura: Can I-- No.
Taliesin: Just for clarification  which door is back into the keep? That one. Okay.
Laura: Is it possible to get inside the door?
Matt: Inside of--
Laura: The door that I'm right there-- If I backed up into the door?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you could. We'll say you're inside right now. You hide inside the best you can to keep out of view.
Laura: Yeah, I want to be ducked around a wall, if I can, on the inside of the door.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, so, at that point now, your guards over here don't have-- they can't see at all, but they saw you jump off the side. Kendrick is going to go ahead and take the ladder down, and it's going to be his movement to land there. They're both going to jump and make your-- using your example. Cordell, not bad, and Shayne-- actually, both rolled pretty well. Both managed to prevent any fall damage, catching themselves on the ground with their heavy crossbows ready. They rush up and fire both at the dragon. Five and a one, god damn-- That hits, and a 19. All right, so Cordell and Shayne both manage to get one shot that hits the dragon on both sides. So both bolts hit, so that's seven damage and ten damage, so 17 damage total from them, as they fire the heavy crossbow, try and reload it and get off a second shot. That ends their turn, now. That brings us to Grog's turn.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And run at Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: He's covered in how much ice?
Matt: About an inch, inch and a half of ice, and the rest of the entities, all the rest of the people that died, they all got frozen in place and some of them shattered in the impact and there's chunks of them frozen on the ground.
Liam: Is that a medicine check at this point? If Trinket is frozen in ice? You can't say--
Matt: You have no idea.
Liam: Thanks. Could I pee on him and thaw him out, quickly?
Matt: Over time, yeah. You'll have to drink a lot beforehand and wait a little while, jog in place. What you got, Grog?
Travis: I would like to run to the side that is closest to you, on Trinket. I would like to start pushing him along the lawn, towards the entrance to the Keep, like a giant ice block.
Matt: Okay, so this side there. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Because you are raging, you have advantage on strength checks.
Travis: Yes, thank god. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. You did suffer damage this turn, but you started raging this turn, so if you don't suffer damage until the beginning of next turn, your rage ends and you'll have to rage again. Just a heads up. But with that roll, though, you managed to push him, we'll say 15 feet that direction. (grunts) Pushing a giant frozen bear and he's sliding against the grass in the front of the courtyard. Sweat's beginning to pop on your brow as your teeth are gritted, and looking over your shoulder, you can still hear the snapping and the-- The air itself of the entire courtyard has dropped about 20 degrees, and you can begin to see your breath in the vicinity of this creature. That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Scanlan now steps out from the inside of the Keep, because Sam is texting me what he wants to do. He rushes out at this point. Seeing all of this from the inside, he whips out his Wand of Fireballs and aims it up at the bottom of the dragon that is now visible underneath. As you see now, the edge of the wand flickers red for a second, before a little bead of light streaks forward and (explosion) detonates beneath it. The dragon would fail its saving throw, but it's going to use its Legendary Resistance once to auto-save, so it takes half damage. He is going to use-- What did he tell me, how many slots he wanted to do? Okay, so he's going to use three of its charges to do this one, that will put it at--
Laura: What is he doing?
Liam: He's trying to resist. Scanlan sent a Fireball at it and it's fucking with it.
Matt: 36 damage halved from him, so that still puts it at 17 points of fire damage to it, not too shabby. As it blasts out from the opposite side of it through the bottom of the cloud, keeping everyone else outside of the collateral damage radius of the Fireball because of its height, so that's good. Scanlan then, realizing the circumstances, uses the rest of his movement to get back into the very corner of the Keep and defend himself against the wall. That's going to end Scanlan's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right, I'm-- Can I run over to where Trinket is? Okay. I'm going to Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: Okay. So you move over to Trinket. All right, go ahead and cast Cure Wounds.
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to cast it at 4th-level.
Matt: 4th-level, okay. 4d8 plus five.
Travis: On the floor.
Ashley: Dang! 30.
Matt: 30. Trinket heals up-- As Pike reaches out, grasping her symbol in one hand, a look of desperation in her face, her hand goes out and touches the ice and as her hand touches, her fingers melt through through the ice with divine energy in her fingertips, and manages to touch Trinket's fur beneath. As the divine energy filters through her body, Trinket's form glows from the inside and the ice begins to crack before it all shatters off of Trinket's body and Trinket catches himself (bear grunts) and shakes off what little bit of remaining ice and moisture is on the coat.
Laura: Thank you guys.
Ashley: I want to scratch behind his ears.
Matt: Okay. Trinket goes (bear noises) Trinket nudges you and licks your face before looking up and growling very angrily at the dragon.
Laura: I don't think Vex even saw any of that, like Vex doesn't even know he was unconscious.
Liam: Got to go Revenant on that bear!
Matt: That is an angry bear, and those who have seen the movie know how scary an angry bear is. Great. Pike, you still have a little bit of movement, if you want to move. You have like 15 more feet, if you wanted to use that, your call.
Ashley: Okay, you guys are my eyes, so I can't really see it from here. But I guess anywhere there's cover. Is that a tree?
Matt: You can start moving towards the tree or the front of the keep, tree is closer but currently has two other people hiding there.
Liam: Or behind the goliath.
Ashley: What was that?
Liam: Behind the goliath.
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: All right, you move over here and use Grog as cover, we'll say, and leap over there. Classic Pike-Grog technique. (laughter)
Matt: Cool. Ends your turn. The rest of these survivors on this side of the wall are going to start fleeing in this direction, using their turn to get the hell out. These guys here are going to do a full-round dash to get inside the keep, and they manage to make it inside. These guys here are moving back. Actually, no, these guys now that are inside the keep are going to run, they get almost all the way to the keep. There we go. The dwarf gets about that far, this guy almost makes it in. They're all right at the cusp of getting into the keep, screaming and running past you, moving between the different frozen bodies, not even paying attention to any of you, as the look of sheer terror on their faces has taken over. That brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to drop down-- Like a boss.
Matt: Are you going to leap or climb down?
Taliesin: I'm going to leap.
Matt: All right, and roll.
Taliesin: 29.
Matt: 29, success and managed to avoid one of your guards who was right below you. You weren't aware and managed to dodge off to the side this way and use the edge of the wall to kick off to change the trajectory, as you land, carrying Bad News in one hand, three-point landing in the other.
Laura: Sick, Percy.
Liam: Hold that gun up from the ground.
Matt: Yep. Just making sure it doesn't damage itself.
Taliesin: Okay, the next thing I'm going to do is, I'm going to concentrate really hard and I'm going to try and conjure Hex to see if it works.
Matt: Okay. So as you focus and look up, you can see now some of the fog cloud that surrounds it congeals into a darker color and clings to the dragon's form as it is now Hexed by you.
Taliesin: It still works.
Matt: Is seems that as long as the shadow entity has been within you, though it is no longer bound to your weapon and yourself, it did leave some dark scars on your soul.
Liam: Left a taint upon you. (laughter)
Taliesin: So, just to remind you, that means that he has disadvantage on all agility checks.
Matt: Are you choosing dexterity? Because you choose which one of the--
Taliesin: Oh, on which checks? Constitution.
Matt: Constitution, all right. So I'll put that down.
Laura: I like it, I like it.
Matt: I'm not sure that's how it works here. Someone will yell it later.
Taliesin: Ability check, on any ability checks.
Matt: On ability checks, yes. Good to know.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend a grit point. I'm going to take another shot to try and drop him.
Matt: Even further?
Taliesin: Yeah. Just for fun.
Matt: Because saving throws are-- I don't--
Taliesin: Are they not? Because I'll use that Grit point for something else, if--
Matt: I don't believe saves are ability checks, unfortunately, so that wouldn't affect that. Yeah, it is its own circumstance.
Taliesin: It's its own circumstance? In that case, I'm going to spend my point for Deadeye.
Matt: Okay. Advantage on the shot.
Taliesin: Advantage on the shot.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: And do I want to go nuts? I'm going to go nuts. I'm going to add Sharpshooter to that, might as well.
Matt: You cannot overlap the shots. No, only one shot effect on an attack at a time, sorry.
Taliesin: That's fine, here we go.
Travis: Come on, go nuts.
Taliesin: Both-- 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: 2d12.
Matt: And add your 1d6 damage as well.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you for reminding me-- 17 points of damage plus four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Nice. 21 damage total.
Taliesin: I'm going to use the rest of my movement to duck in there. I want to try and spin all the way back so I'm completely out of sight. Is that door open?
Matt: There's a little space there, I mean.
Taliesin: Open the door.
Marisha: Does that lead to our keep?
Taliesin: No, it's the other door that leads to our keep. So we're both going to get in and dual-wall it.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: And then I'm going to use my bonus action to take one of my few remaining potions. The medium one.
Laura: Does the door actually open on it?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Heh, that's so cool.
Taliesin: What does the mid-range potion do? I should really start writing this down. Is it one--
Travis: Mid-range potion?
Taliesin: The second-level potion.
Matt: Of healing, you mean? That is--
Liam: 10d10.
Matt: Not so much. Second level, greater healing is 4d4 plus four.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four.
Matt: You got it. All right, cool. That ends Percy's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I want to double check, the boots of speed that I wear, it's ten rounds each day, the haste effect's duration need not be consecutive rounds. So it was one or two back in Emon, and I've had one round here.
Matt: That's the old Pathfinder rules.
Liam: So what is it, ten minutes now? I think it remember the ten-minute thing--
Matt: No. Haste lasts for a minute, you get to use the spell on you once. Yeah. In this ruleset, it's a little too much.
Liam: All right, so, I'm going to dash towards the tree in that corner and get away from this clump of my friends.
Matt: Over this way?
Liam: Towards the wall, yeah. I should be able to get behind that tree, I think, if I dash?
Matt: If you dash, yeah. Yeah, you can get over there, behind that way.
Liam: So then I'm going to throw a dagger, it's all I can do. Can I use an action to hide? Or it's a bonus action only?
Matt: As you throw it, the arc just misses the bottom, what's the maximum range on the dagger, right?
Liam: Whoa, I'm asking if instead of throwing a dagger, can I hide instead?
Matt: You could, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that.
Matt: Yeah, because right now, it's at 60 feet away, but it's at an upward angle from you, which adds a little more distance, your dagger would miss it at this range, and you would know that.
Liam: So I'm running balls-out to that tree, and I'm going to go right up against the tree. And fucking wait and that's it.
Matt: Cool. All right, did you roll stealth?
Liam: Oh, sure. I'm going to use Luck, I still have a little Luck today, good, that's better. 31.
Matt: 31. Good, good, good-- Okay, that ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh god. Okay, I'm afraid of everything-- I'm afraid if I throw up a Wall of Stone or anything like that, he'll be able to be like, oh, I'm a fucking dragon, so I'll go to the other side of the wall. Here's what I'm going to do: I'm going to start running towards the keep. Start running towards the keep. I'm going to go ahead and cast Conjure Woodland Beings. And I'm going to summon a giant eagle.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: This is dropping my Fog Cloud, since that was real fucking useful.
Matt: So, where are you conjuring it?
Marisha: I'm gonna conjure it right on the other side of him where it's-- I can then have it do an attack, correct? In the same turn?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I command it to go for its eyeballs.
Liam: Eagle to the fucking face.
Taliesin: Eagle to the eye!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Oh, that's inauspicious.
Matt: All right, so as the eagle goes up. Do you have stats for the eagle?
Laura: That eagle is weally weally close to that dwagon.
Marisha: Oh right, he's attacking, right, right. He has talons.
Matt: You've got to roll for damage on that.
Marisha: That was more of a distraction.
Matt: Which spell is this? Conjure--
Marisha: Conjure Woodland Beings.
Matt: Conjure Woodland Beings.
Marisha: It's a 4th-level spell.
Matt: 4th-level spell, thank you. All right, great.
Marisha: It was a 19-- Oh wait, plus five is 21.
Matt: I have to roll initiative for it separately as part of the spell. It rolled a 20.
Marisha: It rolled a 20?
Matt: All right, so I'll say given that case I'll let it go ahead and go immediately, but next turn it starts at 20.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That is pretty close to what you got.
Marisha: It rolled a 21 on its attack.
Matt: 21? Hits! Actually. (cheering)
Marisha: Go, eagle, go! Right in the eyes.
Travis: Just barely hits or hits?
Matt: It's close to barely hitting him.
Marisha: Yeah! 2d-- So that's 11 plus three-- 14 points of damage.
Matt: 14 points of damage. As the eagle starts clawing at it, you can see the dragon rears back, unexpected to see the sudden giant eagle appear out of the middle of the air and go clawing at its face. You can see it rears back as it does so, moving its head out of the way. Gets a couple of scratches in, but still an ancient dragon. It's more spooked than really hurting from the impact, but it caught it off guard.
Marisha: It's supposed to be a distraction, all right-- And then I use a bonus action to be like: everyone inside!
Matt: All right, that's your turn? Now it is the white dragon's turn. Let's see if its breath weapon returns. Nope, it rolled a one. So instead, it's going to ignore the eagle.
Marisha: Great.
Matt: As instead it lands right about there.
Travis: It lands?
Matt: It lands (impact). As it impacts, the whole ground shakes around you. As you were pushing Trinket, you look over your shoulders, the shadow encompasses the area, and as you look over, you see it land with a heavy impact. Giant frozen gnashing teeth as mist emanates from the side of its jaws. It's going to use its multiattack, including its Frightful Presence. I need everybody, everybody to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Including us inside?
Matt: Yep. As it rears back and gives off a horrible roar that shakes the stones of the actual keep.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 18.
Travis: 18.
Taliesin: Seven.
Laura: Eight for me.
Matt: Oh, Scanlan rolled a 19.
Laura: And 19 for Trinket.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to spend my resolve and reroll that.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay, everyone who rolled an 18 or lower, it shakes you to your core. You suddenly really realize what you are dealing with here and the fear causes you to fight with the fight or flight impulse in your body. You are considered frightened.
Liam: Too late for Luck? (laughs) I got one more charge.
Travis: I can't be charmed or frightened.
Matt: Yeah, you're still raging so it doesn't affect you.
Liam: Nope, nope.
Matt: Nope. Okay. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while it's in your line of sight.
Laura: Man, I wish we would've a Fancy Feast.
Matt: And you cannot move closer to it willingly. You can only move away from it.
Liam: So attack rolls and what was the other?
Matt: Ability checks. While you can see it. You're so scared of this thing.
Laura: What is it really called?
Marisha: Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Fancy Feast is way better.
Matt: Lower level, but helpful.
Liam: (singing) I like chicken, I like liver, Meow Mix, Meow Mix, please deliver.
Travis: In the middle of white death.
Matt: It's going to make a bite attack against Pike and two claw attacks against Grog, who are right there. So Pike, you look up as its jaws come down at you from above. That's a natural 20.
Travis: Oh fuck, shit.
Matt: Against you, Grog, two claw attacks, that is 23.
Travis: Come on, taint-smear.
Matt: And 22.
Travis: Tickles, both of them.
Matt: Okay, so against you, Grog, you take--
Laura: Wait, that was against Grog?
Matt: The bite was against Pike. Two claws against you. So Grog, you take 15 points of slashing damage, reduced to half because you are raging. So, eight. And the other claw, that's a little higher, that is going to be 18 points of slashing damage. So down to nine.
Laura: So wait, so Pike was the one that took those huge hits?
Matt: The critical bite.
Laura: (gasps) Are you okay, Pike?
Ashley: I don't know. (singing) Critical bite!
Liam: What's Pike's AC? What's Pike's AC?
Matt: 20, but it rolled a critical hit. So that's--
Liam: Ooh, what's that face?
Taliesin: Don't do that!
Matt: So 17 times two. 34 plus eight. 42 points of piercing damage.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay.
Matt: However, you then also suffer, as the freezing jaws clench around you and the cold surrounds you, you suffer an additional, that was 42 right?
Liam: I think you just said 'two', you just said 'two.'
Matt: Nah. Nine plus-- 13 points of cold damage. So 55 points of damage total.
Travis: Where you at, Pike?
Laura: Are you okay?
Ashley: I am at, hold on--
Liam: Carry the one. Carry the three.
Ashley: Hold on, one second.
Matt: Doing math here.
Laura: "One second, let me check."
Ashley: Okay, I'm at 25. Could be worse, could be worse.
Matt: That ends its turn.
Travis: Are we really fighting this thing or are we running?
Marisha: That what I was about to ask. Are we fighting or are we running?
Travis: We are getting our fucking asses handed to us.
Laura: Is it ancient?
Travis: He keeps saying ancient. So it's ancient.
Matt: That brings us to Vex's turn.
Laura: My turn? I'm feared.
Matt: Yeah, so you can attack it but you can't move closer to it and have disadvantage on all your attacks.
Taliesin: What can we do to unfear?
Matt: You repeat the saving throw at the end of each of your turns. Or it lasts for a minute.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to use my bonus round to hide. Stealth.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: 23. We're stuck where we are because we can't run closer to it.
Travis: You can run away from it.
Matt: You have disadvantage on the stealth check, by the way.
Laura: I did, and it was 23.
Matt: 23, gotcha.
Marisha: Who's not feared?
Laura: Oh! It's disadvantage, but I had advantage.
Matt: So it's just a straight roll.
Laura: Even. I don't remember what the first--
Liam: I wasn't paying attention.
Laura: Should I reroll it?
Matt: We'll take the 23, it's fine. Okay. You're inside and you know it's outside and you heard the roar and shaking and so you can peek around the corner but you cannot move out of the building. You can basically strafe to the side to get a look out as you want to, if you want to fire on it.
Laura: Okay, I guess I'll try to shoot it, then.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So disadvantage on both your attacks.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Trinket shrugged it off, Trinket is like, "Whatever, I got this."
Laura: Oh okay so-- That was good, that was good, 26. With disadvantage. Okay, so I'll do the first one right now.
Marisha: If we're running, I don't want to bust out my good shit.
Travis: We've got to run, right? I think it's stupid if we stay.
Liam: But where do we go? If we're outdoors, we're dead.
Marisha: We can go down-- inside, anyways.
Liam: And go where?
Travis: I don't know where, can he get inside the keep?
Liam: Sure, he can dig--
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Laura: Because I got Sneak Attack, right, because I'm hiding?
Matt: Yes, because you are technically hiding and it didn't roll high enough perception.
Laura: Okay, so 23 was the damage on the first arrow.
Matt: All right, was that including the sneak attack d6?
Liam: I don't know where to go. We can't go above ground because we're dead.
Laura: Now, the second one I don't think hits, it was like an 18.
Matt: Nope, that misses. So the first one, you fire and it manages to hit the creature because it does not see you. It hits to the side of its neck and looks over. It goes--
Laura: I duck back behind the wall.
Matt: Okay, behind the wall. You do reveal yourself as part of the strike, and it does see you duck inside and growls.
Laura: Okay, and I want to send Trinket into the keep, if he can make it.
Matt: Trinket is going to rush this way.
Laura: Is that, should I send Trinket into the keep?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: It gets an attack of opportunity against Trinket.
Laura: Balls, what? Really?
Taliesin: But it's holding Pike, so it has no bite.
Matt: Well, no, it didn't grapple her, it just bit her and released. She managed to get her way out of its mouth. That's going to be a 26 to hit.
Laura: Ah Jesus, it hits, come on.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes 14 points of slashing damage.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Is he good?
Laura: He's fine. Bear-ly.
Matt: Oh, what! I see what you did. Does that end your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Did you do a saving throw?
Matt: Do your saving throw, to see if you shrug off the frightened ability.
Laura: Okay, so is it wisdom?
Matt: It's wisdom-based, yeah.
Laura: Ooh, 17, 18, 19!
Matt: 19 is just what you need, you managed to shake off the fright from this. Seeing Trinket rush off, you're like, "Okay, I can do this." At the end of your turn, the white dragon is going to use--
Laura: I'm not afraid anymore, you hear that?
Matt: It's going to go ahead and use two of its actions to do a wing attack.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: So every creature within 15 feet of it, as it's sitting there, beats its wings around it and kicks up all this cold wind and air that blasts out, threatening to knock you off your feet. This is going to affect Grog, Pike, and Shayne. So I need you guys to make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Pike, get out of there!
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Ashley: I'm trying, I'm trying.
Travis: I have advantage on those. Because of Danger Sense.
Ashley: Ah! Natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20! (cheering)
Ashley: I don't have any dexterity modifier.
Matt: Cool. So-- All right, so yeah. I'll see if Shayne-- Shayne does not make it with a two, so Shayne takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. As she is rushing up, she's dropped her heavy crossbow and she's pulling a weapon out, and she rushes up, yelling, her red hair blown back from the wind as it's beating towards her. She gets bludgeoned with the sheer force of the wind from under the wings and knocked flat on her back. At the end of that attack, it now gets to move half its movement and so it-- There we go, a fly speed of 80, it's going to move 40 feet. So that will put it at 20 up this way as it starts backing away. And it's going to move 20 feet in this direction.
Travis: I get an attack of opportunity on it, right?
Matt: As it pulls away from you, yes you do.
Laura: Pike gets one, too.
Matt: No, actually, neither of you-- no, Grog is the only that does, because Pike, you're too far away, and it has reach on its attacks, so it doesn't have to be right up against you to hit you. But you still have to be up against it to get an attack.
Travis: 22. Does that hit?
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Travis: Okay. This is with Craven Edge, five, six.
Laura: Kill him. Kill him with Craven Edge!
Travis: 19 points of damage.
Matt: 19 points of damage, got it. All right, and has to make its constitution save
Laura: Disadvantage.
Matt: Not on saving throws. 24. Resist it? All right, cool.
Travis: You fucking piece of shit.
Matt: (laughs) So that ends Vex's turn, the guards now. Shayne will get up and she's now going to regret dropping her crossbow and go over and pick it up again; she's not going to have time to fire it. The other two, down here, are going to be-- Cordell is going to turn around and fire off a shot, as well as Kendrick. That's a natural one. That does hit, that does not, and that does not. One hit gets through, rolling ones like crap. That's five points of piercing damage, not great on that round, guards. Then they're going to start rushing towards the keep here, using the rest of their movement. Cordell is going to start moving to the side and start ushering everybody inside. "Go in, go in, go in." Shayne is going to move up next to you, Grog, and essentially begin to hold the flank with you. Shoulder to shoulder, she, as opposed to the crossbow at this point, and seeing the two of you can work together in this regard, she pulls out a broadsword. That's going to end the guards' turn, Grog, you're up.
Travis: Fuck this dragon. As much as I would love to protect this house, we've got to get the fuck out of here. Is Pike right behind me?
Matt: Pike is, yes.
Travis: Can I grab her and run inside the keep?
Matt: If Pike will allow it. Are you going to let Grog do that or are you going to fight him on it?
Ashley: No, no, no.
Travis: No, no, no, I can't do it?
Ashley: No, no, no, grab me and let's go.
Matt: You reach over and grab Pike, lift her up, and the two of you go bolting towards the keep.
Ashley: Grog!
Matt: That'll get you right here in the crowd.
Laura: Oh jeez, don't attack the crowd.
Travis: 50 feet?
Matt: 50 feet, but you're also having to push through people, so you're getting up, we'll say--
Travis: Little meat sticks, it's not a problem.
Matt: We'll say as you're pushing through here, you get up to the door. You guys are right up there with the full movement.
Travis: I'll even damage them, I don't give a shit.
Matt: There you go, that's your turn. The action was to pick her up. Okay.
Travis: Get out of the way, giant beast coming through.
Matt: Scanlan, at the back, seeing you guys rushing in, and he's happy to see Pike coming into safety at this point. He pulls out his wand again and aims once more with the Fireball.
Travis: The dragon giggles.
Marisha: Tickles.
Taliesin: Technically, fire damage should be good.
Matt: Fire damage doesn't do anything additional to it.
Travis: Don't say it smug like that. Jeez. It's our lives!
Matt: 29 damage, makes the save, so 15 points of fire damage to it as it blasts from underneath, singes the edge of one of the trees, but the white dragon appears to still be not really visibly hurting yet.
Travis: Yep, got to go. Got to go. Got to go.
Matt: Scanlan backs up into the keep, at this realization. At that point, nothing is right in range. So yeah, so the white dragon is not going to do anything. At this point in time--
Travis: Nope.
Matt: You guys hear a voice come ringing out from the north side, towards where Emon is. A familiar voice that you've heard before that shouts out, "Enough! You are not to linger, follow the others." At which point, you see the white dragon glances over the shoulder, and you hear the voice again say, "Vorugal!" And a streak of smoke and red. The red dragon you saw that had perched itself in the center of the city grapples onto the back of Vorugal and throws the dragon off the edge of the wall. And goes tumbling to the south of the keep. Out from the perspective.
Laura: So how much bigger is Vorugal, like is he--?
Matt: Yeah, he's roughly double the size of the white dragon.
Laura: Holy crap!
Marisha: Is this Umbrasyl? Does he refer himself as Umbrasyl?
Matt: No, you haven't heard the name of this one, until that point. Well, I mentioned it earlier.
Marisha: No, the red dragon.
Matt: The red dragon you haven't heard the name of yet. Umbrasyl is the black dragon. Raishan was the green dragon. So as you hear the impact, you hear the dragon screeching out in anger and no one has any visual at this point, you just hear the sounds over the side. You hear it skid to a halt, but the red dragon is still flying and grabs it, throws it, makes it hit the ground, almost like a show of dominance. And as it arcs back around, it ignores the keep and heads back towards Emon. You see Vorugal now lifting back up into the sky, staring back at the red dragon as it heads back, and you can see in its general demeanor, it's frustrated and angry and it begrudgingly begins to fly towards the east, where you saw the other two dragons continue. As the red dragon returns towards the city, its voice is ringing out at a volume that, even at this distance, is being enhanced by some sort of arcane means, whether it means-- it wants to be heard. And as you can see now, as it hits over the far south walls of Emon, it shouts out once more, "Hear me, insects! You that live do so out of mercy. Fight or flee and you forfeit that mercy. Know that your pitiful guardians brought this upon you. That blood is on their hands! Vengeance has been swift, and in its wake, a new age is upon you." Making its way towards the center of the city. "Be thankful, for until now your lives had no purpose. No meaning. Abandon your gods, your paltry convictions, for now you have a new purpose: to serve me!" And with that, you hear the clattering impact once more of the Cloudtop District, as a half-dozen buildings collapse under its weight as it slams into the center of what probably still stood tall in the middle of the city of Emon. You hear the crumbling wreckage echoing in the distance as it slides to a halt. And a couple of distant slamming sounds as it makes its way into the central borough where the palace once was. Quiet now takes the air, as all the people are still standing frozen in fright of what they just saw, and slowly begin making their way into the keep, whispering, shaking, crying under their breaths, the survivors that are not frozen in the center of Greyskull Keep's courtyard. What do you want to do?
Travis: Pee. (laughter)
Matt: That is entirely viable.
Liam: Everyone, we need to go inside.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Is this because of us?
Laura: Can we heal the frozen people? Is it possible?
Matt: You guys make you way out towards the people currently frozen in the courtyard-- What? Did you want to use Cure Wounds?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: Okay. You use what level?
Laura: Two.
Matt: Two, all right.
Liam: How many people are frozen?
Matt: Currently, I'd say about 14 people are frozen in the courtyard.
Liam: Can we all do medicine checks on them?
Matt: Six of them are partially shattered, like as part of the impact their bodies (shattering ice) and part of the torso busted, arms missing, upper body's missing. As you cast your 2nd-level Cure Wounds spell and reach out and touch the person to heal them, a crack forms where your hand touched the body and (shattering ice) before the upper part of their torso, head, and leg breaks into ice, and you get the feeling looking around that these individuals are beyond saving at this point.
Marisha: It's too long, it's too late.
Liam: Inside, everyone inside now.
Travis: Yeah, we all go inside.
Liam: Come along.
Matt: All right, so. You guys make your way inside the keep. People are looking about, some people are running through rooms trying to find a place to keep safe. You can see already in the armory there's like a family in there that are huddling, crouched in the corner. Some people have moved on towards the kitchen, people are shouting trying to see if anybody they lost eye contact with is inside, you hear a couple of people shouting names. "Shawn! Shawn!" "Kayla!" Different names being shouted as if they're hoping that someone they got separated from may have made it in. Couple do, a few seem to continue to shout fruitlessly. But the inside energy of the keep is one of tension, fear, and mounting sadness.
Laura: Can I find Erwen?
Matt: You can, you told the people within the keep to go downstairs
Laura: Yeah, I go and find him and tell him to start setting up as many beds as he can, as many in the cathedral that we have to-- In the chapel. To maybe give some of these people places to stay for the time being.
Matt: All right, so.
Ashley: Can I go into the temple?
Matt: You can. As you head downstairs too, you can see Jarett is still there, sitting with his crossbow on his lap, and he's been doing his last duty, which was to watch over your workshop. And as you come down the stairs, he goes, "What's going on, I heard noises upstairs, is everyone all right?"
Taliesin: No.
Laura: Everything's gone.
Matt: "May I be excused to aid Erwen in his duty?"
Laura: Please do.
Matt: "All right." He gets up and puts his crossbow away, heads upstairs, finds Erwen and Laina's still shaking, she goes, "If we're having guests, should I make food? I don't know what to do, I don't know what to do."
Laura: Simple food. Fruit, anything.
Matt: "Okay, I'll go ahead and start preparing it."
Travis: Percy. Can I have a word with you, please?
Taliesin: I step inside my workshop.
Travis: May I come in?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Can you shut the door?
Taliesin: Is there anywhere private in this place at this point?
Laura: Nobody is in the workshop yet.
Matt: Nobody is in the basement or workshop area. Everyone is seemingly scattered on the base floor of the keep.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: Can you lock it?
Taliesin: All right?
Travis: Listen, the skull we took out of the house. I haven't told you, but it grants a wish and only those that dark things have touched can use it. That's you and that's me, as far as I know. It said it wanted you, but I wasn't going to let him have you. It grants a wish. We can change all of this. I feel like it was there in case the dragons came out of that portal. It was facing the inside of the room, it moves, and there's something in there. I feel like it's a weapon. What the fuck else are we going to do? We go for more help, it'll get killed coming into this city. We're not strong enough to take four of these fucks.
Taliesin: We have an opportunity here, but we're going to have to be careful.
Travis: I'm listening.
Taliesin: All right. We're going to need more than just you, we are going to need a few of the others, just in case.
Travis: They have to be touched.
Taliesin: This is how it's going to work. I'm going to take it out, I'm going to have you go, I'm going to remove it from its hiding place while you go get the rest of them from upstairs.
Travis: But who?
Taliesin: At the very least, Vax, Keyleth at the very least.
Travis: Keyleth, she's bleached whiter than Whitestone.
Taliesin: Exactly, we need good people and I'm going to try and talk to it. To try and discern what it is and how it works and what it wants, and if for some strange reason things go wrong, I need people who would be more than willing to at the very least knock me out. So I'm going to be needing you and at least one other, preferably a magic user ready to deal with me if something goes weird.
Travis: I step closer to Percy. I think you only need me.
Taliesin: I need one other, just in case.
Travis: Name one other.
Taliesin: Keyleth-- Or Vax, pick-- Your choice, honestly. Whoever is less busy upstairs.
Travis: All right. I leave.
Taliesin: I'm going to take the skull out of the hiding place so he doesn't see where I'm removing it from.
Matt: Okay. While this is happening, Pike, Keyleth, Vax, Vex, Scanlan, all of you guys begin helping the guards take beds out of your rooms and bring them downstairs into the main foyer area, basically turning this into a makeshift living space for refugees. Heading towards and moving them into the temple of Sarenrae, as you go into the temple of Sarenrae, you get a bit of a feel of the damage that was sustained from the impact of the dragon upon the top of the keep.
Marisha: I follow Pike into the temple.
Matt: A large portion of the stained glass on the roof and on the outside has been shattered from rocks and boulders that were-- chunks of the top of the keep that were knocked off, and looking up you can see the roof of the keep itself sustained a fair amount of damage. Not enough to really be a serious issue, but it is in a bit of disrepair visually. As you guys are taking the beds from the upstairs to the downstairs, you do notice that a portion of the roof has caved in on the second floor. The guest room has been ruined and the southmost room, which I'll have to check to see who's supposed to be living there, is partially collapsed inwards and you can see the ceiling-- the sky from underneath. There is a fair amount of damage to the top of the keep from the impact.
Marisha: I back into a corner in the temple and collapse into a corner.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I would like to go over to a quiet spot in the temple and start saying a prayer. And I'd like to cast Planar Ally. You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. So I would like to call on Sarenrae.
Matt: All right, let me pull this up. What level is this?
Ashley: It's a 6th-level.
Matt: All right. Let's see here--
Ashley: You have to ask the creature to perform a service in exchange for payment.
Matt: Mm-hm. Yeah, what would you like to do?
Ashley: Well I think if I say-- Sarenrae, I've been rebuilding your temple for months, so please help us in battle and help rebuild our city, if that's service enough.
Matt: Okay. So as you reach out, you feel Sarenrae's warmth come to you, wordless. Attempting to comfort, but even then there is a trepidation in Sarenrae who is, you gather yourself, still taking in the circumstances that have happened. You feel that warmth begin to coalesce into a specific form, and everyone who has come into the temple with you gasps aloud as over these central worship platforms in the center of the temple, a glowing orb begin to form that then slowly takes the form of a humanoid with wings, similar to the ones you've worn in your celestial form. As the light fades, you can see, levitating roughly a foot off the ground, a human. White eyes and pale blue skin, hairless with a simple breastplate that's silver with gold lining on it, a single sword sheathed on the side, and beautiful white angel wings sprouting from its back. The entity stands there and looks down towards you. "I have been sent to your aid. Are you, Pike Trickfoot, to give me a task?" The voice itself seems otherworldly, and understanding the basis of the spell, you need a specific task in mind for it, and it is expensive to maintain in materials, the longer the task requires.
Ashley: Okay. We need your help. As you can see, our city has fallen to pieces by these dragons that are attacking us. And we ask that you aid us in battle somehow.
Matt: "Lead me to a battle if you wish. I haven't much time on your plane. If you have a task that I can complete at this moment." And you know that to maintain this spell cost about 100 gold per minute.
Ashley: Okay. Ah, shit. Okay.
Matt: Or 1,000 gold per hour depending on the-- Or 10,000 gold per day. Yeah, it depends on the task it required. It needs to be a little more specific than just "aid us in battle," because if there isn't a immediate battle happening, because the longer it's out, the more expensive it will be. You asked it to rebuild and it looks to you and says, "If you require my aid in rebuilding..." She looks with her head around the temple. "This I can help with quite a bit of haste, as it is within the realm of our patron lady."
Ashley: Okay, well, yes. Rebuild our keep.
Matt: "It will be done, within the hour." So you can mark off 1,000 gold worth of materials, and at this point, the Planar Ally's wings unfurl and begin to float up, and as it does it lift its hands and all the shattered stained glass begins to lift off the ground with it. And you watch as they all begin to reform.
Laura: That's pretty sick.
Matt: And begin to, through pure divine energy, rebuild the entirely of the temple around within a matter of minutes. While everyone else is looking in awe, you can begin to see around you, many people who had been shaken to the core of their being, who had lost all hope, even this visual representation of the power of Sarenrae and the faith you put into her, you can see people are now bowing in deep prayer at the center of the temple as it's being rebuilt. This has been a very impactful moment for the survivors you've taken under your wing.
Marisha: I wander over to Pike and just I grab her hand as I watch.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I'm busying myself trying to bandage any of the survivors that seem injured.
Matt: Okay. There are injuries, many sustained from rubble falling or trying to get out as fast as possible, slamming themselves into ruins or fallen rock and flaming or whatever else happened. So you tend to the wounds, so you guys are helping out with those who are hurt.
Liam: I'm helping and as we do so I say  I don't know what's going to happen in the following hours. Do not go far from me. If we are out of earshot, you are too far from me. Do not go far from me.
Laura: Do you think this is what-- Do you think this is what Mother saw before she died?
Liam: Do not go far from me.
Laura: I won't, I swear.
Matt: Percy and Grog, you find your way back up to the foyer.
Taliesin: The second he leaves the keep, I rush to pull the skull out, shut the door, put it on the table, sit down in front of it, and say, okay, talk. You have my attention.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Okay, I got a minute before he comes back.
Matt: You do, you do.
Laura: He's a dick.
Liam: He's just a sociopath, that's all. [no audio]
Travis: Fire and ice sale.
Laura: Hey, check out those Critical Role shirts on Geekandsundry.com. They sure are lovely.
Marisha: Donate to 826LA.
Marisha: Oh god, I feel like I should scootch over.
Laura: I know, can't hear it?
Liam: That is a long talk.
Taliesin: (softly) At what price?
Laura: Ugh, what is he saying? Oh my god.
Matt: All right, sorry.
Taliesin: I then take the velvet cloth and put it back over it and put it over and set it up as if I haven't talked to it.
Matt: Okay, all right, so. And once again reminding you, the skull itself, it's humanoid but it's elongated, it's not a human skull. Its jaw itself is-- you would say almost elvish, but the features are too sunken, the teeth are too long, and the skull itself is a little more oblong to the back. Yeah, you're unfamiliar what species or race this may have been when it was alive.
Travis: As I was leaving, can I notice anything about the back of his door? Like is-- a lock or is it flat, plain?
Matt: I'm gonna go ahead and have you make an investigation check.
Travis: 13. Minus two, you asshole. (laughter)
Matt: As you start walking out, you turn and look at the door and take a moment to inspect it. I mean, Grog, doors are doors, you know how to deal with doors. This is a weird door. You don't know how this door works.
Taliesin: My door is unlocked.
Matt: Right, but he doesn't understand the mechanism of what--
Taliesin: Oh, no. I built with you in mind.
Travis: I bet I can figure the lock from the inside. And I open the door and it opens because it's unlocked.
Matt: Okay, right, as soon as you throw the velvet over, the door opens up.
Travis: I go up and I try and find Vax.
Matt: Okay, you go up and you see the two of them helping people along, making eye contact. You can see the drying tears across their faces as they are trying to stay strong for those that are currently in a less emotionally stable position right now.
Travis: Sorry to break up an awkward moment, Vax, do you have a moment?
Liam: What do you need?
Travis: May I speak to you alone? No offense, Vex.
Laura: None taken. I go and help other people and call to Trinket to carry over some bandages for me.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: You and I may have had some friction recently, and we have our differences, but we're on the same side. Percy needs you downstairs. Will you come with me?
Liam: I look at my sister. What is it? What does he need?
Travis: I would tell you, but I don't want to frighten anyone in this room. It's about the-- (quieter) It's about the skull and I can only bring one. Percy's request.
Liam: Wait here.
Travis: I have to come with you.
Liam: Just wait a second. I walk over to my sister. I'm going downstairs. If I'm not back here in five minutes, I want you to come down, do you understand? And I say that because I need you, you are stronger than me and I will need you. Tend to the wounded, five minutes. I follow Grog.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I go back downstairs.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark Grog as he walks away.
Travis: What? Why?
Laura: I don't know. I just do.
Matt: Okay. I'm going ahead and say make a sleight of hand check and make a perception check.
Travis: I'm sure this is going to go dandy. 19! (laughs)
Laura: Fucking A!
Travis: I don't know why I'm so excited right now. Everything's dead.
Laura: 15.
Matt: As you're walking away, you feel this strange pulse of tingling energy. Almost like a soft--
Laura: Aw, you know what?
Matt: What?
Laura: I haven't chosen my fucking rogue ability yet, my rogue proficiency.
Liam: Rogue proficiency bump.
Laura: Too late now.
Matt: You feel this magical essence creep up on you. You are not familiar with it, but you feel like something just attached to you.
Travis: From any direction? Or just attached?
Matt: You aren't entirely sure.
Travis: I look about. Is there anything looking at me? Anybody throw anything at me? Pour anything on me?
Matt: Make a stealth check, Vex.
Laura: I'm choosing my dice. Okay, okay, okay. I get advantage on all stealth checks?
Liam: Yes. Because the cloak, yes
Laura: 24.
Matt: You look about, and in the chaos of the people, you have no idea what the source of this weird tingling was.
Travis: This keep is fucking drafty. I go downstairs.
Matt: Okay. As you walk downstairs, you find your way to Percy's workshop, we're going to take a break. (cheering)
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Liam: Thank goodness.
Matt: All right, make this one quick guys, get back into it while we still have the tension in the story going. So we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
Travis: Five minutes, five minutes.
Liam: Five minutes. Pizza and five minutes.
Matt: You good?
Laura: Is the food here?
Matt: It should be, I hope so. [break]
Matt: Hi, my name is Matthew Mercer, I'm a voice actor and the dungeon master for Geek and Sundry's Critical Role, and welcome to my short video series for my tips on how to dungeon master or game master your own roleplaying games. So today, our first topic is going to be Encounter Building. So when you are creating an encounter, a combat encounter specifically for your party of adventurers or space marines or whatever else you are running, you want to consider what kind of terrain or region is this going to have. That's going to go ahead and help you guide what creatures are going to be there, what type of challenges might be in that way. So consider, is it a icy tundra, is it a frozen mountaintop or is it like a hot, muggy swampland, is it a underground cave network? There are actually a lot of these resource books that you can find for these RPGs that will have listings of creatures and monsters and dangers by topography, and by weather, and that's a really cool way to see what indigenous creatures might live there, and that's a good resource to pull from if you're not having any creative juices helping you decide what to put in front of them. Secondly, you want to consider how challenging you want the encounter or encounters to be. Do you want it to be a really quick scuffle, do you want it to be a series of small battles, as to opposed to fighting in a long hallway, in a spaceship? Do you want it to be one giant climatic multi-leveled boss confrontation? Once you've made that decision, that'll help you figure out how dangerous, how extensive, and how powerful the villains may be for this encounter. There's a lot of great resource manuals for every RPG system out there that have breakdowns about what creatures are good for which player levels as far as power or challenge and danger is concerned. Like, for instance, the dungeon master's guide and monster manual have a challenge rating system. A creature of a certain challenge rating is a decent challenge for a group of four players of that level, and you can slide the scale from there. Also, the DMG, or the Dungeon Master's Guide, has a experience threshold table in there as well that helps you build encounters based on the total experience points the creatures are fighting. So those are really cool resources, if you're new to the system and you're still trying to figure out how to balance that properly. Over time, eventually you'll just get a feel for it. Experience helps you get a little more comfortable with balancing the battle, and you want to make sure you don't kill all your players way too quickly in the game, either. There's also a really good website called Kobold Fight Club, for those who are running Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition campaigns, that helps them build an entire encounter with the experience table stuff that helps you get an idea of what could and could not be considered too powerful. And don't forget, if you can't find a creature or monster in these realms or any sort of villain that suits your need for the storyline or this particular battle, you can create one. Make one up or take something that's there and customize it and alter it, make it more powerful, make it weaker, you know? If you really, really want to run a game that has a bunch of kobolds as the main villain, but all your players are level ten? Go ahead and make yourself some more powerful kobolds. You can customize 'em all you want. Everything in there is just a baseline suggestion of what they think, or they created initially to be, but you can always scale them, you can make them more powerful, you can add additional hit points, make them do more damage per attack. Increase their defenses, give it some hidden resistances or vulnerabilities. You can even create whole new abilities, I customize creatures all the time for my game. I think it, one, makes it more interesting and more customized to the specific encounter and world. Secondly, for players who have been playing for a long time and pretty much memorized the monster manual, it keeps them on their toes because they'll be encountering monsters that they have yet to memorize everything about. Also, make sure, though, if you do use these creatures and you want them to have interesting defenses and vulnerabilities and the like, make sure you highlight them or note them, it's very easy to rush into combat and forget some of these cool things. So I always use a highlighter and highlight the various notes and elements of these creatures or these combat scenarios that I want to make sure that I remember and recall in the heat of battle. The next note I want to bring up is battlefields. First and foremost, not every game needs a battlefield. In fact, I kind of prefer RPGs that don't have a battle map with miniatures, it's just a way to play. I prefer to keep things in my imagination, but that's generally more wieldy with smaller groups, if you have three, maybe four players. Larger than that, it gets a little unwieldy, and me running six to eight players, it has become very necessary for everyone to keep track of their spatial awareness. When you create a map, things to consider, creative terrain. You know, think of where it's are happening, but ways to make it different on occasion, too. You can have straight forward battles with just, here's an area where they fight, here's some hallways, here's some rooms, and that's cool, too, but if you're in an urban setting, have furniture they can use to their advantage, whether it be for height or for setting up blockades. Also, consider what other challenges and confrontations they might have with the terrain during the battlefield. Is there a giant chasm they have to get across to actually get to the villain while they're attacking them from a distance? Is there some sort of arcane field that's locked off a portion of the battlefield and they have to figure out some sort of puzzle during the battle to lock it down? Is invulnerable to all damage until they can find some sort of hidden aspect of their soul locked within a nearby battlefield, or is there a bunch of innocents in there as well that are in danger of being killed from the collateral damage? Find cool and unique ways to make it an interesting battle outside of a slug fest of HP being knocked away and whoever falls first. Mind you, those can be fun, too, on occasion, but you want to make sure to keep things interesting. For those who want to create battlefields, what I use for my battlefields, because it has been requested a few times. You can use easel pad paper, one-inch grid easel pad paper that you can find online, and that's a real cool way to draw on that using markers and create your own battlefields that way. There are great tutorials online too that show you how to make cool battles and interesting-looking terrain with simple hatch-mark shading and minor colors, so I highly recommend that. Also, when you're using intelligent creatures, especially monsters or individuals or villains that are understanding their own mortality, they may flee. When they hit about half or a quarter hit points, they maybe want to get the heck out of Dodge. So don't be afraid to let your villains or enemies do that on occasion. One, it ups the stakes immediately in a battle from a slog fest to, oh crap he's getting away, and the dynamic shifts to try and prevent them from doing so. And secondly, if they do manage to get away, you may have a juicy villain who can recur later on down the story with a need for vengeance. Vengeance! Another cool note, not all battles are meant to be won, either. Sometimes you want to introduce a really powerful enemy as a foreshadowing aspect, a creature that they can in no way, shape or form defeat, and they are meant to flee from, so that they can build towards down the road, maybe coming back and finally killing it as a means of vengeance. Just make sure you try and insinuate to the players that they shouldn't stick around for the whole fight or you might have a TPK on your hands, so be careful with that one. It's a fun tool, but be careful. No, seriously, be careful. Plus, it also leaves a cool story like, "Man, you remember that one time we almost got killed by that thing?" Not all fights are meant to end in bloodshed, as well. So don't be afraid to let the players diplomatically resolve an encounter. Sometimes battles happen because of misunderstandings or misinformation or the wrong thing was said and it ticks somebody off. That doesn't mean they have to fight to the bitter end and murder whoever's in front of them. You don't want the whole murderhobo syndrome to be consistent, unless that's the campaign you're running, in which case, fight on, my murderhobos. But let the players use their social skills to try and defuse an encounter before anyone gets killed. I've many games where halfway through a battle, they're like, "Wait, they may have information we need," or, "Maybe we were duped and have the wrong information," and they decide to diplomatically end it. It doesn't always work, but it's nice to give them that option. [break]
Matt: All righty guys, welcome back. So before jumping in here real fast, we got a couple things. One, we have a winner for our next giveaway, for all you awesome subscribers out there. The winner is Blackshadow773! (cheering)
Matt: Appropriate place for a shoutout.
Laura: That's really appropriate.
Matt: We'll send you an awesome package with a bunch of goodies, Critical Role goodies, some signed stuff, some fun things coming your way, so that's fun. Also, I forgot to do it in the announcements earlier, but I have a couple of new music tracks and some things coming forward that I'll be able to incorporate into the game from awesome guys named Battlebards. They did a Kickstarter a while back to create RPG-specific music and sound effects and audio tracks and they were nice enough to give me some of their stuff to use in the show. So if you're running your own game and want some good music and soundscape stuff to work on, Battlebards' got some pretty cool stuff, so thank you guys. All righty, so. Returning as it was, Grog and Vax, you make your way down to the basement of Greyskull Keep. The door's still partially ajar as Grog left it. You enter the room--
Travis: Before we go in, I would like to put my hand on Vax. Just a note, I tried to do this by myself, but the skull asked for Percy. I know he didn't respond well with all that dark shadowy stuff, so be careful. I'm not entirely sure we can trust him with it. I wanted to do it myself, but it was either you or Keyleth, and you're a prick, so I picked you.
Liam: I don't say anything.
Matt: Okay. You guys enter. Percy is there waiting, hands behind his back. There is the table on one of his workbench areas that has a piece of tapestry that you guys originally had wrapped the skull in, draped over it, it's currently not visible.
Liam: What's going on, Percival?
Taliesin: Good. I felt that this was only possible if we had a few more witnesses. We have an artifact.
Liam: Good.
Taliesin: A skull. There is something alive inside the skull. There is something evil, or at least not good, inside the skull, and it is offering to grant us any wish we desire if we set it free. Now. Grog is inclined to take this deal. I am, and I imagine this is surprising, having some reservations. I like having the terms spelled out, and I feel that so far the terms have not been spelled out. I'm going to lift the fabric off.
Travis: I go and shut the door.
Matt: Okay, and as you lift the fabric off, and you have a look at it as well, in this controlled environment, still facing you, the skull, which once again has the elongated form, the longer teeth and jaw, it has the one gem that's embedded in the eye socket, and you can see there's a little bit of almost like a spectral swirl to it, like there's something fluid in the actual gem itself.
Liam: Well, Freddie, I imagine I'm wondering the same thing you are, at least I hope, and that's: what's in it for the skull?
Taliesin: He wants to be freed. It. How would we free you?
Matt: There's a slight pause before you can see the gem, the swirl coalesces into what looks like a spectral face. You can make out what looks to be eyes, a mouth and a nose. Though the nose itself is less of a pronounced human nose and--
Liam: I'm looking at the floor, I'm not looking at it.
Matt: Okay. But you see where the nose is, instead there are two nasal passages. And you hear a voice slowly creak out from it and say, "All that I require is for you to destroy this prison. Free my spirit from generations of torment, that is all I ask."
Liam: Hey, quick question, who are you? Who were you before you were in this prison?
Matt: "It's been too long, too long have I been here, I do not know who I am."
Liam: Ah, well, go fuck yourself. And I put the blanket over it.
Matt: The blanket covers the skull.
Liam: This seems like a very bad idea to me. Why are we doing this? Didn't we do this already, once before?
Taliesin: It was an option, and I felt it was worth exploring, and I think now we do have an option, which is we have to take it somewhere and have him identified. We have to know who this is.
Travis: What are you talking about? If it wants to be set free, fuck him, it's a wish. It's like a genie that wants out of a can, you don't grant it its wish, you get your fucking wish first.
Taliesin: It's not always genies in cans.
Liam: If we wish to rid Emon of these dragons, then we've got nothing to deal with this fucking thing right here, whatever it is.
Taliesin: I would like to know before we make any deals, we need a name.
Travis: Hold on, hold on, hold on, look, we have a chance to do good now, right now. People are dying. More people are dying.
Taliesin: We have a chance to kick the can down the road.
Travis: I don't understand.
Liam: He's speaking literally, Grog.
Taliesin: We don't know that whatever is in here could be worse than what's out there.
Liam: I had a thought--
Taliesin: But we could find out, and since it's a wish, we'll have plenty of room to fix this. We don't have to do it immediately.
Travis: Are you a betting man, Percival?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: If I told you that four giant ancient fuck-off death dragons were attacking the city and all of us barely managed to break one of its pinky toes, you're saying what's in there is worse than them?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's in there, isn't it? And how do we know the dragons weren't guarding it as opposed to it being a signal? It could be the thing they're angry about.
Liam: I think-- I have a thought I haven't spoken out loud yet. Every divine being that exists is accessible through Vasselheim. We are not equipped to handle this problem. Maybe this skull will do something, maybe, that's a bit fucking maybe. We're not equipped, and we don't know what dealing with that thing will bring. We will go to Vasselheim tomorrow. We bring all the people in this keep with us, Keyleth sends them through the tree. They stay there, we find help. We cannot handle this on our own. My first instinct was to go back in for Uriel. We don't know what's happened to Uriel! But we can't do it, we are powerless against those things. Against one of them, let alone four. We need help.
Taliesin: I wave my hand, and the skull drops into a shadow on the table and vanishes.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Did that blanket just blob down?
Taliesin: The blanket vanished into the shadow as well, it's now just a shadow. I've put it back in its hiding place.
Travis: What the fuck was that?
Taliesin: That was a reminder that you should know what you're dealing with before you touch power.
Travis: Can you do magic?
Taliesin: Yes. I'm not going to pretend I always make the best calls. But I at least would like to know its name.
Travis: (sighs) Fucking pussy. We have a chance to save this city now.
Taliesin: We have a chance to stop anything worse from happening, or we have a chance to unleash something far worse on it.
Liam: Grog, know your strengths, it is your strength--
Taliesin: I am a betting man, and this is a bad bet.
Travis: Can I walk up to the shadow table?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: Can I start looking around it? Do I see anything?
Matt: It looks like there's the dark spot on the table, and as you reach your hand out, it's just a solid table.
Liam: I look at Percival. We need to talk to the girls.
Matt: And as you reach your hand past that into the shadow, because I assume that this is the--
Taliesin: You know exactly what I did. Is he reaching or is he--
Travis: I did not reach, I'm looking on top of it, on the sides, underneath.
Matt: Yeah, currently it looks like literally where the cloth and skull once were, there is a dark spot and shadow.
Travis: No button, no latches, no holes for quarters?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: I'm knocking on the door.
Taliesin: Your plan is good. It just requires a little bit more study. It's a good plan.
Travis: Study.
Laura: Are you in there?
Taliesin: Yes, come, please come in.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Unlocked, Vex walks in.
Laura: Well, what's this big master plan you're all plotting?
Taliesin: Vex. Vax, do you want to-- Well, actually, we might as well get Keyleth down here as well.
Liam: Pike as well.
Taliesin: Pike, Keyleth, meet me in my-- I'm going to walk and attempt to gently scoop the skull up and put it behind me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: To catch things up, I walk out the door and I'm going to get the other two.
Laura: Did I notice that, I have a really good passive perception?
Matt: You do, you see him scoot go over to the table and move something behind his back.
Travis: Who did? (laughter)
Matt: You don't know. You head up to the main foyer area where the stairs come up through the armory and lead into to the main hallway that bisects the center of the main floor, just as Keyleth and Pike are coming out of the temple after being summoned.
Liam: All right, I beeline right up to them and I drop down in front of Pike. Pike. Keyleth. We're working on a plan, and we don't have one yet, but Pike-- and I'm down on my knee-- you need to guide Grog. He doesn't listen to anyone else, he only listens to you.
Marisha: Is something wrong?
Liam: Yes and no. It's better if you just come. Pike, come.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: And I take Keyleth's hand and pull her after me.
Travis: Who's in the room right now?
Matt: Right now it's just you, Percy, and Vex.
Travis: I shut the door.
Matt: Okay. Grog walks over and closes the door.
Travis: I want that skull. I want it now.
Laura: This is about the skull, then?
Travis: Yeah. Percy's trying to do some fucked-up shit with the skull.
Marisha: Wait, did you close the door?
Travis: I did.
Matt: You guys aren't there yet. This hasn't happened yet, you guys are still walking down the stairs.
Taliesin: He can't lock it.
Travis: No, but I can stand in front of it. I want the skull, right now.
Taliesin: Let me see your sword.
Travis: No, you don't want to see the sword.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I point at the table and I say  reach into the shadow and see if you can take the skull.
Travis: No, I don't think so, your water fucked me up last time. You get it out of the table.
Laura: Can I insight check them to see who is fucking with who--
Taliesin: Good luck.
Laura: -- and who has better intentions right now?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Double insight check? Okay, the gold one is for Percy, and the thorny one is for Grog.
Liam: Naturally.
Laura: Whoa! Good for both of them, motherfucker! The gold one is a 27 for Percy and-- 15 plus eight, what is 15 plus eight?
Liam: 15 plus eight is naturally 23.
Laura: 23 for Grog.
Matt: Okay, I rolled it for both of them. Was one of those a natural 20?
Laura: No, but one of them is 27 and 23.
Matt: Right, 27 and 23, okay, good. Looking at them both, they're still very guarded and you are unable to really--
Laura: Both of them? Seriously, Matt?
Matt: Yeah. I mean, it doesn't absolve any of your suspicion by any means, but they're both locked in this intense stare-off and you in the center of it as you dart back and forth to try and see any give, any twitch, anything that would possibly show an ounce of what is going on in their heads. It's the best poker faces you've seen on either of them in a while.
Liam: Are we at the door yet?
Matt: You guys are now getting to the door.
Liam: Hey, big man, Trickfoot wants to talk to you.
Taliesin: I look Grog right in the eye before they come in. I very quietly say: does your friend have an opinion on the skull?
Travis: Which friend?
Taliesin: Your new friend.
Laura: What the fuck? What the fuck is going on?! What fucking friend and--
Travis: Vex.
Laura: I saw you, Percival.
Taliesin: You did.
Marisha: I put my ear to the door. Can I hear them a little bit?
Matt: You guys can hear shouting from the other side, but it's too thick.
Ashley: Can I try opening it?
Matt: Yeah, it's unlocked, and you open the door and it stops as if there's a door stop directly behind it. You feel the door slamming you in the back, Grog.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Or pick who you trust. I trust your judgment.
Travis: Trust? Vex, listen to me. What did you see?
Laura: Who's your friend?
Travis: (sighs) The skull grants a wish. It can only be used by those with dark presence around them. That's Percy, that's me. How has Percy done with dark shit in the past? I went to him for help because I'm trying to free the city of these fucking dragons, but it wanted Percy. I tried to keep it for myself. And now he's up to his shady shit all over again.
Laura: It specifically wants Percy?
Travis: It wanted Percy.
Taliesin: And I said 'no.'
Travis: The hell you did.
Marisha: (yelling) Wait, who wanted who?
Ashley: Can we wiggle in?
Matt: You can try to, but Grog, you hold the door shut? The door's not moving.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to quick, rapid-fire-- I was hoping to bring everybody in, but say: listen to me. Percy's got this fucking skull and we-- Everything about it. It's a skull, it's talking about granting a wish, it's fucking fucked up just like the fucking smoke demon that was in Percival. I don't understand what's going on yet, but both Grog and Percival are a little fucked up, but Grog is more fucked up, but I don't understand everything. But things are not good.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: What's going on?
Marisha: Hearing Vax unload that information, if I reach through the crack in the door, can I touch Grog?
Matt: There's just enough of a gap where you could probably get an arm through.
Marisha: Like my tiny little female hand.
Matt: Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: Can I push the door open? Or at least try?
Matt: Try to. Pike, make a strength check.
Ashley: Yeah, go first, go first.
Marisha: I reach through, and if I can grab Grog, I cast Hold Person on him.
Travis: Cool, I'll stay right where I am.
Marisha: Well-- Then we can push him over, right?
Matt: You can try, yeah. All right, so. Hold Person: does it require--
Travis: I weigh like 600 pounds.
Marisha: There's three of us, we can push real hard.
Liam: We can get Jarett.
Matt: All right. So, looking at Hold Person here, hold on just a second.
Marisha: Oh, wait! Wait, can I redact that? Can I redact that?
Travis: No, you already said it.
Matt: It has to be a humanoid you can see within range. So you couldn't even Hold Person through the door.
Marisha: Beautiful-- Even better.
Taliesin: You read the spell, didn't you?
Liam: Scanlan, Scanlan, join us. Please, quickly, please.
Matt: Scanlan goes, "I'm trying to help some folks, but if you insist, all right."
Liam: I do, I do insist.
Travis: Vex. If he has the skull, we've got to get it from him now.
Laura: Percy?
Taliesin: I have the skull. I'm not going to use it, I don't trust him not to use it, yet.
Laura: How about you guys give me the skull, I'm not even touched by anything dark.
Travis: That's a great idea.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Travis: Yeah. Give her the skull.
Taliesin: All right, I pull it out from behind me and hand it to you. It's in the bag, wrapped in cloth.
Laura: Oh god. I'm going to get fucking attacked by Grog. I'm going to back up into a corner and hold on to it and look down at it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm holding onto it? Jesus.
Matt: You are holding onto it, and it's wrapped in the tapestry that you guys threw over it originally, but you can feel it in your hands, and it's not terribly heavy, it has some heft to it, and just having it there, you're already getting pins and needles on the back of your neck.
Liam: Now, Shorthalt, now.
Marisha: Is he trying to bamf in? Scanlan?
Matt: No, no. So, Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: I want to try and push in the door open.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check. Grog, make a strength check.
Ashley: With all my strength.
Taliesin: I love you, Travis. (laughter)
Marisha: While she pushes, can I get up against the crack to see if I can see through while she pushes?
Travis: 17.
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: The door lurches, but you hold it solidly in place. You can feel--
Ashley: Grog! Let me in!
Travis: Just a fuck-- just a minute!
Ashley: I've been waiting five minutes! (laughter)
Taliesin: Put your pants on, Grog, really.
Liam: Just another minute, mom.
Laura: I think this is probably the stupidest thing, why did I decide to hold it?
Travis: Give me the skull, you don't want Percy to have it.
Laura: I don't want either of you to have it.
Taliesin: Don't give me the skull, but don't give him the skull either.
Travis: If you want to, you can ask it what it wants, and then you'll know, or you can give it to me and we can be done with this.
Marisha: Are we trying to hand Grog the evil things?
Laura: I take the tapestry off it and I ask it, what the fuck do you want? What the fuck are you? What the fuck is this?
Matt: As you look down at the skull, which you guys still can't get through because Grog's holding the door, and you don't have a visual in there because he's holding it pretty close to completely shut. As you look down, you can see now in the gem, formulating in the middle of it, this swirl of a face that comes right up to the front. You can see in the midst of its coloration these energy-based eyes and grin, a toothy grin that goes, "I wish to be freed. That is all. I've been here far too long. I grow tired. I want to finally pass."
Laura: Are you Vecna?
Matt: You hear a chuckle. "No. Vecna has been long gone. I am not a being of such power."
Laura: Can I insight check the fucking thing in the eyeball?
Matt: Sure, make a insight check.
Laura: Sure, no problem. Unless it was a natural 20, it doesn't matter, 15, no.
Matt: 15, you don't.
Laura: No. Way higher than 15, 21.
Matt: Okay. 21, thank you.
Laura: 22, I can add.
Matt: 22, okay, that's way higher. You take a look at it, but due to the fact that it's mostly hidden, there aren't facial tics and there aren't normal gives to what a person's intent is, and even the tone of voice itself is spectral, ominous and otherworldly. You have a hard time being able to read whether or not it's being honest or lying or anything in between.
Liam: Scanlan here yet?
Laura: Why would we free it?
Matt: Scanlan is now behind the door on the other side, and he enters the room with you guys and is like, "What's going on, everything cool?"
Liam: Wait, the door is open now?
Matt: No, he's with you guys.
Liam: Ah good, yeah, Bigby that shit.
Travis: I bum rush Vex.
Ashley: No, Dimension Door me in, please.
Taliesin: I think we need a name for the thing.
Travis: I bum rush Vex.
Taliesin: I'm using quick draw.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Initiative rolls from both of you guys.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Does this mean the door flies open?
Ashley: Yeah, the door flies open.
Matt: Just a moment.
Liam: This is all seconds, this is happening in seconds.
Travis: 14.
Laura: Do I roll anything? Can I do anything?
Taliesin: 28.
Travis: Ugh, Jesus. 28?!
Matt: I'll say roll with disadvantage, because it catches you entirely off-guard.
Laura: So this is a surprise attack. Ugh, that's lame. That was just 13.
Matt: Okay, and you had a--?
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14, okay. All right, so, you see Grog lower his head and then go for a burst run across the length of the workshop towards Vex. You instinctually go quick draw, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm shooting a warning shot past his head, diving in, taking the--
Laura: Are you close enough? I backed into a corner.
Taliesin: I've got six spaces of movement in my turn.
Matt: Yeah, it's not a big room.
Taliesin: Diving and grabbing the head and curling back around--
Travis: The head? The skull?
Taliesin: Grabbing the skull and going--
Travis: She's 50/50 distance between us.
Taliesin: I'm moving first.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And I'm happy to spend an action surge if that'll make this work better.
Laura: Do you think you can just grab it from me?
Liam: D&D standoff.
Taliesin: I can make a roll for it.
Matt: So, as you dart, Percy is waiting for someone to also dart, and both of you go rushing across the room. Percy manages to get there a fraction of a second before you do. You hear the blast of his pistol past your ear, and the ringing hits the center of your head, but you still continue pushing forward in the way that Grog does, ignoring all outside interference. However, you've gotten to the skull first. Are you going to attempt to wrestle it from her?
Taliesin: Gently pull it out of his run. So I'm going pull it--
Laura: Are you going to try to pull me out of the way or just the fucking skull, you dick?
Matt: She's pretty grappled to it.
Taliesin: Oh, if she's that grappled to it, then I'm going to try and push her out of the way of Grog.
Matt: Okay, opposed strength checks from both of you.
Laura: From me?
Matt: Yeah, make a strength check.
Travis: He doesn't seem to care much.
Laura: He really, really doesn't.
Taliesin: 15.
Laura: Ah, that's terrible-- nine.
Taliesin: It's less of a shove and more of a pull out of the way of Grog's rush.
Matt: Right, so, he reaches over and grabs the skull in your arm and pulls you--
Taliesin: Well, I grab her.
Matt: Right, she-- but you haven't pulled it from her grip, you pull her out of the way. Shoves you to the side. You go rushing forward, and as you get there, she is pulled to the side, she is still right there in front of you, but the bum rush didn't get you there before anybody could react. So now it's your turn.
Laura: It's my turn?
Matt: Yeah. Wait, you rolled a 13?
Laura: I rolled a 13.
Matt: Oh, never mind, Grog goes next. Grog, so you rush up and you can now see Percy, pistol out, hand on the side of Vex, off the side of her arm. She's holding the skull there and they're both looking at you expectantly. What are you doing to do?
Travis: I want Percy. I'm going to tackle Percy.
Matt: You what?
Travis: I am going to run straight towards Percy and tackle him.
Matt: Tackle him, okay, all right. So, let's get some proper rumble music for this.
Marisha: There are dragons outside and we're fighting, playing rugby with a fucking skull.
Travis: I'm trying to fix the dragons.
Matt: Okay, so you use the momentum of the rush and you see him do this, you turn out of the way and go for a shoulder shove. I want you to go ahead and make an attack roll. Actually, make an athletics roll versus your acrobatics.
Travis: Why can't that be higher? 19.
Taliesin: Ah shit, 14.
Matt: 14, I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh shit. 17, oh, saving throw. 21.
Matt: 21. You slam into him and you essentially shove him with the shoulder. You manage to knock him prone, but the skull doesn't come loose, he loses his grip on it, and currently Vex is still holding it front of you. You're prone on the ground.
Taliesin: I'm prone on the ground?
Travis: So Vex still has it?
Taliesin: But it's Vex's turn.
Travis: But I knocked him off of her. But you've still got the skull.
Taliesin: I wasn't trying to wrestle it.
Matt: Anything else you want to try and accomplish?
Travis: Yeah, I would like to turn and put my back to Vex, because she has the skull.
Matt: Okay. So you go and plant a protective position in front of her? It's now your turn. Grog, who rushes over and shoulder slams Percy out of the way, and he's fallen to the ground. His gun almost scatters to the floor of the workshop around you. As you're expecting, he turns towards you, instead he steps and his giant frame is now blocking you with the shoulder blades in front, his arms out in a defensive position, facing off with people as they begin to enter the room. What are you going to do?
Laura: I reach up and I touch his back. And I say are you yourself?
Travis: Me?
Laura: Yes, you, fuck!
Travis: Yeah, yes, fuck, it's me.
Laura: I back up into a corner, and I say  what is all this about? Why do you even need this? Why do we want to set it free? I don't understand.
Travis: We don't, we don't, we just don't want him to have Percy.
Marisha: The rest of us see this now, right?
Matt: At this point now, the door's burst open, and the rest of you guys rush in and you can see Percy just as he hits the ground. You can see Grog recovering from the shoulder slam, who then steps in front of Vex with this snarl on his face and begins shouting to her over his shoulder, and you hear them talking across the room.
Taliesin: It doesn't want me, I don't want to use the skull. I want to keep you from using it.
Ashley: What is going on in here?!
Marisha: Keyleth cracks her staff on the floor and does a Gust cantrip and goes (whoosh) to make a big burst of wind in the room.
Matt: Okay. Tools go falling off the wall and clattering to the stone floor of the establishment. All of you who have hair have it blown and wrapped around you. You are pushed back about three inches from the burst of it, and all of you, immediately, your attention goes to Keyleth who stands there with her staff.
Travis: Is it dusty in there now? Or is it just windy?
Matt: It's not dusty, it's covered in layers of soot that have now been kicked up, and the air itself is a temporary fume.
Travis: Do we have an order?
Marisha: Silence!
Matt: She does that. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: Can I insight-check Grog?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Ashley: 21.
Matt: What are you trying to know?
Travis: What are you trying to know?
Ashley: I want to know why he wants this skull so bad.
Matt: Okay. If you would like to relay any information, she peered pretty well into your demeanor.
Travis: I want to get rid of the dragons, now.
Matt: So you gather that he's coming from a place that a simple mind is looking for a simple solution to a complex problem. (laughter)
Laura: "I'm right here, Matt."
Taliesin: Burn, burn!
Travis: Oh, oh, the flames, ah! (laughter)
Travis: Stop, drop, and roll!
Matt: I'm saying that's the best way she can discern your demeanor right now. Pike, anything else you want to do right now? We have to continue this.
Ashley: Yep. Can I walk over and grab Craven Edge?
Matt: Craven Edge is currently sheathed on his back, away from you. So you can attempt to, if you want to.
Ashley: Grog, can you give me Craven Edge, please?
Matt: Pike, hands out to you and looking you earnestly in the face.
Travis: Why?
Ashley: I just want to look at it.
Marisha: Pike, you sure about this?
Ashley: I just want to see, something's not quite right.
Taliesin: Can I get up at this point or no?
Matt: We are about to get back to the top of the round. So you do what you're doing, okay. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to stand up and grab a poker off the table. I'm leaving my gun on the floor.
Matt: Not off the table, the wind gust knocked off a lot of these things on the ground. Small pile of tools next to you. So you grab the poker.
Taliesin: I grab a poker and I take a corner.
Matt: Okay. So now, Percy, you've squared off into a corner, there's Vex in the other corner, Grog's standing in between the two with the back against Vex. The three of you are right there at the front. Pike has stepped up to Grog now and is beseeching him. That's Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I look at Pike. I turn around, I look at Vex. You'll thank me. And I'd like to try and pull the skull out of her hands.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check against her.
Laura: Oh jeez, oh come on. There's no way, even if I roll like a-- Unless I get a 20.
Travis: 21.
Laura: No, that's 14.
Matt: All right. As Grog turns around and gives you almost an apologetic look, his face steels over with intensity as, lightning-fast, his muscular arms rush out in front, grasp the skull. Like tearing a toy from a child's grasp, it is removed from you with barely any sort of resistance.
Marisha: Can I get a spell off on him?
Matt: Not yet. So Grog, that's your action. You grab and you have now the skull. You left her with the tapestry, like you have just the bare skull in front of you.
Travis: What would I like to do with it?
Matt: You have a bonus action, so depends on what you're trying to accomplish.
Travis: Can I spike it?
Matt: You can, yeah, I'd say yeah.
Taliesin: That's a bonus action?
Matt: I'd say this would be your movement and bonus, I'll let you do that, the whole thing together.
Travis: I would like to spike the skull.
Taliesin: Oh Jesus.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Laura: You're just going to--
Travis: What are the fucking chances?!
Matt: A natural one?
Laura: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: As you reach up, at the apex of your throw you look down and--
Travis: I don't believe it. I don't fucking believe it.
Matt: Your eyes catch Pike, and during that brief moment of slow-motion as you reach up, you see her face, this look of complete, heartbreaking disappointment. Just like that. It shakes you in a way that you didn't expect, and as you go through the motion you already anticipated, and your brain's already wandered in doing so. You slam it half-heartedly and it bounces and skids across the ground, over by where Keyleth is.
Marisha: Is it rolling at my feet?
Laura: I run and jump for it.
Matt: All right, so. It's not your turn, it's the end of your turn. As it goes rolling, you run and dodge, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Damn it.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23, all right. You jump out of the way, tumble, roll, and scoop up it in your arms once more, and you have it.
Marisha: Can I get a spell off?
Matt: You have to get to your turn. Is that all you're going to do?
Laura: That was all of it? Can I run out of the room? If I can move. I'm going to run towards the door.
Matt: I'd say, yeah. With the tumble and everything, you have just enough movement to get out of the room. So Vex goes darting out of the workshop, just past the door, leaving the room. That brings us now to--
Liam: Relay race. Okay, then I take a step in front of her and pull out my daggers and stand in front of my sister.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What the fuck is happening? Seeing all of this happen, I cast Hold Person.
Travis: Stop trying to protect the skull.
Marisha: At 4th-level.
Matt: To? Against?
Marisha: Against Percy, Grog--
Laura: I'm out of the room, you can't see me.
Liam: I'm in.
Marisha: How far away are they? Can I turn around and see--
Matt: I'd say she just got out of the room, you would have visual on her as she's leaving the room, yeah.
Marisha: What about Vax?
Matt: Yeah, Vax is standing in front of her, you have visual on both, technically.
Travis: Don't do this.
Liam: This is so metal.
Marisha: Vex. Vex. Sorry, Vex.
Matt: All right, I need a wisdom saving throw from all three of you.
Liam: Wait, me too?
Laura: No, just me. Yeah, you fucks are still mobile.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: Boom, Percy?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15, that's a failure.
Laura: 21.
Matt: So Percy, your muscles tense up, and as you're holding your poker, you find yourself unable to move. Grog, you feel and look over and see Keyleth as she looks towards you with intensity, and you feel a similar tremor across your head, but you shrug it off.
Travis: These fucking sensations today.
Matt: Yeah, it's weird. Vex, you as well, you glance over your shoulder as you hear Keyleth muttering under her breath, and you can feel that familiar sensation of the magical attempt to grasp your mind. Your half-elven self makes it even easier to shrug off, and you continue darting forth the direction you are with your brother behind you. So you're protecting her?
Liam: Oh yes, I'm barring the way
Laura: So we're right up the hallway from our prison cell, right?
Matt: Correct. I haven't got to your turn yet, though. So, does that end your turn? Do you want to move?
Marisha: Can I say something?
Matt: If you want to, yeah
Marisha: Everyone, stop, why are we fighting? We just watched our city burn to the ground. What are we fighting over?
Travis: We're not fighting, they're trying to protect the skull.
Marisha: What does this look like? What does this look like to you?
Travis: A statue garden?
Marisha: Everyone, get in Percy's workshop and we're going to talk this out.
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Laura: Keyleth, you don't know what's happening.
Marisha: I would if any of my fucking party would for once tell me something. You all didn't tell me the full fucking story when we went back into General Krieg's house, and now look what happened. Look what happened because you assholes aren't communicating.
Taliesin: (muffled mumbling)
Marisha: Shut up, Percy! (laughter)
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Marisha: This is because of us, and you all know it is. Let's figure this out. Go, Pike. (laughter)
Ashley: Grog, did you just say you want to protect the skull?
Travis: No, I want to break the skull. I want to get rid of the dragons
Ashley: Okay, what were you trying to do when you brought Percy and Vex up here?
Liam: Vax.
Travis: It needed someone with a dark touch. But now it's--
Ashley: To do what?
Travis: To get the wish, but now it's touching everyone, they're trying to protect the skull, and we don't want that. We want it broken, I think.
Ashley: But you want the wish?
Travis: Yeah, we want the wish, we can do whatever we want to with the wish and not take it, but yeah.
Ashley: There has to be some type of payment, if we take a wish.
Travis: Well, it didn't say anything about a payment. There are four dragons killing everything.
Matt: At this point, as you guys are having this conversation, and you guys are darting out, Vex, you stop, as coming down the stairs from the main floor is Erwen. Frazzled, but still put together as well as he can.
Laura: I tuck it behind my back.
Matt: "I'm sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia, it appears you have a few guests, suddenly."
Laura: What? What kind of guests?
Matt: "She's been here before. I don't recognize the other; in the dining area."
Laura: What does she look like?
Matt: "Blonde hair."
Travis: Allura.
Matt: "Dwarven individual."
Marisha: Oh my god, it's Allura and Kima.
Liam: This is a little like Clue  the Movie.
Laura: It kind of is. Yes-- Erwen. Bring them down here. It's an emergency
Matt: "Very well, I'll--"
Laura: As quickly as possible.
Matt: "Yes, yes." And he turns around and hustles up the stairs.
Marisha: Can we all please go back in Percy's workshop?
Laura: Not yet, darling.
Marisha: Why not?
Liam: Keyleth, let's just wait until Allura gets here. I feel like she might have a calming effect on this situation, an outside eye.
Marisha: We are standing in the damn hall, all I am asking is that we move into a quiet room.
Matt: At this point now, at the top of the stairway, two individuals come walking down. First and foremost, you see a dwarven male with short black hair and a beard, trimmed fairly fine, red leathers, carrying some sort of crooked wand on the side. Behind him you see, hair tossed back as she rushes down after him, Arcanist Allura Vysoren.
Liam: I sheath my daggers.
Matt: Okay. She looks about curiously and the dwarf goes, "Okay, what have we stepped into here?" And Allura puts her hand on his shoulder and goes, "Don't worry. I apologize for my intrusion. I had a-- is everything all right?"
Laura: We could use your help at this moment.
Matt: "Certainly. Sorry, this is a long-time friend of mine, Elementalist Drake Thunderbrand. If you don't mind him accompanying us as well?"
Laura: Is he good?
Matt: "Oh, he's one of the finest."
Laura: A good person?
Matt: "I've put my life in his hands a number of times, yes."
Liam: Things are a lot more complicated than you can even imagine. Please come in, we need you.
Matt: "Yes, yes." And as you guys are having this standoff, you watch as this black-haired, red-leathered dwarf walks in, looking around and inspecting intently. You don't recognize him, you've never seen him before
Travis: What's he wielding?
Matt: No weapons on him. You see him clutching this gnarled, curved wand that almost spirals, like a piece of well-treated but messed up wood.
Travis: A stick.
Laura: That's a weapon.
Matt: Maybe. And Allura rushes in, muttering under her breath, "I was just in Whitestone and I had a terrible feeling come over me and all my teleportation sigils within the city were suddenly severed. Both my tower and the Lyceum. I had to manually teleport us here as it was the only place I really had enough familiarity with far enough away from the city in case something bad had happened, I hope you don't mind."
Laura: Not at all. We're grateful for your help.
Liam: Could you do us a favor? We had a small accident with Percival.
Laura: Not yet, not yet.
Travis: Does she know about the-- D--?
Liam: No. So... Emon is in ruins. It's been destroyed by dragons.
Laura: Four. Ancient. Dragons.
Marisha: They call themselves the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: And your tower is--
Travis: Fucked!
Laura: We're sorry.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and drop the Hold Person on Percy.
Matt: And her face goes white, the blood runs from her entire complexion, and you can see the dwarf that initially was huffed up and intense in his energy, while not fully understanding what's going on, looks over to Allura and softens and walks up and puts his hand on her shoulder. "You okay, lass?"
Liam: I'm sorry, my lady. Did you know that Uriel planned to step down?
Matt: "He threatened it--"
Liam: He did it.
Matt: "-- for weeks-- what?"
Liam: He did it, and moments later four old dragons descended upon the city.
Marisha: The Cloudtop District has been demolished.
Matt: "This cannot be."
Marisha: We don't know who all is alive or dead. We can only expect the worst.
Matt: "This cannot be."
Laura: Unfortunately, Allura, all of that is the reason for our current impasse. We seem to have discovered something that could potentially reverse the situation. But there's a great price to pay. It could be a small price to pay, we don't know. If you wouldn't mind taking a look at this relic that we discovered.
Matt: And you see, she is still lost in thought and there's something in her mind that's distracting her immensely, but she eventually clarifies and her eyes focus on you once more and she goes, "Of course, please."
Laura: I don't give it to her, but I pull the tapestry off of the skull and show it to her.
Matt: She looks at it and leans forward and begins muttering something beneath her breath, and she goes into technical mode, like she distracts herself with work at this moment. And as her brow furrows, she mutters under her breath and completes some sort of flash of arcane energy, and you can see the flash of energy attaches around the skull for a second and glints back at her, and she goes, "Right, all right, that's-- That skull is not human, that skull is Githyanki. That is a species that exists primarily on the Astral Plane. They're rowdy, evil, pirating, marauding individuals, and that's one sense. The gem within that skull appears to be a soul gem and contains the soul of, from what I can gather, a Githyanki individual. Very old. I can say at least from my knowledge and learned opinion that no good can come from such an artifact."
Laura: Okay. He can grant a wish, he says? Lying, truth? What do you think?
Matt: "It's hard to say. It would take a very powerful individual to do so, however, I would say that wishes granted by entities that do not correspond with your moral outlook for the most part rarely end up in your favor, even when carefully worded."
Laura: Right. No, but I remember this, we dealt with this with the demon that killed Pike.
Marisha: Yes, but we used our wish to wish ourselves out of that contract.
Laura: And it had to be so carefully worded.
Marisha: We can destroy more, if we're not careful.
Matt: "There have been powerful individuals, who upon obtaining the ability to make such a wish, even as careful as they were, they reached beyond the means of its magic, and doing so, undid themselves. It's a very, very powerful, very dangerous magic, and if this entity is indeed even capable of doing so, who's to say the chances that it wouldn't wreak more havoc than you intended?"
Liam: We are in a precarious position. The city is in ruins, already, in a matter of hours.
Matt: "Yes, yes."
Marisha: What do we do?
Matt: And at this point, she looks around for a chair. You can see her hands are shaking, and she goes and grabs a chair and pulls it up and sits down for a second, puts her hands on her knees, and quietly, "Describe to me these dragons."
Marisha: There was one of each color.
Laura: A green, a black, a white.
Travis: And a big red piece of shit.
Marisha: All colors except for blue of the chromatic spectrum. I got a few of their names.
Matt: As you go through each color, she nods, but when you say the big red, her body freezes.
Marisha: Does this sound familiar to you?
Matt: "The names, you said?"
Marisha: There's a white dragon that called himself Vorugal. A green dragon, Raishan. Black dragon, Umbrasyl, and the red dragon, we haven't heard his name yet. He seems to be the leader.
Matt: At this point she nods and goes, "I know not the middle two, but Vorugal has been known to wander the wastes north in Othanzia. Some of the offspring have wandered further, in fact I believe the Skysunder that you destroyed naught but two years ago that was sealed in the Frostweald was one of its brethren. Its children. But Vorugal has not been seen wandering this far out. Chromatics do not work together, they are selfish and greedy and territorial."
Laura: They're definitely working together.
Matt: "This red you say is the leader?"
Liam: Yes, most definitely.
Marisha: He had a message that he belted over the entire city. He said that we who live, he's showing mercy and that we can either fight or flee, and then--
Laura: He said if we fight or flee, we'll be denied the mercy.
Marisha: Okay, something along those lines. And then he said that it was the guardians of this city that brought this upon Emon, and that he has control. He called it like a new order.
Laura: He said our new purpose is to serve him.
Matt: Now for the first time, you have known Allura for quite some time, she's been a very stoic, strong, confident, and powerful person. At this moment, she has withered. She looks genuinely like she's hit a level of fear you have never seen in an individual like this, and it shakes you to see this upon her face, and she puts her hand up and says, "This is not your fault. This burden is mine." And looks over to the dwarf and says, "It is ours." And the dwarf, you can now see, he's nodding in understanding. "This dragon... it's been called many names, but the one that it's taken is Thordak, The Cinder King."
Marisha: Thordak?
Matt: "Thordak. This terrible beast lorded over half of Marquet for centuries, taking the scalding sands as its domain and its denizens as cattle, and just as the city of Ank'harel was becoming the jewel of the desert, Thordak struck. A battle, however, that it was unable to win. Sent away, mortally wounded, it was thought that the dragon had died soon after, having not been seen for many centuries since. That is, until about 15 years ago. The rumors of a powerful drake, storming the beaches and seas, had been whispered for a long time, while ships would be lost at sea. It had survived and secretly ruled the island of Viscan in the south of the Lucidian Ocean. I suppose after generations, the dragon, now self-crowned as the Cinder King, grew greedier with the island's limited resources and began razing the Mournset countryside south of the Verdant Expanse and the Stormcrest Mountains." And her eyes get even more distant as she is recalling all this. "Reports of a dragon more massive than the records can compare hit Tal'Dorei. At the time, I wasn't part of the council. I traveled with a group of adventurers much like yourselves: Kima, Drake here, and a handful of other brave souls who are no longer with us. We traveled to investigate, but arrived to find this creature destroying everything surrounding the Glade Pools. Port Udall, gone, Byroden a smoldering ruin, and we gathered a small army of mercenaries and hunted it back to its new den in the Stormcrest, where a large number of lizardfolk had formed around him. But we were overpowered by the sheer might of the dragon. Many lives were lost. Knowing that we could not kill it, we turned to other means. I called upon the Arcana Pansophical, a circle of friends, arcane practitioners that agreed to work together across the land to keep them safe. They devised a trap, one that could, we believed, permanently seal Thordak within the elemental plane of fire, preventing him from ever returning to our world. At the sacrifice of many, including our companions Sirus, Dohla, Ghenn, we succeeded." And as the tears begin to roll down her face, she looks around. "For naught now, it seems, and somehow he has broken our invocation. We bound his essence to the fountains of creation and thought he would stay there forever." And she goes quiet and looks around for a second. "I'm sorry."
Taliesin: This couldn't be because of our journey to the elemental plane, could it?
Matt: "I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: We saw him there.
Marisha: We did, but it sounds like he has been....
Taliesin: We didn't set him free, you don't think?
Travis: No, it was Keyleth's Ashari thing.
Marisha: My people-- Our job is to guard these realms.
Taliesin: Is there any way of contacting the Fire Ashari?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, oh god. Oh god, what if they're-- what if they're dead?
Matt: "To bind him, we created an artifact called a soul anchor. It was crafted from the salvaged heart crystal of a primordial fire titan. The anchor could not be removed from the plane, and the Cinder King could not leave without it. I don't know how he's managed to escaped the binding of this."
Marisha: Oh my god, this is all my fault.
Taliesin: No. No. This was a land mine waiting to be stepped on.
Marisha: But wait. We fought-- We fought my elders, we fought the Headmaster.
Laura: It couldn't have been.
Matt: "That would have no bearing on this. The heart crystal is immense. 15, 20 feet in diameter, it's a gem of pure crystallized ruby and elemental power and energy. Lest you managed to find this and destroy it, which, I mean no offence, is far beyond your capability."
Marisha: My people, would they be okay?
Matt: "Depends on where he made his way through. The timing is rather conspicuous, seeing as how Winter's Crest recently passed, in which time the planes are the thinnest barricades."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Whatever it is, I fear that our ruse will not work twice, especially if Thordak has had all this time to obsess over his failure. I do not know our next course of action."
Marisha: What do you know of General Krieg?
Matt: "He's been gone for some time."
Marisha: You were on the council with him, do you know anything further?
Matt: "I think it was discussed that he had been killed during the demonic intrusion in the city, or deserted."
Laura: Would a dragon seek vengeance against one of their brethren killed?
Matt: "Chromatics are selfish beings, they do not care for each other, and the power of one is enough, but a conclave of dragons is both extraordinary and horrifying, but there is no-- There is no sense of vengeance for their kin unless it is against the greater plan. Now, if what you say is true and these other dragons are bound together in the service of Thordak, I imagine they would be the ones who had the power and the resources to find some way to bring him through."
Laura: All right.
Matt: At which point, the dwarf steps up and still has his hand rubbing Allura's shoulder and says, "We knew not what we were doing, other than trying to save it, don't blame yourself."
Marisha: Allura.
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Would you consider us guardians of this city?
Matt: "One of many. I believe the guardians--"
Marisha: Is this because of us?
Matt: Allura looks at you dead-on and says, "The only guardians that Thordak would know of would be the ones that sent him away to that plane 15 years ago. This is my fault."
Liam: That's not true. If we are to solve this situation we cannot hide the truth. I killed Krieg. We killed Krieg. I finished Krieg.
Laura: Krieg was a dragon, Allura.
Marisha: A blue dragon.
Liam: We stumbled upon his lair, reached through his home in Emon, through magical means. We found his lair.
Laura: He attacked us.
Liam: And we-- I--
Marisha: I reach out and I grab Vax's hand.
Taliesin: We survived.
Liam: When it happened, he had four stones, four orbs in his lair. They saw us.
Marisha: They spoke out to us.
Taliesin: They threatened us.
Matt: "When was this? Was this--"
Taliesin: Many years ago.
Marisha: Maybe two years ago.
Liam: Not all that long ago.
Laura: It was right after we got to Emon.
Matt: "It's been over a year at least. Well, if it's taken them that long at least to free Thordak, it means that this was probably in the works for quite some time. If we do share this responsibility, I assure you it weighs heavier on me than it does you. But right now we need all the allies we can gather. Now, you say Thordak is where right now?"
Travis: Sitting on Emon.
Matt: "Within the city?"
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Vex, you would know.
Laura: Oh, I can sense them. Right.
Matt: It's for a six-mile radius, was it?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: On the edge of your senses, you close your eyes and focus and extend your ability to feel the landscape around you. Indeed, The Cinder King still sits in the center of the city.
Laura: He's here.
Matt: "What of the others?"
Laura: Do I sense any others?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: They're gone for the time being.
Travis: It's weird, they do what he says.
Taliesin: Barely.
Liam: And on top of all that, we have this fucking skull.
Marisha: I need to check in with my people. I need to check in with the Air Ashari.
Matt: "Where's the rest? Where's the council? Who do we know survived?"
Laura: We don't know anything. Everyone was dying around us, we made it to the keep.
Travis: It happened very quickly.
Liam: We don't know what happened to Uriel, we didn't see.
Matt: "We need to take stock of who we can consider friends that are still around. We need all allies right now. That should be our first order of business, if anything." And her face drops again. "I just lost my connection with Westruun."
Travis: Oh fuck. The whole world.
Marisha: Yeah, this is an annihilation.
Matt: "This isn't an annihilation, if this was an extermination there wouldn't be any survivors, you wouldn't be here. The fact that they've only taken what they can of the city-- what use is a city to a dragon if it doesn't have worshippers? They're vain beings."
Marisha: Think, Allura, what do all these cities have in common? And what would be the benefits of taking over these cities?
Matt: "Resources, their gold, their people."
Marisha: Do you think they just want domination over people? Over us? They called us ants!
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: They want to be gods.
Matt: "What good is a creature that sees itself as superior if there aren't those around it to tell them as such and confirm the belief, and if anyone refuses to bend to their will through fear and power. That is the nature of the chromatic dragons."
Marisha: There has to be something more that they want.
Matt: "Perhaps, but for now, the fact that he's even shouted mercy at this time as opposed to completely destroying everything in his wake, means that vanity can be used to our advantage. I don't know how soon, but that's something. Now--"
Travis: Allies. Vasselheim has warriors, armories.
Taliesin: Whitestone as well.
Laura: We can bring them here.
Marisha: I need to reach out to the Ashari and see if they're-- I leave, I want to go-- Well, actually; Allura, will you help me in a scrying spell?
Matt: "Yes, yes, the best I can, yes."
Marisha: I want to scry and first check in on the Fire Ashari.
Matt: Okay. All right, at this point she pulls out her crystal ball from a little tiny satchel, which is in itself a smaller Bag of Holding. Pulls out a small mirror, takes some water and pours it on the mirror, places the sphere above it, and it floats for a second. And there's a makeshift scrying ritual site here before you. You guys take about ten minutes to concentrate, and if you guys want to do anything in that ten-minute period, you're welcome to, or if you just want to watch and wait, you can.
Taliesin: I'm going to just sit, it's been a long, long day.
Matt: Okay. The spell completes.
Travis: Can I roll hit dice?
Matt: Yeah, you guys can begin to take a short rest, if you want to heal up.
Liam: I go over to my sister in that time. I want-- I want to kill that dragon. Or I want to die trying.
Laura: We will.
Marisha: Do I see Cerkonos?
Matt: So you take Allura's hand and you put your focus into the crystal sphere, your vision lifts out of the keep with extreme speed. You find your visual surroundings thrust across the Ozmit Sea. You find yourself swooping across the shores of Othanzia, over the forests, eventually coming upon the blackened clouds that perpetually hang above the charred mountain range that contains the home of the Fire Ashari and the entrance to the elemental plane of fire. Your vision crests the mountain and steps into the valley of broken, blackened shale to the ever-burning forest. As you come upon it, you recall where the Fire Ashari village was and where you were greeted before and given your trials. Where there is now nothing but sundered, broken wood, tents, destroyed bodies burned and charred and curled up in horrible ever-gasping pain. The forest itself is flattened from the inside out, like a blast from the center of it just exploded outward, the trees all bent and snapped at the base, and in the center, where there once was that small pool of molten lava that you created the portal through and stepped into the elemental plane, there is a large, ominous, flickering gash between the planes that is roughly 30 to 40 feet in width and height that is pulsing as fire and magma pours out of it. You can see wandering imps and elementals and various entities slowly peeking out and escaping and wandering throughout the mountain tops. From what you can see, there are no signs of any survivors.
Marisha: It destroyed everything. They killed everyone.
Matt: Allura at this point, who pulls out of the ritual, reaches out and grabs you by the shoulders.
Marisha: We failed.
Matt: And she looks you in the eyes, and for a moment you feel like her normally warm and embracing face has gone cold and intense and her voice seems to echo with an undercurrent of arcane focus and volume. She goes--
Marisha: My people failed, we failed our cause.
Matt: "Keyleth, you failed no one, this is not your doing. This burden is ours as a people to hold, do not let this wash over you or he wins. This is their making, this is not yours. These creatures are evil incarnate, and it is our job, our true calling to end what they have done. Do not let this crush you, you are stronger than that. Pull yourself together. Your people, those that remain, they stand behind you."
Marisha: I'm not as strong as you, Allura.
Matt: "But you can be and you will be. Do you trust me? Do you trust me?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Good." Her grasp releases.
Marisha: That's my people.
Matt: "And mine, and all of ours. There are many secrets in these lands. I'm a firm believer that there's always a way to victory, if we are smart about it and if we're quick about it. Now, I think we should look for survivors. Gather those we know that can rally to our cause, in Emon and beyond. What say you?"
Taliesin: Aye.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Aye.
Liam: We are to stand now or we might as well be dead.
Laura: So we're definitely not going to wish on this skull then, yeah?
Matt: "I would recommend against it."
Marisha: Yeah, I stand.
Matt: "Very well, let us prepare for the fall of the Chroma Conclave. Together." And that's where we'll end our session for tonight.
Laura: Fucking A!
Matt: Hey guys, D&D's fun! (laughter)
Marisha: D&D will never be fun again; everything's ruined.
Liam: Hey, we're all cows! (laughter)
Marisha: Back when things were so much simpler.
Liam: Be sure to buy a t-shirt over on geekandsundry.com.
Travis: Wow.
Liam: In Sam's honor.
Laura: What in the hell.
Taliesin: Brought to you by Wyrmwood Gaming. Specifically designed to absorb tears. (laughter)
Marisha: Ah yes, thank you. It's so porous.
Matt: So yeah.
Ashley: Can we play longer?
Travis: Can we play longer?
Matt: Aww.
Marisha: What time is it? It's ten o'clock, and we ended on time and--
Laura: That's the first time we've ever ended on time.
Liam: Wow, that game felt like 20 hours.
Travis: Yeah. Originally this was supposed to be a three-hour show, but it never quite made it that way.
Matt: I know we tried, we try and mostly fail, but occasionally we get it right. So, I mean, I'd say I'm sorry for the emotional rollercoaster, but no.
Travis: The was fucking awesome.That was awesome, aside from the death.
Taliesin: I would have kicked your ass, by the way, just throwing that out there. I picked up the poker because I didn't want to hurt you. (laughter)
Travis: All right, okay.
Taliesin: Throwing that out there.
Liam: My plan was to take that skull and run like a fucking football player and fucking go for the goal.
Taliesin: Flash Gordon.
Liam: Yeah. I would have been in the heart of Emon. Shoving it up the red dragon's nose.
Matt: Well. Welcome to the new story arc.
Laura: Oh jeez. (cheering)
Laura: Everything changed.
Matt: Yeah. Oh man.
Laura: Everything.
Taliesin: When do I level up?
Marisha: I'm going to find a corner to rock back and forth in.
Liam: We would have been working in a lich's sugar mine if you'd done that.
Travis: Nah, we all would have been kings and queens, we would be drinking iced mochas.
Marisha: I was more afraid of us wishing ourselves out of existence. I wish there were no more dragons... and no more people and no more--
Taliesin: It was such a bad deal, I said no. Like, can you imagine how bad of a deal that must have been?
Liam: That's a good point.
Taliesin: I was really looking for a reason to say yes.
Marisha: And it turns out that it was just a fucking lame-ass pirate. Fuck that, we don't want to be indebted to some shithead pirate.
Taliesin: Nothing good happens when you let Mxyzptlk out of the goddamn skull.
Matt: It was fun. I set a time for myself when she's gonna arrive, and I was like, "Oh man, what's going to happen before she gets there?" I was like, as you guys kept delaying it, they might actually-- she might actually catch them in time.
Marisha: She would have walked in and we're beating the shit out of each other.
Laura: It all would have gone to hell if--
Matt: You don't know what would happen. You don't know.
Travis: I would have saved the world, that's what would have happened. Fucking one.
Matt: None of you have heard of a githyanki in your travels.
Travis: I would have been King Grog, I would have gotten a cave, I would had a bunch of harem people taking care of me, giving me sponge baths with their tongues.
Liam: I was going to carve my name in your nuts.
Travis: I would object to that.
Taliesin: I was going to gender swap, I wanted-- Percy was going to become Percina. (laughter)
Marisha: I wish I was a woman.
Marisha: We still have the dragon problem, but now have the dragon and a pirate.
Matt: There you go-- the de Rolo sisters-- Glad you could make it, Ashley. (cheering)
Matt: You should make it every week.
Marisha: Does this mean I'm the last druid to make the Aramente?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: There might have been one after you.
Laura: There's got to be other ones.
Matt: From what you saw, the Fire Ashari were decimated, you saw a number of bodies, you don't know if any escaped, you don't if any were hidden, you don't know what happened. At that location, it is desolation, and you get the sense from that, that is precisely the place where Thordak came through the plane.
Marisha: I'm wondering about the other locations, though, too.
Taliesin: I want to know about Whitestone. We have a lot a phone calls to make.
Marisha: We have a lot of phone calls. Like I--
Travis: They're all dead, everybody's dead.
Marisha: Theoretically wiped my people off the face of the planet.
Matt: Such an optimist.
Marisha: If they all busted through--
Taliesin: Does decimate mean that 1/10 survived? Or that only 10% died? I can never remember which one decimated is. I know it's one of the two.
Matt: Yeah, that term has been largely misused in the current-day vernacular.
Taliesin: I know. 10% died, that's what it is.
Travis: I love misusing vernacular.
Matt: It's fun. You guys--
Travis: Great fucking story Matt, holy shit. Holy shit, you had trees and stuff.
Taliesin: Why do you got to be a dick, man?
Matt: As we're discovering the white battlemats don't pick up as well on the camera as the colors, I'm trying to use other options whenever possible.
Travis: It works. The green was amazing.
Laura: It was really cool with green.
Matt: So I'm going to try and push more on that. A little more work on my end, but it'll be fine.
Liam: Tell me more, sadist.
Laura: Thanks for joining us, you guys.
Matt: You guys, thank you for watching, and hope you have a wonderful night, and we'll see you guys next Thursday. Good night!
Marisha: I need a cigarette, and I don't smoke.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Poké Ball! Right? It's like a Pokémon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Poké Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master. For those who are returning, good to see you again, and for those for the first time, welcome, and hopefully you're not too lost. So, Sam is on his way right now, being in the usual traffic from wherever he comes from, being a professional. Having a career that's functional and perpetually busy. Get here soon, Sam! Quickly, please! Drive safe. Don't drive with children in the street. Apparently, that was confusion from last time. People thought that he was actually driving in children. Like, he had problems with children and traffic, and thought children in traffic. So, keep your children out of traffic, if you don't mind. That's a general Critical Role request.
Marisha: PSA.
Matt: PSA, yeah. Before we get started in this, first and foremost, I want to say hello to our guest for the evening, Mr. Chris Hardwick. (cheering)
Chris hardwick: Good to be here.
Matt: Glad you could join us for tonight's game.
Chris hardwick: Also very excited to be here on Ravenclaw Appreciation Day: the best house, of course.
Marisha: Yes, that's true.
Chris hardwick: Wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure.
Laura: Hufflepuff!
Chris hardwick: Well...
Taliesin: Slytherin. Slytherin. Ravenclaw's pretty good. Pretty good.
Chris hardwick: If by good, you mean the best.
Matt: There you go.
Chris hardwick: I'm sorry, there's no--
Sam: Oh, shit! This is so awkward.
Taliesin: I thought we called you.
Chris hardwick: Can you stand near the bear?
Laura: His name is Trinket, all right?
Sam: Is this how I was fired from the show?
Chris hardwick: We thought we would do it on the livestream just to really help capture the traffic that that would bring.
Sam: Good luck. I think you're going to do great. These guys will take care of you.
Chris hardwick: I've been working with this guy for the last couple of years on Sanjay & Craig. He gets all businessy, he's a responsible adult in the workplace.
Matt: And then he comes here.
Sam: And then I come here. You're not, you're the same.
Chris hardwick: I can't wait to see this other side.
Sam: Where am I supposed to sit?! Right here?
Matt: Right there, yeah. Just scoot in.
Sam: Is that true? I don't know. Are we scooting over?
Chris hardwick: I would move over, but I need both. My legs are--
Sam: This is the most awkward.
Taliesin: It's like a New York subway over here.
Chris hardwick: Can you just rappel down that?
Matt: There we go.
Laura: This is so awkward.
Sam: I love it. No, no, I've got the half-table at the end here. It's great.
Chris hardwick: Matt, I don't like having people on my right side. Is this weird?
Matt: If becomes a problem, just raise your hand and scream.
Chris hardwick: It's already a problem.
Matt: Oh, damn it!
Marisha: I'm technically at the end. This is on Chris, really.
Liam: Can you scoot the whole bench down on this side?
Laura: Yeah, scoot the bench down. Look at how far the bench is on our side.
Travis: Put the leg of the table between here.
Matt: Very well-oiled machine, Critical Role.
Laura: Thanks for joining us this week.
Matt: The utmost of presentory quality we promise to you on a weekly basis. Thank you for joining us. All right, so.
Travis: Lock it up, right table, Jesus!
Sam: Sorry, we're ready.
Matt: Welcome, Sam, glad you could make it. Let's get through our announcements quickly for the week. Tomorrow, a bunch of us are going to be at Wondercon down at the LA Convention Center. Not Anaheim. It's always been at Anaheim, and I thought it was Anaheim when I mentioned it last week. But, no, it's in LA because everything likes to prove me wrong. We'll be there. 7:00-8:00pm is our Critical Role panel, so if you're in the area, you're coming to the event, come say hello, bring questions, preferably not punch me in the face for getting it wrong with Anaheim.
Chris hardwick: It used to be in San Francisco.
Matt: Even before that!
Chris hardwick: Yeah! I went to it at Moscone Center like six or seven years ago, and then Anaheim. It's getting closer and closer.
Marisha: Yeah, it's going to be in Lancaster next year.
Taliesin: And the year after, it's going to be at my house. It'll be great.
Matt: We will go there for that. Going to Lancaster for anything is a difficult choice. Sorry, Lancaster!
Laura: Longest announcements ever!
Matt: I know! We have, tonight--
Marisha: Shirts!
Matt: I'm getting to it! We had an issue last week where a bunch of our Gilmore shirts sold out really quickly.
Sam: This shirt, right here?
Matt: That shirt that you're wearing, the Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Laura: The one that everybody wants, but nobody can have.
Sam: I have it!
Matt: That's terrible.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Chris hardwick: Do I have to sit next to him?
Travis: The whole time.
Sam: Don't worry, I've already been emasculated. (laughter)
Matt: We're counting it as community service, it'll be fine. However, in trying to make sure that we can help our folks who don't get to see it live have an opportunity at these, we're going to be starting for a week a limited pre-order for Gilmore shirts. Should be up live now on the website. So if you didn't have the opportunity to go ahead and grab your own Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, go to GeekandSundry.com right now, go to their store, it should be available for pre-orders for the next week.
Liam: Grab this unicorn by the horn.
Matt: Yes. Yes. Grog-- Travis, but Grog. You're wearing a delightful shirt, there. Would you like to tell us a bit about that shirt?
Travis: This is the next of our shirt designs--
Sam: Oh, is that true?
Travis: -- the Strongjaw Ale shirt design, which will be on sale tomorrow at our Wondercon panel and the Geek and Sundry store as well.
Liam: That is manly.
Travis: Aged six months in a Bag of Holding. (laughter)
Laura: You can read?
Travis: Upside-down only.
Matt: Makes sense. Anyone else have any announcements they want to bring up?
Taliesin: Yeah, I can now be your companion, as of this week, in Fallout 4, if you build a robot and give it the male voice, I can be really polite to you for hours on end.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Yay!
Taliesin: You can have me be very polite. That's the only way you can have me be very polite.
Matt: You can make him very polite, and apparently be sexy Codsworth, which is the new internet thing. It's the Codsworth top with the normal legs at the bottom, and it's just sexy running Codsworth, with Taliesin's voice. So do that.
Taliesin: That horrifies me.
Chris hardwick: May I promote just a quick thing?
Matt: Of course, please!
Chris hardwick: We're doing the Nerdist panel Sunday at Wondercon, and then I'm going to do a signing right afterwards, I think 11 and 12 are the two times for that, and then, if you have a chance, I just posted on Facebook the full, unedited episode. We did a Trump v. Sanders debate on @Midnight last night, and it was really fun.
Matt: It's awesome.
Chris hardwick: And they extended it to an hour because it was so much fun, so it's on Facebook now, and just go and share it, please, because we enjoyed making it.
Matt: It's awesome, seriously.
Chris hardwick: Thank you very much.
Matt: Of course, of course, yeah, check that one out. I caught that earlier today, haphazardly, and I'm glad I did. And you'll be glad too.
Marisha: Did it trend on Twitter? That's where I saw it.
Chris hardwick: It did, yeah, last night it did and then we stuck it up today. And then a comedy special on Comedy Central, Funcomfortable, April 30th.
Matt: April 30th. Heck yeah, man, congrats. (cheering)
Matt: That'll be awesome. All righty.
Liam: Oh my gosh, 'critrole' is the code you need for free shipping if you want Wyrmwood Gaming boxes to hold your dice in them. We all have them. I have some at home. My kids love them. Critrole is the code you need for free shipping.
Travis: (belches)
Chris hardwick: I expected a bassier belch.
Travis: Yeah, I know, it comes from her, though, she's like a howitzer, it's a whole other thing.
Laura: Yeah. I'll surprise you with it, don't worry.
Travis: It'll make your shirt move, it's legit.
Matt: No, like, she'll actually surprise you, she'll wait until you're walking through a parking garage at two am and just over your shoulder (belches).
Travis: Telephone rings. Hello? (belches)
Matt: Exactly. She's good. Anyone have anything else they want to announce before we jump into the game?
Sam: I'm sitting on half a chair.
Matt: Thank you for that, Sam.
Chris hardwick: Scoot a cheek here.
Sam: No, no, I'm fine, I'm fine.
Laura: He's not fine.
Chris hardwick: It was important enough for you to bring it up, Sam.
Sam: I'm fine, Christopher.
Liam: His character is small, but he has a big personality.
Chris hardwick: How do you do this every week?
Matt: That's a good, good question.
Taliesin: Normally sedated.
Matt: All righty. So. Let's go ahead and jump into this wondrous--
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: So, to get you guys a little bit up to speed with some of the fun that's happened previously on Critical Role, our band of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, after having a horrible encounter with the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of chromatic evil dragons that has just torn through the Tal'Dorei countryside, destroying cityscape after cityscape, the party has fled and has been seeking information on how to possibly eventually topple these creatures and restore order to the land of Tal'Dorei. They began seeking these artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence that promise ancient power from wars long past that could aid them in this journey. After acquiring one, with a near-death experience by Vex'ahlia over there, they began their next step in the journey. However, as part of a recent scrying spell by Keyleth, the druid, they discovered that the Pyrah tribe of her druidic heritage, the Ashari, were decimated as their home of Pyrah was the portal to the fire elemental plane that they normally guard, was where Thordak the Cinder King, the great red dragon, tore through into this prime realm and managed to seemingly wipe out most if not all of the tribe. Vox Machina made the relatively grim journey back to the mountainside, finding it now brimming with volcanic rock and volcanic activity that previously lay dormant. Upon climbing the side of the mountain, you found remnants of the Pyrah tribe still alive, and making their way up the mountain, as damaged as they are, in hopes of sealing this now progressively swelling tear between the prime material plane and the elemental plane of fire. Not just that, there was aid that came to the Pyrah tribe. And it involved a number of Air Ashari, one of which was Korren, Keyleth's father. There was a brief, tearful exchange and reunion before the rest of you, steeling yourselves, began to walk in towards the center of the mountain's caldera, towards the remnants of the Cindergrove, the now-destroyed and sundered petrified forest, in hopes of closing this rippling tear to the elemental plane once and for all. And this is where we begin. So. The group of the six of you, gathering alongside the dozen or so Pyrah members, with various burns, Cerkonos, who is the leader of the tribe, now missing his arm, cauterized at the shoulder, all advancing forward quietly in this tense push of necessity. You can see in the distance, swirling between the trees, clusters of glowing elemental entities that are either spilling forth from this recently and have taken this landscape as their own, or are just enjoying in their-- elementals like to burn shit. And so you're seeing fire elementals wandering about, just tearing through what remains of this countryside, and let's see, you actually, Vex'ahlia-- as you guys are stepping forward, keeping an eye on these glowing distant entities, these creatures, you catch out of the corner of your eye what appears to be a number of other humanoids, a small cluster of shadowed individuals far off to the left, tucked around the bottom of a tree.
Laura: I ask everyone to wait. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: Can you look through your scope and see who that is?
Taliesin: I'll take a look.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: First roll.
Taliesin: Ooh. That's not bad. (eerie music)
Laura: The music.
Liam: The violins go south.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23. Glancing over in that direction, you see, towards one of the larger, broken petrified trees, right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, you see what appear to be a cluster of humanoids. Two of them have flesh. The other two do not. These skeletal creatures shuffle in place, clutching a blade to one side, while the other two appear to be in partially rotted states. They're mostly disinterested in their surroundings and stand there, head to the side, aimless--
Taliesin: Are they in the clothing of the natives, or do they not look to be Ashari?
Matt: From what you can tell, one of them does appear to have Ashari wardrobe. The other one does not.
Travis: -- he said in a weird way.
Taliesin: They look undead. Doesn't--
Laura: Are they from here?
Taliesin: Possibly. One looks vaguely familiar, but there's something wrong. We should proceed-- let's go up and find out what's happening. Slowly, and armed.
Matt: At this point, Korren, Keyleth's father and the head of the Air Ashari in your absence, puts his hand forth and goes, "I'm sorry, you're saying that you see along the way undead creatures."
Taliesin: Yes. There's something unnatural over in that direction. We should probably be the ones to investigate.
Matt: "All right. Given the nature of the elemental presence here, we're going to have to probably divide and attack the central place from multiple positions, otherwise they're going to have too strong of a fire-front at the edges of this border. Do you feel confident enough to handle your own sliver of this assault?"
Travis: (scoffs and laughs) Is he serious?
Marisha: Grog. I believe we can handle it.
Laura: We don't have a lot of magic wielders with us, though.
Matt: "That's all right--"
Sam: (clears throat) I'm pretty good.
Laura: A lot of magic wielders.
Travis: Yeah, you're better than good, buddy.
Taliesin: You're okay.
Matt: "Well, we'll keep an eye out. We'll have two of our druids overhead, keeping eyesight. If anything goes wrong, signal up there. You know how, Keyleth. And we'll send them down to aid you. All right."
Laura: Sounds good.
Matt: "The air Ashari will come from the northeast. Cerkonos, take the rest of your tribe, head from the west. You, continue on forward. If this troupe you've found of seemingly lifeless entities looks even remotely dangerous, do not engage. They are not our target. But if this is a scourge that has spread into the Cindergrove, I fear we may be in worse shape than I had originally envisioned. Regardless, stay silent, stay swift." He looks back to the rest of the Air Ashari, and all of them, their outer form shimmers as the wind begins to collect around their feet, ever so quietly, and they all with an intense speed begin to trek at an incredible pace, seemingly blending in with the rock surroundings as they go, disappearing around one side of the Cindergrove forest. Cerkonos and the others nod. Cerkonos looks to the rest of you, brings up his one hand and gives a touch to the top of his chest and sternum and bows his head and goes, "I wish you all great luck. See you on the inside." And the rest of the fire Ashari turn into burning fire elemental forms and begin to streak through the various broken rocks and pieces of glass-shattered obsidian that peppered this landscape in the caldera, leaving the six of you ready to trek forward yourself.
Travis: Scanlan, can you do that?
Sam: Ah, no. No, and I don't think I could learn.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Perfect. So.
Marisha: Let's go.
Laura: Avoid the skeletons?
Marisha: Avoid the skeletons.
Taliesin: Let's take a look, at least.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: We're supposed to make sure they're not part of something larger that's heading in--
Laura: They're in the way, Keyleth.
Marisha: Did you not just hear my father--
Taliesin: He said if they don't bother us, to leave them alone, but that we should just check to make sure that they're not part of something.
Laura: Are they in the path at all, do they look like they're going to be near us when we go?
Matt: They look like, wherever you're traveling-- because there's an open expanse of about 80 or so feet before you actually reach the edge of the Cindergrove, and they're right on the outskirts of the Cindergrove forest, so lest you're very careful, they would technically see you if they're paying attention.
Travis: Yes!
Taliesin: Tread gently and see if they react.
Marisha: Do you have Pass Without a Trace, Vex?
Laura: I do. But, Keyleth, the minute we start fighting, they will notice us, and then they'll attack us from behind.
Taliesin: So it would be best to get their attention now when everything's quiet.
Marisha: We also don't want to waste all of our abilities on undead.
Taliesin: There's only two, maybe four of them.
Matt: There's four of them.
Liam: That we see.
Marisha: Why don't we just tread that way, and we'll see what happens.
Taliesin: That's exactly what we're saying.
Sam: What could happen?
Laura: I guess I use Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Taliesin: You did.
Marisha: Did we already have it?
Laura: Did we already have it? From last time?
Matt: As long as you're maintaining your concentration, how long does it last for? Concentration? I believe it--
Laura: It holds for up to an hour.
Matt: An hour, yeah, so you can still be under that effect.
Laura: Sweet.
Matt: So I would like all six of you to roll stealth checks for me, if you could.
Travis: With triple advantage?
Matt: No. Just the plus ten. Which is better than advantage.
Marisha: Triple advantage.
Travis: 25.
Taliesin: 30.
Marisha: 28.
Liam: 38.
Laura: 30.
Matt: 38--
Sam: 14. (laughter)
Matt: With plus ten?
Sam: With the plus ten.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Incredible.
Sam: Tra-la-la-la-la.
Matt: So as the entire group bends down into a ninja-like stance, just darting across as fast as they can, keeping low to the ground and using much of the shadow of the overhead clouds and smoke that has completely engulfed the above skyscape, behind you, bounding very loudly, is a gentle gnome, swishing brown hair--
Sam: I'm trying to do that thing that the Ashari just did.
Matt: Right. It's not working.
Liam: Hot, hot, hot.
Matt: And as you're darting across, you're jumping over little open globules of molten lava that is starting to pour out from various crevices in the stone floor, you try to hop around to avoid that, and in doing so, your foot catches the edge of a piece of stone, and you begin to go into a tumble. Make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Oh, yes. Mm-hm. Oh, disadvantage, because I'm exhausted.
Matt: You are.
Laura: Oh, shit. I forgot about that.
Liam: The honest gnome.
Sam: Okay. 14.
Matt: (laughs) You do manage to catch yourself, with a slight tumble, skid a bit on your ass, and land on your feet. It would've been a cool three-point landing if anyone else had attempted it, but you just barely catch yourself, look back at the group with a sheepish grin, and out of the corner of your eye, you see one of the undead entities turn its head and look right in your direction.
Laura: (whispering) Good job, Scanlan.
Sam: (whispering) I think it saw Grog.
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: It starts wandering in your direction.
Sam: Should we engage or keep going?
Marisha: I'm afraid if we engage, it could draw attention to an entire slew of what could be around.
Taliesin: Let's just put it down quietly.
Marisha: All right, Jesus Christ.
Taliesin: No magic.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Just weapons.
Laura: No guns.
Taliesin: No guns. I pull my sword.
Marisha: Vex, you might be the most capable of this.
Laura: I shoot it with an arrow.
Matt: All right, roll for an attack.
Laura: Okay. Just going for it. Okay.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: I'm literally, I think I cursed myself sometime between here and San Francisco.
Taliesin: The d20s talk to each other and they know that you're not true.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Can I attack on her heels when she's done?
Matt: At this distance, it'll take a little bit to rush up if you want to--
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: I'll say at this point they're roughly 60 feet from you, so if you wanted to--
Liam: That's my distance.
Matt: Oh, if you go full speed, you can.
Marisha: Daggers.
Matt: Oh, throwing it.
Laura: 15 damage.
Matt: 15 damage. On which one, the skeleton or--
Laura: Oh, that's sneak attack, right? Because I'm hidden.
Matt: It would be from you, yes. The--
Laura: Extra two.
Matt: What? Extra two. Okay. Is this against one of the zombies or one of the skeletons?
Laura: I was doing the one that was walking towards us, I thought the other ones were still in the area--
Matt: All right, then that would be one of the zombies.
Laura: Yeah, okay.
Matt: All right. The arrow streaks through the air, slamming into the chest, and it embeds itself, causing a piece of tendon to snap and curl back inside the torso. Its arm falls a little more limp than it was previously, and it just keeps walking forward.
Laura: I hide.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a stealth check. You--
Liam: They're all grouped together?
Matt: Three of them are grouped together by the tree. The one that noticed is slowly wandering toward you.
Liam: All right, so I'm going to throw at that one as well.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 39. Stealth.
Matt: All right.
Liam: I'm just going to throw one, and just to check, I'm hidden, yeah?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So this is Assassinate, I have advantage because it hasn't gone yet, and it's a crit because I'm surprising it.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. With that, as this zombie entity is hobbling forward, the dagger strikes it right in the center of the skull, right where its mouth and jaw hinge hit, severs the base of the skull to the spine, and the head just rolls off onto the ground underneath. The body takes two more steps before falling forward.
Laura: Yeah, do they all-- did any of the other ones notice that?
Matt: All the other undead creatures all of a sudden turn into the forest, as opposed to towards where the death happened--
Laura: Ah, shit.
Matt: And you see running out from the forest towards you, a blue-skinned humanoid, rushing out, arms in the air.
Chris hardwick: (in an Irish accent) Stop, stop, stop what you're doing! Stop it! What have you done? What have you fucking done? It wasn't hurting anybody! I don't understand it. Jesus Christ, these are not easy to make.
Travis: Are we killing this one?
Sam: No, no, don't kill him, he's precious.
Chris hardwick: What did I do?
Sam: Who are you? Who are you?
Chris hardwick: Who are you, you're fucking shooting at me, you're asking me questions!
Sam: But these are zombies, these are undead, these are creatures of evil!
Laura: They were attacking us, they were attacking him!
Chris hardwick: These were in my employ.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Well, you should keep a leash on them, then.
Chris hardwick: That would be inhumane, wouldn't it?
Sam: They're not human.
Chris hardwick: Well, they were, that's very disrespectful of you, I don't appreciate it.
Liam: Are they pets? Are they friends? Where were you--
Chris hardwick: They're friend-pets.
Liam: You have to be around, though. To keep an eye on them.
Chris hardwick: I know, but I've been traveling out here for a while, and so they provide a layer of protection. Certainly not great now. Now they were four, now there's three.
Liam: Well, listen, when we see these things without an owner around, we take them out, I'm sorry, it's pretty standard.
Sam: This can't be the first time this has happened.
Chris hardwick: It does happen quite a lot, actually, yes. Now that I think about it, it's probably a little bit on me, I suppose.
Sam: Can you make them vests or something that says 'service'?
Chris hardwick: That's a nice idea, as I'm a vest-maker.
Laura: Put them in a bright color, put a happy mask on them or something, so people know they're nice.
Chris hardwick: Certainly, yeah, yeah, masks and vests, that's a great idea.
Matt: You see agreeing before you a blue-scaled dragonborn. If you would like to describe yourself for the party.
Chris hardwick: Yes, sorry, I forgot. Where are my manners? My name is Gern Blanston.
Sam: No, it's not.
Chris hardwick: It's Gern Blanston.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Chris hardwick: This one's very rude.
Travis: He is.
Chris hardwick: You look exhausted.
Sam: This volcano-- do you live near here? This volcano really takes the piss out of you.
Chris hardwick: No, no, no, I don't live near here. Listen, I've been traveling, I'm a simple candlemaker.
Sam: What are you doing on top of a volcano?
Chris hardwick: A volcano is nature's candle! What a stupid question.
Laura: You make candles, but you also make undead?
Chris hardwick: Yes. They're-- yes. They're like people-candles.
Laura: Can I insight and see if he's telling the truth?
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Our lives are so bizarre now.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. He's telling the truth.
Chris hardwick: Why is my brain tingling? Is someone noodling around inside there?
Matt: She eyes you up and down, trying to get a feel for whether or not you're who you say you are.
Chris hardwick: I make special candles. I make special candles. I'm searching for some magical items up here in this volcano. I understand there was a wee bit of damage not long ago from a dragon that had torn through the region, and so I'm just searching for scraps to make these simple candles. That's why-- this is my dance vest. I think dancing is very important. I'm alone most of the time, it keeps me occupied. They have no appreciation for the arts, these undead creatures that are friend-pets, and, you know, I've just been digging around up here, seeing what I can scrounge up and find. What are you lot?
Travis: Wait, are they special candles or are they simple candles?
Chris hardwick: Well, some are simple. Some just create light, and others create tragedy for people.
Sam: They're magical candles?
Chris hardwick: Yes, in a word. Actually, magic is the perfect word.
Marisha: Who exactly is the patronage of your candle business? Who do you sell to?
Chris hardwick: I mean, I sell to no one in particular, really. I have to be a little choosy about who gets the candles, but it's something that I've crafted over the years.
Sam: Well, we feel dreadful about killing one of your pets.
Marisha: I'm so sorry.
Sam: Perhaps we can purchase a candle off of you to make amends.
Chris hardwick: Well, maybe you could just kill someone else, and then I could just bring them back, I mean, that would be a wonderful way to repay.
Laura: Well, you know what, we're on our way to do just that thing.
Chris hardwick: Really?
Marisha: Things do tend to die around us a lot.
Travis: Something larger things, sometimes smaller things.
Sam: Would you like a body to reanimate or something?
Marisha: You might get something even bigger.
Chris hardwick: Are you inviting me to come along with you?
Sam: I don't know. Are we?
Chris hardwick: Did I just invite myself to come along with you?
Travis: Well maybe, like, if you give us one of those tragedy candles, we can always light it for somebody. That could be good down the road.
Marisha: Oh, like candles for funerals? That's sad. We do have a lot of tragedy.
Travis: We bake somebody a cake, we shove a candle in the top, and we give it to them.
Chris hardwick: I don't think that would be a grand idea unless you didn't like the person very much.
Travis: Well, that's what I meant, yeah.
Chris hardwick: Well, I think for now I'll just hold onto the candles I have and just see how things pan out. I really don't know any of you.
Sam: We're Vox Machina, a traveling band of adventurers led by me, Scanlan Shorthalt, and these are my compatriots. We're on a very important mission to get-- what are we doing?
Marisha: We're trying to close this giant rift that we're walking into.
Sam: We have to break something big and scary.
Chris hardwick: What's your name again?
Sam: Scanlan Shorthalt.
Chris hardwick: No, what's the name of your group?
Laura: Vox Machina.
Chris hardwick: No offense, but that sounds like a shite band.
Laura: Thank you.
Chris hardwick: Are you musicians?
Taliesin: It's better than Tragedy Candle, really, I mean that's a shite band, to be fair.
Chris hardwick: (laughs) They opened for Vox Machina. They were fantastic. Oh, am I not thinking of the right thing? That's all right.
Sam: I'm a musician.
Chris hardwick: Excellent.
Sam: But these people, they can't really hold a tune so much.
Chris hardwick: Listen, seeing as how that you've killed one of my undead thralls, it'd be really nice if I could join you to see if maybe we can scrounge up some other things along the way.
Laura: Then you'll help us?
Chris hardwick: I mean, we'll see how it pans out, but I feel like everything would come to an abrupt ending if I just walked away at this point.
Laura: It would be very strange.
Chris hardwick: Thoroughly unsatisfying for anyone else who might be witnessing this exchange.
Sam: Your undead pets, are they going to try and eat our brains or anything?
Chris hardwick: No, no, they're just fine. That right there is Coral, and that's Stimpy, and that's Fatty Arbuckle.
Sam: Who was the one that we killed?
Chris hardwick: Oh, that was Carol. Very sad, very sad indeed.
Laura: Carol and Coral?
Chris hardwick: Carol and Coral. I get them confused.
Marisha: Were they sisters?
Chris hardwick: No, no, no, they were not initially related, but we became a makeshift family after a while.
Sam: Oh, that's very beautiful.
Chris hardwick: I notice subtle differences that most of the living doesn't notice.
Travis: Aren't we supposed to be doing something really like--
Laura: Yeah, tell you what, Gern, we're actually--
Liam: It's dangerous around us, I don't know--
Laura: We should probably press on, and you can join us with your family.
Chris hardwick: Please, that would be very nice.
Travis: What was your name, one more time?
Chris hardwick: Gern Blanston.
Travis: Yeah, okay.
Chris hardwick: Gern.
Travis: Well, let's go, let's move along then, Gern, yeah? You good to come along with your herd of--
Sam: Can you fight and stuff in case shit goes down?
Marisha: If you make magical candles, you must know a little bit of magic, correct?
Chris hardwick: I'm a little bit better of a spellcaster than I am a fisticuffs type of person.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Perfect. We're short on magic people. That's wonderful.
Chris hardwick: Excellent. No offense.
Sam: All taken.
Travis: We move along.
Laura: Are we still trying to stealth? Or does it even matter?
Liam: Your dead things don't stealth, I would assume?
Chris hardwick: They're not very delicate, unfortunately. No, no, they're really for protection. Now, the zombies can really take a lot of damage to the front of the chest and the skeletons are quite quick, actually. So, you know. They've been fairly good for a while.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: We head towards the thing.
Travis: Stealthily.
Chris hardwick: To the thing!
Travis: Shush! Stealthily.
Chris hardwick: (whispering) To the thing!
Matt: Go ahead and make a stealth check, if you don't mind, Gern.
Laura: Does my Pass Without a Trace work on him too, does it like envelop him--
Matt: Nope. He wasn't there when you cast it.
Chris hardwick: 11.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: 11?
Taliesin: He's not under Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: No, and then-- No. As you guys begin stealthily, there is a couple of (footfalls) heavy footfalls of the lumbering dragonborn.
Chris hardwick: These old dragon feet--
Matt: No tail on this one.
Sam: What happened to your tail?
Chris hardwick: Please don't ask me about that.
Sam: Okay, I won't.
Matt: The only other dragonborn you've seen without a tail was the paladin that worked in the Council. Tofor Brotorus. So, that does catch your attention a little bit. Not just the dragonborn lumbering, but now the three undead that are (groaning) stepping behind.
Laura: They're worse than Trinket, Scanlan.
Marisha: I don't know. I don't know if stealth is going to be a thing, going forward.
Taliesin: (whistling)
Travis: Yeah! (whistles)
Laura: Okay.
Chris hardwick: Sorry, these dragon lips can't whistle. Mostly just fire comes out.
Matt: And it's at that point you hear the cracking of what sounds like heavy timber, no more than 30 feet away from you. You all stop in place suddenly and you glance over and you can see the flickering of light of what appears to be a flame-based elemental energy that's tearing over the side of a newly fallen petrifoid-- petrifoid-- (mocking Chris' accent) petrifoid tree, look what you've done to me! This is your fault!
Travis: Gern, son of a bitch.
Chris hardwick: Purple hearts, green stars! Purple hearts.
Sam: Seen some shit.
Chris hardwick: Special veteran's edition of Lucky Charms.
Matt: Very, very Lucky Charms.
Chris hardwick: Very Lucky Charms.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: So!
Taliesin: Well, that got dark.
Matt: Yeah, how about that?
Liam: Back to normal, then, eh?
Taliesin: Yeah, okay.
Matt: So. As the flame begins to trickle and burn over the edge, you can see there is an intelligence to it. There are a couple of arms that writhe over the side and the head pops over and glances, and stops in place, frozen, staring over in the direction of the bounding dragonborn.
Marisha: It's a fire elemental?
Matt: It's smaller than what you're used to seeing, but it is indeed a creature made of elemental flame.
Marisha: Would he be considered a primordial?
Matt: It would be considered an elemental.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay. So you're using your transform--
Marisha: Seeing it, I'm going to transform and go into my fire elemental.
Travis: Is this the first time you've done that?
Laura: No no, she's done that.
Marisha: Is this the first time I've been fire elemental?
Matt: I think it's the first time you've been fire elemental, yeah?
Laura: Really?
Marisha: Yeah, learned from Cerkonos, yeah.
Matt: So, you guys watch as Keyleth's form suddenly erupts into flame, which freaks you out for a second, as you're uncertain as to whether or not she did that.
Travis: Keyleth! Are you all right?
Marisha: In fire elemental, just like--
Laura: Does it still look like Keyleth or-- what does it look like?
Matt: It has for a moment, an essence of Keyleth's more lithe form that most elementals would, but still these long, curling flame like-arms, these eyes that glow a bright white fire in the center of the face. Other than that, relatively formless other than what looks like where her hair would be, these wisps of flame curl up behind her.
Laura: Pretty freaking sick. Can you talk to it?
Marisha: That's what I'm going to go do.
Matt: So as you approach the elemental form--
Marisha: So I approach and I'm going to do the animal instinct thing and poof up and make myself a little big.
Matt: The creature behind the form, you can see, is drifting away from the trunk of the tree.
Marisha: Oh, it's running from me?
Matt: It's turned away and is moving away from you, yeah.
Sam: That was easy.
Marisha: Deuces. And I roll back.
Laura: I thought we were supposed to keep them from coming out into this world.
Marisha: Are we-- wait. Are we in the fire plane yet?
Matt: No no, you're just-- you're in the caldera to--
Marisha: Oh, we're in the caldera.
Matt: Yeah, you haven't traversed the plane. You're making your way into the remnants of the Cindergrove.
Laura: Maybe you should ask it to go back.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to say "Halt!" in Ignan. Which I'm assuming it speaks.
Matt: You guys hear in the distance this echo of this weird sucking-crackling sound that goes-- It halts for a second, looks over its shoulder and then goes into double speed, disappearing into the trees. Away from you.
Travis: Kind of following your lead here.
Marisha: I follow after it and I say, in the name of the guardians of this realm, you will stop!
Matt: Okay, as you follow it past the initial treeline, it's where a bunch of trees have fallen over and formed a small blockade in this portion of the forest. You glance over as you're shouting that and you can see what appear to be another of the same small elemental that this one has gone to, to have a brief conversation. Beyond that, you see a larger one, roughly your size, that has just turned around and noticed your presence, and all of them look over at what appears to be another humanoid creature, but instead of a lower torso of legs, it's an elongated snake-like body, its black and red scales across its entire form, two human arms and a humanoid face but these webbed red spines down its entire back.
Sam: Gern, is that one of yours? That's you, Gern. Gern.
Chris hardwick: No, I don't know who this is. I don't-- I'm not familiar. I'm not familiar with who this is.
Laura: I take my potion of fire resistance.
Chris hardwick: I could send them a present in the form of a candle, if you prefer.
Laura: Do it.
Matt: At this point in time, Keyleth, as you're standing there, looking over this edge, they all turn and the creature, the weird-- I'll say it-- a salamander-like creature, begins shouting out phrases in Ignan, which you understand. It says, "Go! He's not here yet! Alleviate this uncontrolled one!" At which point, they all begin to swarm towards you.
Marisha: At which point I'm going to do a fire intimidation tactic. I'm going to do a fire radial thing. And I'm going to say, as the leader of this realm, as the Kaitaki of the Fire Nation, you will heed my word.
Chris hardwick: Quite dramatic, isn't she?
Matt: As you guys are watching this from a distance, all you hear is (guttural noises). It's really confusing and a little hilarious, to be honest.
Laura: I think it's going well.
Matt: I need you to make an intimidation check.
Marisha: No, that one fails me a lot.
Travis: Yeah, sure it fails you.
Matt: What you got, Keyleth?
Marisha: It does! Shut up, Travis. Natural 20!
Travis: Ha. Thought I made a point.
Matt: All right. As this happens, the two smaller elementals shrink down and glance over at the larger one. The larger one looks about and shouts back at you in Ignan, once again: "Do you serve him?"
Marisha: It doesn't matter who I serve, for I am above him. I am your master now. This is not your realm. Get back into the fire plane. Where you came from.
Matt: He looks back at the long snake-like humanoid who's standing there who glances at the other one and goes, "She wants us back. Very well." And they all turn around and begin to slowly drift back towards the center of the Cindergrove where the flickering light was.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Laura: Good job, Keyleth!
Travis: We don't know what happened, why are we clapping?
Laura: They're turning around, they're heading back in that direction!
Marisha: I fly back over to them, still in fire elemental form--
Liam: Whoa whoa whoa!
Marisha: And I'm like  You guys! Did you see that! It was really crazy! Did you see? Did you see? They think I'm their leader! They think I'm their god!
Travis: Is she talking in normal, or is she talking in the (flickering flames).
Matt: (flickering flames)
Travis: Yeah, no idea what you're doing or saying.
Laura: You're very scary right now, dear.
Chris hardwick: Is she going to be sick?
Travis: I think so. I might have to tackle you if you don't calm the fuck down.
Marisha: I chill out. I chill out, I can't revert back, though, guys, because I want to stay in this.
Matt: So the fire elemental is just like (calm whoosh). And it's more of a smoldering sad elemental at the moment.
Marisha: I give them a fire thumbs-up.
Matt: There you go. Strong sad elemental.
Liam: First word. Two syllables.
Travis: So, they're going back. Do we move on?
Laura: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to take off, leading in my fire elemental form, deeper towards the rift. Keeping my eye out for any elementals that might be escaping.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is her game.
Travis: Yeah, but it's on fire.
Matt: Go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
Laura: What?
Chris hardwick: 18.
Matt: Okay. Vex, make a perception check.
Travis: Roll high.
Laura: Pressure!
Taliesin: Use one of your good dice.
Laura: Perception.
Liam: And roll bad.
Laura: Shut up.
Taliesin: Should've used the good dice.
Laura: 30. No. 28.
Matt: 28?
Sam: Yep! Wait, are you exhausted?
Matt: Yeah, you are.
Laura: On everything?
Matt: Skill check. Roll again.
Laura: No, even better!
Travis: Even better.
Liam: So it's the earlier.
Matt: So it's the earlier one, yeah. Okay. You just see, as you're all just walking along, your new blue dragonborn friend just reaches down and snatches something from the dirt, pockets it and keeps walking.
Laura: I follow behind him and keep watching him. Can I see what it was?
Matt: You have no idea. You just see a little cluster of ash and dust on the ground that's been partially disturbed. All right. As you continue to press forward, you hear in the distance a loud cracking sound echoing, and you can see what appear to be a number of trees in the far-off side to the northeastern side of the forest, as a brief whirlwind flickers up. You assume this is probably from the Fire Ashari, who've taken that side of the entranceway, and you can see two flickering lights drift up in the air before sparking out in the distance.
Travis: Ooh, really?
Laura: Should we let them know we're in place, then?
Marisha: I'll throw up a Skywrite. Or actually, as a fire elemental, can I just be like (fire flares) in fire elemental form?
Matt: I mean, you can make some localized fire happen.
Marisha: Can I send up a little bit like a flare?
Matt: Not in the way you would want to, you'd have to drop form for that and cast a spell.
Marisha: Fuck.
Laura: I'm going to set an arrow on fire and shoot it up in the air.
Marisha: I don't realize she's doing it.
Matt: Okay. As you go ahead and take the arrow-- What do you have around the edge that are going to-- are you just going to light the shaft on fire?
Laura: No, I'm going to tie some of my cloth from-- you know-- that I have-- The thing.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I take some cloth from the Bag of Holding, from one of those old fancy cloaks that we have.
Travis: Better ask first.
Laura: (sighs) Seriously?! Can I have some of the fancy cloak? Grog, out of the Bag of Holding, please?
Travis: Oh, are you hot right now? It's so weird.
Laura: Jesus Christ. Please.
Travis: Oh, all right. Fancy cloak.
Matt: There you go. The arrow arcs off. Vanishes across the little bit of the remaining treeline.
Laura: No idea if they saw that.
Matt: All right. Do you guys continue to press forward?
Marisha: Hold for a second. And wait for Team Three's response?
Sam: There's a third team?
Marisha: Right, there's a third team. Three teams, right?
Laura: All the other teams already responded. We were the third.
Marisha: Oh! One, two, we were three. Okay, yeah.
Matt: Okay. You begin to push further forward towards the center of the Cindergrove, as you're noticing more and more of these trees are pushed flat. It's almost like that Russian forest the meteor had landed in and exploded; all the trees are flattened--
Chris hardwick: Tunguska.
Matt: Think Tunguska, thank you. Where you begin to climb over a number of these flattened portions of the forest, and in the center you can see that one river of molten rock that had been trickling down the front of the mountain is sourced here in the center, where once previously you guys had performed a ritual to pass into the elemental plane, has now torn into this extremely bright rift that flickers. It's like looking into the sun, you have to avert your gaze; you cannot look directly at it without actually hurting your eyesight. And you can see, there are multiple paths of this molten lava, pouring out from this new volcanic activity. You can see it burbling up and bubbling underneath, like the very presence of this tear itself is causing the activity to just raise and grow more fervent. At the base of the rift, you can see a number of other elemental creatures that are in the process of surrounding this opening-- (door creak)
Matt: -- and you can-- Everything all right, Ryan?
Ryan: I am not here.
Matt: You're not here, okay?
Sam: You don't know.
Matt: I don't know.
Chris hardwick: You guys see him too?
Matt: Perfect. As you can see, all these elemental entities are swirling around. There are two more of these strange, snake-like humans, these salamander-like creatures that are discussing, and one really large one that stands there holding this strange trident-like structure, and it's shouting out commands left and right, and you can see these salamander entities and a number of these elementals are all gathered around the portal, and they're all just focusing this slow, steady beam towards it. And as you can see it tearing, flickering and slowly expanding with each popping expansion of this doorway, the ground itself shifts and rumbles.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark the big one.
Matt: All right.
Chris hardwick: Can I send a candle?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah.
Chris hardwick: All right, what am I looking at, here? Fire? There's a bit of fire?
Matt: There's a lot of fire. Most of these entities are either fire essence or just made out of straight flame.
Chris hardwick: I'd like to call over the skeleton known as Fatty Arbuckle. I'd like to give Fatty Arbuckle an Ice Storm Candle.
Matt: All right.
Chris hardwick: And ask him to kindly deliver it to the center of this melee that's happening just up ahead.
Sam: Won't that kill your friend?
Chris hardwick: Oh. He's had a good run.
Taliesin: I'm feeling a lot less guilty, suddenly.
Chris hardwick: Well, I can do it! What I don't appreciate is when other people do it.
Sam: That's fair. That's fair.
Chris hardwick: You know, it's my choice. Never said it was okay for you to start lighting them up with arrows. Jesus Christ, whoever that is.
Laura: I'm Vex'ahlia, nice to meet you.
Matt: Fatty Arbuckle, skeletal claws clasped around the side of this marbled-looking, bluish-white candle, and clutches it and just goes (snarl).
Chris hardwick: Yes, off you trot, go!
Sam: You don't have to demean him as he goes.
Taliesin: I was really hoping for a Fatty Arbuckle skeleton impression. I was really, really hoping for it. What you did was cool, but like, that was just my heart.
Chris hardwick: They can't speak. They don't have voice boxes or anything.
Matt: As it shuffles forward, down this ashen pit towards the dome where the lava itself is beginning to pour forth and the doorway is, you can see the shadow of its form as the light passes. It looks like the cover of The Thing, how it's just bright light coursing past this dark image of the skeleton, walking away from you.
Laura: Maybe we should duck down, so that nobody knows where that came from.
Chris hardwick: Oh, yes, get ten feet back, I should've said that already.
Matt: It's walked quite a distance, thankfully, at this point. It's probably a good 40 or 50 feet before it reaches the first salamander. And you see, as it begins to step forward, they all turn and look, and one of them shouts over (snarling). One of them glances over, reaches out and pulls out a long, brass-colored longbow and begins to notch an arrow carefully, as it hobbles forward. They look at each other. One of them shouts out in Ignan, which you understand, Keyleth, shouting, "You! Who walks here?" Just keeps walking forward like a little wind-up toy made of bone. Until eventually, the one with the bow gives a nudge with its head, and the other salamander entity draws a heavy-bladed object and begins to step forward towards it, ready to go ahead and cleave it. As the skeleton steps forward, it gets right at the corner of its range. Do you want to command it?
Marisha: I feel like Helen Hunt in that moment in Twister.
Chris hardwick: Squeeze the candle, Fatty Arbuckle!
Matt: At which point, the skeleton, just as the blade sweeps past and crashes into its torso, shattering the rib cage, the arms go (crack). The wax bends and cracks in the center, and there's a brief pause where nothing seems to happen. And a swirl of sudden, localized storming blizzard just encases a ten-foot radius, hitting both of those salamander creatures. What does it say on the candle specifically?
Chris hardwick: On the Ice Storm Candle. All affected must make a dexterity saving throw, DC 12, or suffer 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: That's a fail and a save. And it's half damage on success?
Chris hardwick: Half damage on success.
Matt: Great. Okay, so one of them failed and one of them saved. So go ahead and roll 4d6 damage.
Travis: Dang. I think that's a good way to start.
Chris hardwick: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh boy. Three, six, nine.
Matt: Nine? Okay, nine and five cold damage to each. So (bang) it blasts open. Oh, and a dexterity check for your buddy, who makes it! So, Fatty Arbuckle actually walks out of there with a mere five points of cold damage.
Laura: Nice, Fatty!
Matt: Out of ice and frost. His busted-open rib cage, though, he did suffer...
Liam: Super duper!
Travis: Putting on the Ritz!
Matt: Did suffer seven damage from the impact of this weapon. So Fatty Arbuckle, pretty damaged, but still standing there just going (snarling).
Chris hardwick: Keep standing, Fatty, you can do it! I love you, Fatty!
Matt: Is everyone just going to sit back at this, or--?
Laura: No, we should probably attack.
Matt: It's up to you. Or you can watch this horrible bludgeoning of this skeleton in the teeth of death.
Travis: When I see the salamander take out the big, shiny sharp thing, I go into a rage.
Laura: I hide.
Matt: All right. Travis, I assume you're going to be rushing in there, then?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Anyone who wishes to immediately go into battle now, let's roll initiative.
Taliesin: All right. I'm in on this.
Matt: All right. Let me go ahead and--
Sam: For Fatty!
Marisha: So these are all fire elementals. Should I continue--
Taliesin: Oh, hell yeah.
Chris hardwick: Ah, nice.
Laura: Should we roll for stealth again, or are we still stealthed?
Chris hardwick: I was just shouting at a skeleton.
Laura: Oh, I know, I was trying to hide, though. Like, back away from you as you were doing that.
Travis: The candle turned into a blizzard, so. Ooh!
Taliesin: Is it a candle, though? It's like a thing, like there's no--
Liam: And I mean, Gern was shouting.
Taliesin: It's a candle the way the wheelie things are hoverboards. I think it's weird.
Chris hardwick: And they also catch on fire. They also explode.
Matt: All right, so this is quite a ways away from the portal itself. Lava flow traveling around that side.
Taliesin: Oh, look at that!
Matt: All right, and we have Keyleth over here as the fire elemental.
Laura: You're at the portal.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: That's okay. We're all going to die.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: Where's the big one?
Matt: The big one that you haven't seen yet?
Laura: The big one that I Hunter's Marked.
Taliesin: That one. The one holding the tridenty thing.
Matt: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Whoa. Look at how pretty those lava bubbles look!
Sam: Is that Gern?
Matt: That's Gern right there. We have Fatty Arbuckle.
Taliesin: Fatty!
Matt: And chilling over here, we have Coral and Stimpy.
Travis: What is that crater? Is that just a crater?
Liam: I think that's the portal they were trying to--
Sam: So these are fire elementals, yes?
Matt: They seem to be fire-based creatures, yes.
Liam: Hey, DM!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: You said they were ripping open the portal? Where is that on the map?
Matt: It's back, it's this far back.
Liam: Way back, okay.
Travis: That crater's just a crater, though?
Matt: Yeah. There is a pool of magma that goes this way. You guys are on one side of it, and pushing this way further, the rest of the actual portal's back this far. All right. So, initiative order, we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Sam: 22.
Taliesin: 27.
Travis: Fucking Percy. Jesus. Every time. You motherfucker.
Taliesin: I'm fast as fuck.
Matt: Okay. 20 to 15.
Travis: 17.
Chris hardwick: 19.
Liam: 16. Carl!
Matt: All right.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. Keyleth?
Marisha: Four.
Matt: All right, great. So, top of the round, Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my pistol. I'm going to do a trick shot for the arms. Actually, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my bonus action to-- you know, actually, I'm going to hold off on that. I'm going to make an arm shot to the one with the trident.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That was my first shot. And that's 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: And that's a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is going to be a 20.
Taliesin: That just barely makes it.
Matt: Aw. The blast of your impact (bang) hits the arm. He manages to hold onto his trident-like weapon.
Taliesin: That's fine. He's going to take his damage, and then he's going to take another one of those, because eff that.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: Because eff that.
Taliesin: That's 13 points of damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage. All righty.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to take another shot.
Matt: Go for it. Scanlan, you're up on deck, by the way, so be ready.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: Strength check.
Matt: That's a nine.
Taliesin: He dropped that.
Matt: Failure. (gunshot) You see his fingers are pried off as one of his pinky fingers is actually blown off from the impact, shooting dark, deep crimson blood that seems to burn the landscape around as it drips, the trident tumbling to the ground and getting lodged in a piece of rock, almost ready to spill into part of the lava.
Taliesin: And that does seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage, all righty.
Taliesin: Third shot's going to be a sharpshooter shot.
Matt: All righty. So minus five to the attack.
Taliesin: That's probably going to miss. 14.
Matt: 14, unfortunately, misses.
Taliesin: All right. That misses. I'm going to take a run behind and hide behind that rock outcropping.
Matt: There? Okay. Got it. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I see that big thing in the back?
Matt: This big thing here? Yeah, the fire elemental. You see that.
Sam: Okay. And the thing next to Fatty Arbuckle is also a baddie, yeah? They're all baddies?
Matt: These things are all baddies here.
Sam: All right. I'm going to take 15 feet, step to my right to put me in a straight line with the guy next to Fatty and the big guy behind him. And then fire a Lightning Bolt straight ahead to hit both of them. I hope they're not immune to lightning. We'll find out.
Matt: All righty. So, and you watch out of the corner as well, Gern, you see this tiny little gnome step to the side, conjure some arcane purplish-blue energy, and then thrust his pelvis forward as a bolt of lightning energy just rockets forth, tearing--
Sam: From my penis.
Chris hardwick: Nice. Of course.
Sam: Just felt like I had to make that clear.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I don't think I've ever seen that happen before.
Taliesin: We have.
Laura: So many times.
Chris hardwick: Have to get that looked at.
Matt: Slamming both into the larger salamander creature and the elemental behind it. Go ahead and roll 8d6 damage. What's the DC on this?
Sam: Is it my spell save DC?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: With the hand-cone?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Ooh! That is a failure and a failure!
Travis: Yes!
Matt: All right. So full damage against both.
Sam: 27.
Matt: Oof. All righty. As the bolt of lightning energy tears through both of them, eventually absorbed into the stone behind them, the elemental flame form flickers and falls to the ground for a second, trying to reform itself, while the salamander looks down at this blackened, burned char mark in the center of its torso from where the bolt entered and exited out of its back to strike its compadre. Not too happy, and confused how such a large, damaging thing came from such a small little creature.
Sam: It's powerful. Then I'll turn to our new friend Gern, and I will inspire him. I'll say, please, help us, and to inspire you I will sing you a song. And I will sing--
Chris hardwick: Pretty inspired by your dick lightning, to be honest.
Sam: Oh, there's more.
Chris hardwick: You think a song's going to get better than that?
Sam: It might! It might. And so I sing (singing) To everything, Gern, Gern, Gern. There is a season, Gern, Gern, Gern. I just like to sing your name, Gern Blanston. Did that help?
Chris hardwick: Do I have to roll to determine if that was helpful or not?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Chris hardwick: Certainly.
Matt: Roll a d20 for musical taste.
Chris hardwick: Four.
Matt: Four. It catches you by the ear with delight.
Chris hardwick: It's not bad, actually. It's not bad.
Matt: Your general frustration with modern music is completely bisected by the more oldies, classical sound of his tune.
Chris hardwick: I quite enjoyed how you worked my first name into that, actually. No one's ever done that before.
Matt: So you get a d10 inspiration dice.
Chris hardwick: All right.
Matt: So just keep that on the side. If ever you make an attack roll or a saving throw that isn't as high as you want it to be, you can then roll that and add the d10 to that roll.
Chris hardwick: Okay, great.
Matt: So you just have that in the wings, as you feel inspired.
Taliesin: We'll try and remind you if something affects it.
Chris hardwick: Thank you very much. Excellent.
Matt: All right. That brings it to the elementals' turn. Now, this flame elemental is going to streak over (whoosh) to Blern who's-- or, no, sorry, this is to Fatty Arbuckle. There's too many weird names tonight. And this larger fire elemental here is going to--
Chris hardwick: Oh, Fatty. He served me well.
Sam: I don't know, he's got a fighting chance. I love that we were scrambling for d6's when we have this right in front of us.
Chris hardwick: Are there any dice around anywhere?
Sam: Where are we going to find...?
Taliesin: I'm just waiting for the hand to go in and just--
Chris hardwick: I found this polyhedral vase and I had to fill it with nine pounds of dice.
Travis: He went the long way.
Matt: He's not doing anything, he used his whole round to get there.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Matt: But now, as the larger elemental burns into the center of Scanlan, Percy, you can feel, just his presence itself is extremely, dangerously hot. The air around you is blistering. You can feel your hair curl back in its presence. The small elemental is going to go ahead and make two attacks against Fatty Arbuckle.
Chris hardwick: Ah, shite.
Matt: That's going to be a nine to hit. I think his AC's 13, so I don't think it's going to hit, yeah. Second one rolls a one.
Sam: Fatty lives!
Travis: Fatty just don't want to die.
Taliesin: Can't keep Fatty down.
Liam: Bob and weave, Fatty, bob and weave!
Chris hardwick: Don't step too hard, Fatty! You won't be able to take it!
Matt: And with that, Grog, it's your turn. So you go into your rage at the top of your turn, and then what would you like to do?
Travis: Can I use, I guess, my entire action to run towards Scanlan?
Matt: What's your speed again?
Travis: 50.
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40. You can get right there between Scanlan and this creature if you want to.
Travis: That's about it, huh?
Matt: I'd say that's your movement. You can move ten more feet if you want to.
Sam: You can leap over me.
Travis: Nah, we need to spread out. Can I go back and arc the other way? Can I run to the left as far as I can?
Matt: This way?
Travis: No, from where my starting point was.
Matt: Oh, you mean like this way instead?
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, back towards you, around the pool.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get, right there. If you do not attack anything, you would lose your rage.
Travis: I fall out of my rage, yeah. So I fall out of it. Can I throw something? I guess I can, yeah.
Matt: You can throw your weapon if you want to.
Travis: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to Craven Edge? And I'll throw it at trident-less bastard right there, yeah.
Matt: Go for it. So you watch as this muscle-bound goliath comes leaping around the corner as it affixes a chain to the edge of its weapon, flinging a two-handed sword like a giant boomerang and--
Travis: Only 14.
Matt: 14, against the larger one?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Unfortunately, it makes an impact, but it just ricochets off of its plated body armor, and then tumbles to the ground. You can go ahead and make your--
Travis: Thing to pull it back. Strength. 18.
Matt: Okay, no problem. You pull it back with the chain and catch it mid-air. Ending your turn there?
Travis: Keeping my rage.
Matt: Indeed. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, so I rev up the Boots of Haste and I'm going to run right next to Vex'ahlia, on the very edge of the map. And the fire elemental there's right up against Percy, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. I'm going to stab him three times in his fire buttocks. First one is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a 16.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is a 14.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Hits, okay. So, first one's sneak attack, so, shite. An eight-- I'll add that on at the end. Here come the dice. Two, four, seven, ten, 16, 21, 27, 28. 28 plus two is 30, 36, for that first with sneak attack damage.
Matt: Oof! His form flickers briefly for a moment from the sheer impact of the dagger hit.
Liam: Second dagger does seven, and third swipe does nine.
Matt: Nine. All righty. The two other daggers impact, partially passing through its form, not quite as impactful as the first. That first one did seemingly cause the creature to have a hard time coalescing its fire-wreathed physicality. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Gern, you're up. So you're right there.
Chris hardwick: I'm right there. How far can I run and cast a spell at the ones around Fatty?
Matt: 30 feet is how far you can run, and that's about six squares.
Chris hardwick: If I were to cast a bit of-- how about a Cone of Cold, could I cast a Cone of Cold at the fire elementals?
Matt: You could, you could very much so.
Liam: That sounds delightful.
Chris hardwick: I could cast Ice Storm, but that's a general malaise of middle-aged couples living in a neighborhood, becoming aware of their dead-end lives.
Matt: All right, so you want to move around here?
Chris hardwick: Yes, let's move around that bit right there. And I'd like to cast Cone of Cold. I might unfortunately have to take out Fatty, but--
Matt: Yeah, there's probably a good chance, this is not going to be-- After everything else Fatty's survived, his own master deals him the possible finishing blow.
Chris hardwick: I feel like I should be the one to do it.
Sam: Of course.
Chris hardwick: It's much more humane.
Sam: It's poetic.
Chris hardwick: I think so.
Marisha: You brought him into this world.
Chris hardwick: This is what Fatty would've wanted.
Matt: Everything under that area gets affected. So yeah, you could do that.
Chris hardwick: Yeah, don't worry about it. It's fine. No big thing. This old spell? I mean.
Liam: Y'all want to go to the DQ and get a cone of cold?
Matt: What's your spell DC? It should be at the top of your spell page.
Chris hardwick: It is 16.
Matt: 16, all right. And it is a constitution save, let's see if they make it. That is a failure, a failure, and a failure.
Sam: What about Fatty, did he succeed?
Matt: Oh, I'll roll for Fatty. Fatty does not succeed. Nope.
Laura: It was inevitable.
Matt: Nope. All right, go ahead and roll 8d8 points of cold damage.
Sam: Jeez. Oh man, these are not used a lot.
Chris hardwick: I have four. Let's see, I have a whole-- there's another one here... They're not that easy to get to. Two, four, six. I need two more.
Sam: Two more? Good gravy.
Chris hardwick: Is this one?
Sam: Yep.
Chris hardwick: Here's one, and... D'oh!
Laura: This is why I sort my dice at the beginning of the game...
Chris hardwick: Sorry, it sounded like there was something coming from the other side of the room.
Sam: Taliesin, you don't have a d8?
Chris hardwick: Do you have a d8 I can borrow?
Taliesin: I actually don't. I don't know what happened to my d8's. I'll buy some at the convention tomorrow.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: By the way, guys, if we hit 16k before the end of tonight's show, we're going to go ahead and have a sloth come into the studio.
Laura: What?!
Matt: 16K and a sloth!
Marisha: 16K and a sloth!
Marisha: I know! I know!
Laura: When? When?
Travis: What?
Sam: An actual sloth?
Liam: Is it going to play with us?
Laura: Can we hold it?
Travis: Focus, focus.
Chris hardwick: Seven, 14, 21, 27, 31, 34, 38, 44!
All: Oh!
Matt: 44, all...
Laura: (mocking Gern's accent) Farty-far pints o' cald damage!
Chris hardwick: I don't think I appreciate that very fucking much! I'm saving all your fucking arses out here! For crumb's sake!
Matt: As he's shouting out at you, releasing this amazing, condensed blast of pure winter hell in front of him, it comes scattering across this way, freezing the corner of this, turning partially some of the lava here to stone just by proximity, blasts past these entities, and as the arcane snow comes to rest, you can see the fire elemental here itself is having a hard time keeping itself together. Its flame is (whoosh) sputtering and flickering, barely keeping itself together. However, by its side you see three very still frozen-solid statuettes of the remnants of the two salamanders and Fatty Arbuckle. Taken by the cold of winter.
Marisha: Oh, shit. That was awesome.
Sam: Maybe you can reanimate him.
Chris hardwick: It's too late. He's no good any longer.
Sam: Freezer burn?
Chris hardwick: Move on. I have.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of remembering that, too, put a couple of: frozen, frozen, and frozen.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Let it go, let it go.
Matt: All right. I believe that ends your turn, Gern? All right. It would be the salamanders' turn, but they're frozen. Damn, they got pummeled. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Awesome. Wait, so they can unfreeze? Or are they basically frozen until something--
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: (groans) Okay. That yellow one behind me, that's Keyleth, right?
Matt: You believe so.
Laura: Okay. I know, right? I'm going to flip backwards like ten feet.
Matt: All right, right behind it.
Laura: I don't want to be around anybody else, so I'm going to flip over the lava pit and go out there.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Oh, don't burn your foot. Ooh!
Laura: That would be 38.
Matt: Without issue, you land-- not even, no. Two-point landing, on your feet, knee down, still clutching your ready-to-go bow, unscathed by the boiling cauldron of molten rock.
Laura: And I Hunter's Mark the guy attacking near Percy and Scanlan and I shoot two arrows into him.
Matt: Okay, right there. Go for it. Two attacks.
Laura: Ugh. Where is my thing? Hold on, sorry. (giggles)
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth.
Laura: 21?
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: And 17.
Matt: Both hit.
Travis: That's nice.
Laura: 17 on the first hit.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And then 18 on the second hit.
Matt: Nice! Both arrows burn to ash when they impact, but the sheer blow and the magical energy behind it from the bow that you threw it from hit it and you can see it begin to shake its form even more, itself. Did you do the Hunter's Mark damage as well?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, good. Cool. That end your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Work with me here.
Matt: Okay. All right, whatcha got, whatcha got?
Marisha: So here's what I want to do. I want to go low and dive into that lava pit in front of me.
Sam: Ooh! Sounds scary.
Marisha: And I want to-- using the lava around me to rise out of the lava and look really scary and badass, and then I'm going to shout to the living elementals, I'm going to be like, hear my warning! I am your new master! Retreat to the Fire Plane or meet your imminent demise! This is your last chance.
Sam: Pretty good. Pretty good.
Taliesin: Way better than last time.
Marisha: Thanks! Thanks, guys. And if you'd like to meet for coffee later I might be available.
Matt: I'll say, given the use of lava control in this, they are still elementals, go ahead and make a persuasion check. No, intimidate, this would be intimidate.
Marisha: Okay. Okay. That's better than my persuasion. Let's do this one, that one rolled a one. Get out of here. Get out of here. 15?
Matt: 15? You can see the smaller elemental here that just watched its friends get frozen solid, as well as whatever that skeleton was, turns towards you, and (snarls) and begins to make its way this direction.
Marisha: Away? That's cool.
Travis: Towards the portal.
Matt: Yeah. The large one doesn't seem prominently fazed by your display.
Marisha: Okay. But that one's peacing out? Do I still have an action?
Matt: I would say that whole thing of bringing up the molten rock and the shout and everything would be your action.
Taliesin: You knocked one off the plank, Keyleth.
Marisha: I knocked one off the plank.
Matt: There you go. All right, ends your turn, Keyleth, brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm toe to toe with that one right there, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, it's right up in your space.
Taliesin: It's in my space. Okay. I'm going to draw my sword, I'm going to try to do a back and forth. Let's see how this goes.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a swipe at it with my sword.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a 30. That hits.
Matt: That hits. You take nine points of fire damage, as just striking it, the flames burst back and burn towards your face and torso from the impact.
Marisha: Did I put fire resist on you? At the end of last game?
Taliesin: Yes, you did! I have fire resist on me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you take half damage.
Taliesin: So that's how much? How much fire damage?
Matt: That would be four. Four damage.
Taliesin: Four damage? Four damage. Four.
Matt: All right. And roll damage for your strike.
Taliesin: Ooh! 15 points of damage.
Matt: Hmm! All right. Do you want to make a second attack, you said? Or are you just going to keep going back and forth, what's your plan? Whatcha doing? Whatcha doing, Percy?
Taliesin: He's being a dick. I'm going to try and break away and back up, I'm going to try and roll away from him to be on the other side of the rock.
Matt: Okay. As you roll away, it's going to take an attack of opportunity at you. That is an 18 to hit?
Taliesin: My armor class is 18, but I'm going to use my shield for plus five to my AC, so that won't hit.
Matt: Okay, so you use your shield brooch, okay. As it strikes out towards you, streaking its elemental claws outward, you back away, instilling the power of the brooch, and you see an arcane shield temporarily ricochets, pushing its claw away from you. You run away unharmed to the other side of the rock.
Taliesin: Instead of going to the other side of the rock, I'm going to run straight back, and I'm just going to shoot at it as I run away. I'm going to make two more shots at it.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm going to take one more shot, because I have to reload. That's a 15.
Matt: 15 hits.
Taliesin: Wow! Holy cow.
Matt: Elementals aren't very hard to hit.
Taliesin: No, that was amazing. That's ten points of damage. And then I reload.
Matt: All right, and you reload. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Who's behind me back there, way at the edge of the map?
Matt: Over there?
Laura: That's Vax.
Sam: That's Vax? Oh, he'll be fine. Okay, I don't want to be near this thing, probably. Right?
Matt: That's your call.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to take a step towards Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And away from Gern, right? So is Gern 15 feet away from me yet, so far?
Matt: He's 15 feet from you, yeah.
Sam: Okay. So I will then cast Thunderwave, which should not hit Gern, but will hit Vax.
Matt: Is that a 15-foot radius?
Sam: It's a 15-foot cube.
Matt: Cube, so you can just make the cube here, and it'll hit none of them.
Sam: Oh! Oh, great. I'll do that. And I'll do it at level two. Thunderwave.
Matt: All right, level two Thunderwave. Coming on up. Oh, it's a self. A 15-foot cube originating from you, so yeah, so you can hit that guy.
Sam: Yeah, originating from me.
Matt: All right, cool. So, level three, that's 3d8, let's see if it makes its constitution saving throw. It does not, not with a natural seven. So go ahead and roll your damage, 3d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Not very much -- Ooh! That's pretty good. 20.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: 20! How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Scanlan Shorthalt!
Sam: I send the Thunderwave out by cracking my knuckles, and as I do so, I do: ahem, Gern, might want to check this out.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I'm looking at something over here.
Sam: Gern!
Chris hardwick: I'll be with you in just a minute, I'm dealing with something.
Sam: Gern, I'm doing something really cool here.
Chris hardwick: I'll be with you in just a minute.
Sam: Fuck. So I do it anyway but with a scowl on my face.
Chris hardwick: All right, what did I miss?
Sam: Fuck!
Chris hardwick: Oh, I was just, why didn't you wait? I just said a minute.
Sam: Oh, forget it, you had to be there.
Chris hardwick: All right. I was here, but you didn't-- you should've told me.
Matt: You even missed your own Thunderwave spell, you were so distracted with your frustration. You look back, you cracked your knuckles, and it's gone, but you didn't see it happen and it's a little disappointing overall.
Sam: I kick the dirt.
Matt: All right. You guys look over as this elemental runs off towards the glowing doorway you see further down this passage. It's not that far away from you, but you do see the flickering doorway that's like (sputtering). You can see other entities beginning to step out of it, and you can see one larger form. It looks fiery, humanoid, just (crackling) comes out, lower body made of ash and cinders.
Marisha: I rush that way and look for my other tribe. Can I see any of my other tribemates?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: You're running at them.
Travis: So if they're frozen, does that mean they're dead?
Matt: You can go find out.
Laura: They'll probably melt eventually.
Travis: Yeah, can I walk over there close to them?
Marisha: That's better. That one keeps fucking me. What'd you say? Perception?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Currently, from where you stand--
Marisha: No, sorry, sorry. 24.
Matt: 24. From where you stand, you can look off in the distance, you can see parts of the treeline across, down the Cindergrove, shifting and moving, and you hear the distant sounds of combat, but you do not have a visual perspective. It looks like the other teams have not quite made their way to the center. You're actually the first team to get here. And you made your way around a possible encounter, and in doing so, arrived before the other teams did. However, it looks like a secondary line of defense is now pouring out of this doorway.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Can I make my way to the two frozen statue-types?
Matt: There's three statues, actually.
Travis: Or three of 'em, yeah.
Matt: Including Fatty Arbuckle.
Travis: Fatty Arbuckle. Can I make my way over to one of them and-- should I just make sure they're dead?
Laura: Yeah, just push 'em over, smash them.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, can I push Trident-dick over?
Matt: Yeah. As you shove-- and it's a pretty heavy form, especially with the ice that's, you know, formed around the body--
Travis: Come on.
Matt: --but not too hard for you, Grog, because you're Grog. You give a little shove, and as it topples over, it just shatters into 100 pieces.
Travis: Ooh, like the T-1000.
Liam: What?
Travis: Yeah, I dunno.
Laura: Do the other one now.
Travis: Oh yeah, can I go over and do the other one, like, (giggles).
Matt: Yeah. This time, you give this one a full push, this one actually gets about ten feet in the air.
Marisha: Cow-tipper!
Matt: Before scattering across the ground, pieces of it actually spilling into the molten lava. And there stands, frozen in place, Fatty Arbuckle, chest destroyed, arm limp to the side, just--
Travis: Can I pick him up and walk him back over to Gern and go: sorry.
Matt: You see the half-giant goliath handing you the frozen body of your skeletal friend.
Chris hardwick: Well, I don't know what I'm supposed to do with this, now.
Travis: You don't want him?
Chris hardwick: I mean, he's not very-- maybe we could have a quick burial.
Laura: You could hang a coat on him.
Chris hardwick: So we basically would just carry him around as a coat-rack.
Liam: Don't we have company incoming?
Laura: We have a Bag of Holding. Oh, there's a giant monster. I Hunter's Mark it. Is it close by?
Matt: We'll get to that as soon as we come back from this break. We're going to take a quick bathroom break and we'll see you guys back here in about ten minutes or so to continue this next step in the adventure. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Last we left off, the party was making their way towards the center of the caldera where the portal torn open to the fire elemental plane resides over a flow of molten rock pouring in three directions from the center of the mountain. Seeing a number of entities swirling around, and some pouring forth from this open doorway, Vox Machina and their current temporary ally by the traveling dragonborn wizard/necromancer/candlemaker named Gern Blanston have made their way in this direction. Now, before we start, just to remind you guys, I guess we're getting pretty close to 16k subscribers, and when we hit 16k something with a sloth is going to happen.
Laura: Not tonight, though.
Matt: No, not, I don't think tonight.
Sam: We have a sloth on standby.
Matt: There will be a sloth apparently that will come here for 16k and a sloth. And if you want to watch Laura freak out--
Laura: Ah, so much!
Matt: Also, we have a giveaway winner for the evening; ToastKingJr is the winner of tonight's Critical Role giveaway, congratulations. Well done, you, we'll be sending you a lot of fun goodies your way very shortly, so--
Chris hardwick: Our regards to ToastKing senior.
Matt: Oh yes; well, you've made him proud. Make sure to let him know. We'll give him a little a little pipe or something inside too, it'll be good. All right, so you guys gather yourselves, stepping through the battlefield you had just encountered, the shattered and slowly melting pieces of ice that once were some of these fire elemental denizens scattered around your feet, you step forward as you see the somewhat human, somewhat flame-based entity come pouring out of the void, surrounded by other elementals, and one of the other standing salamander general-type individuals. You can see--
Marisha: This is coming out of the rift?
Matt: Yes, coming out of the rift.
Laura: Is that behind him, is that what the--
Matt: This is the actual doorway right there.
Marisha: Oh, and so this is a pool of lava that they're coming out of?
Matt: Yes, this is all molten--
Marisha: Molten fire plane, more or less?
Matt: Well, this is actual lava from the inside of the mountain that has been called forth and cracked through the surface, because of the presence of the tear.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Chris hardwick: Probably fine.
Travis: Probably. I don't think this will be bad
Taliesin: We did not take a short rest, did we?
Matt: No, you did not.
Taliesin: There has been no time.
Marisha: I'm going to, and upon seeing this, drop my fire elemental form and I say: oh shit, I have a feeling this is the 'him' they were talking about. And I have a feeling he's not going to believe that I'm the real new master. So there's that.
Laura: So do some cold stuff, like this guy.
Matt: I'd like you all to make a stealth check, by the way, as this is transpiring, and these entities are now making--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace? Is that still in effect?
Matt: No, you cast Hunter's Mark, so the concentration on that ended, unfortunately, sorry.
Chris hardwick: 14.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Oh wait, with Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No.
Marisha: 24.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: As you guys are all having this conversation, hushed behind this barricade of broken tree elements, you can see this salamander general turn and hiss in that direction, look over, and point his trident in the direction of where you all are. You can see the larger fire elementals all of a sudden turn their attention in the direction of the party, as the humanoid floating about five feet off the ground, his lower form just this swirl of cinders and black ash, chuckles with his arms crossed. Points forward, and the elementals begin moving forward.
Marisha: Can Keyleth do a quick ancillary action before shit happens?
Matt: Well, this would be the initiative order now, so everyone roll initiative.
Liam: Maybe they see something behind us.
Travis: Fuck!
Marisha: Jesus, sucking it up today.
Matt: All right, folks, this brings us to 25 to 20?
Liam: 20.
Sam: Hey!
Travis: Jude.
Chris hardwick: Don't make it bad.
Taliesin: (singing) Take a bad roll...
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Chris hardwick: Yes, I'm 16.
Matt: 16 for Gern.
Liam: ErmahGern!
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13 for Percy. Ten to five?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Eight for Grog. Scanlan, what's your--
Sam: Oh, ten, sorry, ten, ten.
Matt: So that would be just below you, Percy. All righty. I believe that's all on that end there. And that brings us to--
Marisha: I'm seven, by the way.
Matt: Oh, seven, thought I got you.
Laura: Nobody cares, Marisha.
Marisha: I know, I'll just... be back here... caboose.
Matt: There we go. So right before Grog is Keyleth. Great. All right. Top of the combat round.
Marisha: Yeah, nope. Not leading.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Shitty initiative roll.
Sam: It's going to be fine.
Taliesin: He's cut things out of cardboard. This doesn't look fun.
Marisha: There was planning. There was a thought process.
Travis: Oh shit, towers.
Taliesin: There was an instructables involved in this. This is just really-- we're doomed.
Travis: No, no, he was down in the play zone before!
Matt: Tell me who wants to roll an arcana check as you see this entity rising up--
Travis: Oh, absolutely.
Sam: I will, as well.
Matt: For people who are proficient with it.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Oh, with disadvantage, right?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: So tired.
Chris hardwick: 24.
Travis: Whoa! Get out of here, dragonborn!
Sam: Look at the big brain on Gern.
Chris hardwick: I'm very smart.
Matt: (laughs) And as you say that, you recognize this entity and blurt out its name, just instinctually as you get a proper view of it. One of the many denizens of the fire elemental plane, this is an efreeti, it is a fire genie.
Sam: A nefreeti?
Matt: Efreeti. Yes, the species is efreeti, but an ee-frit, ee-freet, however you want to pronounce it, a flame genie, generally hailing from the City of Brass and/or spaces around and in the fire elemental plane.
Taliesin: I could feel it from that side.
Liam: I was thinking it.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, I could feel it.
Matt: Floats above all of you, arms still crossed, opens its arms and as it chuckles, both hands just are engulfed in flames that congeal into these large fiery balls as it flings them both down in the direction of the party.
Travis: Feel like we're in MegaMan. A MegaMan boss.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah!
Matt: This is going to be at Scanlan and Vex.
Laura: What?!
Sam: These are Fireballs, right?
Matt: To Scanlan, that is 13?
Sam: No way.
Matt: Vex, that is 15.
Laura: No!
Matt: Both just (fireball impacts), cracking into the ground to the sides of where you're standing, barely missing them. It keeps glaring down at the rest of you with a smile. Ending that, it brings us to Vax. You're up.
Liam: I got a high stealth right beforehand, so am I hidden at the moment?
Matt: As far as you know, depending on the individual. You don't know who saw you and who didn't.
Liam: As far as I know. All right. Balls. I'm just going to throw three daggers at the salamander, right from where I am.
Matt: Right from where you are? All right.
Liam: Yeah, okay, so. First is a 20, second is a 14, third is a 19.
Matt: Okay. The first one was what?
Liam: 20.
Matt: The first and the third hit. If you are hidden, though, which you would technically be hidden from this individual, you do have advantage on those attacks, so you can reroll the--
Liam: And if I'm hidden it's a surprise, right? On that guy? You tell me.
Matt: No, no, it's a sneak attack if you're hidden. A surprise round is if they have no idea that you're there.
Liam: Okay, I thought it was a-- okay, great! Fine. Love it. Okay, so.
Laura: You have advantage, so maybe one of those would be a 20 if you rerolled them with their advantages.
Liam: All right. No, and other one, no. So, four, eight, 12, 13, 16, 20, 31, 35 for the first. And the second one is a ten.
Travis: Kick us off strong!
Matt: Not bad! Flinging both daggers, one strikes it square in the sternum and the blade cracks and pops as it hits the center of the chest. It (gurgle), you know, it can't make any sound as it disappears from the wound, returning to your belt. The second dagger manages to come towards, it tries to parry out of the air, but in doing so just gets it embedded in its forearm and it shrieks out in pain, as that too vanishes and appears once again in your belt. Are you going to move, or stay where you are?
Liam: I'm going to move. I'm going to skip to my right and stand behind Grog and spank him on the ass and say: go get 'em, tiger.
Matt: "Go get 'em, tiger." Right there. All righty.
Travis: My name's Grog.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Are those trees, do they have any substance at all, or are they just there to look pretty?
Matt: I mean, you could get behind them if you want to, they're maybe about that wide.
Liam: They're like Charlie Brown Christmas trees?
Matt: Practically. As far as the Cindergrove's concerned, they're pretty sad-looking. A lot of them have been destroyed and torn and pushed down around.
Laura: All right. I'm going to try to use one as protection. I'm going to hop behind the one over this way.
Matt: This way, here?
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark the efreeti.
Matt: All righty. Mark the efreeti.
Laura: And then I'm going to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to shoot him three times!
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That first one probably does not succeed. It is a 16.
Matt: That does not hit, nope.
Laura: What about 23?
Matt: That does hit.
Laura: All right. How about... mega miss. So one of those hits, because I'm a loser.
Matt: Streaking past, and the third one hits as he's holding the flame balls in his hands. Seeing the small impact, he just glares at you though the impact.
Travis: You need to sacrifice a small mammal. Maybe we can find a squirrel or something.
Laura: 11.
Travis: A pagan ritual.
Taliesin: I can hook you up. I have a kit.
Travis: (laughter) Why am I not surprised?
Laura: 17 points of damage and that's it because I suck.
Matt: 17 points of damage. And you are hiding behind the tree?
Laura: I am hiding behind the tree.
Matt: That's the end of Vex's turn. It is now the elementals' turns.
Laura: These piece-of-shit dice.
Matt: This is going to move in and actually consumes the space of Gern and his followers.
Taliesin: That's not even a figurine, it's just a chunk of plastic.
Matt: So as you're sitting there, you just see this fire elemental just streak around real fast and all of a sudden step into the space where you and your two undead followers are, flames whirling around you. All of you immediately take five points of fire damage, you and your two allies. Stimpy and Coral, poor guys.
Chris hardwick: Weren't there-- oh, they killed one, that's right, and you guys fucking killed one, too.
Matt: With that, it's going to make two strikes towards you, Gern. The fire elemental rushes in and just (slithering fire noises).
Chris hardwick: Not the vest, not the vest!
Matt: That is going to be a 13 to hit. What's your armor class?
Chris hardwick: 13.
Matt: Just hits you. And that's a natural 20. (sighs and groans)
Matt: So you take 14 points of fire damage from the first one.
Chris hardwick: Doesn't feel very natural.
Liam: Thanks for coming, thanks for playing.
Matt: 19 points of fire damage from the second strike. And you are currently engulfed in flame. You caught fire from the impact with the fire elemental.
Chris hardwick: It doesn't hurt, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm part dragon.
Laura: Do dragonborn have natural fire resistance?
Matt: Certain ones do, not blue ones.
Laura: Oh no!
Chris hardwick: If it was lightning, it'd be fine. But no.
Matt: That ends that elemental's turn. This one is going to step into the space where both Percy and Scanlan are. Both of you guys immediately suffer seven points of fire damage.
Taliesin: I'm halved because I have resistance.
Matt: Correct, so you'd take three points. And it's going to make a strike on each of you. That's going to be a 14 versus you, Scanlan.
Sam: That does not hit me.
Matt: And then versus Percy. Same roll. 14.
Taliesin: (laughter) Ah, you're adorable.
Matt: Misses you both with a series of terrible attacks. That ends their turn. Gern, you're up. At the start of your turn--
Chris hardwick: It's my turn.
Taliesin: But first you have to take your fire damage.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I'm still on fire.
Matt: Yep. At the top of your turn, because you're now on fire, you take six points of fire damage. You're just wreathed in fire, all around. It's a bad, bad Sunday for Gern.
Chris hardwick: Oh boy. I'm trying to find something that won't destroy-- How close is everyone to me? Everyone's pretty close.
Sam: No one's near the big guy.
Chris hardwick: No, but I'm standing right there.
Taliesin: Here, you can see it right here. You're that little red ring right there, and then your two followers are right there. If you have anything that goes in a cube, you'd be fine. Do you have anything that's a cube shot?
Chris hardwick: And which way am I facing?
Taliesin: Whichever way you want to be facing.
Chris hardwick: I mean, I guess-- I'd like to run around and throw another Cone of Cold aimed at that guy, and then up at the prick hovering above everyone.
Matt: This direction, you mean?
Chris hardwick: Yes. Aye!
Matt: So you can move around to this side of the elemental, pushing past your allies, whip around, you get a little bit of a view through the fire and flames swirling around you. You concentrate and release a burst of cold energy. It might not be close enough.
Chris hardwick: Of course it is!
Matt: It'll be enough to get those two there.
Chris hardwick: All right, well, I suppose that's better than nothing at all.
Sam: That's impressive.
Matt: It's better than nothing. All right, so constitution saves on the elemental. What's your DC?
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: 16. It fails. On the salamander, that's another big fail with a 13. So go ahead and roll 8d8 damage.
Chris hardwick: (counting) 40. I'm sorry. What was that last one? Shit. 35.
Matt: Nice, 35 points of cold damage to both the salamander and the elemental in front of you. Great. So you see as a blast of winter arcane energy just skirts forward, casting most of the dark area here in snow and ice and sleet. You can see the front of this lava pond is cooled for the moment and actually can be walked across probably for one or two more rounds.
Chris hardwick: You're welcome.
Liam: You're still on fire, by the way.
Matt: Yes, you are also still on fire. Someone has to take an action to try and douse the flames on him, whether it be himself or possibly your allies. You can still give actions to your two undead buddies.
Chris hardwick: Oh. In that case. I think I'd like to ask the zombie character, who I believe was-- no, Stimpy was the skeleton, this is Coral. I'd like to have Coral rip-- is my skin on fire, or is it just my vest?
Matt: Both, actually. The scales are starting to crisp.
Chris hardwick: Those are really hard to get!
Sam: The vest?
Chris hardwick: Yes!
Taliesin: You could just have them swat you. Like (zombie grunting noises).
Chris hardwick: I need to have the zombie hurl its body on top of me, onto the ground, and roll around on me, to get the flame off. It's a very stinky enterprise.
Matt: Okay, I'll allow this. You're intentionally going prone, so you start your next combat round on the ground, which means you'll have half your movement. As Stimpy hobbles over (zombie groan).
Sam: This is Coral.
Chris hardwick: Is there like snow or ice on the ground?
Matt: There is behind the elemental, yes.
Chris hardwick: Can he scoop some up?
Matt: The zombie can take one action, unfortunately, it's not a super intelligent creature. One or the other.
Chris hardwick: All right, then, I suppose he just has to roll on top of me.
Matt: You guys glance over out of the corner of your eye and you see is the dragonborn all of a sudden jumps to the ground, sprawled out, snow angel style.
Chris hardwick: Do it! Just do it already! What are you waiting for?!
Matt: As this undead begins flailing about on top of his body. You're starting to get elements of decaying goo and--
Chris hardwick: Yes, it's fucking terrible!
Matt: But the flames do eventually go out, over the next five to six seconds or so. What would you like Stimpy to do?
Chris hardwick: I mean, I guess-- I would have to give him a candle, wouldn't I?
Matt: You would, yes.
Chris hardwick: Right. Maybe he just scoops up as much ice and snow as possible, and attacks the--
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Snowball fight?
Chris hardwick: Snowball fight.
Matt: He picks up some of the frost on the ground with his skeletal hands. Flings it. Funnily enough, it hits.
Chris hardwick: Fuck yeah, it does.
Matt: Because it's right there. We'll say for that particular instance, it takes--
Chris hardwick: What, like a hundred points of damage?
Matt: Three points of cold damage. (cheers)
Matt: Immediate steam, in the face of a fire elemental.
Chris hardwick: I smell like cooked cow anus at the moment.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Weird question, what saving throw does a creature have to make with your sword?
Travis: Wisdom.
Taliesin: It's a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: No, it's constitution.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. Good to know.
Travis: I just answered the first thing that popped into my head.
Taliesin: That was wisdom, fascinating. Okay, I'm right in the thick of it, aren't it?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm going to break away, I'll take the hit. I don't like attacking these things straight on.
Matt: At the top of your turn, by the way, you take nine points of fire damage, down to four, because you are also engulfed in flame, as is Scanlan for having passed over the space there.
Taliesin: Nine points of fire damage, down to four. Okay. I'm going to break away and take a run for it towards that crater in the far right corner.
Matt: This way here?
Taliesin: Thank you, yes.
Matt: Running past the fire elemental, it does get an attack of opportunity on you, swinging out with its flaming appendage. That is going to be a 13 to hit.
Taliesin: That ain't going to hit. That's fine, I'm going to take my bonus action, and I'm going to cast Hex on it.
Matt: On which one?
Taliesin: On the one I just ran away from.
Matt: Okay, that elemental is now currently Hexed.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage on constitution saving throws.
Matt: Oh, okay!
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: Teamwork!
Travis: I don't think he has any blood, though.
Matt: Is it saving throws, or is it ability checks?
Taliesin: Ability checks.
Matt: That does not affect saving throws, unfortunately.
Taliesin: God damn it. All right, never mind. That's fine. Since I've broken off from him, I'm going to take some shots at him anyway. I'll take three shots.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: First one is an 18.
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: That's seven points of damage. Second one's a sharpshooter. That's 25.
Matt: 25. And with that shot (boom). (cheering)
Travis: Jeez, leave some for the rest of us, big boy.
Marisha: Oh, wait, why did it go back?
Matt: Sorry, this is the one that took all the damage from the Cone of Cold, so this one is still fine. Robbed you of victory!
Chris hardwick: That was so weird, he disappeared for a moment and then came right back!
Taliesin: I haven't actually damaged him yet, have I?
Matt: You did seven damage.
Taliesin: That was the first damage. The second damage I haven't done yet.
Matt: No, you have not.
Taliesin: 20 points of damage.
Matt: All right, nice. You're adding your Hexes to this, right?
Taliesin: No, I'm not! Oh, shit.
Matt: Add d6 to each of these, buddy.
Taliesin: So that's six extra points, and that's seven extra points total. Third sharpshooter shot. Thank you for reminding me on the Hex. That's a 12, that's going to miss.
Matt: 12 misses, unfortunately. You shoot too far. It actually separates its body for a second, the flames flickering away from the impact of the bullet, passing through, no effect, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Weird thing. Can I spend an action surge and put myself out of the fire?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: You know what, it's just fire. I will be on fire.
Matt: You will be on fire, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to be on fire.
Marisha: It's just fire.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: What is holding the thing that's floating in the sky aloft? Is he flying? Is he supported on a column of fire?
Chris hardwick: No, he's brought a plastic shelf with himself, apparently.
Sam: Oh, of course.
Chris hardwick: He's just standing on it.
Matt: It's Ikea-made, you just have to build it.
Travis: It's the "schlogel."
Matt: It appears to be flying. The very essence of this creature is partial flame and magic, and it's levitating as its lower form is a tiny dervish whirlwind of black ash and flame.
Sam: And he's a larger creature or smaller?
Matt: Large.
Sam: He's a large creature or smaller. Okay. I'm going to make him the boy in the bubble. I will cast Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: What is that?
Sam: I'm going to make a bubble around him.
Matt: First you take four points of fire damage, because you're on fire.
Sam: Oh, sure, whatever. No, wait, but it was nine, right? You said? Just four?
Matt: That was when it originally got to you, and then you're still burning every turn until you put yourself out. The range on the resilient sphere is 30 feet, so you're going to want to get closer to cast it.
Sam: Oh, okay. I'll walk. He's going to hit me, isn't he?
Matt: This is cool, currently, if you want to go across. You can get there, and that'll be enough distance.
Sam: I'll do that, and then straight up in the air.
Matt: Okay, so it has to make a dexterity saving throw. What's the DC? The DC on your spells is a 20 right now, right?
Sam: It is.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: And it rolled a 19. 18 plus one.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Matt: And, with that, suddenly you guys see Scanlan concentrate, shouting the magical incantation through the hand cone--
Sam: You're in a ball, motherfucker!
Matt: You see a pink-purple-hued globe of crystalline, magical arcane energy just form around the creature, and the efreet goes (grunting).
Sam: Does he fall, or can he continue to fly?
Matt: The sphere is weightless, so no, he stays where he is.
Liam: And is it a good witch, or a bad witch?
Taliesin: Science check. Does oxygen penetrate the sphere?
Sam: There is still air inside.
Taliesin: Damn it. Because that would've been amazing if he just died.
Chris hardwick: I was looking away, what just happened?
Sam: Oh, fuck!
Chris hardwick: What?
Sam: Always look at me!
Chris hardwick: Oh, I was looking at some grubs over by the--
Travis: Grubs?
Chris hardwick: I'm hungry.
Sam: Oh, and I'll turn around and I will heal Gern, because he's not doing great. With my bonus action, at a second level, I will cast Healing Word, and I will sing to him again, because he loves it so much.
Chris hardwick: You know, I think I'm fine with 26 hit points.
Sam: (singing) Gern, baby, Gern! Candle inferno! Gern, baby, Gern! Burn that mother down!
Matt: All right. Second level, that's 2d4 plus--
Sam: Five.
Matt: 2d4 plus five you heal.
Chris hardwick: Oh, do I roll that?
Sam: Do I roll, or does he?
Matt: Whichever one. Doesn't matter to me.
Chris hardwick: Okay, so nine.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I believe that ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. I will never again not watch your spellcasting! You tiny bundle of adorable creature!
Marisha: Is that guy and that guy within 30 feet of each other? It's hard to tell with the thing on it.
Matt: There is 30 feet between them, yes.
Marisha: A 30 foot long spell could hit both of them, correct?
Matt: A 30 foot long spell could-- It could only hit one. It's 30 feet between them.
Marisha: Okay. But this guy-- oh, damn it. What about this guy and this guy? They're within 30 feet, right?
Matt: 35 between them. These two, there is definitely.
Marisha: Actually, yeah, let me do that. I am going to cast a Tidal Wave right here and I'm going to go outward in this direction, and it's ten foot wide and 30 foot long, so let me back up a little bit out of it.
Matt: So it's ten feet wide, and it'll go (rushing water) like that, you mean?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you back up to there?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right. Okay, dexterity save on each of them. Dexterity save on the first one.
Marisha: Since it's water, do they have disadvantage?
Matt: No, not for the saving throw. The first one does make the saving throw, however, that is a 19 plus three, so 22. On a success, it takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone, so it takes half. The other one, however, does fail.
Marisha: Do they take more damage because it's water?
Matt: How much is in the spell?
Marisha: It does 4d8 damage.
Matt: Right, go ahead and roll that. I'd say, how many gallons would that be? That's a shit-ton of gallons.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 12 plus eight is 20, plus another eight is 28. Math.
Taliesin: That's a d8 there.
Matt: 14. Okay, so that's 14 and 28. I'd say that Tidal Wave, how many gallons of water would we say each one of those is?
Marisha: It's 30 foot tall.
Matt: Well, it's ten foot tall, ten foot wide, so that's...
Marisha: And 30 feet long.
Taliesin: Four gallons, easily.
Matt: I'd say we're looking at close to 50 gallons of water, right?
Taliesin: Probably way more than 50 gallons.
Laura: That's a lot of gallons, for sure.
Chris hardwick: I think it's like a million gallons.
Sam: Somewhere between 50 and a million.
Marisha: Why didn't we switch to metric?
Taliesin: It would be a few hundred gallons of water.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, for the width of it and the space you had to pass it through, we'll say roughly 60 gallons of water passes through each of these elementals. Water susceptibility, for every five feet the elemental moves in water, or for every gallon of water splashed on it, it takes one point of cold damage, so they both take an additional 60 points of damage. Which destroys both of the elementals.
Laura: Fuck yeah! Do that again, Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay, I will!
Taliesin: Again, again!
Matt: So Keyleth, you have more movement still, if you want to move somewhere.
Marisha: Oh! I'll scootch up a bit, start moving towards...
Matt: There?
Marisha: That's good, that works.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to rush up where Scanlan is, and attack that little guy on the ground there.
Matt: Right there?
Sam: I'm the little guy on the ground.
Travis: No, not you, the other guy that's next to him. And can I use a reckless attack--
Matt: Are you raging first, or are you--
Travis: Oh yeah, raging. I would like to rage. And then use reckless attack against him!
Matt: All right, so you got two attacks, reckless attack.
Travis: 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: Awesome. 18 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: 23, nice. All right, so as you rush past, looking over at the cooled rock that's starting to crack, and bits of steam vents are starting to push through underneath your feet, Scanlan. The area you're standing on isn't very sturdy, you're probably going to want to move pretty soon. However, you see this barreling form of pure anger and blade come rushing past as Grog slams into the salamander twice with his blade. That fails first constitution, and fails second. So you gain plus two strength, salamander loses two strength.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: However, because you've taken... With each strike within melee of the salamander's heated body, it's so intense by its proximity that you suffer six points of fire damage from the first melee attack against you.
Travis: She gave me resistance, so halved to three?
Matt: Halved to two.
Travis: Halved to two.
Matt: The other one would be 12, so you take six.
Travis: Eight total.
Matt: Total of eight fire damage just from slamming and attacking this salamander. All righty, that brings us to the very end. It is now the salamander's turn. After being hacked twice by you, Grog, it turns around, takes its trident in both hands, looks at you with this horrible snarl. You can see now these glistening, almost ruby-like sharp teeth in its wide grin. (snarl) These long catfish-like tendrils that waft off its face as it slams down the spear towards you.
Travis: Oh, you brought a fork to a sword fight.
Matt: That is going to be a 23 to hit.
Travis: Oh shit, that hits.
Matt: You take 12 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: Halved to six. And it's going to also turn around and its tail, its long snake tail (whoosh) whips you. That is going to be an 18 to hit.
Travis: That misses!
Matt: It misses, all righty. The tail comes towards you, and you knock it out of the way with Craven Edge. That will end its turn. Top of the round, I'm going to make a roll for the consistency of the currently cooled lava pool. It maintains. However, you feel your feet cracking beneath--
Sam: I think I'll stay.
Travis: Feels nice here. Maybe a timeshare.
Matt: This efreet-- let me look at the logistics of this spell now, because--
Travis: It's pissed off in a ball.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, this spell is awful.
Sam: It can't do anything.
Matt: It is enclosed for the duration, up to a minute.
Liam: Sorry, Matt. Sorry, Matt.
Travis: He's like, first the beholder, now my flame genie.
Matt: It's pushing against, and it takes these two flame balls it conjures and throws them out towards you guys. They just go (impacts) against the sphere and then go out, and it's just (growling). It's really, really pissed off. It can't do anything.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Like a genie in a bottle. Got to rub me the right way.
Liam: Can we all collectively look up at him, look sad, and go, aw.
Taliesin: I'm looking forward to rolling it back through the rift.
Marisha: Oh my god, can we do that? Like a hamster ball.
Matt: All right. Ending its turn, because it can't do anything, Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm going to scoot up right in front of Keyleth on the edge of the frozen-over pool of lava, but I'm not going to stand on it. And I'm going to chuck three daggers at the salamander in front of Grog.
Matt: Okay. Right there, about?
Liam: Right in front of her. Between her and the-- yeah. There. One, two, three to the salamander.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: 21. Then 25. And then 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit.
Liam: All right, and because he's flanked by Grog, the first one gets sneak attack damage. Two plus eight, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 25, 31 for the first.
Matt: Nice.
Liam: And then ten for the second and eight for the third.
Matt: All right. Good to know. (whoosh) As you jump in front of the way of Keyleth, you unleash all three daggers in rapid succession, each one finding its mark (impacts) into the body of the now profusely bleeding salamander. You can see now streaks of its own blood are pouring down, boiling on contact with air, the significant difference in temperature from the exterior and its actual interior body causing it to change from a liquid to a gas.
Travis: That's our rogue.
Matt: End your turn?
Liam: I look over my shoulder at Keyleth like a dumb schmuck for a second, and then back at the salamander.
Matt: Okay. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. Am I hiding? Am I hidden?
Matt: You can roll a stealth check. A hide action is a hide action. As a rogue, do you have the--
Laura: What is that number?
Matt: I don't know what number that is.
Laura: It's completely smooshed off of the dice!
Liam: That means that existence is about to end.
Laura: There's literally--
Liam: Just roll this. Roll another one.
Matt: Technically, you do not have cunning action yet, that's a 2nd-level rogue ability, so you would use your action to hide.
Laura: But I had my skirmisher stealth.
Matt: If you go from hide to hide you can do that, but you are not hidden at the beginning of the round.
Liam: It's a rookie rogue mistake. It happens in the beginning.
Laura: Yeah. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. All right, then I'm just going to...
Liam: At the higher levels you mess up the assassinate thing.
Laura: Everything's a concentration thing, so I'm just going to lightning arrow the giant fire guy.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for attack.
Laura: Okay. 30!
Matt: That'll hit.
Sam: That'll hit anything.
Liam: She just hit a sparrow on a paraglider.
Laura: That's 4d8 lightning damage on a hit.
Matt: Correct, yep.
Liam: Oh. Well, half good, half bad.
Laura: 18. That's it.
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So as you turn around the side of the tree, releasing the arrow. As it goes through the air, streaking, it suddenly bursts into an arcing bit of energy (crackling energy), a bolt of lightning that strikes into and begins to spill around the insides of the elemental. You can see it shakes it off as the energy disperses.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my bonus action to hide then, with the skirmisher's thing. For my skirmisher stealth, I can use a bonus action to hide.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you have to... If you go from hiding to hiding, you can do it.
Laura: You told me, I swear!
Matt: Read the ability, read the ability!
Laura: Okay, where was it?
Liam: Right now, on the air.
Laura: Okay, where is it? I don't know where it is. I'll find it, and then I'll find out. And then I'll roll for stealth then if it works.
Matt: I'll say for the sake right now of the distraction, go ahead and do it for now, and we'll correct it later if need be. I would rather you have fun than not. So, what's your stealth roll?
Laura: My stealth roll is 15, it doesn't even matter.
Liam: 15, she said 15.
Laura: It's not in the book, it's in the--
Matt: No, it's in the PDF. Anyway, what did you roll?
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15, okay. Good to know. End of your turn. This elemental creature--
Liam: Oh jeez. Here it comes.
Matt: Comes up over-- (yelling)
Liam: Oh, he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
Marisha: He tripped at the finish line!
Matt: As another one tears out of the portal and begins making its way here at full movement to there. This one's going to go ahead and make two strikes towards you, Scanlan.
Sam: Two attacks towards me?
Matt: Yep. That's going to be 11.
Sam: Is that the attack roll?
Matt: The attack roll. And a natural one. Elementals can't roll today. And you're already on fire, so its fire form won't make much of a difference to you either way. All right, so that's going to end its turn, and the other elemental pours in, that's the end of their round. All right, that brings us to Gern.
Chris hardwick: Oh boy.
Sam: Feel the Gern, feel the Gern.
Matt: Flames are out, you push-- not Stimpy-- Coral off of you, Coral standing (groan).
Chris hardwick: Does it count as my turn if I ask him a question about the orb?
Matt: No, you can make a quick little aside. You have to shout it out, though.
Chris hardwick: If I attack the genie, is it just going to attack the orb, and then he's going to be free?
Sam: Yes! I'm not looking at you, by the way.
Chris hardwick: It really hurts, I didn't realize how much that hurt!
Sam: Yeah, I know!
Chris hardwick: I've learned a valuable lesson today, while I've half-caught on fire. Can I cast some type of a mental spell through the orb to the fire genie?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Chris hardwick: Would it be too crafty if I were to cast Modify Memory? Could I modify the fire genie's memory to forget to not kill himself? I'll take that as a no. Can I modify the fire genie's memory into thinking that he's completed the task that he came to this realm to complete, and that he might go home?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Chris hardwick: I'd love to try.
Matt: Okay. What's the range on the spell?
Chris hardwick: Infinity. (laughter)
Matt: Modify Memory, where is it? There we go, 5th-level.
Taliesin: Oh, God, I hope this works.
Matt: It's a 30-foot range, so you're going to have to get a lot closer. You're getting up from prone, which is half your movement, so you only have 15 more feet you can move, so you wouldn't be able to even get into range.
Chris hardwick: Oh, shit, I can't cast Modify Memory anyway, I've already cast two spells like that today.
Matt: That's true, Cone of Cold. You're out of fifth level.
Chris hardwick: So which way-- is there a chain of people? I see a couple right there.
Marisha: Here's a laser pointer if you need it.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. This guy's new, right?
Matt: Yeah, and this guy hasn't been touched really, except for her lightning arrow.
Chris hardwick: Oh, I can shoot lightning breath, right?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Chris hardwick: Should I shoot at this guy or this guy?
Sam: Well, the guy next to me might hit me, but whatever!
Chris hardwick: I'll throw some lightning breath at this person right here.
Matt: Okay, as you stand up and dust off yourself, your fantastic zipper-covered dance jacket, brushing it off with your hands, you lumber forward to the outskirts of this newly cracking rock crust that once was a lava pool and will soon be once again, inhale. As you guys look around, you see this glow, this blue crackling blow-- glow on the inside of his mouth. The blow is how he got to the mountain and then got inspired to shoot the lightning.
Chris hardwick: I'm flying high, but I can't get an erection. I've done so much blow.
Matt: Gern Blanston. Flying high, no erection.
Chris hardwick: Sad.
Matt: This crackling electric energy in the back of his toothy mouth as he-- (snarl) releases this blast of lightning energy forward, striking into the chest of the fire elemental that freshly stepped out of the portal. What's the saving throw DC on that?
Chris hardwick: 14.
Matt: 14. It rolled a nine, so go ahead and roll the damage on the breath. How much is it?
Chris hardwick: It's 4d6.
Travis: Love the way you're rolling today.
Matt: I'm rolling really bad tonight!
Chris hardwick: Four, ten, 15, 16!
Sam: Yeah, that's good.
Matt: 16 points of lightning damage to that elemental. (impact) It pulls back from the blast. You can see its form has to reconvene. There's a little bit of black and gray smoke that billows out from the wound as it turns to you (snarling). You've definitely got its attention.
Chris hardwick: Hello!
Matt: With your bonus action, would you like to do anything with your compadres?
Chris hardwick: Oh, right. I still have two left, don't I?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: You do like dancing.
Chris hardwick: I'd like to send them off to start dancing just to the left of this gentleman right here. Just to distract him a little bit, because I seem to have caught his attention, so I'd like to start a little dance party right there. This fellow right here, the zombie, can do a little break dancing, and then the skeleton can do a bit of the bird, and then maybe the worm.
Matt: All right. As the skeleton leaps down into the worm (crash), just flat laid out, cracking part of its pelvis...
Chris hardwick: Dancing without music.
Matt: Yep. No music whatsoever.
Chris hardwick: Is the zombie like (zombie groaning). The tip of his arm falls off at the ulna.
Taliesin: Pop and lock! Pop and lock!
Matt: All right. I'm going to go ahead and--
Chris hardwick: These guys are great!
Matt: I'm going to ask you to go ahead and roll a performance check.
Sam: We never do those!
Laura: I feel really bad that I killed Carol now.
Marisha: Oh, that was almost bad.
Taliesin: Wait, plus, plus--
Sam: Oh, you have inspiration!
Marisha: You do!
Laura: Use it!
Sam: Use a d10!
Liam: This is the time.
Chris hardwick: Oh. So seven, plus performance plus one, eight, and then a d10.
Liam: Roll the d10, add it.
Chris hardwick: Jesus Christ. Ten.
Matt: Ten. Trying to recall and hum the song that Scanlan once sang to you, naught but ten minutes before, you don't recall it much at all, and it comes out (tuneless humming).
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern, Gern, It's Gern. It's Gern time!
Sam: Pitchy, little pitchy. Flat.
Chris hardwick: (singing) It's Gern, time to Gern!
Sam: Well, now you're sharp.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern it all the way. I'm doing great!
Sam: Yep, your name was in the song!
Chris hardwick: (singing) Gern is my name and this is definitely the song that I'm singing.
Matt: It's discordant enough that on a low wisdom save I'll say the fire elemental's next attack has disadvantage. That was the strangest round of combat I think I've ever had in D&D. All right, Percy, you're up. Follow that. First, top of your round, you take nine points of fire damage.
Taliesin: That's halved to five.
Laura: I have the skirmisher stealth! As a bonus action at the end of your turn, you can make a dexterity (stealth) check to hide again.
Matt: All right, cool, there you go. Perfect. Wasn't sure if you had to be hidden at the top to do it.
Taliesin: I'm going to shift my Hex to the tiny little (Irish accent) fucker. God, you've got me doing it now. Damn it. It's a plague.
Chris hardwick: It's contagious.
Matt: To which one, this guy there?
Taliesin: No no no, the one furthest from me.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, right there. I'll move my Hex to him. I'm going to bust out the Bad News rifle, I'm going to sit, and I'm going to take a nice, calm, calculated sharpshooter shot at him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And Bad News just goes (click).
Matt: Did you misfire?
Taliesin: I misfired.
Matt: Oh no! You get down with the gun and (click). You look at it and you can see some of the metal bowing in the centerpiece like, "That's bad. That's bad. That's bad. That's bad!"
Taliesin: It's fine. I put it down, I pull out the pistol, and I'm going to take a shot.
Marisha: It's hot. It's really hot. Just keep going.
Taliesin: That was really awkward.
Marisha: Maybe the heat made you misfire.
Travis: Just roll the dice.
Liam: You're also 60 feet apart at the moment.
Taliesin: That's a 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits. Sharpshooter? No.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: That's sharpshooter? Wow. Nice roll.
Taliesin: Six, 12, 22 points of damage. And I reload, and that's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. Okay. Finishing up Percy, that brings us to Scanlan. You're still concentrating on Otiluke's Resilient Sphere.
Sam: Oh, yes I am.
Liam: The gnome has got this.
Sam: Hey, how's that stuff under my feet?
Matt: Pretty rough. You're going to want to step off of it very soon, probably.
Sam: I'm going to step into it.
Liam: Love you, Scanlan.
Sam: So I can fire a Lightning Bolt and hit both of those guys.
Matt: Oh, snap. Okay.
Sam: And yeah, that's it. That'll be my--
Matt: You can still move after that.
Sam: Oh, good! Okay, good, thank you for saving me.
Matt: So the bolt arcs past, go ahead.
Chris hardwick: I saw that, it was great!
Sam: Oh, for once! Thank you! Thank you, it was for you!
Chris hardwick: Much appreciated!
Matt: Five, no. And a 12 plus three, 15, no. Both fail their saving throw.
Sam: Okay, so 8d6?
Matt: 8d6 points of lightning damage to both of them. It's a wonderful display, Gern.
Liam: I ship Scanlan and Gern.
Chris hardwick: Shh, guys, please.
Sam: 33.
Matt: 33, nice roll.
Chris hardwick: Oh, that Lightning Bolt was so big. And wide!
Sam: It's the width that really does it.
Chris hardwick: It really does. It's not so much the length.
Taliesin: It's the girth of Gern.
Sam: And I will re-inspire Gern. Oh, wait, you're still injured, aren't you?
Chris hardwick: Yeah.
Sam: I will heal Gern.
Chris hardwick: Please.
Sam: With another Healing Word. This time at third level.
Matt: Technically, a second spell can only be as high as second level. You used two spells in one round.
Liam: It's still very romantic, though.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a 2nd-level Healing Word, and I will sing to him, because I'm running out of things that rhyme with his name: (singing) Gern down for what! (EDM beat) Gern down for what! That's it.
Chris hardwick: Might I remind you I am unable to get an erection at the moment?
Matt: However, in spite of that, the blue pill does give you ten additional hit points healed.
Laura: Did the skeleton and the zombie start dancing better, after that?
Matt: Yeah, it actually does pick up their pace a little bit now that they have a backtrack.
Chris hardwick: What is the elemental doing while they're dancing?
Matt: Well, it's currently being surrounded by a swirl of Hex shadow and looking around very confused and wondering why it got up in the morning.
Taliesin: Where did the glow sticks come from?
Matt: Do you want to move out?
Sam: And I can move out?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Sam: Will he take a swipe at me?
Matt: It will yes, but better than possibly falling in.
Sam: I'm still on fire, right?
Matt: Yes, you are. Takes an action to put it out, though, unfortunately. That's 18 plus six. I believe that does hit you. You take 12 points of fire damage.
Sam: Plus whatever I was on fire for.
Matt: You already took that damage earlier.
Sam: Oh, I did? At the beginning of my turn.
Matt: Yeah, I rolled for that already, you take nine points of fire damage, I think it was.
Sam: Oh, okay, plus 12?
Matt: Plus 12. If I'm wrong, whatever, it's fine. All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Keyleth.
Marisha: So we have these two assholes in front of us.
Liam: My name is Vax.
Marisha: Well, depends on the day. So, that guy is still alive too, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, all three of these guys are alive. And this guy's in a hamster ball.
Laura: Being pissed!
Taliesin: It's just like a weather balloon.
Matt: Yeah it's a rover just holding him in place.
Marisha: I'm going to Tidal Wave again. Tidal Wave! Right here, this way, fucking with these two guys.
Matt: All righty, let's go ahead and roll some saving throws on their end. ('The Prisoner' theme starts playing)
Taliesin: Thank you, thank you.
Matt: Yeah. Six and an eight, both fail. Who is number one?
Chris hardwick: I am not a number, I'm a free man!
Matt: So good, so good. The original one, not the remake. Patrick McGoohan. Two failed saving throws, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: It's really good, I'm warning you right now. Seven and seven is 14 plus another six, brings me to 20, plus eight, 28, again. That's what I had last time right? 28.
Liam: Kismet.
Matt: 28 points of water damage, plus the additional blast of water gallons surging through them, manages to completely scatter both these guys.
Taliesin: We actually had a Critter tweet us how much water.
Matt: How much water would be in a Tidal Wave?
Taliesin: 225 gallons.
Matt: Oh, there is no way they're surviving that.
Marisha: And then technically in Tidal Wave it says the water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in the area within 30 feet of it.
Matt: Unprotected flames are different than lava pools. Water doesn't cool it, it just evaporates.
Taliesin: We've got steam.
Matt: You do. You have a very heavy cloud of steam now, that is (steam sound) to the side. The dancing skeleton and zombie are now just these shadows lit in this cool music video light now as they're (groan) dancing.
Liam: As if this were a Telltale game, at the top of the screen it says, 'Keyleth will remember this'.
Matt: Exactly. Tidal Wave on fire elementals is nasty, man. ("Thriller" starts playing)
Marisha: Can I use my bonus action--
Matt: Perfect. This is happening, guys. Is that the rest of your turn, Keyleth? Do you want to move somewhere?
Marisha: Question.
Matt: Yes, what's your question?
Marisha: Can I theoretically cast a Grasping Vine coming out of the hellmouth?
Matt: No, Grasping Vine is a 4th-level spell, I believe, and as a bonus action you can't do anything more than a 2nd-level spell in the same round.
Marisha: Fuck, never mind. Actually, no, that's not true. I will take my bonus Healing Word to toss another Healing Word, just 1st-level, over to Gern.
Matt: Everyone's keeping the dance master alive over there.
Chris hardwick: Oh my god, amazing.
Marisha: So you heal eight points, Gern.
Matt: Eight points of healing to you, Gern.
Sam: He's gone.
Matt: We can't save him. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I use another reckless attack and I make the first strike against the guy right in front of me.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Jesus. Better. 14.
Matt: 14 misses, unfortunately.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: Are these with great weapon master?
Travis: No, just reckless attack. This one is with great weapon master. Nope. Better. 16 plus nine is 25, minus five is 20.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Yahtzee! Five, ten, 18, 28!
Matt: 28 points of damage, okay. This time, as you release the first blow of your sword forward, he catches it in the blade of the trident and deflects it off to the side, slamming it into the ground, almost pinning the weapon for a second. He gets up in your face and grins (snarls), and the actual breath that emanates from its teeth begins to burn and singe the edge of your beard hairs. That infuriates you, and you lift up Craven Edge between the blades of the trident. It's a test of strength as you both tense, and eventually you lift it back, and with the backswing, slash him right across his chest with that blow. You see a strike of extremely hot, hot blood splatter across, (sizzling), singe the front of your chest and leave little burn marks on you.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: Like freckles.
Liam: You don't want to fuck with his beard!
Matt: He does make the save.
Chris hardwick: She has a name.
Liam: Sorry, Laura.
Matt: Well played. Does that end your turn?
Travis: Yeah, that's the end of my turn.
Laura: Why am I laughing at that?
Travis: Darling, shush.
Matt: Efreet's going to start pushing against the ball, which is going to begin to coast through the air this way.
Liam: Does he spin the globe?
Matt: Just gliding through slowly.
Travis: Genie hamster.
Matt: Yeah, that's about all he can do this turn.
Sam: Sorry!
Matt: No, no, it's what you do. It's what you do. All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Man, all right. I'm in a good spot, I'll just throw three more daggers at the salamander that Grog has not yet killed. First one is a natural 20, the second one is a 13, and the third one is, aw, fuck, is a 14.
Matt: Okay. Hold off on those two attacks, just in case how much your critical sneak attack does.
Liam: Five, six, seven, eight, 12, 18, 21, 25. 25, so you double the dice, is 56 for the first one.
Matt: Okay, so as you throw the dagger, it goes right past Grog's ear and you hear the (whoosh) of the wind as it just brushes past your face. After you finish your backswing with Craven Edge, as the salamander creature rears back from the impact, it looks towards you, and its eyes twitch ever so slightly to your right as it sees the incoming blade a little too late as it (impact) right into its right eye socket. Its tongue lolls out of its jaw as it falls onto its back, and its tail moves and twitches for a few seconds before it eventually goes limp.
Travis: No, no, he's still alive! And I kick him. Now he's dead.
Matt: Grog stomps it into the ground. The twitching stops, the salamander now destroyed.
Travis: Does the dagger stay in his eye socket?
Matt: It's currently in the eye socket, yeah.
Travis: Ooh. Can I reach down and grab it?
Matt: Yeah. You reach down and grab the dagger, and as you pull it out, (poof) it turns into smoke in your hand.
Travis: Holy shit! I look back at Vax.
Liam: Grog, how did you do that?
Travis: I don't know! I think maybe I'm a magic user now! And I start trying to cast reanimate person on the dead thing.
Matt: Okay.
Chris hardwick: That's not how you do that!
Travis: No, no, no, I've got to concentrate!
Chris hardwick: All right.
Travis: (straining)
Laura: Hey, Scanlan!
Sam: Oi!
Laura: What are we going to do with this giant ball?
Sam: We need someone to bring him down to earth. Keyleth, can you vine him down? Or, Gern, do you have something that can move things?
Marisha: Can I--
Chris hardwick: Go ahead.
Marisha: No, go, you first. Please, Gern.
Liam: Does anyone have a large purple hand they could use?
Taliesin: I think he would lose--
Marisha: Yeah, it's a concentration spell.
Matt: Yeah, one spell at a time.
Chris hardwick: I thought I had some sort of a Telekinesis spell, but I guess I don't.
Sam: Chromatic Orb?
Marisha: No, that's an attack.
Laura: Can you bring it down, Keyleth?
Marisha: I can try. Can I do a Grasping Vine from the bottom underneath of him, and see if I can?
Liam: He's over lava.
Sam: He's got something!
Chris hardwick: Oh, sorry, go ahead.
Matt: What are you doing? I know what you're doing, what are you doing?
Chris hardwick: I could either manipulate his memory, or I do have a flying broom.
Sam: What?
Liam: Yes?
Chris hardwick: Yes, I have a flying broom.
Travis: Like you do.
Laura: Are you going to bat him down like you're sweeping the sky?
Chris hardwick: I could fly up and gently glide him down.
Laura: How come everybody flies?
Matt: Are you doing your vine as well?
Marisha: Let me see how this goes first.
Matt: So, without any other command, your two friends, Coral and Stimpy, are still over there dancing as the mist slowly dissipates from the deluge. You pull out from the side of your little satchel there your flying broom, which is a pretty decent, medium-sized broom, places it in the air and it rests there, slightly shifting in place. You leap up onto it and grab onto the front as you shoot up from the side.
Chris hardwick: Going up to catch the golden bitch!
Laura: There's flying brooms?!
Matt: As you place yourself on top of Otiluke's Resilient Sphere, placing all your weight onto it, it sinks a little bit, then it comes to a halt. About three feet it sinks, as you're just standing on top of it.
Marisha: That's as far as it goes?
Matt: What do you want to do?
Chris hardwick: I'd like to try to cast a memory spell on it, if possible.
Matt: Okay. Well, you've already cast a 5th-level spell twice, how many 5th-level spells can you cast per day?
Chris hardwick: Two.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately you're out of 5th-level slots.
Chris hardwick: Could I cast it on you to forget that I've already cast it twice?
Liam: Scanlan, how much time do we have with this bubble?
Sam: A minute, but about 30 seconds have gone by.
Matt: Yeah, you're getting down to about the 40-second mark.
Taliesin: Can I put myself out while all of this is happening?
Matt: Yes, you can do that.
Sam: Can he push down?
Matt: You can jump onto it and begin to push down.
Chris hardwick: I'm going to push down with all my might, to try to get him down on the ground.
Matt: You leap in the air and jump on it again and as you do the orb (sinking noise) and just slowly, over the next 15 seconds shove it down to the point where you're over the orb on the very top, as you can feel the spell about to dissipate.
Liam: Grog, Grog! Stop trying to reanimate that thing and hit the freaking red guy into the hole!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and roll an arcana check.
Sam: Oh, he's the best at arcana.
Liam: 20. Get it. Get it. Reanimate that fucker.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six. This isn't working.
Travis: Must be a rookie mistake.
Sam: What are we trying to do, shove him back into the hole?
Taliesin: Shove him in the hole!
Liam: Grog, shove that fucking thing in there.
Travis: He's over lava.
Liam: You are made of hit points!
Travis: All right, fuck it-- This is your thing.
Marisha: Can I do the vines from out of the portal?
Matt: No, it has to have an anchor point somewhere.
Travis: All right, fuck it, now I just run, in a rage, I run into the lava and I start shoving him straight toward the flaming vagina hole.
Matt: Okay, I want you to make an athletics check. Actually, no, this would be a full strength check. Just roll a strength check. You have advantage because you're still raging. Although you wouldn't be raging anymore because you spent time concentrating on the spell, you could go into a rage for this if you'd like to, spend another use of your rage.
Travis: Yeah, I'll use another one.
Matt: Okay, you go into a rage. All right, as you step into the lava, you suffer 26 points of fire damage from wading up to your knees in molten rock.
Marisha: Halved.
Matt: Halved because of your resistance.
Travis: So 12. I rolled a 22.
Matt: 22. With that you, (boof), you shove the sphere, which shifts back about halfway to there. You have to catch yourself on the side, grabbing the broom and holding it out here as you're stepping the other direction. I want you to make an acrobatics check.
Chris hardwick: All right. Seven.
Matt: Seven.
Taliesin: You have inspiration!
Sam: Nope. He used it.
Matt: As you (slipping noise) slip off the top of the sphere, begin to fall back toward the lava behind you, in a very Lord of the Rings Gollum tumbling into Mount Doom type of view. (sploosh) Back first into the lava.
Laura: Oh shit.
Chris hardwick: I feel fine.
Matt: Actually, you take six points of fire damage. Impacting-- rolled really low on that. (sploosh) You can feel the back of your scales and the flesh on your back immediately begin to burn with horrifying pain. You're holding your broom aloft, 'cause you don't want that to go in the fire.
Laura: I run forward to try to help him out.
Sam: And steal the broom.
Matt: And with that, the sphere breaks. (disgruntled moans)
Liam: Crap.
Marisha: Can Keyleth run up, do I have an action?
Matt: Right now we're going back to the initiative order, since combat has re-initiated with the sphere opened. That brings us to the top. The efreet, now freed from its sphere, is going to go first.
Liam: He's mad.
Matt: He is livid. All right.
Travis: I just want you to know, I was trying to free you.
Sam: I don't know these people.
Liam: These assholes.
Travis: Can you believe how rude these people are?
Matt: He's going to fly back up. (groans)
Matt: Keep away. Let's see. It's going to cast Invisibility on itself, then it vanishes from view.
Marisha: Great.
Sam: As it does that, do I recognize the spell?
Matt: You do.
Sam: I cast Counterspell.
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll-- Oh, wait, no, it's a 2nd-level spell. It auto-- Yeah. Yeah. Because it is a 2nd-level spell.
Sam: Hi!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: As its form begins to vanish, Scanlan, what do you do to counter it?
Sam: I'm going to sing-- No! I'm going to distract it with this.
Taliesin: With an app?
Sam: With an app. (airhorn) (song starts) Oh, wait that's not what I wanted to do!
Chris hardwick: Keep going! Distract him with your morning radio program!
Matt: And that bit of chaos is just enough, as he begins to cast his innate Invisibility spell, it looks over. "What in the-- Shit!" And loses the spell concentration. The invisibility field vanishes, and it stands there above. All right, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: Oh, shite. All right, I'm going to leap over the lava pit.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Yeah. That'll be a 28. I run up behind Grog, and I should be within--
Matt: Darting around the side there, because you are hasted with this, so you can actually just dart around the side.
Liam: All right, right behind Grog. I should be within 60 feet of the efreeti.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: And I'll throw three daggers at it.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First one is a 34.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a 27. Third is a 29, so they all hit.
Matt: Shit, jeez, 34.
Liam: But there's no sneak attack on these--
Matt: How did you get 34 on your attack?
Liam: I don't know anymore. I rolled really high, and I rolled my attack bonus, like a 19 plus 11? A 30?
Matt: 30, okay.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: That's okay. A 30 works.
Liam: Math looked right when I did it.
Matt: 34, I was just like (groaning) bleeding from the nose, I couldn't deal with it. 30 hits.
Liam: There's no subterfuge, it might be stupidity. First one's a ten, second one was a ten, and the third one is a seven.
Matt: Seven. Got it. Cool. That ends your turn, Vax. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right. It is...
Laura: It wasn't, because I used Lightning Arrow, so it dropped the concentration on it.
Matt: That's right, so you Hunter's Mark once again. Put that back on there. All right.
Laura: Although it doesn't really matter because I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on him and I lose my Hunter's Mark again.
Travis: Trauma from the earlier episodes. Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right, so Lightning Arrow again, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: Oh yeah! Oh, that's 31?
Liam: 79!
Laura: 31!
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay!
Matt: Gern, you're on deck.
Laura: 23!
Matt: 23 points of damage, all righty.
Laura: That's better.
Matt: (impact) The lightning slams into his chest, and you can see it arcs through its scimitar that it's holding up in its hand, and it shakes and almost drops the weapon, and catches its arm as the electricity disperses out the edge of the blade and looks back at you. He's now glaring at both you and Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to use my movement to run up around the molten lava and hold my hand out for Gern, so that he can use me to get out of the molten lava.
Matt: All right, that's as far as you can get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Gern, top of your turn, you take 24 points of fire damage from the lava as you're sinking into it. (sizzling)
Chris hardwick: So, can I jump up and then cast a spell?
Matt: Right now you can try and cast, in this area, but you would have a hard time concentrating. I'd say you'd have to take a concentration check to even get a spell out, because you're in so much pain. I'd say you would probably want to move out of the lava before you do that.
Chris hardwick: All right, I'll get out of the lava.
Matt: So you (straining) stand up.
Laura: Take my hand!
Matt: It's too deep and you're having to basically wade your way through, which is burning your hands as you get over there.
Chris hardwick: What about my broom?
Matt: You were holding your broom! So here's what you do. You go ahead and you lift yourself up out of the lava onto the broom and then (blowing) push. You're not fully on it, and it's hard to engage its mental commands directly with the current amount of chaos around you, but you do manage to skirt yourself to the very edge of the lava and land on your feet, which are numb after the sheer amount of pain you've suffered, and you don't even want to look down at what you look like from the waist below.
Laura: Do you need me to hold your broom while you cast your spell?
Chris hardwick: Please!
Laura: Thank you!
Sam: Oh, don't do-- Okay.
Matt: So she takes the broom from your hand. What are you going to cast?
Chris hardwick: Disintegrate.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Disintegrate?
Sam: That's a spell?
Liam: That's a big one, we've seen that happen.
Sam: We have?
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Who did that?
Liam: The giants got disintegrated.
Chris hardwick: I'm fairly pissed at the moment.
Matt: As you should be. All right, so you get to go ahead and roll.
Liam: Get the fucker, you dirty bastard.
Matt: Let me get to the spell here real fast. Disintegrate. Oh, it just makes a dexterity saving throw! It doesn't even get a chance. All right, what's your spell DC again?
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: 16. It rolled a two.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: That's going to be bad. All right, roll 10d6 plus 40 damage. Damn!
Travis: 10d6?
Matt: Disintegrate doesn't mess around. It's an all or nothing spell. If they make the save, nothing. You don't make it, (explosion).
Chris hardwick: 27, 33, 36... So 76!
Matt: 76 points of force damage. As you get out, you can see your vest itself is burning, there's still elements of embers burning at the edges of the leather and the cloth. The bottom part of your scales are a combination of blue, black, and little bits have cracked open where you can see red flesh underneath. There's a lot of burn damage.
Chris hardwick: The zippers are very hot, I might add.
Matt: They're really glowing. However, as you turn around, as your fin jewelry on the sides of your face jangles with the speed as you spin around and point your finger upward, the arcane energy forming at the end of your finger, this singular beam of dull green arcane energy streaks forward. The efreet, who is currently focused on Scanlan and watching Vex run past, looks down just in time to see you release the spell. Opens his eyes and attempts to dodge out of the way, unfortunately not fast enough. It blasts in the side of its shoulder and you can see as a whole chunk of its back muscle, shoulder, and lower torso are just turned to dust, exposing bone and elements of its musculature and flesh underneath. It goes (snarls) and looks down. It can't even make a loud emission of pain, it's just gutturally whispering its horrible suffering. As it looks down, it reaches up with its hand and cauterizes the wound on the back of its body, leaving it a charred cinder. It glares down at you, extremely angry. "I hate you most of all, scarecrow!"
Chris hardwick: Go back to your fire slit!
Matt: Percy, you're up. Unless you want your dudes to do anything, by the way. They're still over there dancing.
Chris hardwick: They should get a little bit closer and dance in front of him, just to make sure. They get very self-conscious if no one's paying attention.
Sam: Of course.
Matt: They're just cheering on.
Travis: At least they're dancing while I'm standing on fire.
Taliesin: Can I knock him down a notch? Can I try and shoot him to drop him out of the sky a bit?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I'm going to try. First of all, I'm going to Hex him. He's hexed. I point.
Matt: All right, so the Hex moves over.
Taliesin: Hex moves over. And I'm going to take a shot to try and drop him. I'm going to take a grit shot to drop him.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: And that's, what's the saving throw for that? Strength throw.
Matt: Strength? 23.
Taliesin: Aw, really?
Matt: Yeah. Sorry.
Taliesin: That's fine, he'll just take his damage.
Matt: Little bitch. Plus 1d6, don't forget.
Taliesin: Yes, thank you.
Matt: Wow, Disintegrate spell fucked him up.
Taliesin: That's 17 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot again.
Matt: Is this with your pistol?
Taliesin: Yeah, just with the pistol right now.
Matt: And what's your first range increment on that?
Taliesin: 400.
Matt: The pistol?
Taliesin: Yeah. 1,200 for Bad News.
Matt: Your first range increment.
Taliesin: I'm sharpshooter, I have no range increment.
Matt: That's right. Good call. All right, so fire again.
Taliesin: Range increments are for-- We don't do that here.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits, roll damage. Scanlan, you're up next, by the way.
Taliesin: And that's 16 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. (two impacts) Just as it manages to cauterize the wounds from the Disintegrate spell, both bullets blast into its torso, and you can see it's now, thinking the height advantage would be helpful, after being locked in a hamster ball and now being repeatedly blasted from every which way, it's not enjoying its current experience by any means.
Taliesin: It's going to get worse. All right, and now I'm doing a sharpshooter shot.
Marisha: Pew pew.
Taliesin: Pew pew. That's 18?
Matt: 18 hits.
Taliesin: And that's 12, 18, 28 points of damage.
Matt: Nice! This one (impact) blasts into the center of its chest, and you can see part of its pectoral muscle tears open and flame erupts from the impact. It reaches up and (snarling).
Taliesin: Action surge. Fuck this guy. Same thing, sharpshooter. I'm going to be rolling sharpshooter.
Matt: Go for it, okay.
Liam: Get the other nipple, now?
Taliesin: The other nipple.
Marisha: Matching piercings.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. This is going to be a rough round for him.
Taliesin: 27 points of damage.
Matt: Ooh!
Taliesin: Reload and one more shot!
Laura: Jesus Christ! I mean.
Taliesin: Reload, one more shot.
Matt: You got it.
Taliesin: That's 17, 27, 29--
Matt: That's a hit. Go for it, roll damage.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: Damn, man.
Taliesin: 21 points of damage.
Matt: All right. (two impacts) These holes are beginning to appear in its body where the bits of fiery flesh are being blasted away from the impacts of your weapon. All right, that brings us to Scanlan!
Laura: It didn't kill him?
Taliesin: No, but he's a sieve now.
Matt: You guys held him--
Liam: He just took 100 points of damage.
Taliesin: He took a lot of damage.
Sam: Hey, that Ioun stone that I have? Does that allow me to cast a fourth level three spell?
Matt: If the spell you put into it was a fourth 3rd-level spell, yeah.
Sam: It was a 3rd-level spell, so it's an extra 3rd-level spell?
Matt: Right.
Sam: I'm maxed out on 3rd-level spells, but I still have that thing.
Matt: Yeah, so it wouldn't be a 4th-level spell because you didn't cast into it as a 4th-level.
Sam: No, I mean, the fourth time I've cast a 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Oh, got you. It wouldn't count against your daily. It's in addition to that.
Sam: Okay! So I will, for the first time ever, use that stupid Ioun stone and cast Lightning Bolt again. I'm just sticking with my method here.
Matt: All right, all right. With a five, it does not make its saving throw. Go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.
Sam: 8d6, thank you.
Liam: Here comes the cube.
Chris hardwick: 23, 28.
Sam: Thank you. Did you do this one too? 28!
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Both kills! Both of them!
Sam: I think I would like to, if there's a way, I'd like to angle it somehow so that he will drop right on top of Grog. I feel like Grog can do something to a falling behemoth.
Matt: It's hard-pressed from this angle, unfortunately. Grog is at an angle where you wouldn't really be able to do that.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: Mind you, when you blast him, he'll plummet close to his feet, if you wanted to.
Sam: All right, yes, let's do that so Grog can feel like he gets part of this, too. And if I can, I'd like to burn a big S in his chest.
Matt: So, as you charge up and blast the lightning bolt from your crotch region, you then do a little dance maneuver with your waist, causing it to (crackling) carve a Scanlan S into the torso of the efreet. As it plummets to the ground, slamming into where the lava would be, while the fire doesn't hurt its form, you can see, Grog, as it stands in the ground (groaning). Its form is turning into ash around you. It's actually just dissipating and turning to ash as its eyes roll up and meet with yours.
Travis: I run over in the lava and I go, I'd like to cast Beheading!
Matt: All right. You suffer 26 points of fire damage, reduced to 13 from taking another round in there.
Travis: Not a problem. Totally worth it for the spell.
Matt: As you take Craven Edge and take the head off. As the head rolls away--
Travis: I grab it!
Matt: You grab it! It turns to ash.
Travis: (panting) I run out of the lake.
Matt: You get out of the lava, stand on the side, and look over just as the rest of the head turns to ashes.
Travis: Aw, shit.
Laura: I walk up to Grog.
Liam: You did it again!
Laura: I pat him on the shoulder, and say, that was so impressive. A genuine mage! And I use sleight of hand to shove the flying broom into the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay. Roll sleight of hand.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Liam: Yeah, girl.
Chris hardwick: Am I allowed to roll a perception?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Liam: Come on, Vex. Come on, sister.
Laura: 18?
Liam: Get it.
Chris hardwick: 16.
Matt: Plus?
Taliesin: No.
Matt: Total of 16?
Chris hardwick: 15 plus one, yeah.
Matt: As you're dealing with this, you have no notice of this. You may question it later, if you like, but you have no idea where it went, and didn't see any of this transaction happen.
Laura: Oh no! Oh no!
Sam: What, what is it?
Laura: Your broom fell in the lava!
Chris hardwick: What?
Laura: I saw it!
Chris hardwick: I just turned around for a moment!
Laura: I tried to give it back to you and it fell in the lava!
Chris hardwick: Are you sure?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: You shouldn't have looked at me when I cast my spell!
Chris hardwick: This is why I never looked at you before!
Sam: I was wrong to doubt you!
Chris hardwick: No! No, you're a constant source of disappointment!
Laura: 18.
Chris hardwick: Where's my fucking broom?
Matt: Make an insight check now.
Chris hardwick: Insight. 13.
Matt: 13. She's telling the truth, man. That broom just went straight in the lava.
Sam: You're a horrible person.
Chris hardwick: You know, I'm really good at reading people, and I know that you're telling me the truth right now.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Chris hardwick: No, I feel your sorrow. I feel it. I feel bad for you, that you have to experience that! It's just a broom. Right? It's just a flying broom that's very difficult to find, no big deal.
Laura: I wouldn't know. I don't even know.
Chris hardwick: That's all right. You know, it actually-- It sterilized me, actually, I'm quite glad. It has very dirty properties. Anyone that would put it between their legs to fly around would be in horrible danger. Horrible danger. So it's actually probably for the better.
Sam: Communicable diseases?
Chris hardwick: Yeah, so many STDs. It's really just like a disease tampon, is really what it is.
Liam: A what? Is that like a magic candle?
Chris hardwick: It's sort of like a magic candle.
Laura: A tragedy candle.
Chris hardwick: It's a tragedy candle.
Taliesin: A Blanston candle.
Chris hardwick: Yes.
Liam: I don't understand sorcery at all.
Matt: At this point, you hear the flickering of flame and the portal itself has begun to expand even further, glowing brighter.
Marisha: Keyleth throws up a Skywrite spell and says, we're taking the portal.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, the flames themselves grow higher and higher. The lava begins to boil and roil. As you guys all move up to the side, you can see the lava is beginning to (bubbling) splash out and spray bits are starting to scatter as some of the nearby trees tumble over. You can see the four Fire Ashari as well as Korren come across one of the clearings. The other way, you see what looks to be another salamander gets thrown about 15 feet from the trees, hits the ground, skids, and is motionless as you see Cerkonos with the rest of the Pyrah, the Fire Ashari stepping through. "Keyleth. We saw your symbol. Is it time?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "All right. Let us try to close this rift." And the rest of the druids all begin to gather around the outside of this portal. As it's flickering, you can see, piercing into the extremely blinding light, Keyleth, you take a moment, and using your attachment to the Fire Ashari and the Fire Elemental Plane from your last passage through it, you can see past the brightness and see beyond the doorway. You can see on the other side, there appears to be probably another half dozen or a dozen or so of a few other elementals and salamanders that are now making their way towards the portal.
Marisha: I stand next to my father and join the rest of the druids.
Laura: Grog, you should probably help them with all of your magic powers.
Travis: Do you think so? It feels like it's an intimate thing.
Laura: Just hold your hands up, hold your hands up.
Travis: All right.
Matt: All right. As the rest of the Ashari begin to gather around the portal and concentrate, they are managing to hold the rift in its current size. You see as beads of sweat begin to pour down Korren's face, not used to this type of terrain. He goes (gasps), "We need more power!"
Travis: Okay!
Matt: "If you can aid, whatever you have to bring to this, please, now is the time!" Does anyone wish to help with the ritual?
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Chris hardwick: I'll help.
Matt: All right, how would you wish to help?
Sam: What a nice guy he is! Certainly not someone we should swindle!
Liam: Strange that you would say that.
Chris hardwick: I would know if someone were trying to swindle me, believe me.
Sam: That's true. That is true!
Chris hardwick: You all have honest faces. Particularly her, over there. Very honest face. What can I do to help?
Matt: What do you think would lend itself to a fire gate-sealing ritual? It could be a spell, it could be a use of a skill. How would you like to--?
Sam: A candle? Do you have any candles that could aid?
Laura: Like fiery candles, maybe?
Chris hardwick: I have a-- No, this one casts-- This is bright light, there's a thunder candle. Blink candle. Destroy-- No, that destroys dexterity. I have a thunder candle, but I don't know if that would work.
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Chris hardwick: 19.
Matt: 19. The Blink candle, which you crafted from various parts from blink dogs and other creatures that have natural translocation capabilities, might have the capability, as this is a doorway between planes, and teleportation magic is based on creating short-form doorways between similar spaces, might have some impact on the ritual if used properly.
Chris hardwick: I have this Blink candle. It's formed from various animals that blink and if-- that has trans-dimensional properties, very good properties. The best kind of robust properties that I can throw it in, and it might help stop the-- from-- all of that.
Travis: That makes perfect sense.
Chris hardwick: Right. So we're all in agreement, then.
Sam: Well-explained!
Chris hardwick: All right. So I'm going to hand Blink candle to Coral and I'm going to have Coral walk into the portal.
Travis: Brave Coral.
Chris hardwick: Brave Coral. Fuck, I've lost two and my broom. What a fucking terrible day.
Matt: As Coral takes the candle, (groans) turns around and begins to just slowly melt, steps into the lava.
Liam: Run, Coral, run!
Matt: Nine points of fire damage to Coral who was already sitting at--
Chris hardwick: Six.
Matt: And had taken six damage, right? So 15 from 33. Coral's at half health. Coral, as this is rough terrain, gets part of the way there, then continues walking forward the rest of the way. Takes an additional 17 points of damage.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So that's 32 points of damage. What's Coral's hitpoints? 33 is the max?
Laura: That's what you said.
Matt: Yep. On the sheet right there. I can read my own text. 33 hit points. Coral, at one hitpoint, gets up to the lava, take the candle and (boof). As the energy expands from it, you can see a ripple, a heat wave ripple, that billows outward. Coral vanishes entirely and the portal shrinks down by about five to six feet, actually closing in its space
Chris hardwick: Oh, Coral, I forgot to tell you somethi-- fuck.
Matt: Suddenly you hear a (zip) and Coral appears about ten, 15 feet in the air--
Chris hardwick: Oh good, there you are. Listen, did you see my broom?
Matt: Smack! Coral falls those 15 feet, taking six points of bludgeoning damage. Let's see if Coral survives this with Undead Fortitude. Nope. That is a roll of eight versus a total DC of 11 with the damage taken, and Coral just splats like a really, really old orange just slammed into the concrete, just (splatting).
Travis: Like an old orange.
Matt: One of the Fire Ashari goes (cringing, gagging) and just ends up concentrating on holding the gate.
Chris hardwick: I'm starting to think you're all very bad luck.
Matt: However, that did aid the ritual. We have two more folks who could aid in this ritual.
Laura: I can use-- I don't know if it will help, but I have a really great diamond of awesomeness that's precious.
Matt: How would that help the ritual?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Am I a part of the people who could be included in the ritual too?
Matt: Yeah. Oh yeah.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to cast a 7th-level Plane Shift to help smush it closed.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a nature roll with advantage. This is your understanding of the natural elements of the world around you and the connection you have with the fire elemental plane.
Laura: I don't know how this magic stuff works.
Travis: Oh, I'll teach you later.
Marisha: 12. Oh, with advantage. 23
Matt: 23. As you begin to concentrate, your hands instinctively burst into flames to coalesce your connection to the Fire Elemental Plane. As you complete the Plane Shift spell, your form shimmers for a second, and for a moment it looks like she's only partially there. She's actually translucent, as flames begin to lick up the sides of her body. At this point, you can see the lava flow in the mountain begins to slow and the bubbling begins to come to a stillness. The portal itself shimmers again and then shrinks down to the size of a normal doorway, about five foot by ten foot tall, and it's just barely holding on. As you're concentrating on holding it in its place, you can see now the rest of the druids around are sweating profusely. Who wishes to take on the last part of this ritual?
Travis: I have a Firebrand Warhammer. I could hit it. Anybody else got anything better?
Laura: Do you have any magic stuff, Scanlan?
Sam: I can inspire them. I mean...
Travis: Your Dimension Door?
Marisha: Do you have your Dimension Door?
Sam: Dimension Door what?
Marisha: A door. I did Planar Binding, which technically really wasn't supposed to do what I just did--
Matt: Planar Shift you said.
Marisha: Planar Shift, I mean, yes. 7th-level.
Matt: Finding ways to tailor magic essences into this type of a ritual.
Sam: Do I know that that will work or help?
Matt: You don't know. You'll find out. However you wish to aid this ritual and justify how it would be helpful in this instance.
Liam: There's something I could do.
Travis: Yeah, spit it up.
Liam: I whip the Cape of the Mountebank out of my pocket and run at that door and jump off the edge and just try to balloon umbrella it down over with that red cape.
Matt: Hmm. Okay.
Laura: Matador it.
Liam: I'm doing it. I'm matadoring it.
Matt: Okay. I will say-- hmm. How do I make this work? I'm going to want you to go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. That is a 25.
Matt: All right. You rush up, leaping off the side, spinning in the air. As you, do you unfurl the cape and turn it into a limited parachute-type projection and as you slam it down towards-- I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom check to see if you have the capability of triggering the magic of the item at the right time to be impactful.
Liam: Cross your fingers, everybody.
Travis: Come on, Vax.
Liam: No bonuses here.
Chris hardwick: No whammys.
Marisha: We don't still have our fancy feast, do we?
Sam: Oh, yeah, are we still feasting?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So what does that mean? Advantage.
Marisha: You have advantage on wisdom throws.
Liam: That's better. That is 13.
Matt: 13? That's better. As you come down, you take the cape and encase, you trigger the magic, at which point the remainder of this doorway just blinks out entirely, the cape gone. The doorway, gone.
Liam: Hot hot hot hot hot.
Matt: As Vax (splashing) right into the lava.
Marisha: I take a Grasping Vine from the edge and try and yank him back.
Matt: Okay. You take 22 points of fire damage as you splat into the lava.
Liam: The Deathwalker's Ward is set to fire.
Matt: So it resisted to 11. So you (splashing) in the lava. All of a sudden, images flash in your head of the time that you lost most of your foot in the Underdark. And you go--
Liam: No no no no no no no no!
Matt: And, before you can even react, all of a sudden, something wraps around your waist and yanks you out as a vine pulls you in an arc and slams you into the hard obsidian floor on the outside of the lava flow. The rest of you gather there as the rest of the druids finish their concentration. The lava pools themselves have gone still and you can see elements beginning to cool, and there's currently no sign of a tear between the elemental planes that's currently bursting through.
Travis: Nice job, Vax!
Liam: Where am I, am I near her, on the ground?
Matt: She would be back here. You're on the ground, right next to a dancing skeleton.
Marisha: I moved up, I moved up. I would be over there.
Matt: You would be part of the ritual. But you fell next to the dancing skeleton.
Liam: Okay, I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I look at the skeleton, I look at her. I'm an idiot.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I already knew that. It's fine. You did good. You did good. I reach down and I help him on his feet. How bad are you?
Liam: I'm pretty bad.
Marisha: I Cure Wounds, level four.
Travis: Yeah, cool, do that. I'm going to walk out of the lava now. (laughter)
Matt: Taking another 21 points of fire damage. Reduced to ten. The druids look around and give a nod of acceptance. All of them acknowledge you, who they have not met and don't understand quite where you came from or why you're here. One of them, who is currently missing an arm on one hand. Dark, weathered skin, long jet black hair cruising down to the middle of his back, approaches you and his one right arm he puts on the shoulder and says, into your eyes, "I do not know you, friend, but you have come to our aid at an hour when we really required it."
Chris hardwick: Great, sure, I just thought I'd come and lose a couple of thralls and my fucking broom. But great to be here. Everyone seems nice. Especially her, she's great.
Matt: He removes his hand. "Very well."
Chris hardwick: Let me know if I can do anything else! Do you want a candle?
Matt: "Candle?"
Chris hardwick: Well, I make candles, just various candles.
Matt: He does this and his finger bursts into flame and you can see a flame flickering. "We do not need candles here in Pyrah. But thank you."
Liam: Is that the finger? Or is that the finger?
Matt: Insinuated, actual finger. At this point, Korren, your father, approaches you and places a hand on your shoulder, and turns you around to look you in the face. And you can see there's smears of dirt and still glistening from sweat from the whole ritual and looks a bit weathered and winded from the experience. "Keyleth, I'm proud of you."
Marisha: Thank you, Father.
Matt: I think we will stay here and help the Pyrah try and rebuild.
Marisha: Oh. Okay.
Matt: And he takes your chin and pulls it up and looks you in the face with a broad smile on his face, he says, "The road before you, Keyleth, is hard and fraught with loss and sadness. To live is to struggle against the void. But it's those moments of darkness that define the joy of the world around them. Learn from the loss and push forward as a beacon of perseverance, of hope for life after pain. This is one of the pillars of strength of a leader. One that I have learned with the loss of your mother. But you are my beacon of hope. And to many more than you even expect." And he looks back towards the four other members of the Zephrah tribe that are all just looking at you, and they nod.
Marisha: I hope I do not fail you, Father.
Matt: "I trust you will not. Go forth, while we stay here. I want you to grasp your destiny, vanquish this terrible beast that lies on the shores of Tal'Dorei. Complete your Aramente."
Marisha: How do you know that this is my destiny?
Matt: "Whatever your destiny is, grasp it. But you've chosen this path, and all destiny really is, is the choices you make, leading towards a goal that perhaps you do not yet understand. But when you've returned I wish for you to teach us the wisdom you've gained on this journey."
Marisha: Kaitiaki, father.
Matt: "Kaitiaki, Keyleth."
Chris hardwick: Did you see a broom lying around anywhere?
Matt: "No."
Chris hardwick: Sorry.
Matt: "It's all right, we will keep an eye out for it though."
Chris hardwick: Please. And tell everyone #feelthegern. They'll know what it means.
Sam: What is a hashtag?
Chris hardwick: I'll explain later.
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Well, unless there's anything else, we have business to attend to in restoring this area. I wish you all great luck. "
Marisha: Korren, If we should ever need you-- if I should ever need you, or the assistance of the Ashari, what is the best way to get hold of you?
Matt: "Call to Zephrah. Come home. And we will come with you." As he looks over all of you, giving each a look of-- a nod of respect and appreciation-- ("Don't You" by Simple Minds plays)
Liam: Wow.
Taliesin: I felt it coming.
Matt: Glances past to Grog, Vex, and lingers a very long look on Vax, and just gives you a nod.
Laura: His diamond earring is glistening in the light.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Did I stutter?
Matt: "Stay safe. For her sake." And Korren turns around and walks back, as the rest of the Zephrah Ashari walk along with him. You, through all this chaos, get a little bored and frustrated with all this weird nonsensical stuff, look at the ground and realize there's a lot of hidden treasures scattered amongst this vicinity.
Chris hardwick: Probably so. You know, I might stay behind a bit and dig around for a little while. You know, candlemaking's a difficult business.
Sam: Is it now?
Chris hardwick: Aye.
Taliesin: Well, if you're ever looking for more customers, you'll always find them in Whitestone. So, if you make your way north.
Chris hardwick: Excellent!
Taliesin: You're always welcome.
Chris hardwick: Thank you. Could someone heal me a bit before you leave? I'm quite singed.
Taliesin: Oh my!
Laura: I walk up and I cast Cure Wounds on him. I've got jack shit.
Chris hardwick: She's so nice!
Sam: She's great.
Chris hardwick: She's the nicest!
Laura: At a level three for you!
Chris hardwick: That's really nice of you.
Travis: You're a really good person.
Laura: I am! I am. 20 points.
Travis: Holy shit!
Sam: Vex?
Laura: Yes?
Sam: This gentleman has done nothing but aid us.
Laura: I know, and it's so kind of him.
Sam: He's suffered the loss of three of his--
Laura: Look at all these treasures he's going to find here for his candles!
Sam: Is there anything we can do to repay you?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: That scimitar that the genie had, did it fall into the lava?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 18.
Matt: As you look down and say "all these treasures around," you get a closer look. The ground here is rugged rock and black ash and dust and pieces of charred and burnt, petrified wood, and right around the outskirts of where the lava pool is, you can see what look to be broken slivers of soot-covered dragon scale just peppered throughout the landscape. Barely visible until you look real close, thanks to the constant barrage of blacken soot and dust that falls from the nearby area.
Laura: Do you collect dragon scales for your candles?
Chris hardwick: Oh, I forgot to tell you. I sold out my own kind because I was enslaved by dragons who had tails who consider themselves royalty and therefore better than me and I don't have a tail. And so I spent my whole life trying to figure out how to turn scales into weaponized candles. Anyway, got to go, everyone have a great time! Thank you!
Matt: You just leave?
Chris hardwick: I leave! Scoop up some of the few scales and piss off.
Matt: You guys watch as Gern Blanston begins walking around and, like a gutter snipe, or one of the people on the beach with a metal detector, starts combing through.
Chris hardwick: (singing) Don't you forget about me!
Laura: Gern! Before you leave!
Chris hardwick: Aye?
Laura: You know, we're killing a very, very large dragon, hopefully rather soon.
Chris hardwick: Very interesting! Where would that be?
Laura: Well, he's in Emon now, but we're gathering our forces in Whitestone.
Chris hardwick: Good to know! I might catch up with you later on.
Laura: All right!
Chris hardwick: Good-bye!
Laura: Good-bye!
Matt: Which she says with a strange doppler effect even though he's but 20 feet away from you and has chosen to ignore the rest of your party to go about his business.
Chris hardwick: It's just like an NPC, just Skyrim.
Matt: As your skeleton's in the background dancing.
Chris hardwick: There's only one left!
Matt: Yeah, only one left.
Taliesin: He's freezeframe.
Matt: There's plenty of charred corpses littered all over this mountaintop you could make undead from.
Travis: Does the skeleton go with him, or does it stay?
Matt: It follows him. All right, so the rest of you, what is your next course of action?
Liam: I sidle up next to my sister and stand there for a moment and deadpan say, boy, the more things change, the more they stay the same. And then I walk away. (laughter)
Taliesin: Keyleth, why don't we head home?
Marisha: Which home?
Sam: How do we do that?
Travis: Whitestone.
Laura: Can we get to Whitestone, can you bamf us?
Marisha: I can, yeah.
Laura: Let's go there and rest up.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Hey, thank you guys. Thanks for coming, for helping.
Laura: Your dad is very noble.
Sam: Your homeland is, you know, I mean, the volcano, the magma, the monsters, the fire torn in the sky, it's lovely. It's charming, really.
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. This isn't my homeland. I appreciate how well you know me after all these years.
Sam: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you lived here.
Marisha: No, this is the Fire Ashari's camp.
Sam: You're not a Fire Ashari?
Marisha: I'm an Air Ashari.
Liam: It's all right, it's only been a couple of years.
Sam: Aren't all Ashari the same?
Marisha: You know what, Scanlan, that might be the most questions you've ever asked me about myself.
Sam: I don't even know your last name!
Marisha: I don't have one.
Sam: Hey, what's a hashtag?
Laura: Hey, Gern! Gern! Gern! Gern!
Chris hardwick: Hello?
Laura: Is it just dragon scales, or is it any dragon parts you use?
Chris hardwick: You know, mainly dragon scales, but I do like to see them blown apart, so that part's merely for pleasure.
Travis: You could give him five pounds of dragon scales.
Marisha: I pick a tree that's big enough to fit all of our fat faces.
Matt: You already cast Transport via Plants this day, that's how you got here.
Marisha: Maybe we should rest.
Travis: Do you need me to help you with the tree spell?
Laura: Maybe we should just sleep here and rest up and spend the night, wake up in the morning, head back to Whitestone.
Taliesin: He's going to still be there next week, by the way.
Matt: And with that, Vox Machina leaves Gern to his business as they go and camp out at the base of the mountain.
Chris hardwick: Did someone lose an orb?
Matt: And with that, we're going to finish tonight's game! (laughter)
Chris hardwick: Can I say something from this realm?
Matt: Yeah.
Chris hardwick: I'm delighted. We showed a thing tonight on @Midnight of someone lounge singing Stand By Me to Donald Trump and putting the name Donald in there, so I told everyone, please tweet that to @Wilw, and people are fucking doing it.
Travis: That's amazing.
Chris hardwick: So, if you find the guy singing a very poor rendition of Stand by Me to Donald Trump, please send it to Wil Wheaton, he'll love it! Favorite thing in the world!
Matt: You heard it, guys. Critters' call to action. Make it happen.
Chris hardwick: #FeelTheGern.
Liam: CritterStrong.
Sam: Feel the Gern.
Matt: All right, well, guys. Chris, thank you so much for coming and hanging out with us.
Chris hardwick: Thank you, this was so much fun!
Taliesin: A week without crying!
Travis: Feel the Gern!
Chris hardwick: The best DM in the world! This is a wonderful party, and you're all fantastic. Thank you so much. I'm not even upset that you stole my broom.
Laura: Don't judge me, Scanlan, you didn't see me do it!
Sam: I didn't! I didn't!
Laura: Sam's just judging.
Sam: I'm judging you, Laura Bailey. (laughter)
Matt: There is a definite distinction.
Liam: Don't worry, everyone will judge you when you take it out and use it for the first time.
Sam: Vex is fine. Laura Bailey? Awful.
Travis: She's wanted to fly so much.
Liam: Beat him by one.
Matt: Well, thank you all so very much for watching tonight. Hope you enjoyed tonight's episode. We return next Thursday, 7PM Pacific time once again to pick up the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Everyone, show your love on Twitter to Chris, @hardwick. Thank you again for coming and being an amazing wizard for all of us. And is it Thursday yet? See some of you guys tomorrow, and if not, next week.
Travis: Peace out!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, roll dice, and stuff. Tonight is a special episode; it's a special 50th episode. We've made 50 of these! To kick off the evening's festivities before the game, we want to show our first big present to you guys, something we've been working on for about a little over a month. We hope you guys enjoy it. Let's go ahead and have a look at the new full intro for Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, guys! (cheering)
Matt: That was fun! We've been silently working on that for a long time.
Marisha: It was so hard to keep secret.
Matt: I know. Every edit that came in was awesome. Yeah, we all went together in Simi Valley for a day and shot, and did wonderful photos, which we actually have wallpaper going up tonight!
Laura: That is correct. It'll be going up very soon.
Marisha: I guess I could go right--
Laura: Do it now, he just said it!
Liam: We're doing it live! We're doing it live.
Sam: We're releasing a special 50th episode wallpaper all for you guys to use on your home PCs.
Marisha: On the Critical Role Twitter and Facebook right now.
Sam: Download it!
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Download it, @criticalrole.
Liam: Good, pressure's off.
Marisha: It's done.
Matt: It's all over. Episode's over. No, thank you guys for coming tonight. Hope you enjoyed that. We have some really awesome people that helped out with that. I'm going to go ahead and get some thank-yous here. We have, first off, a big thank you to Jan-Michael Losada, our DP for that shoot; Pamela Joy who did all the incredible photography, and Loretta Richert, both of them helped us find and secure the location and shot an incredible series of photos that we'll be using in upcoming episode releases and promotional stuff! So check that out. You guys have been amazing, thank you so much. Next up, I want to go ahead and thank Dave and James Codeglia who are from Ghostlight. They did all the special effects you see as well as the color grading and the editing. They did a phenomenal job on this, and big thanks to you guys. It's far more than I ever expected it could be. Ghostlight is awesome.
Travis: Are we cutting to that title camera so they can see the addresses?
Matt: Yeah. For makeup we want to thank Misti Dawn, Talor Bianca Appice, and Heather Galipo, they did an amazing job. And Travis, of course, for sitting in the makeup chair for a long time.
Travis: It was cold (laughs). It was real cold.
Marisha: Four hours! Specifically, Misti did a lot of our beauty makeup, Bianca did Travis, and Heather did all of our ears. Because ears take a lot of time!
Matt: You guys did an amazing job. Next up, for our illustrious costumers, we have Jessica Dru, who did an amazing job, Jessica Dru Johnson for selling me the costumes, Vanessa Walton, who made your wonderful headpiece--
Marisha: Yes, and she has an Etsy store, actually Creature of Habit on Etsy. So follow her on Instagram and of course you can go-- she makes all these amazing flower crowns; she's basically a real-life faerie.
Taliesin: It's a magical Instagram.
Marisha: It is a magical Instagram, Creature of Habit.
Matt: Check that out. And of course Bryan Forrest for both applying a lot of the armor to Pike and a lot of individuals here. He brought a lot of the great costume pieces and armor, and was one of our illustrious goblins; he got killed as two different goblins! Took two arrows, one in the face, one in the chest. A great stuntman, Bryan, thank you so much for helping out with that.
Marisha: Thank you Bryan, we love you!
Matt: Jon Enge who was our special effects supervisor on set and was the goblin who got stabbed in the back. He was amazing.
Marisha: And he's got a youtube channel, Mars Rising, which is great. And I did a Splinter Cell guards sketch that I did with him a while ago
Taliesin: He and I used to perform at the Ren Faire together, it was a thing.
Marisha: Oh! That's awesome; Jon's awesome. Go check his stuff out.
Liam: You worked at Ren Faire?
Taliesin: Oh, shut up. Suck it.
Travis: Lord Taliesin!
Matt: Of course, Jason Charles Miller, who's a friend of the show, who's been on the show as Garthok the half-orc rogue, did the new theme, as well as the old one, but he re-upped for the new theme, extending it and making it that much more epic. Thank you so much. And Geoff Bisente did a lot of the sound design on it as well. You guys kicked ass on making it sound as good as it did. Check out their stuff, they're amazing. I think Jason should have the actual new song up on iTunes soon in case you want it for a ringtone or something. And last but certainly not least, we have Avery Faeth, who did the amazing Percy costume.
Taliesin: My coat! She's an amazing coat designer. She's got a--
Marisha: She's a coat designer.
Taliesin: She did the coat, she's an amazing cosplayer and costume designer and you can find her on Sickhorse all over the place.
Matt: And Kai Norman, who you've seen on the show, he actually did our casts of the K'Varn horn, and his incredible work. He did Percy's gun. He did a number of the props we used for it, he's great. You can find him at @KommissarProps. Additional costuming done by Anne Valiant, who did an amazing job helping us out getting the costume pieces we needed for it. As well, a big shout-out to Labyrinth of Jared at Masquerade Ball who also helped provide a lot of the costumes for the shoot, and Sword and the Stone who helped provide a lot of the weaponry and armor, along with Bryan. So thank you guys, all of you so much, for helping make this happen. We're really excited and we hope you liked it!
Travis: Can you put the first one up again, because we didn't get the Pamela Joy title-- yeah. It's the only one we missed. They were so instrumental and did such a lovely job.
Laura: Yeah they did!
Marisha: And Pam did the photo of the wallpaper.
Laura: She's actually shot all of our photos from the very beginning. She's freaking amazing.
Travis: We have so much, you guys, so much.
Marisha: Go follow her on Instagram! She's great.
Matt: All right. So getting into our actual announcements here, try and cruise through this as fast as possible.
Sam: It's our special episode; I thought everyone was dressing up.
Laura: We're all wearing our shirts
Marisha: You're appropriate for Scanlan.
Sam: You all look like shit!
Liam: Sam, can I show you my snake? (oohing and aahing)
Travis: Bigger than I thought it'd be!
Matt: Strangely, he lost it for a few sessions.
Liam: This too shall pass.
Matt: All right, so  50th episode, guys! (cheering)
Matt: Can't believe we made it this far! And more to come. 50 more! Hopefully.
Liam: Hey look! Ashley's here!
Ashley: Hey! I just landed. Not landed in a plane, but just drove in.
Matt: Drove all across the country, from New York.
Ashley: From, yes. Drove in from New York.
Laura: So what does that mean, Ashley?
Ashley: I'm here for a little while. (cheering)
Marisha: She's back!
Ashley: I'm back for a little bit.
Travis: Yay, Pike!
Ashley: Probably for a couple months, a few months, we'll see. We're pushing it for a few months.
Marisha: That sounds better.
Ashley: I'm excited and I'm nervous, but I'm excited.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so glad you could join us, and welcome back, Ashley.
Ashley: Thanks. Thank you.
Matt: Also tonight we're putting up for the next two weeks on pre-order a brand new set of "How Do You Want To Do This" hoodies, which I'm wearing here.
Laura: It's Alternative Apparel and it's super-duper-super-duper cozy inside.
Travis: Look at that! Look at that.
Ashley: That's so softy-puffy.
Marisha: They're super soft.
Laura: You could use it as a pillow, you could use it as a hoodie.
Ashley: You could wear it on a plane.
Sam: Where are all the other places they could wear it?
Ashley: On a train.
Laura: Dinner, you could wear it to dinner.
Taliesin: You could wear it in a boat!
Sam: With a goat?
Taliesin: You could put it on a goat.
Marisha: To Big Lots.
Taliesin: At work or on the go.
Liam: Keep this going all night long.
Matt: Two hours.
Sam: It's this content that you've demanded. (laughter)
Matt: So yeah, these are up on the store, or should be, and will be up for pre-order for the next two weeks. If you want one, get one! Because they're cool. I like them.
Travis: Yeah, we all have one.
Matt: Indeed. All right, next up, Critmas is tonight. So we got that coming up after the show.
Laura: Just a few packages.
Marisha: Yeah, just a few cartloads
Matt: We're going to do our best to keep it as organized and as expedient as possible so we can get to bed at a decent hour, especially those of us who have like 8:00am call times in the morning. Travis.
Travis: I'm going to stay as long as I can.
Matt: (laughs) But yeah, so stick around for that. You get to watch us all cry forever, because that's what happens every time.
Travis: Cry forever.
Matt: A couple other announcements  has here on the list "posters."
Travis: Posters?
Liam: Posters?
Sam: Posters?
Matt: Posters. Somebody must've put that on the list.
Liam: Maybe later.
Sam: What's a poster?
Liam: There's four of them on a bed.
Matt: There you go, that makes sense.
Taliesin: If somebody says they're one thing but really they're just not all that.
Matt: That makes sense. Quick announcement, an event coming up: a convention on May 26 to 29 in Atlanta called MomoCon. I will be a guest at that, so all you east coast folks around Atlanta come say hello! I have panels, and talks, and autographs to give, and cool artwork you can pick up. So yeah, MomoCon, May 26-29, hope to see you guys there. Me and Marisha are both announced to be guests at the Haven Expo in Mackay, Australia on July 2nd, so all you folks in the outback, you'll want to come hang out with me and Marisha at the beginning of July.
Ashley: (Australian accent) In the outback!
Matt: Just like that.
Ashley: (accented) Going to get a bloomin' onion?
Matt: I'm so sorry.
Laura: I'm sure they're really thrilled about that.
Matt: She's back for ten minutes, guys.
Ashley: I know a lot of Australians.
Sam: You've already offended an entire continent.
Matt: You and Johnny Depp in the same week, come on. So yeah, hopefully we're looking forward to seeing a bunch of you guys down under at the beginning of July. Let's see, reveal secret Scientology message and ascend to Xenu, that's on the list. We got that one situated.
Taliesin: Who put this one together?
Matt: Rat Queens! The next Rat Queens issue coming up. 16, I guess? Issue 16 is the number? Has a series of pages in which all of Vox Machina have a wonderful cameo.
Sam: It's amazing. We're in a comic book. We did it.
Taliesin: Has that not publicly been seen yet, is that not out yet?
Sam: Some pictures have been, but not all of it.
Marisha: We have transcended, you guys.
Taliesin: We are fiction now.
Ashley: That's so crazy.
Matt: Yeah. Isn't it? One more thing I want to mention: a really great game called Masquerada; I play the lead character, Cicero Gavar. It's been developed by a great studio named Witching Hour. They put up a Kickstarter today to see if they can make the game as good as it possibly can be-- that final push. As an independent/indie studio and an indie product, they're putting out a phenomenal isometric RPG. Great voice talent that includes Jennifer Hale, Dave Fennoy, it's a great cast. Check it out on Kickstarter if it's something you think you'd be interested in, and possibly helping them polish it and make it phenomenal. So check that out. Anything else you guys want to announce?
Liam: Yeah! Can I get a CritRole?
All: CritRole!
Liam: Boy, I always love sitting at the table with my dice and having a nice cozy wooden box to keep my dice in. Wyrmwood Gaming makes all kinds of wooden boxes to hold your dice in. We have them here, we have all kinds. There's these, there's these-- they hold dice!
Sam: Those seem really remarkable, Liam.
Ashley: Wait, what is this one?
Sam: Is there anything any bigger?
Liam: In due time.
Liam: Wyrmwood Gaming, you know them already because we talk about them non-stop, friend of the show. If you use the code CritRole, you'll get free shipping. Also Wyrmwood Gaming has a kickstarter up this month for their Sentinel box, which holds--
All: Ooh!
Ashley: What is this?
Liam: It holds your cards, it holds your dice, there's a bluetooth doohickey in it so you'll never lose your box with dice and cards. And you can get all kinds of woods, there's all kinds of tiers, you can get the Critical Role logo etched into any kind of box that they have. And if you want to go full wizard you can get the shnazzy Masterworks box, did I get that right?
Laura: It is masterworks.
Ashley: I want that one!
Travis: I think that's one of the Vestiges.
Liam: So, check it out. Wyrmwood Gaming, they got a Kickstarter, they got a website. They're our good buddies.
Matt: All right. So, anything else anyone wants to talk about or mention?
Marisha: I mean.
Matt: Because if not, I think we may have to watch that intro again. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, yeah, do it again! Do that shit again, please!
Matt: Let's watch that intro again. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. I remember writing the script for that and going, "We're going to have to cut all this." And then we didn't. I'm so happy how it turned out.
Marisha: Mainly because we ran out of time.
Matt: Like, "Well, we got to do it. Make it work."
Taliesin: "There's no time to do anything else, other than this."
Matt: "We can't cut the tentacle creature. I don't know how we'll do it, but it's in there." Let's go ahead and bring us back into the realm of Exandria and catch us up to what happened last time. Vox Machina, a group of adventurers currently on the path to try and usurp and destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have torn through Tal'Dorei and currently reign supreme over the partially ruined cities that dot the landscape. The largest of them, and apparently the leader, Thordak the Cinder King sitting in the main city of Emon, forcing you guys to flee. You've gone about and discovered these artifacts, these legendary items known as the Vestiges of Divergence. Ancient magical weapons and equipment from the last great war, the Divergence. And these seem to be a key in which you can ascertain a level of power and a means of destroying these creatures. Upon seeking information about these, you traveled south to the Frostweald, where you battled a camp of orcs, freeing survivors from Westruun's attack, and managed to walk your way into the deep den of a forgotten Ioun temple where Osysa, the sphinx's mate, resides. After traversing past traps and puzzles you made your way to the main chamber in which the nameless sphinx demanded you reveal that you have earned its name. During this battle you traveled through portals to other elemental realms to seek out the information to hopefully devise the title of this sphinx before it was too late. During which, Grog leapt through, if I recall, one of these portals into the Elemental Plane of Air. Set adrift without a means of returning, he took his Chain of Returning, attached it to Craven Edge, and threw it through the portal. It found purchase and you pulled yourself through, face-to-face with Pike, with the blade embedded in her abdomen. The weapon, which had achieved its maximum strength potential of devouring the essence of others, transformed during this battle and has been in its rather intense and dangerous form since. You guys managed to piece together the name of this sphinx, at which point the battle ended and it presented to you the information you required. It gave you the information of the Vestiges that still exist, to its knowledge, and you were escorted via immediate sandstorm out of the temple and now stand at the edge of the Stormcrest Mountains and the Frostweald Forest itself. So. You all take a moment to gather your thoughts, think over what just transpired, and think on your next course of action.
Laura: Well, I want that bow. (laughs)
Marisha: I heard a few things that seemed very desireable.
Liam: How is Pike?
Sam: Yeah, Pike, are you alive?
Ashley: I-- yes. (laughter)
Laura: He healed us all up before we left, right?
Ashley: He healed us. Yes, I'm fine! I'm fine.
Matt: Well, not completely, you guys healed from a couple of spells that were cast at the time, but you haven't had a rest.
Marisha: But some of us are still older, right?
Matt: Indeed.
Liam: Is your stomach closed?
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: You go and inspect the armor itself, the plates that separated and scraped from the impact of Craven Edge's blade. The wound itself seems to have at least stopped bleeding as part of the healing magic and the wound has closed, though you're still in a relatively damaged state post-battle. You guys haven't had really a moment to recover and heal what you could. She seems to be okay. There's still that lingering sweat from the stress and the impact of the blade, but nothing seems to be mortally endangered about her current state.
Liam: Do you need a moment, do you need to speak to Sarenrae?
Ashley: I think I'm okay. Do I know what hit points I'm at?
Matt: Yes. You're at 63.
Ashley: I'm doing okay.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, from the time it took you guys to go through the temple and the strangeness that is the shift of time around the temple, it's probably mid-day. Pretty much the same time you entered the temple.
Marisha: Weird.
Travis: I'm really sorry about that.
Ashley: Hey, it's okay, Grog. I know you didn't mean to.
Travis: No. No, I didn't. I was floating away, you should've seen the inside. It was wind everywhere.
Ashley: It sounds pretty crazy.
Travis: Yeah. And I was like, what would my buddy Pike do? She would take the sword and attach the chain to it and throw it through the door! And then you were there!
Ashley: It's okay, Grog! I'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, but you're my best buddy!
Ashley: Oh, Grog.
Travis: Do you want one of my healing potions, are you sure you're all right?
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay. I think if we just-- (laughs) I'm excited to see you guys. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Are we taking a rest? I don't know how many--
Laura: It's mid-day!
Taliesin: I think a short rest would not be a bad idea.
Marisha: I don't think this is actually the time of day, I don't think nature works the same around this temple.
Travis: What do you mean? It's magic time of day?
Marisha: Kind of, but it's always magic time of day.
Laura: So maybe we should hang out in the mouth of the cave and take a short rest
Marisha: I'm all right with that.
Laura: Yes?
Ashley: I would be okay with that.
Matt: Ashley, you've used a 5th-level spell. How many 4th-level spells do you have, because you used two I believe?
Ashley: Three 4th-level.
Matt: So you have one left.
Laura: Maybe we should take a long rest.
Marisha: We could try and hoof it home.
Taliesin: I think we start moving in that direction and when nightfall comes we make camp.
Travis: Towards the campsite?
Laura: Unless I was healed, and I don't remember being healed, I'm at 11 health points. So I'm feeling a little sore.
Ashley: Oh gosh!
Sam: He only healed a couple of us.
Marisha: I thought she was the one that he--
Laura: He healed me back to my age.
Matt: Yeah, the aging effect was restored, but only to her. The rest of you are still aged up based on the effect of the lair of the sphinx.
Marisha: That's something we're going to have to Restoration away.
Travis: Please, I'm handsome as fuck right now, come on.
Laura: Did you get aged?
Travis: Like a fine wine. Yeah, I got aged.
Ashley: Can you do Greater Restoration on a group?
Matt: No, on an individual each time.
Ashley: Who is the oldest?
Travis: Well, she was.
Laura: I was and he healed me.
Liam: Typically Scanlan is the oldest, but I've been aged the most maybe.
Laura: He's really fucking old right now. Look at all those wrinkles.
Ashley: How old are you?
Laura: His ears are starting to droop!
Matt: If I recall, you aged close to roughly 20 to 25 years.
Ashley: You look like a fine wine, you just got better with age.
Liam: I knew that this was coming, I just thought I had more years until it happened.
Ashley: They gray looks great on you, the salt and pepper hair.
Marisha: You should really look at this as a nice peek into the future. It's not bad.
Liam: Yeah, so--
Ashley: Would you like to be younger?
Travis: Young again?
Ashley: Would you like to be young again?
Liam: It's probably a good idea.
Laura: Are you sure you want to do it, Pike, are you sure?
Liam: You could do it tomorrow, could you take care of my sister first, Pike?
Ashley: Yes. We need to get you into better order, okay? All right, where we at here?
Travis: Oh, I don't cast that.
Liam: Give her the works.
Marisha: So, we are taking a short rest? I'm going to burn a couple of hit dice.
Laura: Shorty rest and then we'll walk.
Matt: Everyone taking a short rest?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: (emphatically) Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to heal her up.
Laura: I mean, I could roll my own hit dice.
Ashley: No, no, it's my job.
Travis: So I lose all the buffs, right?
Matt: Here's what happens. So as you guys are taking a rest, you step a little bit away from the group, sit down and hold the blade. Chain's still attached across your lap. Just look down at it and you can see it's still pulsing with the power of all the life energy that it'd taken before. And as you take a moment, see to your wounds, relax, recover from the intense rage and all the emotional pain that's transpired here, the blade begins to shrink. You hear the slight crackle (squeal) as the metal begins to creak and pull backward, all the jagged edges pulling into the central singular curved blade at the front of it. As it hits, it seems to almost shrink slightly smaller than it was before and the metal creaks for a second and a voice in your head goes, (breathes heavily) "Hungry--" Make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh shit. Now it's going to steal his strength.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Eat it, sword.
Matt: For but a moment, you sense a very similar feeling, one that-- it's been really since the battle with K'Varn when all of the light in the world vanished for a second and darkness took your consciousness, and that same cold sensation starts to stem from the blade itself like it's actually trying to pull you into it, and you resist it. And you stand there and look at the blade and it just-- in comparison to its larger form, it looks small. It's the same size it was since you originally got it, but you look at it there in this long, still silence as you try and conjecture what just transpired. And in that silence you hear the voice once again go, "Feed. Now."
Travis: I don't have anything to feed you.
Matt: "Find something."
Travis: (exhales) All right, all right, all right. What?
Laura: Who you talking to, Grog?
Travis: I'm so hungry. My stomach's rumbling.
Sam: Don't we have our cold pack of food?
Marisha: We do and we have some boar meat.
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Ashley: Or some chicken?
Laura: Yeah I did, I think I did take quite a bit of chicken.
Sam: Love me some chicken.
Matt: As you open the freezer chest there's a (poof) of chicken-scented smoke and mist that vanishes.
Laura: Aw, the chicken, we can't take it. That's okay, I've got boar meat. Do you want to feed your stomach the boar meat?
Travis: What? My stomach?
Ashley: Yeah, are you hungry?
Travis: Yeah, I would not turn down some delicious boar.
Laura: I'll mark it down to half the boar meat is gone now, you guys.
Sam: Wow, he's a big eater. That was a lot. That was a whole boar.
Laura: Well, he's a big guy.
Liam: You're a good hunter, though, it's not really--
Laura: That's right. Well?
Taliesin: We can find some more boar if we have to.
Sam: If we're rested, are we going to set off again?
Matt: You guys can use your hit dice if you want to, to heal up.
Travis: Do I get a level of exhaustion back or no? Long rest?
Matt: No, long rest for your exhaustion.
Travis: Fuck!
Ashley: So short rest means--
Liam: That sword is an asshole.
Sam: Be honest.
Travis: That should've been at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Yeah, should've been at disadvantage.
Matt: Roll again.
Marisha: Oh fuck! No!
Taliesin: Do it!
Laura: You have to roll again?
Sam: He's exhausted.
Ashley: Fuck!
Marisha: No! You're lying!
Sam: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a one. He rolled a one.
Liam: (high-pitched) What are the odds?
Travis: 5% both times.
Liam: Everybody roll for initiative
Laura: No joke, though!
Matt: As you guys finish your rest, and you're all gathering the next stage of your advancement, you watch as Grog stands up and starts walking into the snow of the forest with the blade out, topples and falls to one knee, then falls face-first in the snow.
Sam: (yells)
Ashley: Grog? I run over to him.
Laura: We all run out.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: He's still, he's cold, there are no signs of life.
Liam: Roll him over, roll him over! Grog!
Laura: I slap him across the face.
Liam: Yeah. Punch him across the face. Grog! Pike?
Sam: Heal, heal, heal!
Ashley: I grab the sword and I take it off of his-- away from him, off of his person.
Matt: Okay, you pull the blade and you take it and you shove it off, and the chain's still attached to the side of his arm. You have to pull-- make a strength check.
Liam: Use those gauntlets.
Laura: Oh yeah, 19!
Ashley: What do I-- roll the 20?
Matt: And add four to it.
Ashley: 11?
Matt: 11, that's enough. You (clink) and you pull the chain off the side of his forearm, toss the blade and it (scrapes) skids to a stop in the snow, cutting a shallow swath through the little bit of the embankment. Grog's still rolled on his back, eyes just dead, lifeless.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Pike is it the sword, is it the sword?
Ashley: I feel like it's the sword, I mean we all know that sword has been weird.
Laura: Can you Greater Restoration him?
Ashley: Yes, I'll Greater Restoration on Grog.
Marisha: While she does Greater Restoration, I want to go over and--
Liam: Break it.
Laura: Don't break it!
Marisha: -- grab the sword and see-- yeah, actually, can I do like a--
Sam: Don't--
Marisha: What?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Why not?!
Sam: His soul could be inside of it
Laura: What do you mean, his soul could be inside of it?
Sam: I touched the sword, it spoke to me, it craves strength from other beings
Marisha: Wait, what do you mean it spoke to you?
Matt: Here's my question to you, Pike. What spells do you have?
Ashley: Okay, so short rest--
Matt: Short rest doesn't give you any spells back. What level spells do you have still?
Ashley: I have a 5th-level. I have one 5th-level, which is Greater Restoration.
Matt: Right, you have Greater Restoration as an option there. What other spells do you have prepared?
Ashley: Aw, shit. I mean, Cure Wounds? No, that's not going to do anything.
Matt: Because from your knowledge and experience, Greater Restoration removes serious curses, it removes avenues--
Ashley: But wouldn't that be--?
Matt: Grog, though you are having a hard time coming to terms with it, in the back of your head there's a part of you that knows that right now, Grog in the snow is dead.
Ashley: Oh no!
Liam: Where can we take him, where can we take him?
Laura: How can he be, how can he be dead?
Liam: Can we take him to Gilmore, can we take him to--?
Marisha: Scanlan, what should I do with this sword?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Should I cast something through it to try and purge whatever it is out of it?
Sam: You could try to do Greater Restoration on the sword to see if that would somehow free the soul from it or--
Marisha: I can do like a Sunbeam spell, that's like a light spell.
Liam: Who could we take him to, could we tree to Gilmore?
Laura: He wouldn't know anything about these-- Can we go back in?
Marisha: I didn't bring anything because we decided to hoof it.
Laura: What about going back to Kamal?
Marisha: I didn't bring a transportation spell because we decided to walk.
Laura: No, but he's right inside the cave, what if he knows things? The sphinx!
Sam: The sphinx-- yeah. We could go to the sphinx.
Ashley: I have Heal, I have one 6th-level.
Matt: Heal? Heal restores damage or damaged flesh to living entities.
Laura: Me and Scanlan go back into the cave and search for Kamal again.
Taliesin: I'm grabbing the sword and taking it to a corner and I'm going to stare at it for a second.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing, you're going to...?
Laura: Me and Scanlan take flight and we go back in and we try to find Kamal again.
Matt: Okay. You guys cruise into the cavern and as you sit inside where the stairs were that led into the temple, it's solid stone.
Laura: Shit!
Matt: There's no sign of an entrance whatsoever to this temple.
Ashley: Wait, wait. I have Revivify!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Learned?
Ashley: Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Has it been enough time?
Ashley: You touch a creature that has died--
Matt: Within the last minute.
Laura: Has it been a minute? He just did it, it just happened!
Taliesin: It's barely been a minute of real time.
Laura: We just ran over!
Ashley: I wasn't even looking at my 3rd-levels.
Matt: Ashley, go ahead and roll an initiative check.
Ashley: Oh, goodness. Okay.
Taliesin: Can I assist with a whisper to the sword?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You do first.
Sam: I just hold her hand and I look in her eyes and I just say, "Please, Pike, please. Please. I love him as much as you do. Please."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Take your d10, and if you want to go ahead and use that now or make this as part of the resurrection ritual, which we're now undergoing.
Laura: Oh my god.
Ashley: Can I do this first? Just to see if it works?
Matt: Well, what'd you roll for your initiative?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14, okay. You get to his body and his back rolled in the snow looking up, just as that window of time begins to fade for the magic to have any effect. You reach down and you grasp his cold-muscled chest and you find the one singular thread, that little soul thread that's still connected to the essence of his eternal being that once resided within this corpse and you clutch onto it with the magic and hold on to it to begin this ritual. Who wishes to bring something to this ritual? You have hold of the thread right now, you need something stronger to keep him here.
Laura: Is that stupid? (laughs anxiously)
Taliesin: No! It's not stupid!
Laura: Okay, okay. Then I reach into the Bag of Holding and I get out Grog's cask of ale.
Matt: Okay. And--? And what do you do with it?
Laura: Okay. I pour a little in his mouth. Just a little bit, so he doesn't choke.
Matt: (laughing) You reach over and you grab the edge of his beard and pull his mouth open, it's hanging limply. You pull off the cork of the cask and begin pouring it and it spills down the side into the snow, darkening it on the sides of his head.
Laura: I turn his head so he doesn't drown in it.
Matt: Understood. Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: This is so stressful. 16?
Matt: Okay. The ale seems to slide back into the throat and find its way in towards the stomach. There is no swallowing motion whatsoever, but it appears that at least it's not drowning him or blocking his airway. You're clutching onto the spirit here. You only have a few moments left before the magic is lost. Who wishes to--
Liam: While that's going on I walk off 30 feet away and I fall to my knees on the ground facing away. I know you are not what I want. But you are what we need. And I will put aside my reservations and serve you. It is too soon for him, we need him. He is needed. I will set aside my reservations and serve you. Please.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15. As you're looking up into the frozen boughs of the trees before you, a little bit of snow begins to fall from what was once the still air. It begins to dot the top of your face and touch your nose, and as the first cold singular snowflake hits, your vision goes dark again. In that darkness, you feel your breath go cold as well, and your whole body is locked in place like it can't move. And all you see is the white porcelain face of the Raven Queen step out of the darkness as her hand comes up and touches the side of your cheek. And a voice in your head, a familiar voice, says, "I believe that every death has its place." And the hand lets go and pulls back. Who wishes to make the third and final aid to this ritual?
Sam: Have I already aided by inspiring Pike?
Matt: Well, if Pike wants to go ahead and make a roll of some sort of attempt at this, that would help as Bardic Inspiration.
Sam: But I can't help again?
Matt: If you wish to do your own thing, you can.
Ashley: Just for extra, yeah.
Sam: The sword seems to want power and strength. I don't know if it will help, but maybe if we gave Grog some extra strength it might help him to come back, so. I have a Potion of Fire Giant Strength.
Marisha: I could cast an Enhance Ability spell.
Sam: He has no abilities now, though.
Marisha: That's true.
Sam: So I'm going to pour this Potion of Fire Giant Strength into his gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Hope it gives him some sort of strength.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Sam: Okay. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you pour the potion into his throat, the somewhat thick red and yellowish compound that drips from it like a thicker molasses finds its way, mingling with the ale currently in his gullet. You help try and massage it down, like feeding a pill to a dog. As you do, you can see the veins around the shoulders instinctually affected by this, as the flesh itself, you know, the cells are still alive. It's just the nervous system and all else that the lights are currently out on. You hope this is enough. And as you hold onto that singular thread of Grog's existence--
Laura: He's taking a picture
Marisha: Why is he taking a picture?
Sam: Because it's not good.
Taliesin: Because he's a terrible person, that's why he's taking a picture.
Marisha: It's either really good or really bad.
Laura: I know, yeah, it's either really good or really bad.
Travis: I can't hide.
Laura: Matthew!
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: As you're certainly staring at the sword--
Taliesin: I was going to say something to it.
Matt: What do you say to it?
Taliesin: If I were you, I'd put it back. Or else it will be the last meal you ever eat, because I will find an abyss so deep and so far you will never taste a drop of blood again. And I'm not touching it. I touched it and put it down and let go and said that to it.
Matt: The shadow begins to bleed from the blade and rise up and it seems almost like an incensed fury from your words. However, you also hear a raging scream bellow from inside the blade. A familiar yell echoing in distant (roars).
Taliesin: I'll start summoning my own fucking mist, man, I'm not fucking intimidated by this shit.
Matt: Your shadow begins to rise over your back as well. As it begins to coalesce, these two black centers of dark energy facing off in wordless anger and lack of understanding, the arm of Grog's body grabs you by the throat and starts clutching as it sits up and looks you in the face, eyes red with rage, going (growl). Roll a strength check.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: Strength check?! He's got 25 strength now!
Travis: Disadvantage still?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: He's going to crush my neck.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. He manages to close off the windpipe just for a short moment, but in that time the red fades from his eyes and the first inhale of breath (gasps) comes into Grog's chest, and your vision clears. And the moment of confusion hits you as you look around and notice this tiny gnome in your grip, head beet-red as you notice that your thumbs are pressed into his larynx.
Travis: No, no. No. (clears throat) What'd you do to me?
Sam: (gasps) Nothing.
Laura: What the fuck is that sword, Grog?
Sam: Gave you some ale.
Sam: What's with you and gnomes today, man?
Travis: I like gnomes, I don't know! What? Why am I down here?
Marisha: Are we sure it's him? Scanlan? Percy? Percy, are we sure?
Sam: Nope! I'm not sure. I'll do a perception check to see if it's--
Marisha: Can I also do an insight check? Can I assist him or make an insight as well?
Matt: You can make your own insight check.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: Sorry. 23.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: I love a whisper.
Liam: I don't.
Laura: How come he's getting a whisper and you're not getting a whisper? Hey, you guys (sobbing) check out those "How Do You Want to do This" hoodies-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to do this with great pain and sadness.
Ashley: This is so stressful!
Laura: Oh my god, you came back and Grog died!
Ashley: I want to go back!
Matt: He rolled a 20, then he rolled a one.
Travis: I did my classic ten-minutes-later remembering-the-rules shit.
Matt: That's right, because you got the third point at the end of that battle because you frenzied for that last fight.
Marisha: Grog! How many fingers am I holding up?
Liam: Six.
Travis: Nine!
Marisha: I think it's him. All right.
Sam: Oh my god.
Laura: Grog, you died!
Ashley: You fell over dead!
Marisha: How many more of us are going to die?!
Travis: No, I didn't. No.
Laura: Yes. You did.
Travis: What, when?
Laura: Pike saved you. Pike brought you back.
Sam: Where's your sword, Grog?
Travis: My sword is-- where is my sword?
Sam: Yeah, exactly.
Ashley: It's not your sword anymore.
Travis: What do you mean?! Wait, wait. Where is my-- where's Craven Edge?
Matt: You sit up and glance over, and you see about 15 feet from you, set up against the bottom of a tree, the blade is currently being crouched over by Percy, his fingers tense, his shoulders and back arched and locked, and you see two shadow sources that are almost on their own subtle plane having a staredown.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Hey! Hey, Percy! Percy!
Taliesin: Little busy.
Marisha: Do you want to explain this, Grog?
Laura: Can we see what's going on?
Matt: You guys look over and you see this happening, yeah.
Travis: Well, I mean he's obviously messing with other people's property! And I walk over to the sword.
Marisha: No, no, no!
Laura: I run over and I block it. I stand next to Percy and I block the sword.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Yeah, I walk over and I stop Grog.
Liam: I'm pulling out daggers and standing behind my sister. Grog. Grog, let it go.
Travis: Let what--
Liam: This has been something on the tip of our tongue for weeks. Let it go. Whatever that thing is, it's fucked. Let it go!
Travis: But it's my sword.
Marisha: It was never your sword, was it, Grog?
Travis: I mean, Percy gave it to me, but it's mine.
Laura: Percy gave it to you?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah, he let him have it.
Travis: Yeah, we traded. Fair and square.
Liam: What did you say?
Taliesin: Little busy.
Liam: Scanlan, what?
Sam: Grog, listen, when I experienced the sword, it was pretty cool, and it is a powerful, powerful weapon, but after seeing what it's just done to you, I don't think you can have it, man.
Travis: I'm still a bit fuzzy. Like I mean, you know, we fought the sphinx, it got super-gnarly, and then we took a little rest and you-- did you see it shrunk?
Laura: Grog! The sword pulled you into it! You were dead, your soul was with whatever the fuck is in there now.
Travis: Well, how did I get out of there?
Laura: Pike saved you.
Ashley: We brought you back!
Sam: We? It was you, Pike.
Travis: Oh, like just now?
Ashley: It was a group effort!
Travis: Why do I taste ale, and whiskey?
Ashley: Because she gave you a little to bring you back!
Travis: I mean, I didn't know if I'd thrown up in my mouth, and like swallowed it.
Matt: The shadow has now rescinded into the blade.
Taliesin: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm debating whether or not to touch the sword. And I'm debating whether or not you should touch the sword.
Laura: Nobody should touch the sword, Percy.
Taliesin: We have to move it.
Sam: I've touched it before and it was fine. I can touch it again.
Ashley: Well, I could try to--
Laura: I feel like it's going to try and suck anybody in right now.
Marisha: Well, what should we do with it? We should get rid of it?
Travis: Look, guys, I can carry it at least.
Laura: No.
Ashley: No! You're not going to touch it again!
Taliesin: It's a bad deal.
Liam: Put it in the Bag of Holding and give the Bag of Holding to Pike.
Marisha: Wait, no, we're not putting that in the Bag of Holding. That sounds like a terrible idea. However, let me read something really fast.
Laura: Can we talk to it? I mean, can we see what it is?
Matt: I mean, you see a blade before you.
Laura: The shadow's not there anymore?
Matt: The shadow's pulled back into the blade.
Ashley: Percy, what did you get from it?
Laura: I mean, what did it sound like?
Sam: It sounded evil.
Travis: Well, now, that's really judgmental.
Sam: And also awesomely powerful.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: What were you going to say, Vax?
Liam: de Rolo knew about this. That's perfectly clear. You knew about this too, Scanlan?
Sam: I didn't know what it was. And I wasn't alone in this; I had asked Pike to weigh in and she was thinking about it. Doing more research.
Ashley: That's true.
Marisha: Pike knew about it as well? Wait, how many people knew about this?
Travis: Yeah! Only four of us. Look, it's been a great ally!
Laura: Four out of seven!
Sam: Vax, I assume you have secrets you haven't told us.
Laura: He has a third testicle. It's out. There, I said it!
Liam: That's a great time for a joke. That's a great time for a joke.
Taliesin: Best time for a joke.
Sam: The weird part is it's not in his crotch area.
Ashley: I could try casting Greater Restoration on the sword.
Marisha: I might be able to Banish it.
Taliesin: Can you do that?
Travis: Well, that's a bit strong, don't you think?
Sam: And that's only for a minute.
Marisha: No, I can do a more permanent version of that. I've never tried it before. And it's a 7th-level spell.
Travis: Look, look! Okay. Look, if you get bucked off a horse, right? You don't kill the horse, you just train it up a bit. Let's just work with the sword.
Laura: Horses don't try to steal your soul, Grog.
Liam: Who owned the sword before you had it? Who?
Travis: Ah. Well.
Liam: Find it on the ground?
Laura: Oh. It was Lord Briarwood.
Liam: It's very familiar, that's right. It belonged to the arch-vampire who we fucked up.
Travis: Yeah. Right.
Marisha: And I hate to be the one to point it out, but I feel like you've been almost a little bit more brutal than you usually are here lately, which is almost impressive.
Taliesin: Grog, I'm going to make you a deal. We're going to deal with this as a family, and we're going to get you something much nicer.
Marisha: It just killed you.
Taliesin: Right away. We're going to replace it with something a little less complicated.
Laura: Maybe some bone knuckles? I hear those are pretty badass.
Travis: Bone?
Laura: Giant's bone?
Travis: Titanstone?
Marisha: Maybe a family heirloom?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to be a better badass.
Sam: Does, DM, does Suggestion last forever or just for a little amount of time?
Matt: Suggestion, I think it lasts for a short time.
Marisha: I can attempt to Plane Shift this into another dimension.
Laura: No, how about we just wrap it in fabric. No?
Travis: Well look, hey, look, all right, fine, look, I won't touch it. But can we like at least figure out what it was doing? Lord Briarwood had it, I asked it a few questions, like if it knew Vecna. And we just got to see it level up a little bit.
Marisha: What all has it told you, Grog?
Travis: It's always hungry, right, so it likes to be, it likes what I do--
Ashley: Grog!
Travis: What? What, I'm hungry too!
Liam: Show of hands. Who here is uncomfortable with that piece of shit?
Ashley: I mean, it stabbed me, so yeah, I'm uncomfortable.
Travis: I said I was sorry, I really--
Ashley: It's okay. It's not your fault.
Laura: But I do think that whatever it is might know something.
Marisha: Well, Grog said he's been talking to it, which makes--
Taliesin: You don't want to interrogate it, because if we interrogate it we're going to have to make a deal.
Liam: You have to choose between this group and that sword.
Travis: Oh, well I choose the group, I mean, I voted I was uncomfortable as well.
Liam: So what are we arguing about?
Travis: Well, I don't just want to destroy it.
Marisha: It served its purpose. You got its fair use. You got your money's worth, which was free.
Travis: Yeah, but I could use it on Kevdak.
Taliesin: It can use you on Kevdak.
Laura: Do not use it against Kevdak. You don't want something making your strength unnatural when you fight your new foe.
Travis: Well look, the last I remember was it said it was hungry. If it gets hungry again, I'll just give it something to eat.
Marisha: Like one of us?
Travis: No, like my thigh or something.
Laura: You'll chop off your own leg--
Travis: No, I would just stab it.
Marisha: You want to sacrifice your own leg for a sword?
Travis: Kevdak has the Titanstone Knuckles. It's a Vestige that we're looking for, right? It's going to be a hell of a fight, and this is a hell of a sword.
Laura: He's got a Vestige. He's still just him.
Liam: The sword just fucking killed you, you dummy!
Marisha: And you were far powerful before the sword. You killed Lord Briarwood without the sword.
Laura: That's right.
Marisha: The sword didn't make you Grog.
Travis: All right, hold on, Pike. Look. If we're going back to Kevdak. You know I'm not scared of death, right? I would die by a dragon, I would die by a beholder, and I wouldn't care, as long as it was a beautiful death. But I don't want to die from Kevdak. Not him.
Ashley: We'll find you a better weapon. I don't want you to die from something that's not worth it.
Travis: All right. Fine. Do what you want with it. I don't need it.
Taliesin: What do you think we should do with it?
Ashley: We'll find you something strong.
Travis: This is an empty cup.
Taliesin: Oh, we've already poured it into your mouth.
Laura: No, there's a little left in the cask, here. Here's your cask.
Travis: I throw the cup away and just take the cask.
Marisha: All right. Should I attempt to banish this thing forever?
Sam: You can banish something forever?
Marisha: It's called Plane Shift, I can shift it into its own little pocket dimension where it'll stay and nothing else can get to it.
Taliesin: I think I'm perfectly content with it being someone else's problem.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm staring hard to make sure it's not going to fight this.
Marisha: So looking at Plane Shift, it says you can use this spell to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. But I can also transport eight willing creatures, so can I hold the sword and attempt to Plane Shift it away?
Matt: I don't see why you would not be able to do that to an object, honestly. Especially based on the power of the spell. Where would you want to banish it to?
Marisha: Ooh. Ooh! Ooh!
Liam: Newark.
Marisha: The pocket dimension of the green-eyed boy. The golden-eyed boy.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: The Dread Emperor that we already killed.
Marisha: Yes, it was empty, it was his own dimension and he's dead.
Matt: It was the Dread Emperor.
Taliesin: Well, let's think about this.
Marisha: What?
Sam: What else lives there?
Marisha: Nothing.
Liam: It was an island with child labor, it's full-circle for Keyleth.
Taliesin: I'm going to suggest something that's going to sound a little iffy, but I swear to god I'm being clever. Send it somewhere where it will be content. Let's not anger something. Where do we send vampires?
Marisha: I could easily send it to one of the Nine Hells, where I'm sure someone would be very happy with the new gift they just found.
Laura: No! Somebody could use it.
Marisha: Exactly.
Taliesin: But they would be using it in the Nine Hells. And it's going--
Marisha: Yes, but you forget that all these planes cross over. We have fought many a demon.
Liam: I don't want to send it to the Hells.
Travis: Can I make like one little suggestion that doesn't involve it coming back to me? I had a thought that since Lord Briarwood had it before, that every time it killed it might've been sending that life back to Vecna? But I don't have any proof of that, you know, I just remember being in that room with all the bodies, with the little sphere of-- the little dough button in the middle of the room.
Sam: We could throw it in the sphere.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No. That might go poorly.
Travis: Or really cool?
Marisha: I mean, does anyone else have any better ideas where to send this thing?
Ashley: What would happen if you threw it into the sphere?
Sam: Vecna would get it, right?
Ashley: It would get, yeah, that would be bad.
Laura: How about you throw it in that pocket dimension and then we can always go to that same pocket dimension and get it if we decide it's bad there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: That's true. I mean, it's its own little pocket. It's at least blocked off. That we know of.
Laura: Drop it in a thorny patch.
Marisha: I'm going to go for that Dread Emperor dimension.
Liam: Percival? Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: You are clever.
Taliesin: I am.
Liam: It doesn't mean you're always right.
Taliesin: I know. I know.
Marisha: And you do have this terrible habit of liking to push problems on other people.
Ashley: You don't think it would work if I tried Greater Restoration?
Laura: Do you have any more 5th-level?
Ashley: I do, I have one more 5th-level.
Laura: Oh, you do?
Ashley: I do.
Taliesin: I don't think so, but what do I know?
Laura: Why not try it? Before we send it.
Liam: We can camp here for the night. We don't have to go anywhere.
Taliesin: That's fair, yes.
Marisha: Wait, you want to do Greater Restoration, why?
Taliesin: On the sword.
Travis: I'm at one hitpoint.
Laura: You're at--?
Taliesin: I'm going to kick myself if I'm right.
Ashley: Okay, hold on a minute.
Travis: I could just take a healing potion.
Marisha: It needs a wielder, Percy.
Taliesin: Does it? All right, let's-- go ahead. I'm curious.
Ashley: First, Grog is at one hit point. Okay? So I'm going to use my 6th-level and I'm going to use Heal.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As Pike turns to you, looks you in the eye, clutching her holy symbol of Sarenrae, there's a smile at the corner of her mouth at noticing that her friend is back. Though as tenuous as this argument has been, and you weren't present for the scare that was there, you can see there is a genuine shake to a lot of their fingertips from what has just transpired. She reaches forward and touches you and you immediately heal 70 hitpoints.
Laura: Bam! Shebang.
Travis: (sings) I feel amazing.
Laura: What do you think Greater Restoration will do?
Ashley: I don't know. Because I remember it worked one time on-- didn't we try that on his--
Taliesin: In my mind I have a worst-case scenario, but.
Laura: I'm afraid it will make whatever's in the sword come out.
Marisha: That's what I'm afraid of as well.
Laura: But if it comes out then we can banish it or kill it and--
Ashley: And then he could keep the sword.
Laura: It will be just a useless sword at that point.
Travis: Not if I'm wielding it.
Sam: Something tells me you won't be wielding it.
Taliesin: I'm tempted to ask you to do it just because I would love to be wrong.
Laura: Fucking try it, Pike!
Ashley: Should we try it? Let's try it.
Travis: Yeah, go for it. We've got a backup if there's something wrong.
Matt: So, as Pike turns around from Grog, the softness in her face fades, and the hard jawline of Pike Trickfoot, seafaring gnome cleric, steps across the snow, step by step towards the darkened blade that nearly stole away her childhood friend. Still clutching in one ogre-gauntleted fist the symbol of Sarenrae, your other hand comes out and you can see the shadow begin to spill from the blade as you approach.
Marisha: Pike, be careful.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her again. I'm going to sing a very romantic ballad.
Ashley: Bring it.
Sam: (sings) Oh my little pretty one, my little pretty one, Pike the Gnome-a, oh you make my nipples hum, my nipples hum, oh you make my nipples hum, Pike the Gnome-a. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10 inspiration.
Liam: All sad and tragic and with gravitas.
Ashley: A d10?
Matt: A d10 inspiration die.
Ashley: That was beautiful, Scanlan.
Sam: I know.
Matt: All right. As you step forward and the shadow begins to emanate from the blade, you focus and concentrate, and as you do, the light of Sarenrae begins to glow from the front of your hand, and as it does, the shadow seems to be cast away, and the blade now stands currently bare before you. You reach out and touch the blade and recite a few words under your breath, and release the energy of the spell into the sword. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Ashley: 17.
Sam: You also have inspiration if you need it.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Add your d10 inspiration die to it.
Liam: Yeah!
Ashley: 26. No, wait. Yeah, 26.
Matt: As you reach out and touch the blade, you can feel suddenly the dark, chaotic presence in there. you can see flashes in your mind of an individual, an ancient person. You see flashes in your head of a clamoring for power, a need for attention and wealth. You see a person making a deal with something it didn't understand. You see a flash of a punishment. You see the remnants of their eternal soul bound to a blade. You see themselves cursed with eternal, gluttonous, unending hunger and cast through the ages, the rest forgotten. And you see, just like the singular thread that was holding Grog to his corpse, a dark, dark thread that connects the sword to Grog. And with this spell, you grasp out and clutch it-- and tear it in two. Grog, wherever you're standing, it's like you just got punched in the gut. You're thrown off your feet and land in the snow once again, eyes wide open. All of you freak out because it's just like how Grog fell originally, except for he shoots up, heavy breathing, alive. With that, the blade just snarls in your grasp.
Ashley: (laughs) Oopsie.
Laura: What just happened?
Matt: Grog? That fucking blade ate your soul.
Travis: What?
Matt: You wonder, this entire time, how you could be so foolish to give into something that this whole time has been using you.
Travis: How could I have been so foolish? This whole time, that fucking blade has been using me!
Marisha: Pike, let go, let go. Before it--
Laura: Drop the sword.
Ashley: I'm scared to let go of it.
Marisha: Let go of it!
Matt: (impact) It sits in the snow. Motionless.
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: It didn't attach itself to you now, did it, or anything?
Ashley: No. No.
Travis: Yo, guys, update. That sword is totally evil.
Ashley: Grog, what did you think we were telling you?
Marisha: I reach out and I Plane Shift it to the pocket dimension of the Dread Emperor.
Matt: Okay, you reach out and you pick up the blade, and as you grab it in your hand you can hear the voice, "You! I will--" And before it can finish the phrase, you guys watch as a little thin slit within the plane just shutters open, and you have a quick glance at that distant starscape with various broken, slowly floating islands of earth and rock. You see the partially destroyed bramble forest that you once trekked through, and with that, you throw the blade through the small doorway--
Laura: Eat it, Craven Edge!
Liam: (tiny voice) Help meeee.
Travis: Yeah, I'm not cravin' bacon anymore!
Matt: It slams shut and is gone.
Laura: Well? Fingers crossed nobody gets it.
Travis: And there was a dagger that came with it.
Laura: What?
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: (laughs) I'm fucking with you.
Ashley: Grog.
Marisha: I know how that spell works now! That's nice.
Liam: What do you say we camp here for the night, everybody?
Taliesin: Let's camp here for the night.
Liam: Right in the cave.
Sam: Wait, it's not at night, it's the middle of the day.
Laura: We can just fucking hang out for a day.
Sam: Shouldn't we start walking?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: She's out of spells.
Liam: You got a hard-on for adventure, little man?
Sam: I just think we should make headway if we're going to be traveling all day. Grog, do you even have any weapons anymore?
Travis: I'm super exhausted--
Laura: Yeah, he's got so many weapons.
Sam: I could lend you my whip if you'd like.
Travis: No, I'm like Northrop Grumman meets Raytheon in this Bag of Holding, we're good.
Ashley: Since we got rid of Craven Edge, do you want the Gauntlets of Ogre Power back?
Travis: Oh no, I just gave them to you, though.
Ashley: Yeah, but you're the muscle. I take them off and I give them back.
Travis: What about if I trade you, what if I trade you--
Ashley: Are we doing a trade?
Travis: I have Boots of Levitation.
Ashley: Ooh!
Travis: Or I have black iron plate that while wearing this heavy plate armor the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.
Laura: Ooh! That's good.
Sam: She already has plate armor.
Laura: Yeah, but this one gives her fire resistance.
Ashley: Does it maybe make me quiet as well?
Travis: I bet if you levitate you'd just be floating above the ground.
Liam: Levitate would make her quiet, yeah.
Laura: Does she have to-- in the levitation boots, can you move?
Matt: Levitation, someone has to push you along.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, that's fine, I'll take care of that.
Marisha: Oh my god, we can get like a little kid leash for you.
Laura: We could tie her onto the broom, we could tie her onto the broom!
Ashley: I could be a Pike kite!
Marisha: It'll be like that scene in Inception.
Travis: Yes! We'll discover electricity with you, you're a great conductor.
Ashley: Grog, that would kill me!
Travis: Oh. That's true. Which one you want?
Ashley: All right, I'll take Boots of Levitation. And you get these so you're super strong again.
Travis: I'll take my Gauntlets of Ogre Power back, strength back up to 19.
Liam: It was good times, though, Pike in those gauntlets. That was pretty cool.
Ashley: Hey, I felt real cool punching that chicken that one time. (laughter)
Ashley: One day I'll be strong.
Sam: Well, I think you just cured Grog, saved his life, and got rid of a soul-eating sword, so you're pretty strong.
Ashley: What did you say?
Sam: You killed the sword and saved Grog's life, so I think you're pretty strong.
Ashley: That's true, that's most important.
Travis: Way to go, badass.
Ashley: Hey, thanks.
Travis: No problem, man.
Ashley: Anytime.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So you guys go ahead and take a--
Travis: Long.
Laura: We just short-rested, but now we're going to sleep. It's been a traumatic five minutes.
Taliesin: We were in a time vortex, really it's time to sleep.
Matt: Fair enough. Where're you resting?
Liam: In the mouth of the cave.
Laura: In the mouth of the cave.
Travis: In the mouth of the cave.
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Sam: You guys can sleep wherever you want. I'll be sleeping in my bed.
Laura: Oh, in the mansion, fuck, we'll sleep in the mansion.
Liam: Sorry, you know, it's so new, it's hard to remember--
Laura: --that we have that.
Sam: Yeah. We do have it.
Marisha: Can I blow my last 5th-level spell to Greater Restoration somebody from their age?
Matt: Sure, yeah.
Sam: Oh, do we know? Are we aware that we went under that effect, I mean we just feel different, or how do--
Matt: No, you guys have-- it's one of those things where you felt the impact happen and you saw each other rapidly age for those that were present, and even afterward there's a noticeable effect, so yeah. You would be able to ascertain via those situations, and the time you've had to rest to think over the battle and see that difference. Plus the fact that you watched Vex get cured of that aging effect by the sphinx before you left, that was also the big indicator. So you would be aware.
Marisha: Who wants to go first?
Sam: You can do multiples?
Marisha: No, just one tonight. The rest of y'all have to stay old.
Travis: Take ol' wrinkly-nuts over there. (laughs)
Laura: Triple the wrinkles, triple the nuts.
Marisha: All right, come here, Vax.
Liam: Here I come, ol' wrinkly-nuts.
Taliesin: Can I borrow your broom for a bit?
Laura: You want to work on it? Or you want to fly around?
Taliesin: It's early, I might as well.
Laura: Can I stand next to you while you work on it? Would that bother you?
Taliesin: Only if you want to double the amount of time it takes me to work on it.
Laura: Oh, Percy, I just want to see what you're doing.
Taliesin: All right, it's very boring.
Sam: Wait, are we in the mansion or are we--
Matt: So you guys have all walked into the mansion at this point. Keyleth, you cast Greater Restoration, and you reach out to Vax. And what little bit of crow's-nest wrinkles, crow's feet that have crawled on the side of his face, and a little bit of the grey hairs that began to spray in the side, all revert back, skin tightens, he's back to his normal roguish half-elf average-aged self.
Liam: I am still older than you.
Laura: By like two whole minutes.
Liam: Which means I get to tell you what to do and don't you forget it.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys head into the mansion. Vex, you're helping Percy to the workshop?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. What're you doing?
Taliesin: Hit dice just restore at the end of the day, correct?
Matt: Half of your spent hit dice is restored.
Laura: I pop Trinket out, of course, so he can hang out. Shake it out. Run around, get some exercise, I feel like an asshole for keeping you in this thing.
Matt: (bear noises) Goes into the kitchen. All right, so as you guys are preparing to rest for the evening, you head down to the workshop.
Taliesin: Yeah, just to work on the broom.
Matt: Okay. Are you aiding?
Taliesin: Sure.
Laura: Sure.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with advantage.
Taliesin: All right. Oh! With advantage. Very nice. It's new now, I have to remember, I got a new number. Natural 20.
Matt: You guys, there are other numbers between these, by the way.
Taliesin: Are there? Are there? LA-New York-LA-New York, sorry, yeah.
Matt: Don't poke the badger, Percy.
Taliesin: I gave it to Ashly this week, it was working fine.
Matt: Yeah, no.
Taliesin: The other Ashly.
Matt: All right, so. You guys work the evening, and though you were uncertain, Vex is actually a very quick learner and is eager to help, and so between bringing tools at your disposal and helping you hold a few places properly during the construction process, you manage to get far more headway than you expected in just an evening's bit of work. You still have probably a couple of days of work before you can actually complete your prototype for this and try it out, but--
Taliesin: Can I at least have the tether done, or is it still in progress?
Matt: The tether for?
Taliesin: For a dex save if you fall off.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you've gotten that enough.
Taliesin: All right. Can't stabilize yet, but at least there's a-- okay.
Matt: Yeah. At least if there's ever a tumble there's a tether piece that would hopefully have a chance of keeping the broom with you, so.
Laura: Percy? I feel safer already.
Taliesin: Excellent. Yay to a constructive day. That was-- you're quite good at this, we should do this again sometime.
Laura: I would love that.
Taliesin: Yes, this was actually agreeable. All right.
Travis: I'm in the training room in my sandpit sleeping bed.
Matt: Which in contemplating over the experiences you've had, you now have access to the full Craven Edge weapon sheet.
Travis: The full one?
Ashley: That's a scroll.
Matt: Just so you know what it had done.
Laura: What it had done to you?
Travis: Oh, fuck you! (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) Okay.
Laura: Can I see, can we see it?
Travis: No.
Laura: Why? Come on.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Ashley: All I just saw was "dark aura" in really dark letters.
Travis: No, no, I can make really good origami now. Can I try and take out the flaming warhammer, the Firebrand Warhammer?
Matt: Yeah, you pull it out, take it, swing it around, dust it off a bit.
Travis: Can I get it to light?
Matt: Bursts into flames, and for a second that warmth near your face is like an old friend coming to roost for a bit.
Travis: Can you hear me? (laughter)
Matt: (fire sounds)
Travis: The silent type. I like it. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You guys all have your evening's rest. Though it is an early evening, you manage to comfortably, after a number of harrowing experiences, recoup, recover, wake up to a grand chickenful breakfast.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Chicken and eggs, everyone!
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Chicken and waffles, perhaps?
Sam: Nope, just eggs.
Ashley: Oh, just eggs, okay.
Sam: What's a waffle?
Ashley: I don't know, it's like a mishmash of dough, the side--
Sam: Sounds great.
Taliesin: Can I spend my tinkering check building a waffle iron? I'm just kidding. I'm kind of kidding. I'm going to put that aside for later.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm going to put that aside.
Sam: I spent some of the morning just with a little piece of parchment paper and a pen, just writing out something.
Matt: Okay. All right. You guys finish your rest, the servants are eager to send you on your way, should you require anything else. Otherwise, you guys continue your journey?
Taliesin: Let's head towards the town.
Sam: We walk, is that what we do?
Taliesin: We walk.
Sam: What is this walking thing? It's terrible.
Taliesin: It's also very inconspicuous. I know you're not a fan of inconspicuous, but there's nothing you want to be conspicu-ed by, here.
Marisha: I mean, I could mist, I could Wind Walk us. Do we want to Wind Walk it?
Sam: I mean, will that burn something?
Marisha: My 6th-level spell.
Sam: Let's just walk, then.
Matt: All right. You guys walking north?
Laura: I float on my broom.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading?
Laura: And keep an eye out in front for any sort of problems.
Liam: Have fun, doofus!
Laura: Shh! Yes, I'm leading.
Travis: This is a lot to leave off, that's a lot.
Matt: Well, you know. (laughter)
Travis: To not have. That's a big fucking difference.
Laura: Would you have kept it if you had known all those other things? Or would you have wanted to use more of it?
Travis: You don't know.
Matt: This is, by the way, the benefits of Identify spells and things like that.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: Oh, well, if only I'd used my Identify spell.
Matt: But going forward, if you have something you don't know about, you can always go to people with those abilities and be like, could you see what the fuck this does?
Laura: Do any of our people have Identify?
Marisha: Negative. It's like a wizard thing.
Travis: I didn't even know people could do that.
Matt: Allura or Gilmore could probably do that for you.
Laura: Don't act like you know for sure. (laughter)
Liam: I know about Gilmore.
Ashley: Such a twinsies.
Matt: Aw, so good. All right, so. You guys start heading northward, you're leading then, Vex? Make a survival check. Technically in the forest, since you're moving through.
Liam: Yeah!
Laura: 26.
Matt: Not a problem. Utilizing the backtracking of the path you guys took through anyway, is there anything you want to do while you're in the forest? Pushing through? Okay. So you keep moving north--
Laura: Oh! Did you want to look for that lake, or are you good, Grog?
Travis: Oh, right, remember there was a lake when we were looking for the heart of a nymph?
Laura: Doesn't it lead into the Fey world? The plane?
Travis: Yeah, there's a portal there, right? And isn't one of the vestiges in the Fey?
Laura: In the Fey world?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Do we want to do that first, or do we want to deal with--
Laura: We should probably, but I do want to come back here.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course, it'll be right, next thing we do.
Travis: Yeah, only if it's close, otherwise I'm good to go back to Westruun. Only if the lake was close, I don't know where it is.
Liam: Are you in a hurry to talk to Dad?
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: We don't have to stop there, that's fine.
Liam: Maybe later.
Marisha: I mean, do you need to talk to Dad?
Liam: No. We do not need to talk to Dad.
Laura: Let's go to Westruun!
Taliesin: Westruun it is!
Liam: Sore spot.
Matt: Continuing pushing forward, I'd like you all to make a stealth check. (something clatters offscreen)
Laura: Oh, shit. (laughter)
Sam: Someone just failed it. Pike!
Matt: With disadvantage, Pike.
Ashley: Disadvantage? Okay.
Travis: I'm still there, right? No, we took a long rest!
Matt: Yeah, you're fine, you're no longer exhausted.
Travis: 28.
Ashley: Can I put on my Boots of Levitation?
Sam: Too late.
Liam: Too late.
Matt: Too late.
Ashley: I rolled a six.
Travis: Yeah, she's back!
Ashley: Pike is back! What would it be without some clanging?
Matt: So as you guys are making your way across the path, keeping as quiet as you can, Pike, you're starting to fall behind a little bit, and in trying to catch up, you get a run on before you start to hear this (hiss) out of the side of the forest, and you see a deep blue scaled-looking lizard entity. You see in the distance a basilisk that's coming over the ridge.
Marisha: Oh, again.
Taliesin: I wouldn't have let her get that far back, I would've been hanging back there too.
Matt: Okay, then you're hanging with her and you see this as well, what are you guys doing? It's about, it's about 30, 40 feet off.
Taliesin: How big is it?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: It's the same size as the other ones, they're about five and a half, six feet from nose to back end.
Travis: Let's run. I pick up Pike, I put her on my shoulder, and we run.
Matt: Okay. First off, Pike, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Aw, because you saw it.
Matt: You glanced over and saw it before you realized.
Ashley: I don't think I did, though. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh! I got 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Just the instinctual glance at it, you're like, oh crap, and you feel the impact of its gaze. However, you're a fairly hardy gnome and you resist the creeping stone-based enchantment. As you begin to run forward, Percy pushes behind you as Grog rushes forward, both of you guys recognizing that sound and averting your gaze, pick up Pike and you all begin charging forward. As you do, you can hear the hiss behind you gathered by a second one. (hissing) And the sounds of many feet charging through the snow quickly. I would like you guys all to go ahead and, we'll say for the sake of this, just roll dexterity checks. Or no, athletics. This would be your run speed on this one, sorry.
Laura: What if I'm on the broom, though?
Matt: If you're on the broom, you don't have to worry about it, you're not exerting energy to maintain a pace. Athletics.
Travis: 24.
Ashley: 19.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: Ten.
Taliesin: Ten.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay. You guys all manage to maintain a fairly decent pace; these creatures are fairly quick and as they begin to catch up, you begin to use your guidance as a person who knows the forest fairly well to begin ducking in and out of areas, using snowbanks at your disposal. At one point, Grog, you see a partially broken old dying tree that you just go ahead and grab and throw behind you. Make a strength check?
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. With one hand you grab it and, boom, the actual trunk, old and long-rotted, snaps and falls behind you with a large impact. You believe from the sound of it, it at least hit or halted one of them for a short time, it's just a (snarl) sound. And as you guys continue pushing forward towards the northern side of this forest, the sound of the hissing begins to slowly subside as you dodge back and forth, zigzagging across this pathway. Eventually you guys, over about an additional hour and a half of pushing forward, you hear, and have not heard any following hissing sound for a while, and eventually see before you the outside of the Frostweald Forest finally approaching. With that, you guys push through the last elements of this frozen forest, back into the fields heading northward towards Westruun proper. With that, we're going to take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: So yeah, we're going to go ahead and take a little trip here to the restroom, we'll see you guys here in a few minutes to continue the next length of this journey.
Travis: We get to play that shit again, right?
Liam: Why did it get so scary? [break]
Matt: And welcome back, everybody. So. Returning from-- Stop dying. Returning from that harrowing endeavor, you continue your trek northward toward Westruun. It is a few days' travel to make your way, a little over two days, I think, from where the Frostweald is, you can stop and pass by the camp at the lake if you wish to, or continue pressing forward, it's up to you.
Marisha: Well, we should probably stop by and tell them that their problem has been handled.
Taliesin: We could stop by later and tell them that both their problems have been handled.
Marisha: Why can't we stop by now? They're right here, we might as well pop in. We'll forget if we don't do it now. I know us. It'll be three months before we come back, and then we'll be like, by the way--
Laura: No, we're coming back soon because we're going into the Feywild.
Taliesin: Well, they know their problem's been handled because we sent all their people back to them.
Marisha: Let's just talk to them real fast. Okay. We pop in, we're like, hey.
Laura: I think Keyleth wants a reward.
Matt: You guys stop by the Foramere Basin, where you originally saw the encampment of some of the survivors of the Westruun incursion by the Chroma Conclave. As you approach, some of the guards immediately come up, crossbows up, when they notice who it was before previously, they lower their weapons and one of the guards comes forward, approaches you, saying, "Good to see that you've returned. We've managed to also acquire our recently captured individuals, most at least have come back safely, it's appreciated. If you wish to talk to Cornelius, well, he should be up and about. I'll take you." Leads you guys into the camp. As you find your way in, folks around you tend to stop again and watch you quietly as you pass, a few with smiles, and you see a few people wave and say, thank you. And you do see a couple of individuals that you did help escape from the orc encampment, they themselves are still on the mend, a lot of them were fairly brutalized when they were there, but the same child that you found in the tent just runs up and gives a big ol' hug to Vex and holds you for a second, then lets go and runs back off to her mother. You're led back to the tent where Cornelius originally met with you guys, but Cornelius is outside of the tent right now, just in the process of cutting firewood that's going to be used for the firepits later on.
Laura: Where'd he find the wood? I thought there were no trees around.
Matt: You imagine that they don't go to other nearby wooded areas and cut them down?
Travis: Yeah, poke the DM. (glass shatters offscreen)
Liam: Oh dear.
Matt: And that's what happens. (laughter)
Matt: You think that was an accident.
Taliesin: When you're in 50 episodes, this is the first one.
Marisha: This is the first one. It's like that scene in the second Matrix.
Matt: Let's not remember the second Matrix. Cornelius is there. What little bit of timber they've managed to scavenge or find from local wooded areas, Cornelius sits there, wipes his brow, his sleeves rolled up. "Oh. Hold on just a second." He puts his axe down and walks over, wipes his hands. "Well, you're true to your word. And for that I'm real appreciative. You did us a real favor and brought back some good people alive and intact."
Sam: Did your brother make it back safely?
Matt: "Cyrus did and I certainly had a very stern talking-to to that boy. But I--"
Sam: Don't go too hard on him, he was being held up by a rope and tortured by a bunch of monsters.
Laura: Pretty traumatizing, I would assume.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be him, wouldn't it? Well, nevertheless, I appreciate it. Looks like through some talks we might be able to bring most of us into Kymal for the time being. It's the town to the west of here. It's small, it's cramped, but we figure at least that's better than being out here in the open. And we have numbers there, so we'll be a little more protected."
Taliesin: Well, that's where we'll send word if anything happens in Westruun.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Heading to Westruun yourself, now?"
Marisha: It's next on the list.
Laura: If all goes well, you may be able-- no, I don't know.
Taliesin: Let's not make promises.
Laura: Dragons.
Marisha: Dragons.
Laura: It may be a while, but we're trying.
Matt: "Well, I wish you all the best of luck. Yeah. Figure if anyone could do it, it'd probably be you folk. Well. I look forward to hearing from your victorious recovery of our homestead, and I'll get the first round when we come back to our town."
Marisha: Farewell, Cornelius.
Matt: "Stay safe." He turns around and grabs his axe again and starts chopping through the wood once more.
Laura: Was there anything else you wanted to do, Keyleth?
Marisha: No, I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Do we need to check in with Drez? No, we know what he wants.
Liam: Fuck Drez.
Marisha: That guy's a weasel.
Sam: We have his Hunk of Quall.
Marisha: That was a gift, I'm pretty sure. It's a loaner, it's on loan for the foreseeable future until we save the world.
Ashley: Mr. Vina. Mr. Drez Vina.
Matt: Drez Vina, who is the assistant to Master Quall. Who is the one that originally hired you. And by the fact that he called a debt on the initial enchanted ruby that you used on your first endeavor, yeah, you get the feeling that whatever this object is that he gave you, it's probably on loan.
Ashley: (coughs)
Travis: Pike! Are you all right?
Sam: Heal her!
Matt: So you guys continue forward into Westruun?
Sam: To Westruun. And what is our mission?
Laura: Okay, what are we, what's our plan here, Grog?
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: You guys have traveled for one day, you've gone into the evening, you can take a rest here or, you know, rest within your mansion on the outskirts of this encampment before it roots up and starts heading back to Kymal relatively soon. You guys then, the next morning, can continue your trek northward, and you can probably get to Westruun by the end of day, if you travel quickly and consistently.
Laura: What do you think, Grog, what do you want to do? Walk right into town?
Travis: No. No. I like what Percy said, I think there's worth in being clever.
Taliesin: I would agree.
Travis: I would actually like to maybe run some ideas by you. We don't walk into town, but we have the town walk out to us.
Sam: How do we do that?
Taliesin: Oh, there's many ways we could do that.
Travis: Well, look, so there are people in there that are innocents, right, we told the farmer we'd get his people back and I really want to see if Wilhand's all right. So listen. How do you feel about sending someone in that would draw out their worst?
Taliesin: I think we could draw out their worst very easily. Hmm. How committed are your people to trial by combat?
Travis: Oh, it's about all we do.
Taliesin: What can you imagine would be the most exciting show they could possibly hope for?
Laura: A rematch, I would think.
Travis: Well, it wasn't really an official fight, it was more of like a one-sided ass-whooping.
Laura: But they think you're dead.
Travis: Yeah. We're going to get to that later. I was thinking maybe we could set a fire and send someone running in and say there's a roving band of orcs that are challenging the goliaths, and then when they come out and leave we can move into the town and get all the innocents out. And then if we want, we could set a trap, or an ambush, or we could play some mind games, but I want to try and get the town clear first.
Sam: You know, your people might not be the brightest, but they're not going to send everybody out to meet these orcs.
Travis: No no no no. Just a few.
Marisha: And probably not Kevdak.
Travis: Well, look, if it's not Kevdak, we get a practice round on those that do come out.
Marisha: Well, here's my question  there's got to be hundreds of people still left in Westruun. It could take hours to evacuate a city of that size.
Travis: Well, so you know how last time when we went over there and Horace was just outside the city walls? I'm pretty sure if we wait for a bit, somebody will come out, we take him, we mess him up real good, maybe take his tongue out, chop off his arms, and then send him back in.
Taliesin: Some of that is...
Travis: I mean, I'm open to augmenting that plan a little bit.
Sam: I could make you look like an orc or something.
Travis: No, like I said before, if I go in there--
Sam: No no no, just to rough up the guy that we send back in to tell them about the orcs.
Travis: I'll hold him while somebody else can rough him up, but--
Taliesin: How smart are your people?
Travis: Well, pretty smart, they're all like me.
Laura: As smart as you?
Travis: Yeah, scholars the lot.
Marisha: Grog. If someone kills Kevdak, say hypothetically you, who takes control of the Herd after that?
Travis: Well, my math is a little shoddy, but I think that would be me.
Marisha: Well then, why do we need to evacuate the city if you could theoretically have control over it?
Liam: If we could figure out where Kevdak is and drop in on that point.
Laura: Well, he's in the mayor's--
Liam: Yeah. And handle Kevdak before the rest of the city can descend upon us. It's a gamble, but so is everything we do.
Laura: Yeah, but if the city, if the rest of them don't see him defeating Kevdak, then it's worthless. They need to watch it happen.
Liam: Well, how honorable are your people, if you fell Kevdak or whatever the fuck his name is, will the rest stand down?
Travis: Maybe, but-- (sighs) So, here it is. My whole life has been wanting to punish or get back at Kevdak. I don't want to do it cheaply, I don't want to do it quickly. I want to do it with my own hands. Now, I'll do it with my family, do it with my buddy Pike, but I want it done right.
Taliesin: I've got a thought. It's dangerous, but I have a thought. You literally walk, march right to the city gates and demand a challenge.
Marisha: I have a feeling you're going to be the most attractive bait that we can think of.
Taliesin: If we put you right in front there, perhaps we let Pike stay with you, I doubt there's any of them who will not want to watch that. And while they're watching, the rest of us do our best to get everybody as safe as possible.
Laura: But what's to keep Grog safe in the meantime?
Taliesin: They won't want to sully that fight, no one will want to sully that fight.
Travis: No, I can guarantee you, no one will interfere.
Taliesin: And if things get bad--
Marisha: We'll be nearby.
Taliesin: We'll pull him out.
Travis: I like that.
Laura: I don't want to abandon Grog to a fight with Kevdak while we're freeing villagers. No offense to them. I want to have Grog's back.
Liam: I agree with that.
Marisha: I think we won't need to worry about freeing the villagers if we can defeat Kevdak.
Laura: What if we stay hidden?
Travis: Oh, wait a minute. Right, so they think I'm dead.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe I let them think I conquered death.
Laura: Which you kind of did, Grog.
Travis: Maybe we let them think that I'm not the same Grog I was before. Maybe we let them think I've gained abilities.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure all those things are actually true.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, but I mean like--
Sam: Yeah, yeah, make a show of it a bit.
Travis: Yeah. But they don't have to see where those abilities come from.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: All they've got to see is me. There are roofs, right, I mean it's like two- and three-story buildings all in that city.
Ashley: It just makes me so nervous.
Laura: So wait, we stay hidden and you call lightning.
Travis: Yeah. You guys get all up on the roofs while I'm making a scene in the middle and we pull off the greatest stage show there's ever been.
Sam: I love a good stage show.
Ashley: This is not a bad idea.
Marisha: We can make you look as cool as you want. That's undeniable.
Travis: If I do a pelvic thrust, will you do your--
Sam: I will grant you cock lightning.
Travis: Holy shit. "I will grant you cock lightning."
Liam: Weirdest production of Grease ever.
Taliesin: How many objects are you attuned to right now?
Travis: Three.
Sam: If he could unattune to one, we can put him in the Hat of Disguise.
Travis: I don't want it.
Taliesin: What do you have right now?
Travis: I have the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: I have the flaming--
Laura: Warhammer?
Travis: Yup.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: And the belt. What's the other? Oh, and my--
Laura: You gained the ability to grow a beard in the afterlife. It's pretty major.
Matt: Well, you have three of those, so you have to get rid of the necklace.
Travis: Actually, the flaming warhammer's not attuned.
Matt: Oh, that's right. That's true, no, you're good.
Taliesin: What does the amulet do?
Travis: It gives me plus two to my AC.
Marisha: Pretty nice.
Taliesin: That's pretty nice.
Sam: And so the object of this would be to stall, to enthrall, to captivate them as long as you can, keep talking to them, not engage in fights for as long as possible while we--
Travis: Get in place. I mean, I could try and do it while you're getting the hostages out, or we could just take down the snake's head.
Taliesin: We need his Knuckles.
Laura: Kill Kevdak.
Sam: Yeah, but is Kevdak going to engage in a fight with a magical Grog? That's not a fair fight, is it?
Laura: It's a pride issue.
Ashley: I think he will.
Travis: I do know how to get his pride in check.
Laura: Grog, would you engage in a fight with a magical being who wronged you, if you thought you were better than him?
Travis: Why, who said something?
Sam: And when they discover, and they surely will, that you are not magical and that your friends are aiding you, will that bring you great shame?
Travis: No. No, I made a choice. This is my family. My old family left me to die.
Marisha: Plus, I mean, it's like wearing really cool robes. Right, Scanlan? You know, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look cool.
Sam: I don't know about wanting to look cool, it just comes naturally.
Ashley: Let's make sure that it doesn't happen, that they won't know.
Laura: Nice beret there, Scanlan.
Taliesin: This is going to end with a fight between the two of you, there's no denying that.
Liam: Anyway, Kevdak's using a gift of the gods.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: That's right! He's full of shit.
Ashley: These are very scary people, you guys. They left him in a very horrible state and I would not like to see that again.
Marisha: But that was years ago!
Taliesin: We defeated the people who left me in a horrible state, I think we will have no problem defeating the people who left him.
Liam: We have a gift of the gods and soon we will have many more.
Sam: So you do intend to engage in a fight. Because otherwise I would say, I can go in, just sort of looking like you, and draw their attention.
Taliesin: And then what?
Sam: And then bamf outta there.
Taliesin: But then what?
Sam: Or run away and draw them with me.
Taliesin: How does that save the city?
Sam: It gets them to follow me.
Travis: Yeah, I mean, and either way, I like that because either way, if only the pawns of the group follow him out? That's fewer goliaths we have to worry about. Best-case scenario, Kevdak, Zanror, and the best of the baddies chase him out, we can get the hostages out, and then set the trap for when they come back.
Taliesin: It's not just the hostages, though, it's a city under siege. I just don't think it's feasible to empty it.
Marisha: Right, but you have to remember it's-- right, yes, pretty much. What you said. It's a city under siege, under siege, it's meta under siege, under siege from the goliaths and then again from the dragons.
Taliesin: They're in a place, though, where if we can get rid of the goliaths, at least they could function with the dragons.
Laura: And if we remove all of the villagers, it'll definitely gain the attention of the dragons.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Will it? I thought they only fly over every few days.
Marisha: They have wyverns who have been running patrol.
Travis: Not over Westruun.
Taliesin: Not over Westruun.
Marisha: But we haven't been hanging out over Westruun.
Travis: If there are no wyverns, are you open to the idea of gerbil-ball Scanlan doing a thing?
Marisha: No, not at all. But that's actually not a bad idea. We're still outside the camp, right? How about this: why don't we hike to the outskirts of Westruun, camp out the rest of the evening, keep an eye out, and just scout for a little bit?
Travis: Yeah, and if we get close, hopefully we can ask somebody that's nice if they've seen any dragons and how long it's been since.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, we probably want to set up shop for a while and wait for the dragons to come and leave and then strike, so that we've got some time.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Travis: That's brilliant.
Liam: We use fake shithead Grog. Sorry. Fake shitheadier Grog to create a scene and run off and draw away some of the goliaths, probably not Kevdak, and then you go in for the main event with a thinned-out Herd.
Travis: Yep. I like it.
Marisha: I can be on the roofs nearby along with Vex and Percy doing range.
Laura: What if we do the same thing that those orcs did? When you go in and cause a distraction and lead them out, we spend the few days that we're waiting for the dragons to build a massive trench, you can use Move Earth, and lead them all out over something and drop a Herd of goliaths.
Marisha: And I can do the Hallucinatory Terrain thing again. It has been a while.
Laura: Drop them into a trench, they're stuck in there while he fights Kevdak.
Marisha: And I do love using that spell.
Travis: I'm game.
Ashley: I like this idea.
Sam: It still doesn't solve one question.
Travis: What's that?
Sam: I love you, but can you beat Kevdak without magic and friends?
Travis: I mean, look, we're going to find out one way or the other. I don't know. But look.
Laura: Can we aid you?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: This isn't like the Crucible.
Travis: No, look, he's wearing weapons given by a god. I don't care if it's a totally fair fight, I just don't want to dispatch him cheaply.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: We can do this. We've got lightning.
Liam: That's very intelligent of you, Grog.
Sam: That means good.
Laura: Smart.
Travis: Oh. Thank you.
Taliesin: Let's rest up and wait for the dragons.
Marisha: All right, so we're going to hike to the outskirts of Westruun.
Matt: Okay. You guys, during this journey, find your way northward. Are you skirting around the west side like you did when you first arrived?
Laura: Sure?
Matt: All right.
Laura: We're keeping a good distance, as we get closer, so it lasts, I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: We have that really nice high grass, right?
Matt: It was like waist-high or so.
Travis: Not like cornstalk high.
Matt: There were areas where there was, like during the thick farmland, there are areas where they have high-stalk.
Travis: I'd like to stay there, I'd like to stay in those areas.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be pretty much dodging from farmland to farmland, on the outside. I need you all to roll stealth checks, if you could?
Laura: Add ten because I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Ashley: I'm going to use, oh no. Because that won't be enough time.
Sam: Come on, Pikey.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: That's really good. Plus ten.
Ashley: Plus ten?
Laura: Yeah, because I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: 19. Oh. 29.
Ashley: 24.
Laura: 33.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 23.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: We're quiet.
Travis: He rolled anyway.
Matt: All right, as you guys leap into the high grass, moving around the outside of Westruun, eyes peeled, as the sun sets and the night kicks in, you try your best to watch for any patrols that are keeping an eye. Make a perception check.
Travis: 13.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 20.
Liam: 22.
Laura: 32.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: All right. The three of you guys glance over and you do see there is a patrol of three individuals, one of which appears to be goliath in nature, the other two humanoid of some degree. In the distance, it's hard to see this far away. And they're patrolling the same area where you guys came through before. It appears like the patrol has increased, like there's a mildly heightened state of awareness that something bad went down recently. However, you stay far enough away and out of sight, they do not catch visual on you and eventually you get enough distance northward where you feel like they haven't really noticed.
Travis: Did we pass the area that we were at before, where the farmer, Frederick?
Matt: Yeah, you passed that area, yeah.
Travis: Did we see him?
Matt: You did not see him, no.
Laura: Was his name Frederick? No, it was with an 'r'.
Sam: Can we go to that place?
Travis: Reggie. Reginald, sorry.
Sam: Can we sneak there, can Vax sneak there? What was the man's name who we killed?
Laura: Oh, that you killed?
Travis: Horace.
Sam: No no no, the goliath.
Travis: Horace.
Sam: Vax, can you go get Horace's head?
Taliesin: Okay, that's a good idea.
Liam: Yeah, I can get that.
Taliesin: I take that back, that's a great idea.
Liam: I don't know why, but I can get that.
Matt: So you're heading forward to do that?
Laura: I rolled a better stealth than him, though.
Matt: Make a new stealth check. As you guys hold back and you--
Laura: Oh, that's so much better! No, it's good.
Liam: 39.
Matt: 39, okay. So as you guys wait in the back, staying low to the grass, you watch as Vax dives into the field and vanishes. You, darting in a forward way, find your way to the outside of the initial crop-grid. There does not appear to be any guards that are watching this property. You recall the various avenues you guys utilized in systematically making your way from path to path. It takes you a few minutes, but you manage to find an area that looks familiar enough where you find your way into the center of one of the crop lanes where the corpse of Horace recently was. Roll a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27. You get there and you glance about. But the body's gone.
Liam: Fuck.
Matt: Body's not there, it's taken. You start following the trail, you see where maybe it was dragged off. Make a survival roll.
Liam: Survival roll? Well, I'm going to use Luck, because I slept. Yeah. 18.
Matt: 18, okay, so you find signs of his body being dragged and you start trying to find the direction it was taken. You dart along, once again keeping within the crops as best you can to stay out of sight. You make your way out of the northern side of it before the trail disappears. You do not know where the body was taken, other than north and outward. You glance over and all you see is the original farmhouse where Reginald was living, there's the crops out there, there's the big scarecrow that was in the center. There wasn't a scarecrow before. You look over real close and you see, strung up across a haphazard wooden spike, arms out, is the currently being pecked apart body of Reginald, who apparently suffered the brunt of the discovery of Horace's corpse in the time that has transpired since you last left Westruun.
Liam: Do I sense anything around?
Matt: At the moment? No. The patrol's probably a good ten minutes before it's seeming, because it's headed in the direction where you are but you don't know, probably take ten or 15 minutes before they reach where you are.
Liam: I'm going to stealth up to the body. Cut him down.
Matt: Okay. Cut the ropes off, he slumps down.
Liam: I shoulder him back to the group.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 25. 35.
Matt: Okay. Though he wasn't a very heavy individual, and especially now that he's been out to dry for at least a couple days, most of the bloat has worn off and the-- not going into graphic detail, elements of the corpse have been left behind. You bring most of him with you through the grass over to the rest of the group. You guys watch as Vax pulls his way up out of the grass, carrying over his shoulder the lifeless body of Reginald.
Liam: Let's all talk about repercussions. And I lay him out.
Taliesin: Well, they know we're here now.
Travis: Do they?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: I think they thought it was him.
Liam: They did not think the farmer killed Horace.
Travis: We should've sent him off to the camp.
Taliesin: They know we're here now because now his body's missing.
Sam: Also, I assume they tortured him before they killed him.
Taliesin: I don't know if they're that clever.
Sam: Can you talk to the dead?
Liam: These people were in a shit situation, while I don't blame us entirely for this because of where they live now, we must not do anything we're doing lightly. There are many lives at stake, not just Reginald's. Let's just not flit about, here, let's take this seriously, please.
Taliesin: Should've left him up there.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Should've cut him down tomorrow. One more day up there would have made no difference to him, and it's going to make a difference to us because we have to move tonight now.
Marisha: Maybe it's a matter of respect, Percy.
Taliesin: Respect him by freeing his daughter.
Travis: I agree.
Laura: They know we're here.
Taliesin: They know we're here.
Laura: They're going to see he's missing.
Marisha: I think they already knew we were here.
Taliesin: I don't think they did.
Travis: I don't think they did either.
Liam: Scanlan, can you make a fake stupid body, can you make a scarecrow?
Sam: Not really. Not really.
Liam: Can any of us?
Laura: I can fashion something.
Taliesin: No, tonight's fine. There's nothing wrong with tonight. I just figure, if we do it, and we should do it, and obviously this is nothing if not a sign that we should've done it sooner.
Sam: Why don't we just burn the whole field? They won't know if there's a body in there or not.
Taliesin: That was our reasoning last time, no, we do this, I think we do this tonight.
Marisha: We do this tonight?
Ashley: I could cast Speak with Dead and we could ask him some questions.
Sam: We could.
Ashley: We could ask him up to five questions.
Sam: Let's do it.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you guys quietly press down in a small area of grass to give you enough of a space for you to go ahead and perform this ritual. As you lay the body down, you look up to the sky and where some of the cloud cover that is slowly drawing over the area, there's a little gap in the clouds, and as you look up to the now-visible stars, you whisper Sarenrae's name, look down at the body, touch it with your hand, and the still corpse, the chest begins to rise and fall with an unnatural breath for the time being. The eyes begin to twitch and move around. No physical movement beyond that, but the mouth slowly draws open and you hear, while the lips do not move, you hear a voice emanate through like an exhale. "You returned."
Laura: Reginald. We're so sorry.
Matt: "I knew what I was getting into. Do not fret or blame."
Laura: We will rescue your daughter.
Travis: Five questions. Vax. Make it count.
Taliesin: Do they know we're coming?
Liam: Me?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I think we can all ask.
Liam: Reginald, how much do your murderers know? About us?
Matt: "I told them it was me. They should not and could not know your intent to return."
Sam: Can he describe the one who did it?
Liam: Go ahead, Scanlan.
Sam: Hi. Sorry. The ones who did you in. Other than large and pale, were there any distinguishing marks or names thrown about?
Matt: "They brought me to one of their leaders. Half-tattooed face and brow and rags. His jaw, once broken, pushes to one side. I know not the name."
Travis: Do I understand that description?
Matt: You recall the tattoo, and you recall the moment the jaw was broken.
Travis: I was wondering.
Matt: This was Zanror.
Sam: This was who?
Travis: Kevdak's son.
Liam: He broke it. Grog broke it.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: What are the things that we face inside the city? What should we fear inside the city?
Matt: "Fear those that are fueled by rage, skilled with weapons, and those that call the elements their own. And the dragon does come."
Travis: Does come. One more question, can we ask if he's seen the dragon or how long it's been?
Sam: Go ahead.
Travis: We thank you for your time. If we may, how long has it been since the dragon was last here?
Matt: "Two days."
Laura: It's coming tomorrow.
Travis: Two days, it's coming back. Okay.
Laura: That means tomorrow it's coming back.
Sam: We can wait another day. How many more questions?
Laura: Is that it, or one more?
Sam: No, we get five.
Taliesin: We have one more if we want it.
Sam: What would you like us to tell your daughter?
Matt: "Tell her that my life was given so she could live hers. And my memory lives in her eyes." And with that, the head just lolls back a little bit, the jaw hangs open, the last of the breath in the chest (exhales) and the magic fades.
Taliesin: Vax. We have to put it back.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: They don't know we're here. It could be anyone who could've cut him down. Why would they suspect us? I would suspect the village people first.
Travis: I would too, and I'm the smartest of them all.
Laura: Which is actually worse. We need to put something back up. I don't want anyone else to get hurt.
Taliesin: He's going to save his daughter one last time, we're going to put him back up for one day. We're going to wait for the dragon to pass, and then he will be buried on his land properly with stone and dirt.
Liam: Yes. I'll take him. Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. And thank you for bringing him. This was helpful.
Ashley: Can we give him a proper burial?
Travis: No, we're going to put him back up.
Ashley: We're going to put him back up, that's what you. Sorry.
Matt: Vax, are you taking the corpse back? Stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: Disadvantage.
Matt: Yeah, carrying him along, man.
Liam: Oh, it's all right, though, 35.
Taliesin: Jesus Christ.
Matt: Rogues. Coming back, as you approach the outside you can see now the patrol has skirted by and you have to wait patiently, but not wait too long because you know you have about a 30-second window before they will come into sight of this farmstead. Using that, you dart forward, take the body, thrust it up, trying to catch-- I want you to go ahead and make a dexterity check to see how fast you can utilize what rope is at your disposal.
Liam: Just straight dexterity? 17.
Matt: 17. With that, you throw the body up, look over your shoulder, grab out, pull out bits of twine you have, a piece of rope or a piece of your shirt that you (tearing noise) tear off to the side, and fashion a quick knot over one arm and the other, you look over your shoulder again, you can see the shadow of them beginning to just turn around the side, you get the other arm up, just manage to slump it over the wood. You know there isn't any more time, and with that you duck back underneath the grass and vanish. He's haphazardly up and one arm is not actually tied, it's just kind of laid over it, but he's currently back on the wooden stake, across.
Liam: Better than what it was.
Matt: As you dart back and slowly return to your group, glancing over in that direction, the patrol doesn't seem to take notice and continues walking past.
Travis: So am I the only one that, while we wait, is itching for a fight?
Laura: Grog.
Travis: I'm sorry, look, it's just who I am.
Sam: Well listen, if you want a fight, we could still use one of their heads. We could find one of those patrolmen walking around, grab him, take his head.
Taliesin: Too soon.
Travis: Too soon.
Marisha: Did we not just learn anything?
Liam: We're going to be fighting soon enough. I think everyone should hide inside your love shack and my sister and I should wait here in the grass and watch and wait. And when the dragon comes, we alert you all.
Taliesin: We wait for a dragon pass. The day after the dragon passes, we strike.
Laura: I agree.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: You guys, most of you, other than the twins, head into the magnificent mansion. An evening that is restful by definition but still wracked with tension and anxiety. You guys watch throughout the night, relatively uneventful, though a cool evening. Without building a fire, you both do have to keep bundled up against the elements. It's not cold enough to the point where it's going to be impactful, but it is chilly.
Liam: I fart a lot.
Matt: The farting does keep you warm, Vax.
Taliesin: I want to tinker for the evening as well.
Matt: Make another tinker check.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. You made headway. You've constructed a portion of the seat and the apparatus that connects it to the broom without interfering with the enchantment. Right now it's testing that and then getting the stirrups and making sure that it's functional and not going to get her killed.
Taliesin: Whatever night we have time, I want to keep poking at that.
Marisha: Can I also spend some time practicing a Protection from Energy potion?
Matt: Want to go ahead and utilize the delightfully presented brewing vicinity in the--
Marisha: I do.
Matt: All right, sure.
Marisha: Not enough to where I can't, you know, sleep, but just, you know.
Taliesin: I'm going to lend her my resist lightning ring so that she can study it and hopefully come up with a resist energy potion.
Matt: Okay. I'll say, what level is that?
Marisha: Protection from Energy is a 3rd-level spell. (musical tone)
Matt: I don't know what that was.
Taliesin: Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone. Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone.
Matt: Now reaching housewares, spell scrolls.
Liam: Kevdak, you are wanted at the front gates.
Matt: Third, that would be an uncommon spell scroll, that would put it, I'd say that'd put it about-- how many gold pieces? I'd say you begin the process of brewing one.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: It'll take you a little while to get that done.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: A few days, at the very least. All right, so.
Sam: Grog. Just before tomorrow and stuff, Kevdak.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: His son is--
Travis: Zanror.
Sam: Zanror.
Travis: It's spelled-- it's spelled like this. And then like it sounds.
Sam: Sure, sure. Standard spelling. What about anyone else I need to know about? Who you were familiar with or had a relationship with?
Travis: Nah. Not any longer.
Sam: All right, so, we're still resting, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: So I'm going to knock on Pike's door. (knocking sound)
Ashley: I don't answer. No, I'm just kidding.
Sam: (whispers) I can still get in.
Ashley: Hi, Scanlan.
Sam: Hello. Did you get your robe and everything and your slippers?
Ashley: Oh, yes, slippers and everything.
Sam: The monogram?
Ashley: Yes, it's great, thank you so much. P.T.
Sam: And the scented candles?
Ashley: Yes, it smells so good in here. Thank you.
Sam: Great, great. If you need anything, there's two bells next to your bed, there's one to call servants and there's one for me.
Ashley: Oh, thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: The purple one is mine.
Marisha: Percy and I strategize.
Taliesin: We're doing strategies.
Sam: Great. Listen, there's been a lot of death recently and, well, just, I might die and stuff so, ah. Just don't read this until I do.
Liam: Can I read it?
Laura: Don't!
Ashley: What is this?
Laura: Pass it over.
Liam: Do you want to go steady? If yes, check this box.
Ashley: "Do not open" and in parentheses "(until I'm dead)."
Sam: That's all.
Ashley: Well, hopefully I never have to open this.
Sam: I hope so, too. That's all. Have a good night.
Ashley: Bye, Scanlan.
Sam: Bye.
Liam: (whispers) Secrets.
Ashley: I close the door, I open it, and I read it. (cheering)
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you!
Travis: Nobody look, nobody look. Don't you look! Don't you look. Don't you look.
Laura: She's full-on reading it!
Sam: You know what? I love her anyway. (laughter)
Ashley: This is a bit of tome, so I think I should wait to read this, but a part of me-- Oh.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You clever fucker. Good god.
Ashley: Oh, man. (gasps)
Laura: Oh, I want to know what it says so fucking bad!
Travis: We got to wait for her to finish, because the night is young.
Sam: It's all dick pics. (laughter)
Laura: The cube. Over and over and over again.
Matt: In the meantime, while you're reading that, you guys are doing what?
Taliesin: We were strategizing. We were just, we're figuring out some strategy for how to make this work.
Matt: Okay, fair enough.
Liam: Dick pics hand-drawn by quill.
Taliesin: By candlelight.
Matt: As the evening progresses, you guys rest, preparing yourselves for the next day. You guys--
Laura: We're still outside.
Matt: You guys are woken up right as the sun begins to rise by the distant sound of (roar, sweeping wings).
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: You shake Vax awake and you guys look up from the grass and you can see, coming down from the very very top of Gatshadow, you see the wings unfurled and with each swoosh down, the gargantuan black dragon streaks down, dive bombs just past the Bramblewood, and scoots over the entire city of Westruun, making its presence known. As it just roars out (roar, sweeping wings), circling over the city twice, three times, as you see lights going on in the city. As it goes over three times, seemingly content that it's made its presence known and asserted its vocal dominance over the vicinity by instilling some early-morning fear in the denizens of this town, the dragon then lands a little bit northwest of the city itself. It's hard to make out exactly what's happening at this distance, but you see it, at its size, circle around an area, scrape into the dirt a bit, take a moment, makes a couple of grumbled (snarls). Takes one of its claws and scoops up a large cart that has apparently a few sacks inside of it. And its wings (sweeping wings). It begins taking up in the air again and you can see now there are three goliaths that are walking away from the point. As the dragon turns and scoops one up in its other claw. And the two others turn around and watch it as it takes off towards the top of the mountain, unable to do anything.
Laura: That's one less fuck we have to worry about.
Matt: Up onto Gatshadow.
Taliesin: So we're watching the other two head back towards the--
Matt: Nobody sees this except for the twins.
Travis: No windows? Okay.
Matt: No, you guys are in another plane. You look out the window and it's just like this purple expanse.
Liam: It seems like a slim thread of hope, but perhaps the underlings are not entirely satisfied with this arrangement? Just scooped one up.
Laura: It's possible. I have a feeling they're having a hard time finding any sort of hoard to offer after this many days.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Liam: It's a long shot, but you told me about those giants.
Laura: Yes?
Liam: When you were with Zahra, and they turned. We shouldn't rely on it.
Laura: It's possible. If Grog can take control of the Herd, they may be able to fight with us. But I wouldn't trust them.
Liam: No.
Laura: We need to tell the others.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: You guys find your way back to the door, entering the mansion. Servants have already, at the sound of you entering, begin to appear out of their spectral, ethereal states, bowing to you, offering to take your coat.
Liam: Chicken, please.
Matt: "Right away, sir." And they drift off to prepare your bountiful breakfast. Eventually you go ahead and begin to muster the rest of your party down towards the breakfast area, and the rest of you come to consciousness and find your way to where the food is being served and Vex and Vax both wait, rather stone-faced, and prepared to speak.
Laura: Well. Dragon came. Not happy. You'll be glad to know, however, that it took one of your Herd away with it.
Taliesin: I imagine the offering was a little light.
Laura: Yes, that's what I think as well.
Travis: From the three that were walking around?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: What did the other two do?
Laura: Not much. What are you going to do when a dragon comes and takes someone away? Stand there and watch, really.
Liam: Your buddy Horace made it sound like it was easy street, but I don't know if that's entirely accurate.
Travis: We can use that.
Laura: They may not be very happy with the dragon right now. They may not care at all.
Taliesin: They may not be very happy with leadership that leaves them in a place where they're being taken advantage of. That's very clever. Might be time to move on.
Sam: Move on? Move in?
Taliesin: For them to leave.
Sam: Oh, for them to move on.
Taliesin: This is not a good deal for them anymore.
Laura: So we start today, yes?
Taliesin: I think it starts today.
Marisha: I think it starts right now.
Sam: Want to go in?
Travis: Well, I haven't had my morning shit yet, but as soon as I do--
Laura: While Grog shits, I'm just going to take a little nap, while he's shitting, it takes a while usually, right?
Marisha: Sure, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Same, same.
Taliesin: He'll play Candy Crush.
Laura: Something to recover a little bit of time.
Sam: Want me to guard the door?
Travis: I don't think I need it this time. (laughter)
Laura: I'll be right back.
Travis: What, you really got to go?
Laura: Oh no. Blocked.
Sam: She's going to go take a shit.
Laura: Don't say that!
Liam: Laura doesn't shit!
Sam: No, she doesn't.
Travis: All right. Yeah, then we do it. And we do it the way we said. Right?
Sam: You want me to go in, draw out as many as I can, but wait, no, first we have to prepare a trap, don't we? Isn't there a trap to be prepared?
Marisha: Yes, I can dig a trench pretty quickly, honestly, if we want to go the trench route? Is that we were thinking?
Travis: Now here's the thing. Sorry.
Sam: You need to be inside the city gates as well.
Travis: Well, hold on, what were you going to say?
Ashley: No, I, go.
Travis: So if we try and build that trench outside, right, we risk being seen and then pop goes the weasel. If you go in--
Sam: While I'm in, you can build the trench.
Travis: Well, what, can you go in looking like me, or can you go in looking like me on fire?
Sam: Go in and what?
Travis: Can you conjure just me, or could you be me as a walking flame?
Sam: Hmm, that would be harder. Yeah, that would be harder to do, to pull off, you're big. You're pretty big.
Travis: Oh I know, this is like a one-time thing for me, so I figured I'd just do it rockstar. I just want to see what it looks like.
Sam: If someone else set me on literal fire, I could, but I wouldn't--
Travis: We'll stand down from that idea, it was just a thought, no problem.
Taliesin: There's no bad idea when we're workshopping.
Sam: Spitballing, spitballing.
Travis: If we want to do the trench, we have to wait for nightfall.
Sam: I was going to make myself look like you, but a dead version of you. A zombified Grog.
Travis: I'm all right with that. Can I hear your best undead Grog?
Sam: (Grog voice) Right. So. Right so I'm. Ugh, I'm so dead.
Liam: Maybe you don't say anything. (laughter)
Sam: No, no, I just have to warm up, ah, mimimimi, right, right, rrrr. Cor, all right then, I've been dead for about five, six years.
Travis: It's amazing, it's like a verbal mirror. So, if we do the trench, though, we have to-- Percy--
Marisha: I could theoretically dig the trench possibly without anybody noticing, like tunnel underground and just tunnel it out and maybe even, you know. Leave like a thin layer of dirt, possibly? I dunno. Maybe.
Liam: Like Dig Dug.
Marisha: Like Dig Dug. Exactly the same thing.
Sam: Wait, can't you just shape earth without affecting the surface of it, I mean, can't you just shape the underneath of it?
Marisha: That's what I'm saying.
Sam: No one will even see it being moved.
Marisha: And I could possibly maybe carve it thin enough to where when they run over it it'll collapse.
Travis: Percy, what was your idea?
Taliesin: And mix a little black powder into the dirt.
Marisha: Well, I was also hoping, oh, and explode it as they run by--
Taliesin: Hit it with lightning and it'll go up.
Marisha: Also, if we could maybe have something fancy at the bottom of it to, you know. Finish them off.
Taliesin: Do we have something fancy to put at the bottom?
Sam: We have a bear.
Travis: If we do the ditch for the people that're coming out of the city, we waste it if it's not Zanror and Kevdak. If we go in--
Laura: At least it gets them out of commission.
Marisha: Yeah, I thought the trench was to thin the herd.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Literally.
Laura: Good. I like it.
Sam: So, wait, is there a gate to the city?
Matt: There are multiple entrances to the city. The few that you've seen are guarded with outward-facing defensive spikes and pikes that are set up to prevent any sort of like cavalry entry or just as a warning.
Liam: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: For Grog. (crash in the background)
Sam: (laughs) What the hell's going on there tonight?
Liam: We fought your father and he was dead. What's the last thing the Herd has heard of your father?
Travis: I don't know. Last thing I remember, I was looking up at my father. And the rest of my Herd. He made no move to save me.
Liam: Well. I don't know how he got there, but we saved you from your father and the dead guy deep underground, so they lost him at some point. What if instead of Grog, you appeared as Grog's dad?
Sam: I don't know what Grog's dad looks like.
Liam: Yes you do, you fought him. He was a rotting corpse in front of you trying to kill you.
Travis: Way back in the beginning.
Sam: Of course. How could I forget? (laughter)
Liam: Make yourself look like that, I'm not exactly sure what that would do.
Taliesin: It could be interesting.
Liam: It could be interesting.
Marisha: I mean, it could also further instill Grog being powerful and undead.
Taliesin: Yes, that's actually even better.
Laura: If he brought his father back to fight underneath him.
Marisha: With him, right, like he's a necromancer.
Liam: And Kevdak would think that Grog's father was serving him.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: And he wouldn't feel pissy if he saw one Grog do a magic trick and then the other Grog sprang up and said, "Fight me instead." It would seem more real.
Sam: What was your dad's name?
Liam: Larry?
Taliesin: Curly.
Marisha: Moe.
Matt: Do you remember? It was Stonejaw. So Stonejaw Strongjaw. (laughter)
Liam: Wow.
Sam: That's a terrible name!
Taliesin: That's embarrassing.
Laura: Wow.
Liam: That's like George Foreman IV.
Laura: He had an intelligence of four.
Matt: I know, yeah.
Travis: It's a repressed memory, all right?
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: He comes up never.
Liam: This is George Foreman.
Liam: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Marisha: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Matt: Other brother Darryl.
Taliesin: All right. So I say you, your dad, and maybe Pike walk up to the front door and then we get ready to hit them with the doozy once things start.
Marisha: All right, give me a little bit of time to dig a ditch.
Taliesin: No Pike?
Travis: No. If I walk in, I want to walk in on my own.
Laura: So this is only your fake father walking up at this point.
Travis: As the distraction, right?
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Done.
Taliesin: You're going to lure them out and we're going to hit them when they come out.
Sam: Okay, but wait. I've got to bring them out of a specific gate where there's going to be a trap and if you go in and rescue any other civilians, you have to bring them out through a different gate that doesn't have a trap at it.
Marisha: We're not going to worry about that.
Taliesin: We're not going to evacuate several thousand people, it's just not going to happen.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to kill Kevdak. He's going to kill Kevdak.
Sam: All right. I'm ready to do this except for a few holes in our plan.
Travis: Yeah, go ahead.
Sam: I don't run very fast. (laughter)
Sam: Maybe if I Polymorph as a goliath, I would have their speed, right?
Ashley: What if you borrow my boots that levitate? Then you can--
Sam: I can't move myself, though, I couldn't just, I would be the Dread Pirate Roberts.
Matt: There will be no survivors.
Ashley: All right, all right, bad idea.
Sam: But if I am Polymorphed as a goliath, would I gain their-- all their abilities and--
Matt: Their movement speed, yes.
Sam: Intelligence?
Matt: Yeah. It's everything--
Taliesin: So why not just look like them and if you need to you can make a bubble?
Liam: You know what would make you move pretty fast is a lady rogue with a flying broom.
Laura: That's true, I could be hiding behind you and drag you.
Taliesin: Could have a rope tied to him.
Matt: However, Polymorph is any beast form, if I recall.
Sam: It can't be a man? He's not a beast, that guy?
Matt: A "beast." Yeah, this, you'd be looking at more of an illusion-based spell like Alter Self.
Sam: Oh, well I don't have that. Oh, I have the hat, but it doesn't make me grow, does it?
Matt: No, you'd be a very, very tiny goliath.
Liam: Maybe they'd think it was perspective fuckery like in the Lord of the Rings movies.
Sam: Well, backup plan, I can go in as dead Reginald.
Liam: His dad is much better.
Sam: They killed him, they just killed him, Kevdak's son killed him, Kevdak's son knows who he is.
Marisha: No. They don't care.
Sam: Sure he does, they just killed him two days ago.
Taliesin: Can you remember who you killed two days ago?
Sam: I can, I remember all of them because I barely kill anybody.
Taliesin: Oh, well, that's fair. I don't think they care who he is.
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: I think you showing up at the front doors is the best option at this point.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you do it with an illusion instead of an actual, physical person? Just an illusion?
Sam: My illusions are small in size. I mean, I could just go in as hey, I'm Mr. Scanlan, come chase after me.
Travis: This is your trick. You pick.
Laura: You could be a fucking triceratops again, for all--
Sam: Are they going to chase after a triceratops, though?
Marisha: It could make theoretical sense if you're still undead Stonejaw, because, you know, decomposition I'm sure shrinks you a little bit.
Ashley: What's something that they would chase after?
Liam: Grog.
Travis: Anything that moves.
Marisha: While you guys figure it out, I'm going to start digging a trench.
Taliesin: I'll help. I'm going to get some--
Marisha: No no no, I'm good. I'm good. You stay. I don't want to blow our cover, I'm going to do this all underground.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So outside of the city I'm going to start digging underground and I'm going to start digging a trench.
Matt: All right. So you're using Move Earth?
Marisha: I'm moving earth, I'm going to go underground. And it lasts up to two hours.
Matt: You're going underground to do it?
Marisha: I want to go underground and tunnel towards--
Matt: Okay, I see, and then create like the trench tunnel underneath, okay.
Marisha: And do-- and I want to make it really thin to where there's a nice thin layer of earth, and then I want to make it really deep.
Matt: Okay, Move Earth is a concentration up to two hours.
Marisha: Uh-huh, and I can concentrate on a 40-square-foot for ten minutes. And each ten minutes I can change it.
Matt: If you're doing a 40-foot square it could be like 20 feet lower for every 40-foot square you can do, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah. So real deep.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say over the two-hour period you could create, for a 40-foot square, like a hundred feet deep, 120 feet deep--
Marisha: I want to make sure it's wide enough to cover the whole entrance as well.
Matt: The whole entrance? Okay. So you dig underneath. Stealth check to get close enough. Because in digging, it'll take you most of that duration to dig up to the gate.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Underground.
Matt: Yeah. I'd say, so in order to do this, you have to actually get fairly close before you start digging down there.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: 19?
Marisha: And I have a stealth of 11.
Matt: Okay. All right, so. You make your way up there, moving through the grass best you can. The guards that are there are partially (yawns) coming to, you begin to slowly manipulate downward into the ground using a relatively untouched patch of high grass for cover, and pushing your way through. Over the next two hours, you manage to dig a ditch, the width of this entrance is about 40 feet.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So from end to end, if you just go straight down from there at 20 feet per section every ten minutes, looking at 240 feet deep if you wanted to go the full, although, actually, having to tunnel underneath would probably take-- we'll say 180 feet.
Marisha: 180 feet. That'll do.
Laura: Oh my god, that's amazing.
Marisha: And I can make the ground thin enough to where it's not going to support weight, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, you give yourself enough of a buffer where yeah, you could, might require a bit of a jolt, make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Ah, jeez Louise. Ooh. 19.
Matt: Okay. You feel pretty confident that you've left just enough of a surface that it would support a little bit of weight and maintain its placement. But upon the weight of maybe two humanoid-sized individuals, it would probably crumble beneath.
Marisha: Cool. Cool cool cool. Did I get a little black powder from you?
Taliesin: I did, I gave you a little bit of black powder.
Marisha: Can I put a little black powder in the top of the dirt?
Matt: What is a little bit?
Marisha: Whatever he gave me.
Taliesin: I have a little bit left over. I gave her a third of a barrel worth, like twice this.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So I pepper it in the top, where if it gets hit it's going to go boom.
Taliesin: I'm going to have to deal with it eventually, but I'm fine at the moment.
Matt: Okay. All right. You pepper it on the earth from underneath. Okay.
Marisha: Maybe it works. Maybe. I don't know.
Taliesin: If it's hit by lightning it should be fine.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Liam: So Grog's father's too big for you, what about the undead severed head of Grog's father?
Sam: I can make an image of that.
Liam: Floating about in the air with Pike's boots.
Laura: Oh my gosh, a floating severed head?
Liam: Saying nasty, nasty, nasty things at the Herd.
Sam: I can do that.
Travis: But he can't move if he's wearing the boots.
Taliesin: He'll be tied to a rope. You can make it move when it's time.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Could you pull him like a balloon?
Sam: I can make the head move.
Marisha: Can you be a floating head inside of a hamster ball?
Sam: I wouldn't need to be the head, I mean, I can't make my body look like a head.
Liam: You can't? I thought you could do anything.
Laura: But you can make the illusion of a head talking.
Sam: I can make the illusion of a head talking. Wizard of Oz-style.
Liam: Can it follow you about?
Marisha: Well, he can be on a roof.
Sam: It would be within 60 feet of me, I think.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Minor Illusion, I guess.
Matt: Minor Illusion, you could, it's a very minor illusion.
Sam: I know.
Matt: But you could make noise escape from the vicinity of where the head is.
Taliesin: Could I assist with that?
Sam: Because he has Minor Illusion as well.
Matt: If you're close enough to it, it's possible.
Sam: I could also do-- these goliaths, they don't like wyverns. I could be a wyvern.
Laura: The head is so perfect.
Liam: You could be a whole wyvern, but you can't be a goliath?
Sam: It's not a beast, apparently.
Matt: Yeah. Polymorph-- there are higher-level spells that can let you it, but they're a little out of your range.
Sam: A wyvern is a beast?
Taliesin: Okay, we can do the head.
Laura: The head. Be a head! Be a giant, floating, severed head, I like it.
Taliesin: Can you get me out of there once they come to attack?
Laura: Me?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I mean, I can use the tether and tie you to the broom.
Taliesin: I'll be the bait.
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: Huh?
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: I cannot be a wyvern.
Taliesin: I can be the bait.
Marisha: With the hat? With your hat?
Ashley: How are you going to be the bait?
Sam: Yeah, how are you going to be the bait?
Taliesin: I'm going to have the severed head of your father talking to them.
Sam: Yes, I can do that too, and I can escape. You can't.
Taliesin: Up to you. All right.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Scanlan, do it.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I mean, I can try. Might be shit. How are you going to hide?
Travis: Can I ask this? Let's say we pick this gate where she's digging out this ditch. What is the terrain like on the outside of the wall next to that gate?
Matt: Because of the building, or the structure of it for about 30 feet on the outside of the wall it's mainly just hard-packed dirt and earth from patrols for hundreds of years going around the wall, whether it be carts, beasts of burden, or just people walking all around the outskirts of the town of Westruun, it's very heavy-packed and often-walked earth.
Travis: Zero cover.
Matt: Zero coverage within 30 feet of it, and the grass does thin as it gets close to that. Keyleth had to pick a specific area and get low and even then had to force her way under and use a good, you know, a quarter of her spell time to be able to dig well enough to get past that space.
Travis: Past 30 feet from the wall, from the edge of town, what kind of cover is there? Is there any?
Matt: Not really.
Travis: Not even the tall grass?
Matt: The grass at that point gets about waist- to knee-high, even less so.
Travis: This is an important thing we need to remember. As we're doing all this, let's just assume that we're us and this'll all go tits-up real quick. We're going to be a fucking long way away from you before we can come to help.
Sam: That's why you're going to send Pike with me. No, I'm just kidding, I would never.
Liam: No, but my sister or I could go with you. One of us.
Sam: That would make me feel quite nice.
Taliesin: Sister's good for an escape route.
Travis: We should at least find a forward operating base, a place where we can watch this unfold from cover and figure out how far away we are from the first act of our show.
Taliesin: Well, if everything goes wrong we meet back here at the very least.
Marisha: I mean, theoretically we'll be stationed throughout, and we'll have our earpieces, correct?
Taliesin: Yeah, but I'm just talking about, what if we have to para-rescue his ass out of a fucking pickle?
Taliesin: That's what Vex is for.
Laura: I'm standing nearby on my broom. I'll fly in and pick him up. He can Dimension Door out, though, very quickly.
Marisha: I also have both of my beast shaping, still, so I can always fly in and evac you.
Travis: How far away are we from the entrance now?
Matt: As you guys have plotted this, and Keyleth has come back to you through the grass after creating this tunnel, I'd say you're about 150, 200 feet out.
Taliesin: That's perfect.
Sam: And we know Westruun.
Matt: Yeah, you know it well.
Sam: And I know how far away from the center of town are we--
Travis: Wait a minute, are there sewers in Westruun?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's okay.
Travis: I don't know.
Taliesin: We have that option if it comes to it.
Travis: Yeah, I hadn't thought of that.
Taliesin: It's all right. And again, like any good plan, everything will go wrong.
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Let's do it!
Taliesin: It's time.
Matt: The grass dies, begins to die away, and become in-- not helpful for stealth about 80, 70-80 feet outside the wall.
Marisha: Can we get a Pass Without a Trace while we all get to our positions?
Laura: Fuck yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pass Without a Trace, even so, you can't stealth in the open. In order to stealth, you have to have some way of staying out of sight. Once you get to about 70 feet from the wall, it's basically just open ground and the large wall that surrounds Westruun.
Marisha: I could give us a fog cloud.
Laura: Can you dig a hole under and we can hang out in a hole with something over top of it so we can bust up out, like shallow ground?
Marisha: I've already burned it. I mean, we can still go underground, I have a tunnel built to a certain point.
Laura: But we have to be able to get out of it.
Taliesin: Let's just keep our distance, let's get them out of the castle and coming out at us.
Laura: Okay. And then we go in.
Matt: Okay. So. What's the plan? Who's doing what?
Sam: I go invisible and start walking into town.
Laura: We stay at the very edge, stealthed as fuck.
Taliesin: You're not going into town, why are you going into town? We dug a giant pit in front of the main entrance.
Marisha: Yeah, everyone be mindful of the pit, I point it out to everyone where the pit is so we can go around it.
Matt: Okay. To be fair, yeah, and he is a gnome. He is not a very heavy individual. And you were pretty spot-on-- You're fairly certain it can support the weight of a gnome.
Marisha: I can Polymorph a couple people. No. Sorry. I can Polymorph one person as a stealth kind of deal.
Matt: There are the three guards there, about 20 feet in from the main gate, or the main entranceway, one of which appears to be a female goliath, muscular scar-based torso, very thick, dark, dreaded hair that's pulled tightly to the back of her head and hangs down to the mid-back, and you see two humans that are also as rugged-looking, possibly members of the secondary tribe that they adopted, as was mentioned when you first inquired about the tribe as it currently stands, the Herd. They're all just looking out, bored, one of them is chewing on some dried meat, and they're just keeping an eye out. Scanlan, you've gone invisible and you're approaching the front gate. What are you doing?
Sam: Hey, can you cast Pass Without a Trace on me?
Laura: I already did!
Sam: Okay, good. I'm just going to walk in, straight into town.
Matt: Okay. Yeah. Just for the sake of this, go ahead and make a stealth check. With advantage.
Sam: With advantage.
Matt: Yeah, they have very little chance to even notice.
Sam: So 16 plus--
Laura: Ten.
Sam: Plus two. So 28.
Matt: Yeah. Given the circumstance that you're invisible and that advantage roll, even the quietness of your footsteps, you manage to literally walk within five feet of them without them noticing. You hear some low mutters, some of it's just like broken words, "Stupid hungry--" And the larger female goliath is like, "Shut up. Eyes peeled. I hate this." They look very unhappy about having to be stuck there at this watch. So you've moved past them, now.
Sam: All right, I'm going to go into the-- just the center. We had a scouting party go in and see that-- yes we did, yes we did. It was the center of town, and that's where the key people were around, milling about.
Matt: Yeah, the very center of town is about a 15-minute walk from the outside of town.
Taliesin: We can hear everything that happens.
Matt: How long does your invisibility last?
Sam: An hour.
Matt: An hour. Okay. You start coasting through the town, you come towards a T-intersection of where the road continues forward and turns to the right, you can see a number of the buildings, just like you saw previously on you guys' journey, some of them are charred and black from fires that have been set. Some of them, you do notice as you pass by, large elements of the buildings have just dissolved, melted down by some sort of chemical reaction. Many buildings still stand. You do see that there are broken barrels and crates in the streets, it looks like a lot of what may have been in storage or being brought around as commerce has been ransacked and raided or relocated. You do see a couple carts that are half-broken or just up on the side, with whatever's on the inside pulled out. You do manage to see a couple of horses that were killed during some altercation that were just left rotting in the middle of the street. There are no people visible on the street. Make a perception check.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: At this point now? In the two hours for you to do that digging, it's close to 10:30, 11:00 in the morning.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay. You keep walking past, you don't notice anything that catches your attention. You keep moving towards the center of the town. You start moving through the religious district of the middle of Westruun. Make another perception check.
Sam: 19.
Taliesin: Plus.
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: 19. You glance by what you knew previously in Westruun as the central church of Erathis there. It's a rather, in comparison to the rest of the town, a gaudy temple. But it has been defiled fairly heavily. You can see paint, mud, or some other substance has been smeared across parts of it, portions of the rock have been pushed over and collapsed. You do glance and see a small humanoid peeking through one of the ajar doors that you see, for a second you see a set of eyes, then it sees you and closes the door.
Laura: It saw you?
Sam: Oh, shit. Fuck, he knows I'm there, I got to keep going. I got to keep going, yeah.
Laura: You're invisible!
Sam: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: You keep moving towards the very, very center of town, moving past a couple of other patrols. You've passed, even in just this journey into the center of-- journey to the center of Westruun-- you've passed roughly 30 or so well-armed, relatively savage individuals that mark the same civilized level of Grog, give or take some further steps into society. Many of them are wearing pieces of clothing that have been taken from this town, they're dressed better than their station, you know, rough-looking, big, thick, unshaven faces for the humans, but they're still like dressed in pompous clothing that's partially torn and smeared. They're a walking parody of the people that once ruled this town, and they seem to know it. They're enjoying this gloating. Eventually you make your way to the central town square, which is not far from where the Margrave's home is. This area, you do notice, has been set up as a defensive central location. There are just barriers and barricades of all sorts of furniture that have been nailed together and this has been made an assault post, where if anyone were to attempt to attack the center of this town, this would be a wonderful defensive position for someone to hole up and wait it out, whether it be against other people or a dragon. It has been built with the best of their ability in that regard. And there are a number of weapons that they've taken from the city that have been bolted in, that have been strapped around, so there's just like jagged edges of halberds and whatever blades they could muster in every direction, therefore if anything wasn't being very careful and running through here, they could be easily shoved into one of these hazards or perhaps even pushed onto it as a means of display. Which you do notice, on a number of these, various heads are currently placed as warning symbols, in varying states of decay. You recognize two of the heads. One of which is--
Laura: No no no no no.
Matt: Sorry. One of them you recognize as the Margrave who once ruled Westruun, whose home Kevdak currently keeps as his own. And the other, let's see if I can recall what this one is. I have it written down here.
Taliesin: I like that this is that deep in your notes, is which heads are on spikes.
Matt: Hey, man, got to keep up with this.
Sam: Appendix A  Heads on Spikes, Various.
Matt: (laughs) Pretty much.
Sam: Subappendix  Westruun.
Matt: Ah, okay, here we go. Here we go. Okay. Loran the Bear. Loran the Bear was a mercenary that you guys faced off with the first time that you fought in the brawlers' league. You guys had a playful rivalry? You kept running into each other when looking for various--
Taliesin: It's like a best of season one, that's great.
Sam: The season that didn't air.
Taliesin: The season that didn't air.
Matt: But there you see him, or what remains of him, placed on one of these weapons. It looks like anybody who has attempted to rise up or at least make a stink about the current ruling class in Westruun have been put on display in this square in some way, shape, or form.
Sam: Are there any people? Guards? Goliaths?
Matt: You see a rather heavy group of well-armored goliaths and other savage-looking humanoid individuals. Mostly human, you see a couple half-orcs, but it's a total of ten of them that are all currently scattered throughout this central area, some of them just sitting down, snacking, a few that are just keeping watch, and a number that are hovering in and out of the door of the main area, giving orders and carrying some small supplies around.
Sam: Okay. So I'll just quickly-- are you guys ready?
Marisha: Do we want to get up on the wall? There's like a wall, right, around the city?
Sam: Yeah, but I'm in the center of the city.
Matt: Right. Also, there's no response.
Laura: Oh, he's out of range. Shit.
Sam: Do you know what the range is on that?
Matt: The range on those earpieces are roughly two miles.
Sam: Two miles.
Laura: He's out of two miles' range?
Matt: Well yeah, Westruun's a pretty big town, and it's--
Laura: It's a 15-minute walk, though.
Sam: Yeah, I walk fast.
Laura: You're a fast walker for a gnome.
Marisha: He really is a really fast walker.
Taliesin: Okay, go ahead.
Marisha: I cast Polymorph on Percy and turn him into a crow.
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Laura: Oh, again with the crows.
Marisha: Also, I use my beast shape to go into a crow. (crow noise)
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Marisha: (crow noise)
Taliesin: That's good enough, that's good.
Marisha: And we fly to the walls and perch on opposite sides on the entrance.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Look, your god is here to help us.
Marisha: (crow noises)
Laura: She sounds like shit.
Marisha: (a panoply of crow noises)
Taliesin: (a panoply of crow noises)
Matt: Stop it.
Taliesin: Sorry. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's really pleasing.
Matt: All right. You guys are perched on the edges of that. Scanlan, what're you doing?
Sam: So much. So much.
Laura: I feel like this is the first time I've seen you at a loss.
Travis: Look at those eyes.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: Don't you want her to read the note?
Sam: Yeah, I go over to where the most people are congregated.
Matt: That's going to be right at the steps of the Margrave's manor.
Sam: I position myself about seven feet away from them.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I cast Thunderwave.
Matt: And with that, (explosion), this burst of thunder comes blasting out centrally from where you are located, Scanlan. The DC on this, with your--
Sam: Thunderwave. Oh, is it spell?
Matt: It's spell, what's your DC?
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: Okay. Six fail, one succeeds on this save. So you hit them and they're all forced backwards, some of them up onto the stairs, some against the wall. Roll 2d8 points of damage.
Liam: Ragdoll physics.
Sam: 2d8?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Sam: No, it's-- oh, that's, you're right.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 11 plus something? No, I guess it's just 11.
Matt: It's just 11. All right, and one of them takes five points of damage and (impact sound) looks down at this little gnome that's there.
Sam: No, no, I'm still invisible. It's not a concentration spell.
Matt: Invisibility, I'm pretty sure that as soon as you do--
Sam: Oh, fuck.
Matt: The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.
Sam: Casts a spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Even though it's a concentration spell?
Matt: Yeah, you can cast other instantaneous spells, but as soon as you cast a spell you become visible.
Sam: What?
Matt: High-level invisibility, improved invisibility is the one that remains.
Sam: Oh well, I'm fucked, then. (laughter)
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: I'll say, do you have Greater Invisibility?
Sam: No. I can cast it at a greater level, but no, I don't have Greater Invisibility.
Matt: Yeah, at that moment you suddenly become visible.
Taliesin: Roll with it, roll with it.
Sam: Hi guys. Hi.
Marisha: But you're Scanlan, you can do this.
Matt: The surprise round, they weren't expecting it. Roll initiative right now.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh my god, Scanlan, run.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Rolled a one. I'm rolling them group initiative on this one, because I don't want to roll six different initiatives in this order. They all look at you dumbfounded. "We got an intruder!" Pull out their weapons, get ready. Two of them (growl) at you really angrily. What are you doing?
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: What are you doing, Sam?
Sam: This is not the plan!
Taliesin: No! No!
Travis: Don't say a thing, don't say shit.
Laura: Okay, yeah yeah, it's all you.
Sam: (mock-crying) At least I know that Pike didn't read the letter, though, so I'm okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: At the end of this fight, can I have your tie? I mean, you're not going to need it anymore.
Travis: Come on, what are you doing?
Sam: Okay. I'll Dimension Door into the house where the guy's eyeballs were.
Travis: Yes! I like it.
Matt: Wait, on the, to the house--
Sam: The house where I saw the guy who was peeking and saw me, he saw me, I'm going in there.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: What?
Liam: Smart.
Matt: How far is the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet. Was that long ago or recently?
Matt: Wait, so. You were peeking, are you referring to the--
Sam: The guy who saw me as invisible.
Matt: Right. Okay, got you. All right, so you're going to that temple. That's probably about 1000 feet from you, you can Dimension Door closer to it.
Sam: Yes, I could. I could. Okay, okay. This is exciting, this is so exciting, nothing's working. Okay, yes, I will go toward it 500 feet.
Matt: Okay. You appear to the back end and around the road, just around the corner from where the entrance to that area is, so you're a little ways away. As you appear, catching your breath, you look over your shoulder and you hear in the distance more, a couple yells, and a bell starts going off (ringing) in the center of the town square.
Sam: It's going great, guys.
Laura: Do we hear the bell?
Matt: You guys can hear in the very distance a series of bells beginning to go (ringing).
Taliesin: Oh, sweet Jesus.
Matt: What're you doing now?
Sam: Well, they haven't caught up to me, right?
Matt: No no, you just moved 500 feet in one second, they have no idea where you went. You just showed up, went "Bye!" and vanished out.
Liam: Bell is bad. He's in trouble, we need to go in now.
Sam: I'm going to go again, Dimension Door into the temple.
Matt: Okay, you do see the temple. You're on the interior of it now, and looking inside you know a portion of it is collapsed, there's an open view on the second level where a whole corner of the secondary floor and first floor have fallen in, big pile of rubble, you can see the sky. There as you appear, you look around, you hear a series of gasps as you can now see huddled inside of this temple roughly 30 or so people, varying ages, varying racial backgrounds. These are some of the survivors in Westruun that are keeping in here, whether it be hidden, or at least this is where they live now. They look in various states of personal brutality that's been put against them, some of them are wounded, a few of them draw weapons immediately, and turning around, you see hunkered down inside a half-orc that rushes around, his hat half-kilter, his coat up with his shoulder, mantle part of his collar pressed upward, spins around, puts his blade out. "You've got to be kidding me. Scanlan Shorthalt."
Sam: That's me.
Matt: As Dr. Dranzel stands there before you. (cheering)
Matt: They themselves look a little worse for wear, and he looks over his shoulder and says, "Well shit, Kaylie, weren't you just talking about him yesterday?" As your daughter stands behind him, holding two of the children, trying to protect them as you appeared. She looks up at you and goes, "Oh, you've got to be kidding me." And that's where we'll end tonight's game. (yelling)
Travis: Perfect! Perfect, perfect.
Taliesin: Put that on like a Japanese businessman.
Liam: By the way, this one, under her breath, goes, "Oh I don't like him, he stole from me."
Sam: That's all you can think about?
Laura: Why am I cheering? He stole from us.
Sam: They're going to fucking save my life.
Liam: Well, maybe he needed it to save the world.
Matt: It's all survival. All right, then we'll pick it up from there next week.
Travis: Jesus. That was a hell of a 50th. Fuck's sake!
Taliesin: Why did we even bother to plan?
Taliesin: Why do we even bother to plan?
Marisha: Why do we even bother to plan?
Travis: It's going perfect! It's going perfectly. We are still on the rails. It is working.
Taliesin: We are still on the rails, it'll be great.
Marisha: I spent a 6th-level spell building that trench, it had better come in handy.
Ashley: It will, it will.
Taliesin: We're all going to fall and die in it, it's going to be great.
Liam: Scanlan is drunken master.
Matt: All righty, guys, we're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here to hunker down and prepare for the savage unwrapping of many presents that you, the community of Critical Role, have put in our direction. All of us so eternally undeserving, but so incredibly appreciative of all that you guys do, both to help with the charities that we support and spend your time being so awesome and creative and we're going to go ahead and--
Sam: Matt, though, but what are we going to do with the minutes while we're not on camera right now? How do we fill the airtime?
Matt: We'll, I'm sure, have a few videos to show that may also include our new intro.
Taliesin: Again! Again!
Marisha: Again! Again!
Laura: Again! Again!
Marisha: We're mainly doing this for our own selfishness. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. You may notice Ashley Johnson left us last week to go shoot in New York and shooting got delayed a week.
Ashley: Here I am! Well, hey, guys!
Laura: Astral projection!
Matt: Pike's gone, but she at least can sit there while you guys play, which will be fun. (laughter)
Ashley: I just came to hang out.
Matt: Yeah, that's cool, I appreciate and respect that. Thank you guys for your patience with the tech issues, we're trying out some new arrangements here and it took a little setup. Nevertheless, we are good to go. Before we jump into tonight's game, let's go ahead and get through our announcements. First and foremost, Loot Crate has been our fantastic sponsor, and they currently are unveiling their July theme: Futuristic! Which is pretty rad. They have a bunch of things from Rick and Morty, Futurama, Megaman, Valiant Comics, and Star Trek. Then they have a figure in there, they also have their monthly t-shirt and pin, all that cool stuff coming up, and we have the Loot Anime July theme of Squadron as well! Which includes a bunch of Gundam, Gate, Arpeggio Blue Steel, Anti-Magic Academy stuff, an exclusive loot to the anime box. Both of these are their current themes for July. If you want to sign up to Loot Crate to get these and be awesome and keep our sponsors happy, you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, and there you can go ahead and sign up for a $3 a month discount by putting in the special code criticalrole, one word, into your subscription.
Ashley: It's the best.
Laura: Do we get to do this? We haven't opened any of these yet.
Sam: Loot Anime? Wait, we all have to have anime reactions to these.
Matt: Okay, ready. Ready?
Travis: One, two, three. (anime reactions)
Laura: Oh, this is super cool!
Sam: This is definitely a Captain America shirt.
Matt: I was going to say Homestar Runner. (laughter)
Travis: Biggest Dragon Ball Z fan in the world.
Marisha: It's Super Saiyan Goku! That's pretty great! He's got gold hair.
Taliesin: Boy and little Chiko! I'm going to put it on my head.
Travis: Fullmetal Alchemist transmutation circle!
Laura: We may or may not do voices in Fullmetal Alchemist and Dragon Ball Z.
Ashley: Full circle!
Matt: You got a cool poster!
Laura: You got a poster? Oh, there is a poster! Oh, and little cell phone charms!
Matt: Yeah, these are from Unity. These are little feather charms from Unity.
Liam: Can someone save me a Loot Crate box?
Travis: Shut up, Liam. You're not here!
Laura: Sorry Liam, you're missing out. I'll save you a cell phone charm.
Matt: So we got an awesome Yokai shirt.
Ashley: They're like little best friend charms.
Marisha: Yeah, they're like best friend charms.
Laura: And they're feathers! Actually, Liam, these are really appropriate. They're feathers. I'll save you one!
Travis: This is going in the kitchen in front of the sink. I'm going to stand on it and transmute my dishes into clean.
Ashley: I love this little plush.
Taliesin: Most useful alchemist ever.
Marisha: Yay! Thanks, Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate. Check it out, if it's something you want to be part of, they send this stuff monthly, themed crates are awesome, we've been at this for a long time.
Laura: I didn't even know they had an Anime Loot Crate. That's pretty cool.
Matt: And now you do, Laura. What!
Ashley: (singing) The more you know!
Matt: Awesome. So once again, that's criticalrole, one word, on their website at lootcrate.com/criticalrole to get your discount for being Critters and awesome. We have, also, Laura?
Laura: Oh, the t-shirt competition! Okay. So we have officially selected the top three of our choosing, and then we are now presenting them to you guys to vote on. They are already up on geekandsundry.com, so go and check them out and make your votes heard, and we're going to be announcing the actual winner of the t-shirt competition at our live show next week, so everybody that comes and sees that will get to see a picture of it live. Just like you guys at home.
Travis: What a goober.
Marisha: You basically see it 30 seconds before everyone else.
Laura: That 30 seconds makes a huge difference.
Marisha: It does.
Taliesin: We may be miming something while the picture's up, and that'll be exclusive content.
Ashley: And there were so many good ones. It was so hard.
Laura: The amount of texts that went back and forth between all of us, trying to decide what the top three were going to be, was really--
Marisha: It was like, okay, everybody pick your top three, and so we each picked six. And they were all different. And we're like, cool.
Travis: Which brings us to our next announcement, which is we do have a live show next week! (cheering)
Travis: We're going be at Landmark Theatres. It's a sold-out show, somehow, because everybody's crazy and is coming to see it. We're going to be there, in person, trying to pull off this live show thing. It's going to be wacky, it's going to be zany. We're not going to have any clothes on.
Laura: No, that's not true.
Matt: You are welcome to come clothed.
Travis: I'm gonna sit in a sock, and that's it.
Laura: No!
Matt: Travis, it's already sold out, you don't have to--
Travis: It's the first of hopefully many, so we'll see how it goes.
Matt: Yeah, if it goes well and runs smoothly and people are receptive to it, then hopefully there will be more of these at different places over the country.
Sam: Guys, one more quick announcement, over here on the cool table. Joe Mad posters. You know them, you love them, they're up on shop.geekandsundry.com. It's your last chance to preorder the unsigned limited edition Critical Role poster. The poster size: it's not 23 by 35, it's 24 by 36. We went the extra inch for you guys. These posters will be removed from the website and deleted forever tomorrow at 1:00pm Pacific. The cost is $40. Go buy it now. Sorry, Taliesin. Let me try that again.
Travis: We must reiterate, they are gorgeous. You will want one of these for you or your friends.
Taliesin: Trust Scanlan. It's that extra inch that makes all the difference.
Sam: It's the extra inch, cubed.
Matt: All right. Any other announcements anyone wants to bring forward? I know Technomancer just came out. I voice Sean Mancer in that.
Marisha: What just came out?
Matt: Technomancer.
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Taliesin: Oh, cool.
Matt: A game. It's a game. Anybody else have anything?
Sam: That's a very half-hearted plug, Matt.
Matt: I just want to get in the game. It's a thing. There's stuff in it. Yeah, I'm a little jet-lagged. But that doesn't matter, because that's what energy drinks are for. All right guys, let's dive in here to the proper part of tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Opening credits! [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! So we had a week off last week where the amazing Liam O'Brien there ran a one-shot game of absolute chaos and did an amazing job.
Laura: It was pretty fun.
Matt: If you guys haven't had an opportunity to check it out, you should. It's up on geekandsundry.com. It's amazing, and made me and Marisha very jealous that we couldn't play it, but we were here in spirit, and obviously, motorcycle and sidecar. So that was fun. We'll show you some of the fanart. But anyway, back to this game. Vox Machina, the group of adventurers who had found their way now seeking the Vestiges of Divergence, ancient artifacts of power, to help them in their struggle against the Chroma Conclave, the collection of chromatic dragons that have razed the entire countryside of Tal'Dorei. They've acquired a few of them, but the most recent one sends them to the Feywild in search of Fenthras, a bow which seems to have acquired the eyes of Vex upon it. You took care of some business, managed to ward off an assassination attempt by a rakshasa, and found your way through Keyleth's Plane Shift spell into the Feywild, somewhere in the vicinity of the portal where the nymph in the Frostweald, upon meeting Vox Machina years before, supposedly lives.
Laura: Oh shit, Grog.
Ashley: Time to get some... tail. I was going to say something else and then I realized-- Not sure where that came from.
Matt: So to bring us back in. As you step out into the temperate air, you're struck by the vibrant purples, blues and pinks of sunset that envelop the skies and the clouds above the tree line. The smell of fresh morning dew and poppy upon the breeze fills your head, and your feet wade through tall, thick grasses that tickle your knees with each step. Vine-covered tree trunks rise all around you, curling as they stretch upward like a bending dreamscape, and hundreds of small, bobbing faerie lights glow in the shadowed distance of the forest. Looking about you, you can see what appear to be clusters of mud and small pools of water that are scattered in your vicinity, some ten, 15, even 30 feet apart. Small, little pools that dot the landscape almost like pebbles scattered across a small field. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Already?
Sam: Where are we?
Marisha: It's beautiful.
Travis: I feel like we got drugged.
Taliesin: This is fantastic.
Travis: Is anyone else seeing the colors and the shapes and the--
Taliesin: Oh, it's everything I could have hoped for.
Marisha: I want to live here. It's amazing. Okay.
Laura: Well, I have no idea how to get our bearings here, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Well. Is there any sign of any bit of civilization or construction?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Oh lord.
Travis: First roll of the day. Don't fuck it up.
Taliesin: Ah! Yay. 26.
Matt: 26, okay. As you guys are taking in the vicinity, Percy, glancing around, you see no signs of civilization. The only thing that catches your eye is a little ways past the immediate tree line, that meets your eye, the fairy lights seem to be caressing the outside of some sort of older stone structure. And that's about as much as you can make out. Looks about four or five feet tall, and it's only barely visible between two of the trunks.
Taliesin: I think I see a thing. I'm heading in that direction.
Marisha: Oh! I want to go see a thing. I want to go! I take off after Percy.
Travis: We can always let them go first and they die, and then we go.
Laura: Perhaps it might be wise to move quietly.
Taliesin: We are already going.
Laura: Brilliant.
Liam: You remember what our teachers said of this place. It's pretty, but it's dangerous.
Laura: It's very dangerous, and I'm afraid they don't understand.
Marisha: Guys, look! They're fireflies!
Taliesin: Wait, don't touch. Don't touch. We're going to head towards the stone.
Matt: Okay. You make your way across these extremely thick, moss-covered tree trunks. You push past the two and eventually come upon the structure, and as you get closer, the fairy lights dim and vanish, as soon as you get within five or six feet of them, and they seem to only appear at a peripheral point. You guys approach the stone structure?
Liam: Do Vex and I have memories of these from our tutoring in Elftown?
Matt: Not particularly. Nothing about it strikes you as part of the general Feywild lore. There are structures that have been built throughout periods of time, some of which have fallen to ruin. Nature in the Feywild tends to reclaim things that aren't natural if left to their own devices.
Liam: But the lights, we never heard anything about those lights?
Laura: (whispering) Will-o'-wisps.
Liam: Well, Liam knows that, but I'm asking if Vax does.
Matt: I would say, have both of you guys roll history checks, for the both of you. Vex and Vax.
Taliesin: Can I add into that, too?
Matt: You would not.
Taliesin: I learned Elven. I was a bit of a nerd.
Matt: You learned Elven, but elven culture and the Feywild are two entirely different things.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, I'm aware my head's full of bullshit, too.
Laura: 20.
Liam: Just a 13.
Matt: 13, okay. Best that you can ascertain, the first worry initially, and you have encountered something like this before: will-o'-wisps, entities that were the lost souls of individuals that died under tragic circumstances in swamps and bogs and in heavily wooded areas. However, those entities are usually larger and are drawn towards sources of life. The fact that these are much smaller and tend to fade at your arrival means either they're not will-o'-wisps at all, or a different kind you haven't encountered. That's as much information that you can deal with.
Liam: I wonder if they're fairy folk.
Laura: Maybe.
Taliesin: Now, don't touch. We'll stay 11 paces away.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: I'd like you both to make stealth checks if you could.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Anybody else going up with them, or is just the two of them?
Travis: Oh, fuck those pieces of bait.
Laura: Can I climb a tree? Close by.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Laura: Athletics. Can I use my acrobatics to hop up? Ooh! Swing myself? Parkour?
Matt: Roll athletics with disadvantage, just because I'm giving you a chance.
Laura: Acrobatics, with disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. This is the one time you've bartered with the DM this session.
Laura: Oh no! I should've saved it!
Matt: You do manage to leap across. Because these trees are thickly wooded and the branch line starts at about the four-foot mark anyway, it's fairly easy for you to leap up the top of the tree without an issue. You vanish up into the canopy. You two, what'd you roll for stealth?
Marisha: A 20.
Taliesin: And a 12.
Matt: And Liam, what'd you get?
Liam: I didn't roll anything. I just wanted to call out: you couldn't have used the broom for that?
Laura: (laughs) Nope!
Taliesin: And we're keeping about 11 feet, so. At least.
Matt: 11 feet, okay. You approach this stone structure, which you see now is the corner part of a wall. It looks like there was some sort of a small structure here. Best that you can make out, all of it's heavily covered with vine and ivy, and all the places where the stonework is broken looks to be through natural erosion or claimed by actual roots, and you can see now part of the tree roots have actually risen up and tore down elements of these walls, and you can see broken rubble barely poking through the very thick underbrush of this forest. Whatever was here was built a long time ago and has been mostly reclaimed by the forest.
Taliesin: Inner corner or outer corner?
Matt: The corner is facing you guys, so you're on the outside of where the structure would have been.
Marisha: It's a ruin? Or are there walls that continue on?
Matt: This is a ruin, but most of it's been torn down and it's not visible. Sections of walls available. The largest piece is currently the corner you're facing.
Marisha: Interesting.
Taliesin: Go ahead. I'm going to sit and quietly sketch for a moment. I'm taking everything down.
Marisha: Can I do a check to see if I can recognize who might've built this stone structure?
Matt: Make a history check.
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: You have no idea. The planes you've studied are the planes of the elemental form. The Feywild is a little ways outside of your realm of any training or storytime you've been given growing up. Most of what you've gleaned about it thus far has been based on the conversations you've had in recent weeks.
Travis: Are there a lot of pastel colors all over the place?
Matt: It ranges from, at least in this forest, a very deep lush dark green, like a heavy winter's pine green. The forests are more vine-wrapped, mossy, willow-ish trees that hang down.
Travis: Okay, so not crazy LSD colors going.
Matt: No. However, the evening sky is very purple and orange, like around a very bright dusk. And that colorscape does contrast with the green of the forest quite beautifully.
Travis: Is it dusk?
Matt: It looks to be getting to dusk, yeah.
Taliesin: It may or may not be.
Travis: What does that mean?
Laura: Time is different in the Feywild.
Taliesin: So there's no carvings that I can see on this outer wall, nothing?
Matt: Not from ten feet away, no.
Taliesin: And the vines that are climbing on it, are they flowering anything at all?
Matt: The vines that are there do have small whitish flower buds. Little flowers that have been blooming in a small scale across the vines.
Marisha: Do they look like anything that we have on our plane?
Matt: Not particularly. They look like white flowers from this distance. You'd have to get closer to inspect directly.
Marisha: Can I do that?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Be very careful. Nothing here is exactly what it appears to be.
Marisha: I won't touch it! I'm going to-- it's so pretty.
Liam: Vex'ahlia!
Laura: What? Yes?
Liam: Do you want to go higher and get a bird's eye view? Maybe that's not safe, but--
Laura: That's why I'm staying in the trees, brother.
Liam: I meant even higher.
Laura: I will if it looks safe.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Does it look safe?
Matt: The canopy is very thick, and only in these small little patches of meadow, like the one that you entered and had all the little pools in it, and the one that you're entering now which has the ruin, have little breaks in the canopy where you can actually see the sky. Otherwise, it's very thick, so actually flying through the canopy, unless you're going very slowly, is going to be whipping you and probably knocking you off.
Laura: Can I see from my height, can I see a better view of the ruins and everything?
Matt: You can make your way up there a little bit. Make a perception check. Keyleth, you approach the ruin to get a closer look at the plants? Make a nature check.
Laura: Oh! And this is forest, right?
Taliesin: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Marisha: 30.
Matt: Okay. These white flowers resemble a form of daisy that exists in Tal'Dorei. However, they grow there in flower clusters out of the ground. You've never seen them sprout from a vine, and the shape's a little different, and you don't actually know this form of plant from your personal experience, but you can ascertain a similar nature to it.
Travis: Nothing is what it seems.
Marisha: A "feysy." Are they poisonous or anything like that?
Matt: They don't appear to be toxic, no.
Marisha: Can I touch it?
Matt: As you reach out and touch it with your finger, I need you to go ahead and do nothing, because it's fine.
Laura: You sneaky. Here we go.
Travis: "As you" always means doom.
Laura: I got 25 on my perception.
Matt: Okay. As you rocket up past the boughs and begin to emerge from the edge of the canopy over this opening, you do see a very large water pool on the other side of this ruin. You can see where this ruin used to be. Most of it has fallen and then sunken into what appears to be a very glassy pool of water. A still surface, untouched. There's no wind in this area. It's a perfectly reflective surface to the opening above it.
Laura: Do I see any life forms around?
Matt: You don't see any life forms. You do see a bare minimum hint of movement, if you will, beneath the water. You can't make out the shape, but you do see something moving beneath the water.
Laura: Does this look similar to the pool that was on the other side of the portal?
Matt: It's a pool.
Laura: I wouldn't know?
Matt: It looks like water. And you've seen a number that you've come past in this way. This one's larger than the others.
Marisha: I want to pick the little white flower.
Taliesin: Oh, I wouldn't do that!
Laura: I come down and I watch as Keyleth makes a stupid move. Don't pick anything.
Matt: You pluck the flower. As you pluck it, the vines begin to writhe and pull away from the stone, actually releasing the hold on the ruin, and as it does, you hear what sounds like some movement, some shifting of water on the other side of the stone wall.
Laura: There was something in the water on the other side of the ruins.
Marisha: I take the flower and I put it back.
Matt: The vine has retracted, and as you set it towards the vine, it tumbles off. And actually the flower, you see now as you reach down, it has turned from a beautiful white and has immediately withered into a black, dried husk.
Travis: Wow. We've been here five minutes.
Marisha: I was going to press it and keep it.
Laura: I'm not lying. We should probably hide!
Matt: Where was once silence, you hear the rushing of leaves as the canopy's beginning to close over, like the trees are leaning in and the actual branches themselves are starting to close up the gap in space on the sky.
Liam: I'm going stealth! Ducking into the grass!
Matt: Stealth check on both you guys.
Sam: I'm hanging back with Grog. I've been scratching my back on his knee for a while.
Travis: I don't see what the big deal is, really.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 34.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys-- you go back into the branch, and you can feel the branches pushing behind you, and you have to actually get low to not be dragged away with the rest of these extending branches that are closing off the opening in the canopy. Vax, you make your way towards one of the tree trunks and dart out of the way. Percy, you're watching this in horror.
Taliesin: I'm trying to very gently back her up.
Matt: Okay. It's at this point, you guys see a hand creep up over the stone. A secondary hand.
Marisha: Maybe it's his version of a doorbell. You pick a plant and you get--
Matt: Pulling up from here, you now see what appears to be a humanoid female form, lithe, hair wet and slicked back, and as the head peeks over--
Taliesin: I bow. And I push her down.
Matt: Okay. The moment there is any movement, she flickers and moves back from the wall, looking already very perturbed by this whole circumstance. I need both of you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Marisha: Oh, not bad. 21.
Taliesin: Natural one.
Matt: Natural one. As you're shoved ahead, and begin to go into a bow, Percy, you bow, but you can't take your eyes off of it as the creature pulls herself up over the wall. An extremely beautiful, impossibly beautiful woman, nude, steps up over the edge of the wall, and as you glance forward, everything goes dark. Blackness.
Marisha: Is he still conscious?
Matt: You bow, and he appears to be bowing. He's still standing; he's fine.
Taliesin: Hello?
Matt: As soon as you say that, the creature darts backward, and you see it take a few steps and then leap and dives into the pool and vanishes beneath the water's surface. Although you see that, Keyleth. Percy, you do not. You just hear footsteps.
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Laura: What happened?
Taliesin: We're going to have to find her.
Laura: Did she say anything?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: She was very pretty. Are you okay?
Taliesin: I think she blinded me. No, she blinded me.
Matt: And you look at Percy, eyes wide open, glancing about, the pupils moving about.
Taliesin: Yes, I'm blinded. I'm blind.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Really?
Sam: We should test it out.
Travis: Yeah. How many fingers am I holding up?
Taliesin: One. (laughter)
Travis: He's a liar! He can see fine. Piece of shit.
Laura: Grog! Did you recognize that woman?
Matt: Were you paying attention?
Travis: No. (laughter)
Laura: You didn't see the naked woman come up over that wall?
Travis: Where? Hold on. Did you hear that?
Sam: If there was a naked woman, I would have seen it.
Taliesin: I'm going to curl up in a little ball for a minute and rock.
Matt: Okay. Percy crawls onto the ground and begins rocking back and forth.
Laura: I come down out of the tree. Can you just be quiet for two seconds?
Marisha: Maybe it'll wear off in a minute?
Laura: (shushing) Grog.
Travis: What?
Laura: There was a naked woman. In a pool.
Sam: Go on.
Laura: That reminded me of maybe the pool on the other side. We were jumping over from close to that portal, right? Could it be the nymph that you stole the heart of?
Marisha: She was very pretty.
Travis: I don't know. Maybe.
Laura: Would it be safe for you to see her again and maybe ask for her to cure our friend here or would you-- Is she dangerous to be around?
Travis: Well, she didn't blind me.
Laura: What'd she do to you?
Travis: That's none of your business.
Laura: Well, I worry if we go try to talk to her if it's not her, then she could blind all of us.
Travis: I don't know. My chick didn't blind me, so if she did, I think we need to kill her.
Taliesin: I'm going to take out my Dragonslayer Longsword and stand up and start using it as a cane. Find my way to Grog and poke him with it.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Better. That's 18.
Matt: Okay. As they're having this conversation, you--
Taliesin: Just a tap.
Matt: You find your way over, and sure enough, no person has the leg density that Grog does, and you're pretty sure you have your mark.
Taliesin: Going to give it a good little whack. Oh, I'm sorry! It's so hard to see.
Travis: I'm sorry, I need to be more sensitive-- look out, it's a parrot! And I kick the sword.
Marisha: A parrot?
Travis: Yeah, there are rabid parrots out here in the Feywild.
Sam: He kicked the sword.
Travis: Oh, you know what? Just go pick it up. (laughter)
Travis: Let me get it for you. I'll hold onto it, since you're obviously useless now. I go pick up the Dragonslayer Longsword.
Liam: I walk over to Percival. Percival, I'm worried you're going to walk your glasses into a tree or something. Do you want one of us to hold those for the time being?
Taliesin: I'll take them off and put them in my pocket.
Liam: Do you have something to put them inside of, besides just the pocket? I don't want you falling on them.
Taliesin: No. I've got a thing. It'll be all right.
Laura: Percival, would you like something to hold onto as you walk?
Taliesin: Actually, if you don't mind, can I borrow a bear? Yes.
Laura: Yes, of course. I pop Trinket out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket. (whoosh, bear noises)
Laura: Hi, buddy!
Matt: Jowls shake as you rub your fingers into his fur.
Laura: Trinket, we're in a very weird place. A weird place. Things can happen.
Marisha: And I whisper to Trinket  don't crush the flowers.
Taliesin: I'm willing to try and make this work for a moment.
Laura: Trinket, can you help Percival walk? He's blind.
Liam: Matt! Pike is with us, right?
Matt: No.
Liam: No? Okay.
Laura: She's back in Whitestone.
Liam: All right. I robot out once in a while on Skype. I guess I missed that.
Matt: That's okay. All right, so you feel the somewhat damp, cold nose of a bear nudge under your hand, and then (bear noises) and a shoulder lunges into you.
Laura: Now don't walk him into any trees, Trinket dear.
Taliesin: Do you mind? I'm going to try and hop on top. I'm going to make a leap to get on top of the bear.
Matt: Okay. It takes you a little while, but you get up onto the bear eventually. You have to right him because he's facing the wrong direction a little.
Travis: All right. So wait, can we be clear? You picked a flower, all the trees got pissed off, you went blind, some naked chick jumped a wall, and that's the story of what's happened so far? We are killing it right now.
Laura: Don't touch anything.
Travis: I feel like maybe we need a change in leadership. Just saying.
Marisha: There are very large consequences for picking flowers.
Sam: All right, which way did she go?
Laura: She jumped over the wall here.
Sam: Should we follow?
Travis: Yeah. Vax? Can you get a pair of eyes on her without going blind?
Liam: I don't feel confident about that.
Laura: I can try.
Taliesin: Which direction was this pool?
Laura: It's right past the ruins. Right there, darling, can't you see? Grog, do you want to give it a go?
Travis: What? Go look for her?
Laura: Just go see if it's her?
Travis: All right. Fuck it.
Laura: Be quiet-- okay.
Travis: No. And I do a full vault over the wall.
Matt: You land, feet go (squelch) into the muddy outskirts of the pond. It's about up to your ankles, but you can see the water is now rippled and disturbed.
Travis: Can I stick my fingers in the mud. Does it smell weird?
Matt: Smells like probably the freshest poolside mud you've ever come across.
Travis: I wipe it across my chest. Do I see any footprints from where naked chick went?
Matt: No, none.
Travis: What?
Laura: She went in the water, Grog.
Travis: She left no traces!
Laura: She was in the water before.
Travis: Does anyone want to come with me to the water?
Laura: I'll come with you to the water.
Taliesin: I'll go with you.
Travis: You're not going anywhere!
Taliesin: Trinket!
Marisha: I'll go get your eyes back! Okay.
Travis: All right. I cautiously make my way down. How far is the water? Can I see it from where I am now?
Matt: Yeah. It's about maybe ten feet from you.
Travis: All right, I'll stealthily make my way ten feet towards it.
Matt: Roll a stealth check.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: You put it in the descriptor, man.
Travis: I did. 17.
Matt: Okay. (squelching) You make your way, as markedly quiet as you can.
Marisha: I'm going to sit on the wall and watch for a second.
Matt: Okay. You come up to the edge of the water, and you can see some of the ripples are starting to lap across the mud. The mud and silt continues downward into a perfectly clear pool, though the light source has been cut off from the sky now as the canopy has closed, and what little bit of light happens to find its way through the forest ceiling-- other than that, it's pretty dark. However, you do have darkvision; a few of you do have darkvision, so it's not a huge hindrance within a certain distance. You do see what appears to be clouds of silt on the bottom of the water that have slowly found their way close to resting.
Travis: Can I call out  hello? Nothing?
Matt: No immediate response, no.
Travis: Can I reach in the Bag of Holding and grab a basilisk egg? And can I try to launch it as far as I can into the pool?
Matt: Yeah. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Liam: I'm going to scramble up next to Keyleth to watch this.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23. You lob the egg with perfect accuracy directly into the center of the pool. It hits and floats on the surface, semi-buoyant, with a little bit of the shell revealed on the top. A few moments pass before a few fingers curl up and grab it, and pull it down below.
Travis: Oh! I saw a hand!
Sam: Did you recognize the hand?
Travis: No, I'm not like Ray Charles. I can't tell if someone's attractive just by their hands.
Marisha: Grog. Do you know how to float? Do you know how to float on top of water?
Travis: Yeah?
Marisha: You should do that.
Travis: You want me to put my body in there?
Marisha: Right. Don't we want to talk to her?
Travis: What if there's more than one her?
Liam: It went really well for you the last time that this happened.
Marisha: Yeah! I figured it went well for you the last time. You're the only one who's done this before.
Travis: Yeah, but there were these invisible steps, right? I feel like we walked up some steps and then there was a portal. And she came out first! It wasn't like I went to her apartment and I was like: Hey! Want to hook up?
Laura: Hey. Does this look like the pool you came into on the other side?
Travis: Does this look like the pool I came into on the other side?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. (laughter)
Travis: 11.
Matt: You were distracted for the brief time you spent over here, but it does appear to be similar.
Travis: Similar?
Laura: Remember her name?
Travis: No! Did she have a name? Her name was Nymph!
Sam: Why don't you call out her name?
Travis: O Nymph! Where thee art thou?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Travis: Oh shit! Seven.
Matt: You watch as suddenly there's a burst of bubbles under the surface of the water.
Laura: Scanlan! Whisper to Grog what to say to draw a lady out. You're very charismatic. And repeat what you hear Scanlan say.
Travis: Okay. Well, you've got to come closer, though.
Laura: Use your earring!
Travis: Oh yeah, we got earrings.
Marisha: Cyrano de Bergerac!
Ashley: Cyrano de Bergerac!
Ashley: Cyrano that shit.
Sam: O Nymph! Hear my call!
Travis: O Nymph! Hear my ball!
Sam: Nope, call.
Travis: Call!
Sam: Once, we spent an afternoon together.
Travis: Once, we spent an afternoon together.
Sam: The sun never shone brighter.
Travis: The sun never shone brighter!
Sam: The clouds were never quite as fluffy.
Travis: The clouds were never quite as fluffy!
Sam: Oh, it would make me a man again to see you once more.
Travis: Oh. That was too much.
Sam: Oh! It would make me a man again to see you once more! I have a small dick.
Travis: Oh! It would make me a man again to see you once more! I have a small dick.
Matt: Another burst of bubbles comes up on the surface as the water begins to break, and you can see a very beautiful, water-covered nude female form that is laughing uproariously in the pool. (laughs) "Oh. It has been some time." (gasping)
Sam: It's her!
Matt: And she takes her hair off to the side and gets the water out of it and shoves it over her shoulder. She steps up, and this time her feet touch the surface, and she walks on it like it's solid. As she begins to step carefully towards you, "I apologize for being, well--" And she points over towards him. "I would recommend in the future, perhaps, a more respectful means of arrival."
Marisha: (stage whisper) Sorry!
Matt: "If I recall, your name was Grog, is that correct?"
Travis: That's right, my lady. Forgive me, your beauty has wiped my mind. Your name was?
Matt: "Nala."
Travis: Nala. I shan't forget again.
Matt: "I watch over this glade. It is bound to me as I am to it. I would hope that in the future you'd be more gentle with that that resides here."
Marisha: Sorry. I'm a huge fan is all. Hi. I'm Keyleth, by the way. Of the Air Ashari--
Matt: As you're talking at this moment, there's a sudden sparking sound, like a heavy log has fallen in a forest with a crack and a thoom. There's a flash of light and she instinctively turns and then dives beneath the water once more. As you guys glance over, there's a somewhat shimmering form of light that congeals into a small gnomish female flickering in and out. As Pike, after coming back from your goodbyes and walking to the temple of Pelor now constructed to take at least a moment to begin building a bastion for Sarenrae worship here, as well, you miss your friends so hard in that moment that, for a brief moment, the divine energies give you one last brief moment to walk beside them across the planes.
Laura: Pike! It's been five fucking minutes.
Ashley: Don't we have a gatestone? I'm sorry! I didn't want to stay.
Sam: Is it because I owe you two gold?
Ashley: Yes!
Sam: Okay, here it is!
Ashley: Okay, bye!
Travis: Buddy!
Ashley: Hi, buddy!
Travis: What the fuck did you just do?
Laura: You missed the naked chick! There's a naked chick. She blinded Percival with her beauty.
Ashley: Oh, wow. Well maybe we can take it. Where is she?
Travis: Yeah, she went back underwater. Wait, do me a favor. Look, maybe everybody take a knee and be real chill while I throw down this swag, all right?
Ashley: Sorry. Did I come in at a bad time?
Sam: Well, you cockblocked Grog a little bit.
Ashley: I'm sorry, Grog.
Travis: I was on fleek and now I'm on flock.
Ashley: Oh no. Well, let's fix it. I had to come. The Feywild, you know? I know we just said bye, but I had to come. All right, let's do this.
Laura: We all get down on a knee.
Travis: Nala, it is a friend, not a foe. She's with me, and a great ally of ours.
Matt: With that, Nala steps back through the water, taking invisible steps up to the top of the surface, where you're pretty much up to your waist in the pool at this time. She's now standing directly on the surface about ten feet from you. She looks out and looks towards you. "I remember you, as well."
Ashley: Hi. I remember you. (stammering) I didn't mean to startle you. I didn't know everyone was in the middle of something.
Sam: (whispering) She fucked her, too.
Matt: She met all of you guys.
Marisha: Oh right, for a hot second. But then she took Grog--
Sam: Of course we remember that thing that happened when we were drunk two and a half years ago. (laughter)
Ashley: I do apologize again for startling you.
Matt: "It's all right. Not many things happen in this glade these days, so when they happen rapidly, it tends to drop my heart a bit. Speaking of which, do you still carry my heart with you, Grog?"
Travis: As you know, my lady, of course I do.
Matt: She turns her head. "I don't sense it on your person."
Travis: Oh! Right. An actual-- No, I don't. We needed it for something. Yeah, so when last I saw you, I had this horrible bunk in my chest? It was terrible. And in combination with your heart, I was able to remove it and prolong my life. Which means I'm here.
Matt: "Glad you're safe. I shall begin the process of creating a new one, then. I'm glad it served you well."
Travis: It did, thank you. Many, many thanks. And you have our apologies again for beheading one of your flowers and for making all the loud snapping noises. This is not the way we wanted to start, believe me.
Matt: She puts her hand up and nods.
Marisha: I Druidcraft a Tal'Dorei daisy and give it back to-- I didn't mean to hurt your flowers.
Matt: She nods and laughs. She brings her arm up and as she does, a singular vine seems to grow up out of the muck and curl up, and take the daisy from your finger and drag it off into the forest.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: If I might ask, old bleachy-hair over here took a look at your beauty and all of a sudden went (raspberry) and can't see anything.
Matt: "That's a hard lesson learned."
Marisha: Can you not get it back?
Travis: Nope, he's blind forever.
Matt: "It doesn't work that way. I'm sorry."
Laura: How does it work?
Matt: "For the most part, those that fall under my protective gaze, they've earned it. Don't consider past that. And my innate talents do not reach beyond that striking, so I'm sorry."
Travis: Yeah, totally cool. We're going to put some Braille on your gun.
Laura: I bet Pike has a few tricks up her sleeve.
Ashley: I think I could give it a go, with some things.
Marisha: Do you have Regeneration on you today?
Ashley: (quietly) Yeah.
Taliesin: I think it's probably mystical.
Marisha: I could attempt a Dispel Magic first.
Sam: Maybe you're just this way now, and your other senses will get better.
Marisha: You could rock it for a while.
Travis: You said it's been very calm around here.
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: No unexpected visitors or commotions lately?
Matt: "Not around my glade, no. I'd know."
Travis: May I introduce to you Vex'halia?
Matt: "We've met, yes."
Travis: Yeah, that's right. I forget. She's seeking something in this place.
Laura: Yes, actually. We all are. Have you heard tale of a sick tree? Something very cancerous on the land.
Matt: "There are trees that fall under various states of corruption time and time again in the Feywild. Light and darkness stands eternal here."
Laura: This one holds a bow at its heart.
Marisha: It's located in a bog?
Laura: In a bog. Something about glass?
Marisha: Near the river of the Gilded Run?
Matt: "The Shademirk Bog."
Marisha: The Shademirk Bog. That's the one!
Matt: "That is roughly two days duskward from here."
Sam: Duskward? That's west.
Taliesin: Or what passes for west.
Laura: I just started a page on the Feywild and now it's already-- there it is.
Travis: Nala, I'm sorry. I'm very simple. Is duskward actually west?
Matt: "Duskward is towards the dusk." She points. As she puts her finger up, you can see the trees relax now and open up the sky above you, and you can see the direction where most of the setting sunlight is being cast into the sky, and she motions in that direction.
Travis: Are you controlling the way the trees move?
Matt: "This is my glade. We are one."
Travis: Yes. It's very impressive.
Marisha: Man, can you teach people how to do that? Because that's awesome.
Sam: We'll be moving on before then.
Marisha: You know what? I'll talk to you later about it.
Sam: Have you heard anything of this bow or this tree?
Matt: "I have not. I stay here. This is my home, and I am bound to it to not wander too far. What I know of the Shademirk, I only know through individuals who passed through and kept me up to speed with things that may or may not be transpiring in this landscape, but those meetings are tens of years, if not more, between."
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I'm sorry. Have there been any significant changes of late? Cities here that didn't exist but a while ago?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge, no. My understanding of realms beyond this wood and beyond this glade are fairly limited beyond what I've been given by passersby, and it's been not since you, Grog, stepped through with me. I've not had another cross my path."
Laura: Sounds lonely.
Matt: "It is my life. The trees keep me company. The roots, they speak. The earth itself is sustenance and the voice, the timeless voice of this land-- well, there are many stories here."
Travis: She's so sweet.
Marisha: I really like her, yeah.
Travis: As we make our way towards this area, is there anything that you would warn us of?
Matt: "Everything."
Travis: Oh. Everything.
Taliesin: Like don't pick the flowers.
Sam: Is there anything specifically we should avoid? Specific plants, colors?
Travis: Hands in the pocket policy going forward?
Matt: "Gauge with care that which you tamper. Many things lie and live in these lands that could be of aid and many, your own destruction. Words spoken by many who live and call the Feywild their home are in themselves riddles. Deceit is their common form of time passage, and those that wander from beyond, well, some would consider you more of a toy or a plaything than a visitor or passerby."
Travis: Before we leave, is there anything we might bring you on our way back through here, should we be successful?
Matt: (laughs) "Bring me some books."
Travis: Books?
Matt: "I'd like some books."
Travis: My kind of books? Pictures?
Matt: "Pictures are always nice, but things to tell me of things beyond my sphere. Perhaps the world you come from. Beyond the Frostweald, I know very little, as well."
Laura: I have a book on me. Would you like it?
Matt: "Take whatever you wish to say goodbye with."
Laura: Well. I basically have it memorized at this point, I've read it so many times.
Matt: She takes it and thumbs through.
Laura: That'll be 30 gold. (laughter)
Liam: 35.
Laura: 50 gold.
Travis: Markup's a bitch.
Matt: Closes it. "Thank you."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: Before we set out. You've told us what to be wary of: everything. Is there anyone out there we can trust if come across them?
Matt: "Depends on what you seek and what your reasons are. Trust goes all ways. The difficulty is finding who is aligned with your ideals, your intentions, and your goals, and who isn't. I trust practically no one. Sorry."
Taliesin: I'm sorry, were you talking to me?
Sam: She's talking to you.
Laura: What were those little colored lights that disappear as we get close?
Matt: "Oh! Feyspecks. They are small entities that care to the underbrush of the forests here. They're not dangerous."
Laura: Do they lead you anywhere?
Matt: "I'm sure they lead you many places, though none of them may be where you're trying to go. I wouldn't trust them to guide you. They themselves are very deceptive and trickery-loving entities. But they help me keep the glade in the forest."
Laura: I was wondering if you have any sort of-- you're very well-versed with this area. Any form of protection you could offer us or recommend to us as we move forward in this confusing land?
Liam: Any last bit of advice.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: 26.
Matt: She thinks for a moment, holding the tome under her arm. "Well. I have minor magical capabilities. Perhaps I could harden the physicality of one of you, in a way to aid. It won't last long, but it's something."
Marisha: Any assistance is more than greatly appreciated.
Laura: Maybe Grog?
Travis: No, I definitely don't need it. I'm good. Who's all tender?
Sam: Percy, at this point.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's true.
Sam: How many of us can you embolden?
Taliesin: I'm a bit useless at the moment.
Sam: No, don't sell yourself short. You're great.
Taliesin: You know I know what you're doing right now?
Matt: She steps forward, and as you're having this conversation, she puts her fingers towards the front of your forehead and touches your skin. You feel a surge of warmth through your body, though blackness still takes your vision. The rest of you watch as his skin suddenly turns to a dark brown and crackles. For a brief moment, you fear, but notice it's like his physical form, all parts of the pinky flesh of the human Percy become hard like tree bark.
Laura: Oh, that's attractive.
Travis: You got wood.
Laura: How's it feel?
Marisha: I sniff Percy.
Matt: It's like a fine cedar.
Marisha: It's nice. It suits you. It's very masculine. It's a musk.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm still angry with you, but thank you.
Sam: Grog, carve your name in him.
Travis: Yes! Oh my god. Holy shit.
Taliesin: I put the pistol slowly in the direction of his voice. My lady, I do appreciate your gift, and I do apologize for my friend and for startling you earlier. It is my deepest regret that I cannot take in the majesty of your realm for the moment.
Laura: (laughter) Of your realm.
Matt: "Well. Keep your wits about you. That's the finest defense you have against this uncertain landscape."
Travis: It was a true joy seeing you again. We'll try to bring ourselves by this way on our way out as we can.
Matt: "I appreciate that. It is good to see your faces, as brief as it is."
Travis: Well, wish us luck.
Matt: "Good luck and safe travels."
Ashley: Bye, Nala.
Marisha: As we walk away, I give Percy a wet willie.
Travis: I bow to her before I leave.
Laura: Yeah, we do that, too.
Taliesin: Does she go for the wet willie?
Marisha: No, I give you a wet willie.
Taliesin: Are you trying to give me a wet willie? I use missile snare.
Travis: (pointedly) I bow before we leave.
Marisha: It's not a ranged attack.
Matt: So you bow. She turns around and begins to walk back down the invisible steps you see her taking, as she drifts deeper into the water, and actually, before she disappears beneath the surface, looks over her shoulder and smiles at you, Grog, and then disappears beneath the water below.
Laura: Be honest. You totally (tongue click).
Travis: What?
Laura: Did you?
Travis: I what? What's wrong with your mouth?
Laura: Did you get it on with her?
Liam: Copulation, Grog. She means did you do the thing.
Travis: Population? No. There's no population in that. I think it's just her in that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Did she like the beard, though?
Laura: Oh, that's right, you didn't have a beard before!
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, there's a brief sound as Percy, even amongst his blinded state, catches Keyleth's finger in midair.
Marisha: I still don't say that's a ranged attack!
Travis: Gross. While the children play, I make my way towards the dusk direction.
Laura: Toward the Shademirk.
Liam: Wait, hold on. I believe I was standing next to Keyleth, so I stick my pinky into my mouth and I shove it into Percy's ear.
Marisha: Wet willie is happening!
Matt: All right. Flanked by wet willies, Percy, one is halted, but in the distracted moment and the stealthy rogue being what he is, you feel the slimy insertion of a single half-elven digit into your ear canal.
Liam: And I say  Keyleth, that is really immature, really. What is the matter with you? And I walk off.
Taliesin: Still angry at you.
Ashley: We should fix you.
Marisha: Consider that payback. (laughter)
Travis: Is there any rocks or debris or little pebbles around on the ground?
Matt: Yeah. There's plenty of stone debris.
Travis: I'll take a small pebble. Pike, you really should do what you can to help Percy.
Ashley: All right.
Travis: And I toss the pebble at his face. (laughter)
Taliesin: Missile snare? With disadvantage?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: See, that is a ranged attack.
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: He catches the pebble out of the air.
Taliesin: My kung-fu is far stronger than yours.
Sam: All right, Pike. Do your thing.
Laura: I don't know if he needs it.
Taliesin: I have dreamed about coming here since I was a little child. I'm going to see this!
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: Wait, let's all think about this for a moment. Don't do anything hasty. (stage whisper) Everybody, let's back up slowly.
Matt: It gets really quiet suddenly, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm on a bear.
Matt: Yes. Trinket stops and (bear noises).
Laura: (stage whisper) It's okay, Trinket.
Sam: (stage whisper) Pike, if you do this thing that you're going to do, will it take away his Barkskin, too?
Ashley: I don't know. That's why I'm a little nervous.
Laura: Well, you know. That's how it goes.
Marisha: You know, and to be fair, Barkskin, it's all right.
Travis: Maybe it's temporary.
Marisha: Barkskin is temporary.
Travis: No, I mean the blind part.
Marisha: Oh, the blindness? I don't know.
Taliesin: You're all wearing your earrings. It's dangerous as it is, but--
Liam: It's clearly hilarious, but Percival is our sharpshooter. I don't know if we want him--
Laura: He is one of our sharpshooters, thank you very much.
Liam: Well, why would we want one when we could have two?
Travis: Let's try it, then.
Ashley: Yeah, a blind sharpshooter might not be the best in the Feywild. I would throw it out there.
Taliesin: Be a shame if your broom breaks.
Laura: It really would. Hey, I want to heal you! All right?
Marisha: Do you want to be healed or not, Percy? Jeez, first you say you're mad at me and then you ensnare my melee wet willie--
Sam: People! We're tearing ourselves apart in the Feywild.
Taliesin: I'm just reminding the dear what side her bread is buttered on.
Sam: Let Pike get rid of this blind spot so we can all be together again.
Travis: It's masterful.
Laura: How long has he been working on that?
Taliesin: Wow. Okay.
Liam: Critical Role, where you come for high fantasy.
Laura: Give it a go.
Marisha: Wait. Percy.
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: Say you're not mad at me anymore. Say Hey, I know I've done things in the past to piss you off--
Laura: Trinket, come here!
Matt: All of a sudden, Trinket lurches forward and starts dragging him.
Taliesin: Am I a reckless human?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: So when I say you shouldn't probably touch anything, there's probably a really good reason, right?
Marisha: Yeah. Are you going to hold this one against me because I picked a flower, like how you held the Clasp against me?
Matt: Trinket's been dragging him away from you, towards her.
Marisha: Hold against me like the Clasp?
Sam: Do you need inspiration, Pike?
Ashley: No, I think it's okay.
Taliesin: I'll have my revenge, but I love you.
Marisha: It's okay.
Ashley: Get my way up Trinket and cast Greater Restoration.
Matt: Okay. So as you clutch your holy symbol, your flickering divine form drifts over towards the side of Trinket. You reach up and touch his leg, and the warmth of the divine energy surges through his leg. You can see it almost like a sparkle up his chest, little light rays peering out from beneath the clothing. It comes up his gullet, up the side of his face, and his eyes flash white, with beams of gentle sunlight shooting out for a second. The darkness becomes blurry, and your vision over the next 15 or so seconds returns to normal.
Taliesin: Oh!
Ashley: You see?
Taliesin: Yes, much better. Hi! It's so good to see you.
Ashley: Does he still have Barkskin?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: I come up from behind and give him another wet willie!
Taliesin: (yelps)
Marisha: See? I got you even when you had your eyes.
Taliesin: I'll make you a deal.
Marisha: All right, what?
Taliesin: Come here.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Can we start moving forward? Yeah, we leave them.
Marisha: All right. We'll keep moving.
Matt: You guys catch up with the rest of the party, who's now moved on ahead. Making your way through this thick forest, I would like you all to make a perception check.
Sam: Perception check?
Laura: Perception check.
Travis: Nice. 19. Natural 19.
Laura: 27.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: 25.
Sam: Oh, ten.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: What did you get, Liam?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. 25s or higher, which I think is Keyleth and Vex. You guys push through the forest for about another two hours or so.
Marisha: While we do that, I take Percy's Barkskin, and I regal it out. I give him moss epaulets, grow some flowers on it, give him a little Whitestone flower crown. I'm making him a fancy tree.
Liam: A druidic Sergeant Pepper?
Taliesin: Now we're even. Good.
Matt: All right. Two hours of travel towards the direction of the dusk, keeping tabs on it the best you can, you being the tracker you are, you notice that the night hasn't come. The light in the sky itself has not changed. The dusk hasn't waxed or waned; there's been no change in the sky light or color whatsoever. The dusk seems to have for the last couple hours been perpetual and unmoving.
Taliesin: Maybe we're in the dusklands.
Laura: I feel like I remember hearing that the time here is very strange.
Marisha: It stays at a constant, correct?
Taliesin: Well, not necessarily.
Laura: Maybe it moves slower here. I don't know.
Marisha: We are moving towards dusk, correct? We're moving towards the setting sun?
Matt: You're moving towards that. That was the one direction you were given by the nymph, yes.
Taliesin: It could be that we are either stuck in a loop or that we simply in an area of the Feywild that is eternal dusk.
Laura: Does it feel like we're moving forward?
Marisha: She said it was two days' travel.
Sam: Two dusks' travel.
Taliesin: So we have to pass a dusk, at least.
Sam: That could be years.
Taliesin: It could.
Laura: Do you think it's safe if I fly up and look at the sky?
Taliesin: No, but you might as well. Nothing's safe.
Marisha: Do I see any birds or anything like that in the sky? Any wildlife? Any critters?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Ashley: Any critters?
Laura: Critters everywhere.
Taliesin: Critters everywhere.
Marisha: Sorry, 21. Yes, 21.
Matt: Yeah, okay. You glance up at the next opening you have in the canopy, and you see occasionally a flock of birds go flying by. There is definitely vibrant wildlife, and you've seen throughout the forest here skittering squirrels and other creatures that live here, though themselves being skittish and running off as soon as your footfalls begin to hit that portion of the forest. There is a very vibrant critter lifestyle here within this part of the Feywild.
Laura: I'm going to try flying up. All right, I'm going to try flying up above the canopy.
Matt: Okay. You come up above the canopy. Have to maneuver around some of the larger branches, and these trees are tall. You probably get yourself a hundred feet up before you finally break the canopy, and as you coast over the top you can see now before you, this forest is vast. The majority of it behind you, and you can actually see what appears to be the edge of the forest's line maybe about ten miles up, and past that you can see rolling grass hills before a mountain line. You can see in the distance, a very far distance-- make a perception check.
Laura: I'm assuming I'm not in the forest anymore, right?
Matt: This would be looking beyond the forest, so yeah, it would not have advantage.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. You see a faint glimmer of some kind. Something that stands out, it's like a reflection or bead of light amongst the grass fields beyond the forest. You're unable to really tell the distance, but it does stand out as it occasionally flickers.
Laura: Flickering. Do I see any sign of a city?
Matt: Not from this perspective, no. Mostly, it looks natural from this view. Also, the clouds in the sky are slowly moving like normal clouds, and you can see in the distance what appears to be a sun that has passed beyond the mountain range, but there is no change in the light.
Laura: The sky looks the same?
Matt: Same it was since the moment you arrived.
Laura: Well, at least we know we've made some headway. I go back down. There's a tree line, at least. I think we should reach it soon.
Taliesin: And if we don't, then we know that there's a problem.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: And remember  in theory, from what little I know, the prettier it is, the more dangerous it probably is, and the older it is, the more dangerous it probably is.
Marisha: What, things get prettier as they get older here? That's not fair.
Sam: Just the men.
Marisha: Damn it.
Travis: All right, let's keep going, then.
Matt: Okay. You guys push on for another three or so hours--
Laura: We're not out of the tree line yet?
Matt: At the pace you guys are walking, you just begin to push outside of the trees. It was hard gauging the distance from that period of time; that was the rough estimate based on the perception roll. You begin to watch the tree line thin a bit. There's still many trees around you, but the density's beginning to scatter, and you're beginning to see more and more light let through from the treetops, and the trees themselves are not as tall as they were towards the central bulk of the forest. Vex, you do catch to your left side something that sounds like at first a little hiss, but instead it comes to your ear as a chuckle.
Laura: Hello?
Travis: What?
Ashley: Did you hear something?
Laura: Is somebody there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh! Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20. You glance out of the corner of your eye, and you see about four trees behind you some outline of a shaded figure that darts behind a tree.
Laura: (stage whisper) Did anybody else see that?
All: What?
Laura: Okay, cool. Did it look childlike or adultlike?
Matt: In between.
Laura: Oh. Okay.
Liam: We got a problem here?
Laura: Just be ready.
Sam: Which direction?
Laura: Behind us. I saw you!
Marisha: Let's get back-to-back, shall we?
Taliesin: I'm going to sit backwards on the bear while we move forward.
Marisha: I'm going to go back-to-back to the twins.
Laura: Did you want to say hello?
Matt: No response.
Laura: All right. I guess we'll have fun over here without you.
Travis: Are you sure you really saw something?
Laura: Laugh like I told a really funny joke. (forced laughter)
Travis: You kill me. Oh man, who would want to miss this?
Sam: I didn't know a nun could curse like that.
Laura: So funny. Anything?
Matt: You guys continue making your way towards the edge of the forest, and shortly after, the tree line does come to an end. There are small clusters of trees, but beyond that, you're now opening this nearly-endless grassland, the grasses themselves swaying with the breeze that is starting to catch up. You can see the waves that curl over these low hills, and this beautiful, deep verdant green-emerald color that shifts and cascades over and over and over. As you begin to step into the grass, it's high. It's chest-high to the half-elves. A little below waist-high to you, and the gnomes are swimming through grass, at this point.
Travis: Hey, buddy.
Ashley: This is fun, though.
Travis: Do you want to keep staying down there doing the breaststroke?
Ashley: No. I'm done.
Taliesin: It occurs to me, I don't actually have to ride the bear anymore.
Laura: That's true. Do you guys want to ride Trinket and see?
Sam: No, thanks. I'll ride Grog.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: I'll ride Trinket.
Matt: You hop on Trinket.
Laura: Do you still have Barkskin? Nice.
Marisha: He looks good, too, right?
Taliesin: She's done me up.
Ashley: I give Trinket a scratch where it makes him go weird and start scratching his neck.
Matt: (bear noises) He reaches up and gives you a lick, but it pseudo-passes through your form, and Trinket looks really confused and tilts the bear head to the side.
Ashley: Sorry, buddy.
Laura: Oh! As we're walking, first question  do I see any form of path through this grass?
Matt: It's open field. Directionless and before you. There is still the dusk ahead of you. That's the best directional point you have right now, but there is no worn path. There is no road or street. There are no signs of civilization. It looks like an endless field.
Liam: I've played the original Legend of Zelda. I know if we go up, left, down, left, we should get out of this field.
Matt: Shoot the bush.
Laura: The flicker of light I saw in the distance. Are we going to intersect it in the direction that we're going?
Matt: You will get near it.
Laura: Okay, so I'll keep an eye in that direction as we move forward, but I want to talk to you, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Laura: I've been trying to find out a way to talk to Trinket like I know you can, right?
Marisha: Oh?
Laura: I was wondering if maybe you could teach me how to do that?
Marisha: (gasps) Teach you?
Laura: Do you think that's possible?
Marisha: I don't know! But I'd like to try.
Laura: Okay!
Marisha: Yeah, that would be fun. Okay. Can I do something like that?
Laura: I have a spell slot available for Speak With Animals that I never claimed that I want to learn.
Matt: You want to take it? Okay. As you guys begin to walk through the field, you begin to reveal some of the druidic secrets of animal communication to Vex, and over the course of the next hour of travel--
Marisha: See, the thing is, you have to get the accents right for each critter, or else they could get a little offended.
Travis: And you're the point of access.
Marisha: Totally. I keep going.
Matt: She bestows upon you the elements of it. It's less about vocality. It's about being able to connect on an empathic and emotional level, where creatures can speak to you less out of words and more out of the idea of emotions and thoughts, which our human minds-- or in some cases, half-human minds-- accept as words. There is no actual speech that they're talking, like, "Hello, my dear!"
Marisha: So one of the things that I like to do is embody the animal, and that can get you in the mindset.
Laura: I will definitely keep that in mind.
Marisha: Let's practice being Trinket together.
Laura: I let her do that, and I'm going to keep walking normally.
Matt: She does it for a while.
Marisha: I go up to Grog. (sniffs, groans)
Laura: I'm learning so much.
Ashley: I think we're all learning. This is so great.
Sam: I wish Nala had cast Blindness on me. (laughter)
Laura: Can I walk up to Trinket and say  Hey, buddy. Can you understand me?
Matt: Do you cast the spell?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Trinket turns to you.
Laura: Do you understand me?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: (screams) I hug him so hard! Oh my gosh!
Matt: You grab him. Trinket doesn't seem to realize any sort of difference.
Laura: Could you understand me all the time?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Oh, darling, but now I understand you, and it's wonderful!
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Okay, quick question. Do you mind being in my necklace, or does it bother you? What's it like? Is it terrible? Because I don't want to do it if you hate it.
Matt: "It's a little lonely."
Ashley: Oh no!
Matt: "I haven't been in there very long."
Laura: No, you haven't. Okay. Well, that's good. Well, I basically wanted to say that I love you so much.
Marisha: I give her a thumbs up.
Matt: "I love you, too, Vex'ahlia."
Laura: (sobbing) I start crying!
Matt: A big lick upside your face, and nudges his head against you.
Laura: Oh, this is the best spell ever! I can't believe I didn't know it before! Trinket! Thanks, Keyleth!
Marisha: The accent's really good. You're doing a good job. It's very good.
Matt: As Trinket nudges you, he says, "It's okay. I can stay in there all you need."
Laura: Thanks, buddy.
Matt: "I can watch you through there. I can see you."
Laura: You can? Wait, you can?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Cool. It's like when your dog comes in the room when you're peeing. It's a little awkward at first when you hear about it, but it's fine. It's okay. I'm fine with it. Whatever.
Matt: Grog, you've actually been in there, so you have an idea of what he's talking about.
Laura: If you understood what he was saying, which you don't!
Matt: Boom, what!
Taliesin: I'm imagining the genie bottle.
Laura: For a while, as long as my spell lasts, I want to keep talking to Trinket and catch up on old times.
Matt: You guys do, and he talks about how he hated at the time, but has in hindsight enjoyed the memory of the pie contest in Whitestone.
Laura: Oh, right. That was so good, right?
Ashley: What about getting his hair done with flowers and braids and bows?
Matt: He tells you that was fine, but you can tell through the subtle bear undertones that he wasn't too happy about it. But everything has this tone of basically whatever you need, and anything for you. There is an undying loyalty and love from Trinket that you've always felt, but now to hear in language form is very moving.
Liam: I'm watching quietly the whole time with a smile at this bear that I've known as a cub grunting with my sister grunting back, and it's very touching.
Laura: I love the Feywild.
Travis: I think the whole thing is fucking weird.
Marisha: Keyleth wipes away a little tear.
Ashley: Same. I'm sitting on Trinket, wiping away tears.
Laura: We're walking.
Travis: We've been walking this whole time.
Matt: You guys keep walking. And you keep walking.
Sam: We still haven't hit that tree line?
Matt: You're past the tree line. You're in the grass, but it's hard to really gauge, since you have no sun in the sky and you don't have a central timepiece of any kind.
Laura: Do we feel tired?
Travis: Well, hold on. Can I spin around and see if the grass we've been trampling on is leaving a trail?
Matt: No. None. No trail. It's like you never stepped through behind you. The grasses parted where you walked through, and then, looking behind, it's like you were dropped in the middle of a field.
Travis: Is anything following us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: There was that kid that we talked to.
Ashley: Good call.
Travis: A deathly eight.
Laura: There was a creature in the woods.
Taliesin: That you saw?
Laura: I saw it.
Travis: Nothing. We're good!
Ashley: Can I perception check?
Matt: You can make a perception check, as well, yeah.
Taliesin: Vex, do you feel like getting a little bit of a bird's-eye view really quickly, perhaps?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Glancing about, a smooth grassline.
Travis: We're clear. Team monster!
Ashley: No one's following us!
Sam: What about this? Keyleth, can't we move through the trees?
Taliesin: We can't. There's no trees.
Sam: Just grass?
Marisha: I will turn around. How far away are we from the treeline?
Matt: From where you guys left?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: It's visible, but it's quite a ways away.
Marisha: We have been moving away.
Matt: Yeah. It's the rolling fields and hills. It's comparable to the width of the valley between the Cliffkeep Mountains and the Stormcrest Mountains on Tal'Dorei. It seems like such a vast space, with no immediate scattered landmarks. In your head, which is used to gauging your position from small changes in the scenery, it's mind-numbing. It feels like it's endless.
Laura: We have food. We're on our way.
Sam: What if this is a week's journey? What if this is two weeks' journey?
Marisha: She said two days south.
Sam: She said two dusks south. What if this is a month?
Matt: She said two days duskward.
Laura: Two days duskward. See? Two days.
Liam: Does that mean two days into dusk or two days that last an eternity?
Laura: Two days. It's two days.
Matt: She said two days duskward.
Travis: We're fine.
Marisha: But you were saying she was using two days in a way that we would understand?
Liam: We don't know.
Taliesin: I'm feeling pretty confident about this. I'm not having a lot of stress about this.
Travis: Let's keep grooving. Sun's up.
Taliesin: Until it's time that we all think it's time to take a rest, and we'll take a nap.
Laura: Yeah. When we feel tired-- I do want to make sure that nothing's following us on occasion, and make sure that nothing is around.
Travis: We checked it out. We're solid.
Sam: Should one of us circle back and make sure that no one's behind us?
Laura: We'll get separated.
Marisha: We'll never find each other again.
Sam: All right, then we're going to keep going, and I'll keep reading my book on top of Grog.
Marisha: Do we still see the flashing light in the distance that she saw?
Matt: Only at times, because when you go below the hills into these deep valleys, before you come to the next hill line, it cuts off your perspective. But as you get close, make another perception check, Vex, as you're keeping an eye on the back of Trinket.
Liam: Wait, you said Vax. Do you mean Vax, or do you mean Vex?
Matt: I said Vex.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. The source of the glimmer is becoming larger, but you can't make out any details. There are actually a few glimmers, clustered. It's one of those things where it's not perpetual. Every now and then you see it.
Laura: We are heading towards something. I'm not sure what it is.
Marisha: Is it erratic?
Matt: It seems erratic, yeah.
Travis: Something's on fire.
Taliesin: It's a party.
Sam: Press on?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: What else are we going to do?
Travis: Definitely nothing here.
Taliesin: We press on until it's time to rest.
Matt: You push on for a few more hours, and trying to think back how long you've been here, the time passes in a strange way to the point where you have no way of understanding how much time has gone by, but you're starting to get a little tired like you would towards the end of a day's worth of travel. You come up over a large hillside, and you can see now, there's a base of a mountain range that you can make out a little bit in the distance that meets up where that flickering is. You can see what appears to be now the source of the flickering. There looks to be some sort of a civilization. There are towers. There appears to be a stone ring around it. It's hard to make out the details from this distance, but it looks fairly large. It's in the side of the mountain range.
Taliesin: I say we camp here. I think it's a lovely idea.
Travis: What's around us? Grass fields, pretty much?
Matt: Just grass fields.
Travis: Far as you can see?
Matt: As far as you can see, and then the hill line eventually gets so high in the distance where you can't see past it. You see the mountain range and whatever the source of this glimmer is, this strange, city-like series of structures at the base of that mountain range.
Travis: Yeah. Let's set up shop, drop.
Laura: Can I fly up on the broom and see if I can see anything in the field around us or look for any movement in the grass?
Sam: Don't forget your hat!
Laura: I put my fucking hat on.
Taliesin: It suits you. It's lovely. I'm going to use my optics to try and sketch what I can of the city for the moment and get a general idea of it, sitting down and starting to get an idea of it.
Liam: And does it look like anything from my sister and my memory?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check on your end, as well, Vax.
Laura: And me?
Liam: 20.
Matt: As you're getting up, sure, go ahead and make one, because you get a better view, as well.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Vax, it's hard at this distance to make out much of the information, especially with the grass being as high as it is, and the hill beyond it. For the most part, the folks that can get a clear bead are those that are above the grass line and keeping a keen eye, which Vex is.
Laura: Oh, whispers! Whispers!
Ashley: (singing) Whispers in the night!
Sam: This is the anticipation that you feel before you open a Loot Crate! Not knowing what it could be. Could it be good? Could it be bad? What you do know is that it's $3 off if you use the code criticalrole.
Taliesin: Don't try and Super Saiyan me.
Marisha: Amazing.
Taliesin: Oh, not quite.
Marisha: Almost. Wait, maybe the bigger one?
Laura: He's been chewing on that, just so you know. In addition to that, do I see anything in the grass around us?
Matt: From what you can see... every now and then, you see tiny little bits of movement in the grass, maybe a quarter mile one way. You can see a similar type winding shape in the grass a mile or so the other way. It's even further out. There are other things moving in the grass, but none of them are breaking the grass surface. But they appear to be singular, at least in the shifting of movement. You do catch a smaller source of movement in the grass, no more than 30 feet off from where the rest of your party is currently walking.
Laura: Can I fly down near it?
Matt: Yeah. You swoop down, and over view of that, you can see what appears to be a small humanoid that is curling through the grass line. Looks human. Big, thick curled beard, very coarse dark hair. A muscled torso; stocky, but strong. What appears to be a light blue vest that's covering the upper part of the torso, most of the buttons missing, and the bottom of it tattered and worn. The hindquarters themselves are fur and come into cloven hooves, and you can see a small pair of horns hooking off the back of the head. This individual is skulking through the grass, carrying a small book and a long quill, and he's occasionally leaping up over the grass line, landing, and then drawing something in the book.
Laura: Does he see me?
Matt: He does not see you at the moment, no. You're overhead.
Laura: I want to float down above him on the broom and lay down on the broom and say: What are you drawing?
Matt: As soon as you come down and whisper, the tome slams shut. The figure stands up straight, slowly turns the eyes towards you, and you can see the dark and ruddy skin, the sun-touched nose and cheeks, a darker, more leathered texture to them, but the eyes are piercing ice blue as he looks back into yours. "Nothing."
Laura: Nothing at all?
Matt: "Just taking notes."
Laura: On those people up there?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Oh. Interesting.
Matt: "Because why not?"
Laura: Why not? You know, you probably could get a better view of them if you were riding on this broom.
Matt: "You see, if you're worried, it's not me you need to worry about. It's him." And points past your shoulder.
Laura: I'm not looking. I'm not falling for that! Nope! Can I insight check him and see?
Matt: Make an insight check, yeah.
Taliesin: I love this place.
Laura: 16?
Matt: 16? He seems like a slippery person in general, though he is caught off guard and right now is in self-preservation mode. It's hard to gauge if he's telling the truth or not.
Laura: I'm not going to bite you.
Matt: "I don't-- I'm not a biter. I'm not the biter in this area." And he starts backing up towards the grass.
Laura: Can I fly down and grab his wrist and fly up?
Matt: You grab his wrist and fly up? (whimpers) I need you to make a grapple check. Go ahead and make an athletics.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Travis: I love it.
Laura: Athletics? Oh, great. 15?
Matt: He pulls away, and as your hand grabs his wrist, he attempts to slip his hand out. Fingers pull through from your grasp as you double over your other hand and grab him by the elbow. You lift up and pull him out of the grass field, now dangling his little feet in the middle of the air. As he's being dragged up, the quill gets dropped, and he looks for it, and the book's tumbling out of his hand. He grabs the book and clutches it to himself. "What are you doing?"
Laura: Now I spin around and see if there's anything behind me.
Matt: There is nothing visible in the vicinity.
Laura: Sneaky little fuck!
Matt: "Please! This is really high!"
Laura: It really is. I think we should go say hi to my friends, don't you?
Matt: (whimpers)
Laura: We're in need of company, dear. And we fly down. Hello to everyone.
Matt: You drag him down, the broom coasting right over the grass line, presenting you and your new compatriot to the rest of Vox Machina.
Laura: Well, look at this friend I just found!
Marisha: Look at you!
Matt: Dangling from her grasp.
Sam: Grog, grab him!
Laura: Gentle, Grog. Gentle.
Matt: "Hey, friend. You look like a smart fellow. Let's have a conversation."
Sam: Don't talk to him.
Travis: What is this?
Laura: What are you?
Travis: What are you?
Matt: "I am but a simple wanderer and an individual who enjoys learning about things that are new and different."
Sam: Squeeze him.
Laura: Don't squeeze him, Grog.
Ashley: What's your name?
Matt: "Garmelie."
Ashley: What was it?
Matt: "Garmelie."
Ashley: What are you reading?
Matt: "I'm--"
Ashley: What are you reading?
Matt: "Nothing! No reading!"
Laura: No reading, just drawing. Percy! Our friend Percival here, he likes to draw, as well.
Taliesin: I do, quite a bit. Let's see your work.
Marisha: Oh yeah, compare notes!
Matt: He tries to wiggle out of your grasp, but it does nothing. You're concrete around him.
Travis: With one of my fingers, can I give him a little tickle?
Matt: (giggles) "No!"
Taliesin: I'm going to very gently put my hand on the book and take it.
Matt: It's a very finely bound book. The leather is impeccable. It's oiled. There's a brass metallic trim around the edges of it and the binding. There is a thick piece of red velvet strip that is set as a bookmarker in the center of it.
Taliesin: May I?
Matt: (whimpers) (laughter)
Ashley: That's the best face ever.
Laura: Garmelie, I saw what you were drawing, and it was quite lovely. Don't you want to share?
Marisha: What's the matter? Are you scared?
Liam: You might want to tell us what's going on before we figure it out for ourselves. This is your chance.
Matt: "There's really nothing going on. I was curious and taking notes."
Taliesin: I've been taking notes myself.
Marisha: Yeah, you guys should compare notes. Cross-references are always good.
Matt: "You wouldn't understand."
Marisha: You could help us.
Taliesin: Do we have that Hunk of-- not that that's going to help here.
Marisha: The Hunk of Quall? It's expired.
Sam: I'll step forward and put my hand on his shoulder and say: Listen.
Matt: By the way, he's being held up by Grog right now.
Sam: On his toe, then. I'll say  Listen, little man. I'm little, too, and you have nothing to fear from us as long as you cooperate. I will cast Suggestion on him, and I will suggest that he fully cooperate with us and tell us all he knows.
Matt: What's the DC?
Sam: Well, I didn't use the hand cone, did I? So 18.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Is the book safe to open?
Matt: As you, touching his leg and looking up at him, there's that shimmer of purplish energy in your eyes, and he gives you a look. "Right, no worries. No problems whatsoever. Whatever you need."
Marisha: Can I go find his feather quill that he dropped?
Matt: You don't know about the quill. You know the book that he had.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Tell us. Can we open the book?
Matt: Do you want to try to open the book?
Taliesin: I'm asking, is it safe to open? For me?
Matt: "Yes, it's quite safe."
Taliesin: What's at the bookmark, may I ask? And I slowly start to open it at the bookmark.
Matt: "It's where I'm currently making notes."
Travis: Please be nudie pictures.
Taliesin: I'm gently opening it.
Matt: All right. The picture you come to, as of right now, is a very finely detailed sketch of Grog. Very well drawn, but he has bulging eyes, big buck teeth, and a very tiny penis. (laughter)
Travis: What do you see?
Taliesin: He's brilliant. He captured everything.
Travis: What's it a picture of?
Sam: He's a little shithead!
Travis: Has he drawn us?
Taliesin: I turn it.
Sam: Don't kill him, Grog!
Laura: There's nothing wrong with drawing a funny picture.
Sam: Art is subjective.
Marisha: Oh man, he nailed you, Grog.
Travis: What other goliath has been tromping through this place?
Matt: "Many! So many. That's one of them."
Taliesin: I'm going to start gently flipping through some of the pages.
Matt: There are drawings of the entire party, but with extremely exaggerated cartoonish parody features. For Pike, her head is extremely large.
Taliesin: Like Six Flags Magic Mountain caricature vibe?
Matt: Yeah, with a hint of Mad Magazine. It's essentially a book full of dickbutts. It's him drawing and vandalizing the image of a number of you guys. There's a picture of Vax and Keyleth that are both covered in poo and slapping it on their face. Written in Elvish, "I love this!" with a word bubble. It's essentially a kid entertaining himself with a bunch of stupid pictures.
Taliesin: This is an awfully expensive book to be this shitty in.
Marisha: Is this just your hobby? Your pastime? Or are you an actual records keeper for whatever town this is? Because both would be humorous.
Matt: "No. No record keeper."
Taliesin: I'm going much earlier in the book to see what's there.
Matt: You start seeing a number of elven individuals. You see people in really nice regal armor, but all of them are pooping themselves. There's a bunch of elvish ladies with oversized floppy boobs smacking each other in the face. It's truly childish. But they're really well drawn and well shaded! There is a serious talent to the artwork. His skewed intent of imagery is fascinating.
Liam: I'm in the mood to hear this guy's life story. Get him a cup.
Laura: I love them. Honestly, I think you're quite talented.
Sam: Should we make camp here and invite him into the mansion?
Liam: As long as he's secure, yeah.
Marisha: What's the name of this little town here that we see?
Matt: "That! That is the elven city of Syngorn. They've been here for a little while, and they've been a gracious source of subjects."
Marisha: And where do you live when Syngorn's not here?
Matt: "I live wherever I please. I choose my place to rest."
Laura: Where do your clothes come from? Where do you live?
Travis: Do you have any family? Friends?
Matt: "I've got family and friends all over, yes. They're just a ways away."
Laura: So you know this area quite well.
Matt: "I know it well, yes."
Laura: So you could potentially guide us?
Matt: "It's hard to guide when you're being crushed by a giant green-gray man thing."
Travis: I'm just saying, is there anyone that would miss you if you're gone?
Laura: Grog!
Travis: What?
Laura: Be nice to our guest.
Marisha: We're in the Feywild.
Laura: I have a deal for you. We could offer you--
Taliesin: Dinner!
Laura: Dinner! Delicious dinner. Chicken. Have you ever had chicken? It's so wonderful.
Matt: "Chicken?"
Marisha: Also a bath.
Laura: If you happen to lead us where we want to go.
Matt: "Where do you want to go?"
Laura: We'll tell you in a little bit.
Travis: Yeah. Crack out the door, homie.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: And to sweeten the offer, after you've had dinner with us and we send you on your way, perhaps we will consider giving you your book back. Perhaps.
Laura: I fly off, and I go grab the quill.
Matt: Make a perception check. That quill fell in the center of a tall grass field.
Laura: I didn't even make it into the square. It was pathetic. 27?
Matt: You spend the better part of the next 20 minutes realizing that there is no way you're finding this quill amongst the grass. This is the needle in a hay factory.
Ashley: Can I pat him down for any weapons?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: He's got seven dicks.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Best you can find throughout his body, the only thing that catches your attention is a now-crushed ocarina that he had on the inside of his pocket that did not survive the grasping of Grog.
Sam: We can fix it for him.
Ashley: We can make you a new one somewhere.
Taliesin: Give me the bits.
Liam: Garmelie, we have a very bad track record when we make friends. We have been burned badly a few times, and I want to make it clear that you will be watched while you're here. Come in, eat, enjoy yourself, but multiple people here are keeping an eye on you. Understand?
Matt: "I understand. Look, if we are to strike an accord here, one of friendly trade of services, I would greatly appreciate it's done without this very handsome, muscled-- "
Travis: (sneezes) I sneeze right in his face.
Matt: You see it (drip) off his nose. "Without this man trying to smash my innards, please."
Laura: Grog, let him go.
Sam: Well, not go. Just put him down.
Laura: Grog, put him down and put your hand on his shoulder.
Sam: Are we making camp here? Should we get in the house?
Laura: Let's hold hands as we walk through the door.
Sam: I'll cast the mansion. I'll sit down and sing: (singing) My house is very, very, very fine house! With chicken everywhere! Life used to be so fair, but now it's better because of me! (laughter)
Matt: As you finish the incantation, the shimmering doorway of Scanlan's magnificent mansion outlines within the grass field, only emerging about a foot beyond the actual tallest part of the grass. You have to bow down to get into it. But you guys all enter, along with your new friend, Garmelie, into the mansion itself. We'll take a break there, and we'll jump back into this crazed circumstance here in a few minutes. We'll see you guys shortly. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. A couple quick things I forgot to mention at the top, as I guess I can talk about it now. GenCon.
Laura: Oh shit, we can talk about that?
Matt: I'm talking about it. They have a Critical Role panel that they've announced in the thing they put out--
Sam: Press release?
Matt: Yes, one of those. Emails, newsletters. Thank you. Critical Role stuff happening. I will be there all four days so panels and stuff coming up. Cool. We'll have more info as that's unveiled. But those of you going to GenCon, hopefully I'll have some cool stuff ready for you then. That's one mention. Also want to give another thanks again to Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsor! (cheering)
Matt: Go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and put in the singular criticalrole word phrase to get your $3 per month subscription discount. And we have hit 20k subscribers, which is ridiculous! (cheering)
Matt: I've just been notified that once we hit 25k subscribers, that goal, whenever we reach that, will be 25k and a talent show. I guess a lot of the hosts and people involved with this show and others have a lot of random weird-ass talents that they want to reveal on the internet, because what could possibly go wrong? So that's something to look forward to. And we'll have other things intermittently, giveaways and other goals, but that's the next big goal that's been put out there as far as I know, so I want to let you guys be aware of that.
Laura: My talent includes taming otters. I wish.
Matt: Is it the otter taming finger?
Laura: No, that's my other stupid talent. But I wanted an excuse to have an otter here.
Taliesin: Shocking otters.
Marisha: We missed the sloth, so if anyone wants to bring out an otter, I'd be okay with that, too.
Travis: You didn't miss anything. It moved super fucking slow.
Laura: Oh, it was magical.
Ashley: Maybe a baby panther.
Marisha: That's so random, but I'm into it.
Ashley: I want one.
Matt: 22k and a red panda.
Laura: 22k and a red panda! That's not official. 25k and a talent show, though, is real.
Marisha: You're going to get an e-mail tomorrow being like: Matt.
Matt: Unofficial!
Ashley: I don't want any zoo animals.
Laura: I don't want any badly poached animals taken from their environment.
Matt: Badly poached?
Laura: I know, that was terrible.
Sam: I like a nicely poached animal.
Matt: There you go. Affectionately. All right, guys, so back in the game. As you guys find your way into the interior of Scanlan's magnificent mansion, the individual, the fey creature known as Garmelie, nervously walks along with you. What do you wish to do before an evening's rest is taken?
Travis: I stand at the door like a sentry.
Taliesin: Let's have some food. Let's put two guards on him.
Sam: I put 20 guards on him.
Taliesin: 20 guards? That's a lot of guards.
Matt: A bunch of the servants (whoosh) shimmer out next to him and he's like (nervous whimper). "Hello."
Marisha: Guys, let's have a carpet picnic tonight. Can we have a carpet picnic?
Laura: Is there a carpet here?
Sam: Yeah, there's carpet, but we have beds.
Laura: Just a picnic?
Marisha: Because we're in the Feywild. It seems appropriate.
Travis: We're not in the Feywild. We're in the house.
Taliesin: There's tables.
Marisha: I just thought it would be fun.
Laura: I would have a picnic with you, darling.
Marisha: Thank you! I sit down next to the satyr and I stare at him like this, a little bit.
Matt: "Hi."
Sam: What do we want to know from this little twerp?
Laura: Why don't we eat, and we'll get to the questions in a little bit? Let's give him a rest. I shocked him when I abducted him.
Marisha: Do you shed?
Matt: "A little."
Marisha: Do you grow a thicker coat during wintertime?
Matt: "Winter-- seasons-- It's not really a thing here."
Marisha: Do you grow horns?
Matt: "They grew."
Marisha: That's awesome.
Travis: Would you care for any ale?
Matt: "Yes, please."
Travis: All right. I crack out the big-ass cask of ale.
Laura: I would like some of that, as well, Grog.
Liam: Pass it around.
Matt: You pass the ale around. He skulls it. (gulps)
Travis: Well, all right, Tiny Toons. Nicely done.
Laura: Can I pull Vax aside for a moment and ask Do you want to go to Syngorn? We could avoid it.
Liam: Well, we know no one here except for this guy. We need to find you that bow. I don't relish the idea of dealing with our father, but it seems like our best bet.
Laura: Right. Of course. We should go see them.
Liam: Are you sure you want to, though?
Laura: Of course, why wouldn't I? Please. And I walk back to the group.
Travis: I give the satyr another drink.
Matt: He greedily drinks it down.
Marisha: Can I pet your fur? Is it coarse?
Travis: Keyleth!
Laura: Keyleth, that's a bit forward.
Travis: You're so touchy today.
Taliesin: I understand.
Matt: "So. If we're here to talk and make this deal we're discussing, what is it you want from me?"
Travis: Is he looking any more drunk?
Matt: A slight slur.
Laura: Can I have some more ale, as well, Grog? Keep it coming, all around.
Travis: Yeah, fine.
Taliesin: Honest opinion, what is the disposition of the people in that city over on the hill? You can be frank. We're not from around here. You can't offend us with your opinion of them.
Matt: "It's a busy place right now. We haven't seen the city of Syngorn in close to a hundred years, at the very least, and they have an entire army building up right now. It's hustle and bustle."
Taliesin: They have an army building up? Why is that?
Matt: "Hell if I know. I just wandered through and used that distraction to acquire a few things and make some fantastic notes."
Laura: Acquire what?
Matt: "Things."
Laura: Do you steal, darling?
Matt: "I don't steal. I borrow indefinitely."
Taliesin: You just pinch small things, though, like little gold trinkets. This is not really a talent of yours, is it?
Liam: Are we talking klepto stealing, or career?
Matt: "I take things that look nice that I think I would want."
Marisha: Where do you steal these things? Are you a pickpocket?
Matt: "I am no simple street thief. I am a procurer of wayward items and objects that need a better home."
Travis: I think you should know that this door that you walked through in this big house, if you steal anything, it shreds you into ribbons when you leave.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Fuck. Six.
Matt: "Oh, I'm sure it does, big man."
Ashley: Well, it'll disappear if you take it.
Laura: It certainly will.
Matt: "Well, good to know."
Liam: Chicken in your belly goes, though.
Matt: "Look, I'm not going to take anything from you. You've already proven far more of a match for me than I had ever anticipated, and what was meant to be a simple, fun game of follow and-- follow has turned into a much more complicated circumstance, so I'd like to get it over with as soon as possible."
Marisha: Are you not having fun? We want you to at least enjoy yourself.
Matt: "My quill is gone! You've threatened me and my life!"
Laura: I searched for it! Was it a special quill?
Matt: "It had sentimental value. I can get another."
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: "What do you want from me?"
Sam: We want you to take us to this place, this mirk place.
Laura: The Shademirk.
Matt: "You want to go to the Shademirk? Whatever for? Why would you go to the Shademirk?"
Laura: There's a very scary tree there.
Matt: "Yes. Why?"
Laura: What do you know about the Shademirk?
Matt: "To stay the hell out of it, certainly. Want to go to the Shademirk? Be my guest!"
Liam: A little more than that, friend. A little more.
Travis: Your glass is looking empty.
Marisha: You must know something, or else you wouldn't stay out of it.
Matt: He takes it from you. He sloshes it around and makes wild gestures. "It's a dangerous place. It's been a source of vileness and ichor here in the Feywild for hundreds of years. It's a terrible, horrible cesspool of nothing. I'm so sorry, this is getting everywhere."
Sam: Don't worry, the servants will get it. It's terrible because of what dwells there, or because of the place itself?
Matt: "Both! All of it!"
Sam: What dwells there?
Matt: "Creatures, things, trollish slime creatures."
Laura: Do you have drawings? Have you drawn things from there?
Matt: "I sketched a thing or two."
Sam: Which page?
Taliesin: Flip, flip, flip.
Matt: You take a moment to scan through, and there are all sorts of creatures, all drawn stupidly, many with extra private parts coming out of shoulders and stuff. "Around page 163, 164." And you see, and there are creatures all throughout, but at that page in particular, you see a lanky, tall humanoid that is oozing black, thick, viscous tar. It's shaded in a way where it looks like it has that glaze that only thick, oil-like substances really give off. And it's dragging this absolutely unnecessarily large dong behind it about four feet. Every picture looks pretty good to a point, and then you're like, "aw, really?"
Laura: Garmelie, that creature. Is it very large?
Matt: "It's a little bigger than you."
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: Gestures and takes his drink back.
Marisha: Does it have a name? What's this called?
Matt: "I haven't gotten close enough to it."
Liam: But you know how to get there.
Matt: "I know how to get there, but it's not an easy, let alone safe, route."
Laura: Well, we'll protect you.
Matt: "So you're saying that as part of this agreement, I will be your guide to the outskirts of the Shademirk? Because I am not going in there."
Travis: If you want your book back.
Laura: Have you heard of a very large-- well, I don't know if it's large. A very scary tree there? Something poisoning the land?
Matt: "The land there is poisoned. I haven't gone in there myself. I'm sure there's many poison trees."
Travis: How far from here would you say it is?
Matt: "Day and a half, maybe? Duskward-seaward, maybe?"
Travis: He's been very helpful. Maybe he could just point us in the direction.
Sam: No, we're taking him. We're taking him as far as we can. We need guides who know the land.
Matt: "Then let us make the other side of this agreement. You want me to be your guide, you'll give me back my book." He sets the drink down. "Back my book, and--" He looks at the rest of you. "You seem to speak like you know thievery, yes?"
Sam: One of us is a member of a thieves' guild.
Matt: "There's a few things in that there dreary elvish city that I haven't the skills to procure, but if you wouldn't mind maybe borrowing them for me in my stead, well, we've a done deal."
Travis: Borrowing them indefinitely.
Liam: What are we discussing, exactly?
Sam: Quid pro quo?
Matt: "If you will."
Laura: I've got no problem stealing from any of those people.
Liam: Yes, but the devil's in the details. What are we after? Tell me a little bit more.
Matt: "We make the agreement first."
Liam: Say again?
Matt: "We make the agreement first. Consider it a bit of trust!"
Liam: Balls is what that is.
Taliesin: Let us add an addendum, then. If we are going to steal things from you, you will not only take us to the bog--
Marisha: But you'll take us to our final destination.
Matt: "Nope, no. No Shademirk. I'm out. Sorry."
Sam: Or we could kill you here.
Taliesin: Are we killing people?
Sam: We could kill him.
Travis: Do I get to grab him again?
Marisha: Remember, you have to be nice to things in the Feywild. This is what we've learned.
Sam: We have a powerful position in negotiation. I'm a master negotiator.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: What is he doing?
Sam: Who's getting whispered to? Percy? Percy goes blind again. Every five minutes.
Taliesin: This is interesting. 17.
Sam: A roll and a re-whisper.
Laura: The Feywild. Slippery. Sneaky.
Sam: This is crazy.
Taliesin: Interesting.
Sam: He just said the C-word, the F-word, the G-word!
Matt: "If it's that important to you to go to this dark place, then keep the book, all right? I can draw more."
Taliesin: I've got an idea. We broke your ocarina, correct?
Matt: "Yes."
Taliesin: Why don't I try and fix the ocarina? We give him his book back, we take a couple things from those people and get on our way? We could just get on our way.
Marisha: Not have him at all?
Taliesin: No, let's make the deal and get this moving. This is a place where deals happen. Let's do it.
Travis: But you're usually so picky about details. What if he asks us to steal somebody?
Liam: We're talking about a pantsless cartoonist in the middle of fairy land.
Taliesin: We agree to the deal, we present it, and then we're there.
Laura: If we can't steal the things, then the deal is off.
Matt: "It's that simple. We both go our separate ways, and good luck finding the Shademirk on your own."
Taliesin: It's kismet, in my opinion.
Laura: Well, I trust you, Percy, if you think it's smart.
Ashley: Can I insight check Percy? Because he's acting a little strange.
Liam: Same.
Matt: You can make an insight check, but he's not acting too far out of his normal place here.
Liam: Yeah, but I've done insight checks before because he's Percy.
Laura: Did you do it?
Ashley: Yeah, but I didn't get anything.
Liam: I got a 15. Balls.
Matt: It's an interestingly tense conversation. It's hard to ride one way or the other, but it's a valid point. If worse comes to worst, and what he's asking for is beyond your grasp or something that you wish not to do, then the deal is off and you go your separate ways.
Taliesin: We're in the Feywild. We're going to make a deal with something. This is what the Feywild is.
Travis: All right. Fine.
Liam: I turn to Vex. You like this idea? You want to do this?
Laura: I have no love for that city. I don't care.
Taliesin: I want to go there, too.
Marisha: The people we're stealing from better be meanies, though, and they better have deserved it at some point.
Laura: Ultimately, I would love to ask them to help us in our fight. They're cowardly and stupid for hiding, but we could use their help if they're making an army.
Liam: Possibly better equipped and better educated, sorry, than this one here.
Marisha: Well, Garmelie also said they were strengthening up an army. Did they ever have a standing army before?
Matt: They did.
Laura: They did? Of course they did. They're a city.
Matt: It wasn't a huge army, per se, but they had trained forces, and they had a means of defending their city.
Laura: We had a fight instructor when we were growing up.
Liam: They're elves. They're very civilized. They've all got sticks up their asses. They're fucking elves.
Taliesin: I can't wait.
Matt: "I like this one."
Sam: Are you going to fix his what-is-it-called?
Taliesin: Give me your ocarina. Let me see if I can get to work on it.
Marisha: I can help Percy.
Sam: I will inspire Percy by singing. (singing) Go ahead, Percy, and fix his ocarina! Take your tinkering tools and fix his ocarina! You go, Percival, you can fix his ocarina!
All: Hey, ocarina!
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Can I help with a Mending spell?
Taliesin: You can help with a Mending spell.
Matt: Mending spell? Do you have the cantrip? Mending is a cantrip.
Liam: I thought she used it once before on something.
Marisha: I thought I used it as a ritual spell before.
Liam: You fixed that little Sarenrae doll.
Matt: Right. So you have the spell, correct?
Marisha: I thought I learned it. I don't know.
Liam: Oh jeez, here comes the internet.
Matt: Cantrips you have at all times.
Marisha: Can I use it as a 1st-level spell?
Matt: What cantrips do you know?
Marisha: Guidance, Druidcraft. I used Druidcraft before, for the wooden thing. Can I use Druidcraft to help this?
Matt: How would you use Druidcraft?
Marisha: What's it made out of? Is it made out of wood?
Matt: Actually, it's made out of clay, yeah.
Taliesin: So I'm going to attempt to glue it together, and then I'm going to need something to hold the whole thing together while the glue sets.
Matt: Okay. Using what materials are within the workshop that you had before, there is a very mild adhesive paste that you construct. Go ahead and make a tinkering roll. This will be with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That was a natural 20.
Matt: Very rapidly, with the things that are given at your disposal, not even needing the materials here, but what you have on you as part of your traveling tinkering kit, you piece together a nearly unnoticeable binding agent for clay and dirt and earth-based materials. You manage to fix the ocarina rather quickly, in a period of maybe 20 minutes, and with the help of Keyleth's Druidcraft, dry it and manage to get it fixed.
Taliesin: Your instrument, sir.
Matt: "Thank you. That's one good deed you've done me today. I appreciate that."
Travis: Don't forget about all them ales, yeah?
Matt: (whistles) It's awful. He doesn't really know how to play, and it's like (off-key singing).
Taliesin: It's quite nice.
Travis: At least you can always draw.
Matt: "If I can find my quill."
Laura: I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry. I looked for 20 fucking minutes. I looked, all right?
Ashley: I'm sure we could find you a quill.
Liam: I've got one right fucking here. I pull the black feather out from behind my ear and hold it up. This is a very fine feather to sweeten the deal. Don't fuck us over. And I slide it into the book.
Travis: Don't give him that, Vax. It's too nice!
Laura: No, it is really nice! I know you're acting like he's lying, but he's telling the fucking truth.
Sam: Good lie, Grog.
Liam: We've really been burned. I am really going to punch you in the back of the head if you fuck us over. Do you understand me? I don't like you.
Matt: "I like you! Well. Are we at an agreement?"
Laura: Sure, why not. Me?
Sam: Who's he shaking?
Matt: "Whoever your leader is! Shake my hand."
Liam: Here, give me your fucking hand, you dirty bastard.
Matt: Before you got your hand there, Vax, Vex put her hand in, and both of you guys clasp both sides of his hand at the same time. A trio handshake.
Liam: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me.
Laura: I'm pretty sure he was talking to me, actually.
Matt: All right, so you guys shake hands with him. You feel this shiver on your back as you shake hands, and he smiles. "Very well. Now, we've properly gotten acquainted. My sharper introductions are in order." He stands up and wobbles for a second, a little drunk on the ale. "My name is Garmelie. I am a simple joy finder of the ever-shifting grasses, and I am happy to be your guide for the remainder of this journey to the outskirts of the Shademirk, and no further. Three things you wish you avoid as you progress further. As we are traveling through the Moonbrush, alongside the Green Sea-- we could take one or the other, your choice. Eventually finding our way to the Gilded Run, and from there on to the Shademirk itself. I'll be leaving you at the outskirts of the Gilded Run, but it should suffice for the journey you wish to have ahead. Things you wish to avoid. One, the Hut of Wodenna. She's a terrible woman. You see a hut, don't go. You may smell enticing things."
Liam: Odenna?
Matt: "Wodenna. Delightful smells, sounds of soft music, a gentle light across the shade and sea. Two words at once. I'm drunk. But do not go near the hut. Avoid the hut. No hut! Two. Avoid the Last Campsite of Sorudun the Happy."
Sam: Sounds nice.
Liam: Yeah, that sounds fun.
Matt: "Avoid it. Trust me, avoid it. If there's a campsite that's empty, looks happy? Avoid it. And three, avoid the theater."
Sam: I love the theater!
Liam: Oh, that's good advice, actually.
Matt: "Avoid the theater."
Sam: Just in general, the theater?
Matt: "In general. I hate all theater. Let's avoid the theater, please!"
Sam: I do an insight check.
Matt: Do it.
Sam: I don't know what I have. Terrible. 13.
Matt: He seems pretty perturbed by the idea of theater.
Liam: I'm changing my mind on this guy.
Laura: Why should we avoid the hut? What does Wodenna do?
Matt: "She's been around a while."
Laura: She's a hag? Is she a hag?
Matt: "That's a name. Best to avoid. Trust me."
Sam: We do nothing but trust you.
Matt: "Great. Wondrous. And who are you, by the way?"
Marisha: We're Vox Machina.
Sam: The Slayer's Take.
Matt: "Vox Machina Slayer's Take. Very well. Pleasure to meet you all, Vox Machina Slayer's Take." He holds his drink out for you to fill again.
Travis: How many fingers am I holding up?
Matt: "I don't care. Thank you. Now, the deal is made, drink's been had, introductions have been properly given. I think it's time for bed." He takes two steps forward, (thud) face-first in the center of the main area, and starts snoring loudly.
Laura: Maybe we should move him to a safe location that we can lock.
Liam: With those 20 guards, right, Scanlan?
Ashley: Can I take his ocarina? Just for the night?
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Ashley: He's asleep, so do I get advantage or something?
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: You sneak forward, and in a move that would've made Vax proud, you pull the ocarina from his grasp, show it to the rest of the party, and tuck it away.
Ashley: I look over at Vax and give him a wink. And Vex!
Liam: That was primo, baby.
Ashley: Thanks.
Sam: Hey, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Sam: You've got magic. I don't entirely trust this thing. We were told specifically not to trust anything. Do you have any spell that can do true-seeing, or that can restore him if he's putting on this form, or that can dispel some charm that he has around him or some aura?
Laura: Maybe some sort of magical thing that he put on me, because I'm pretty sure he cast something on me and my brother.
Marisha: Really? What happened? What did you feel?
Laura: A shiver. When we shook his hand.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah.
Ashley: He never told us what he wanted you to get, what he wanted to steal.
Taliesin: No, he hasn't.
Sam: Pikey, do you have something that can reveal some truth or dispel magic from him?
Marisha: I actually have Dispel Magic right now.
Laura: Can we try it? On me and my brother, see if it cancels out whatever he just did?
Marisha: I'll touch Vex and cast Dispel Magic and see if anything happens. Wait, take off all magical items first.
Laura: Everything I'm wearing is magic.
Marisha: Well, take it off.
Travis: Yeah, take it off!
Laura: What is it about this dimension that makes us get naked all the time?
Sam: The hat is not magic. You can leave that on.
Laura: Thank you. So I take off everything except for the hat.
Marisha: I don't want to risk dispelling anything.
Liam: I'm taking a short walk, all right.
Taliesin: Every time I've seen anything attractive and naked, it's gone very poorly today. I'm walking away.
Marisha: It's like wearing metal in a really hot sauna. You just don't do it. Come on.
Matt: Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: All right. I'll do the big guy. Come on, big guy. Oh, that's okay. My wisdom, just my modifier? 22.
Matt: Okay. You cast the spell.
Ashley: Do you feel different?
Marisha: That was a very high wisdom roll. Do you feel anything?
Laura: Do I feel anything?
Matt: You didn't feel anything in particular.
Travis: Give it a minute. It might take a while to take effect. Maybe do some jumping jacks.
Laura: I'm definitely putting my clothes back on.
Marisha: I can also try a Regeneration spell.
Sam: Wait. I think I can do something. I can sing a song. That's mostly what I do, if you haven't noticed by now. I have a power that I never ever use. It's called Countercharm. I can counter charms.
Matt: As they're being cast. So you still can't use it. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to start gathering the servants to pick the boy up and put him in his room.
Matt: And the 20 guards lift his form and carry him off.
Travis: Don't let him steal any of our shit.
Taliesin: Everything would disappear, anyway.
Travis: No, I mean our personal shit.
Laura: Lock the door.
Travis: Yeah, but what if he can do Scanlan's thing where he goes through the door?
Marisha: I have a feeling if he shook your hand and did something, like Scanlan said, it's probably a Pike thing, like a Remove Curse. It's got to be something more like that. Mine is all nature-based. I can try to Regenerate you, but I don't think this would fall under that.
Travis: She's fine. It was a draft. She needs to wear more clothes. It's all right.
Ashley: Do you feel different?
Laura: No, not anymore.
Marisha: I have a feeling it's like if you stray from a contract or something, you might feel it. I don't know. That's what I would think.
Travis: I'll go to bed. And I sleep on all of my weapons and stuff. They're under me, on top of the mattress.
Matt: Perfect. Everyone else go to bed?
Marisha: I put a blanket over the satyr, and I pet him, now that he's asleep. Is his fur coarse, or is it soft?
Matt: It's pretty coarse.
Laura: That is really creepy.
Travis: Creepy, unconsented petting farm.
Marisha: Okay, good night.
Taliesin: I make sure everything's fine. I will leave him his book, lock the door, and head up to my room and lock the door behind me, as well.
Sam: I stayed up all night reading.
Marisha: Are you going to take a point of exhaustion for that?
Sam: I have to.
Laura: I get very little sleep. I'm having trouble sleeping.
Travis: You are?
Matt: All right. So this is your second level of exhaustion.
Sam: No, I slept last time.
Matt: Oh, that's right! You did sleep. Correct. So you do take another point of exhaustion now, so you're back to one point of exhaustion. So all your ability checks are at disadvantage.
Ashley: How long does that take?
Taliesin: A week.
Ashley: It takes a week? To memorize it?
Sam: I think it was 48 hours of reading over a period of six days.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: How close?
Sam: I'm on day four, I believe. And I'm up to 36 hours now, if this counts as ten, 12 hours.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Marisha: So you're close. Yeah, you're doing good.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Anyone else doing anything?
Marisha: I sleep, and I dream of fireflies and the Feywild because it's so magical.
Matt: There you go.
Ashley: I'm going to get up early, but yeah.
Laura: I'm going to get up early and try to fix my hair and make it as pristine as I can and try to clean off my clothes and everything before we go.
Liam: I sleep like a baby in my armor.
Matt: All right. Percy, as you're getting ready to go to bed, you feel this strange tickle at the back of your head that dissipates.
Taliesin: Is it what I think it is?
Matt: It is the fading of a Charm Person spell.
Taliesin: Okay. Goddamn it.
Marisha: Son of a fuck.
Taliesin: And as I'm going to bed? Or as I wake up?
Matt: As you're going to bed.
Taliesin: Okay. Fuck.
Travis: Did you fuck us?
Laura: Percy was charmed.
Taliesin: No, you don't know anything yet. I'm not quite going to go to sleep yet. I'm going to go see who else is still awake.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan is reading in his room with the door slightly ajar.
Sam: Yes?
Taliesin: The little fucker charmed me.
Sam: I knew it! I suspected it! That's why I tried to use Countercharm, but I don't know how to use it. (laughter)
Sam: Apparently, it's some sort of preemptive thing. I have to read about it. Oh shit, I'm already reading this! Goddamn it! (laughter)
Sam: Anyway. What do you think we should do?
Taliesin: I don't know what we can do.
Sam: Wait. When were you charmed? What did it affect? What decisions did you make today that were key?
Taliesin: We made a bloody deal with him.
Sam: Well, we can always back out on the deal.
Taliesin: Well, no, we can't, really.
Sam: What, is there some sort of blood pact that we made?
Taliesin: (sputtering) I don't know exactly how it works. It's just in any book you read about the Feywild, you make a deal and it's a deal and you have to deal with it.
Sam: What does mean? You and I could go down to his room right now and kill him and be done with it.
Taliesin: I don't think that would work.
Sam: Would we be cursed?
Taliesin: Maybe?
Sam: Haunted forever?
Taliesin: Probably.
Sam: Oh man. That sucks. I don't want to be haunted. That's for you and Vax! (laughter)
Taliesin: You would look lovely in eyeliner.
Sam: No baggage, man, no baggage. What do we do? We made a deal with a devil of some sort.
Taliesin: It was inevitable.
Sam: Is there a way to trick the trickster into releasing us from the deal?
Taliesin: Could be.
Sam: Because, you know, I'm a sly talker.
Liam: When did this show turn into Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead? (laughter)
Matt: Right now.
Taliesin: Right now. I'm going to have to tell the others in the morning. I'm going to go see if anybody else is awake. Oh god. Sleep well. Oh, you're reading. Never mind. Don't sleep.
Sam: Now I've got to read about the fucking fey, too.
Taliesin: No. Finish your bloody book.
Matt: Keyleth is at rest, Grog is at rest, Vax is at rest. Vex is still up, cleaning your garments, you said, right? And Pike, you went to bed but are waking up early, correct? So essentially, it's just Vex who's awake.
Taliesin: Vex.
Laura: Yes?
Taliesin: Little shit put a charm on me. I felt it wear off about 45 minutes ago.
Laura: Before we made the deal with him?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Fuck, Percy! I made the deal because you said it was fine!
Taliesin: Well, I--
Laura: It's fine. You didn't know. Well.
Taliesin: Well, at least we know that he definitely can't be trusted.
Laura: It's our own stupid fault. We knew we weren't supposed to trust anything here.
Taliesin: I know. We've got to make sure that Pike doesn't give him back his whistle, just yet.
Laura: Why did you want to fix his whistle? You just liked him.
Taliesin: He was so nice! He was just so nice.
Laura: Damn it. I thought you knew something we didn't know. I really thought you did.
Taliesin: I did. It's sadly what I knew was he's a little shit. I just didn't know until about half an hour ago. I hate magic!
Laura: Percy. Change of subject. Would you say I look put together? Well off? With this armor.
Taliesin: In what sense?
Laura: Well, you come from money, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Right, so do I look like I come from money?
Taliesin: Does she look like she comes from money?
Matt: That's entirely up to your opinion. You know the attire she wears; you've traveled with her. It's based on what you want to base that judgment on, whether it be pure looks, the person inside. It's whatever Percival thinks she would be in his eyes.
Sam: (quietly) She's naked in a hat.
Taliesin: (laughs) Honestly, dear, you're too happy to look like you come from money.
Laura: (laughs) I don't believe that.
Taliesin: No, it's a sure sign of it, is an abject misery, believe me. I can speak to it. You look too much like you, and you don't look enough like something you're supposed to be. If you feel the urge to deeply bullshit, I'd be happy to help you. It's not hard.
Laura: No?
Taliesin: No. It is easy to pretend you come from money. You just have to be a bit of a shit and wear what everybody else is wearing. Does this have something to do with that city? It does, doesn't it. Who's there?
Laura: Well, you know. Everyone. We were judged, growing up, and I don't look forward to seeing that again.
Taliesin: (sighs) Well.
Laura: It's not important.
Taliesin: Oh, I disagree. Dear, I think that if you're worried about them knowing whether or not you've made your money and made your fortune-- I don't think that's going to be the thing to earn their respect. I think you're better off, A, with the company that you keep, and B, with the fact that you're probably just better than most of them.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: I've known a lot of people with money, and they are definitely not worth you. And besides, if they have something nice that makes you feel inferior, we can just take it.
Laura: (laughs) I like the way you think.
Taliesin: Well, and then they're just shit without anything, and then you're you with their stuff.
Laura: Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: You're welcome. I know it doesn't really help.
Laura: Will you stay at my side when we're there?
Taliesin: Yes. And the outfit works. Don't change it. Keep the hat.
Laura: (laughs) All right. Good night.
Taliesin: Good night. Sleep well.
Laura: We'll sort out this charmed mess in the morning.
Taliesin: I'm sorry for my part in it.
Matt: So you guys go your separate ways. You find yourself eventually to bed as the rest of the group is asleep. Vex, you take a bit of solace in the conversation, finish cleaning your things, though it doesn't seem like the incessant scrubbing you were driven on has much purpose, nor the impact you thought it might at this point, and you resign yourself to sleep for the evening. As the evening comes to a close, Pike, you wake up early. As you come out of your room, you struggle with the view of 20 guards slowly shifting through the foyer as a very hungover and groaning satyr begins clomping through the main foyer, going, "Breakfast, please? Please, breakfast?"
Ashley: Yes. Follow me to the kitchen.
Matt: "Yes! Someone they listen to! Thank you!" Rubbing his eyes as he follows you into the kitchen. He comes up onto one of the long benches in the center of one of the main dining tables.
Ashley: I put down a cup of coffee for him, and I run into the kitchen and get a very large-- oh no.
Matt: "Are you poisoning me?!"
Ashley: What's wrong?
Matt: "What is this?"
Ashley: It's coffee?
Matt: "I don't like coffee."
Ashley: Oh. What do you want?
Matt: "Something that's not coffee."
Ashley: Okay. Can we get him something that's not coffee?
Matt: The servants look at each other, confused, and wander off and come back with a carafe of an apple juice.
Ashley: Apple juice will be great.
Matt: "That is familiar. Thank you." He takes the carafe.
Ashley: I run in the kitchen really quick and get a very large piece of butcher paper.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Okay. So. Garmelie.
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: I think you're so talented, and I wanted to ask if maybe you could draw a family portrait for us. The most ridiculous you can make it.
Matt: "What do you mean?"
Ashley: Just of all of us. I want to hang it above the mantel before everybody wakes up.
Matt: "Well, it's hard to do without seeing the subjects, but if you want to fill in the details?"
Ashley: Yeah, fill in the details.
Matt: "All right. Well, I need a quill or some charcoal."
Ashley: Vax gave you a quill last night.
Matt: "He gave me a feather. It has to be refined into a quill."
Ashley: Oh, I forgot. I think there's one in the kitchen.
Matt: There is no quill in the kitchen, but glancing around and asking the servants, there are pieces of charcoal. There is charcoal available, sketch charcoal.
Ashley: Okay. Can you use charcoal?
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: Great.
Matt: "All right."
Ashley: Have at it.
Matt: "You first?"
Ashley: Sure.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: It's Leonardo and Winslet.
Ashley: Draw me like one of your French girls!
Marisha: Draw me like one of your French girls!
Matt: You hear the gentle lyrical stylings of Celine Dion swell in background as the satyr quickly begins sketching your charcoal form.
Ashley: And remember, very ridiculous.
Matt: "I don't know what that means, but I'll do my best." In rapid time, faster than anyone you've ever seen sketch, his form almost becomes blurred with the haste in which he draws, and within the hour, he has completed an extremely well-detailed portrait. And I mean portrait, as everyone is standing shoulder to shoulder like a family above a mantel, and it is grotesque. Horrifying. You look like perhaps the Trickfoots had been keeping the bloodline strong for a very long period of time. Droopy face, one eye sinking below the other. You don't even have the right number of fingers. You see Grog in the back, who is as wide as the rest of everybody, is behind them, this giant wall with this tiny little head, with a tongue lolling out to the side. It looks like he has one finger as a thumbs-up and the other one's up his bum. In the front, you see Vex and Vax, the twins, are furiously making out in a really horrible display, clutching each other. It's terrifying. Keyleth is currently clutching the side of a tree happily, and as she does, her eyes are going in different directions, and the tree itself is trying to push her off the branch. You see Percy, who is extremely tall with this squat, thin head with these giant glasses that make his eyes bug-eyed and strange. You see a little bit of scruff on the chin that's actually turning into this long, awful, matted dingleberry mess of a goatee, and he has both of his guns pointed at his head. Next to that is a perfectly defined, unchanged portrait of Scanlan Shorthalt.
Ashley: I just wanted to hear you explain it. So I'm going to take it and I'm going to paste it above the mantel. I'm going to go back upstairs to my room.
Matt: Okay. Eventually you all come to consciousness, brought to the wonderful, welcome morning scent of, once again, a chickenful breakfast. You find yourselves down to a once again passed-out satyr, slumped over the breakfast table with two plates of mostly devoured chicken, mashed potatoes, and a couple other side elements.
Laura: That sounds so good.
Matt: There above, on the mantel across the room, is a glorious sketch of the family of Vox Machina.
Taliesin: Charming.
Sam: Who changed my-- oh, I look pretty good.
Marisha: This is brilliant. Wait, Scanlan, why do you look normal?
Sam: I think we all look normal, actually. That's how I see us, sure.
Laura: This picture is disgusting.
Marisha: I love it.
Taliesin: No, that is awful.
Marisha: You guys, we have a souvenir! We have a souvenir from the Feywild!
Travis: I think he wants a beating. That's what he wants.
Laura: I flick his head.
Matt: "Yes, what? What? Hi!"
Travis: Why would you do that when we've been so hospitable?
Matt: "It's a gift." Make a persuasion check.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: He goes, "I thought I'd leave you a little present."
Ashley: I love it.
Laura: Well, it's gross, but everybody else looks quite wonderful.
Taliesin: I sit down, right in front and across the table.
Travis: I guess I don't mind. At least I'm big.
Taliesin: I like it.
Liam: I think it's gross.
Matt: "Eat up, and we'll be on our way!" He notices the tension from Percy and Grog.
Taliesin: No, not yet. Not yet. Just so all cards are on the table, we know that we agreed to a deal last night, despite your charm spell on me, which was--
Matt: "Defending myself! As was warranted."
Taliesin: Fair play.
Travis: You got charmed?
Laura: I do think we should inform you, though, we may have used a little magic on you. Sorry. Just to make sure the deal was solid.
Matt: "I'm certain that was a necessary precaution."
Taliesin: Well, the deal stands as it is at the moment, I suppose.
Matt: "Wondrous. I had hoped as such, because we have much to gain."
Ashley: Wait.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, he charmed me. He put a charm on me last night.
Ashley: I had a feeling.
Liam: So you no longer think it's a good idea to enter into this agreement?
Taliesin: Well, a little late.
Matt: "It is a little late."
Ashley: You never told us what you wanted.
Matt: "I'm going to show you."
Laura: You're going to walk us right in.
Matt: "Something like that."
Travis: Well, might as well.
Marisha: What are you going to do?
Sam: Why don't you pet his legs again, weirdo?
Marisha: You fascinate me.
Matt: "Good. That's not the first time I've heard that."
Taliesin: Friend, I applaud your cleverness. I am excited by this deal, and I want to let you know that, god forbid something comes up, where I come from, the world I come from, I am possibly the worst person you have ever met. And I think, I hope, not necessarily to hurt you or harm you, but I hope that one day you can know just how awful I can be.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: (stuttering) "I hope it never comes to that."
Taliesin: Let's hope.
Matt: "I can make addendums to the art piece, if you're unhappy."
Taliesin: I love the art piece. Actually, since we're on the subject, have you ever drawn yourself before?
Matt: "Many times."
Taliesin: I'd be curious to see one of your self portraits. Are they in the book?
Matt: "No."
Taliesin: I didn't think so. Self-reflection is not one of my favorite pastimes, either. Anyway, what are you looking for in the city?
Matt: "I'll show you. As part of the agreement, it'll be unveiled upon arrival."
Sam: Sounds good to me.
Laura: That's not sneaky at all. I fully trust you.
Matt: "Great. Now, finish your food! Much to do. Much to see. Much to take."
Laura: I hate him now.
Matt: (off-key music)
Marisha: No. We did that for you. Do not abuse this. That's right.
Ashley: What are you doing with your hands?
Matt: "Where did-- What?"
Taliesin: Where did what?
Matt: "They giveth, and they take away."
Taliesin: Bless the small print.
Matt: "Well, then. Eat well." And he makes his way toward the door, and the guards stop him there. "I'll just sit here, then." And sits on the floor, waiting for you guys to finish.
Laura: What sort of magic did you cast on us?
Matt: "What do you mean?"
Laura: What was the deal we agreed to? What will happen if it breaks?
Matt: "Deals are meant to be kept. Should you go against a deal that you've made, especially in here, these realms, there are consequences, so don't stray from the deal."
Taliesin: I think it's just a deal. I think deals may be a big deal here.
Sam: So we can still kill him?
Taliesin: I don't know. I think if it comes to it, it's a possibility.
Marisha: What happened to don't hurt or touch anything in the Feywild?
Laura: Yeah, we fucked that up, didn't we?
Ashley: Can I take out his ocarina and play a couple of notes while I'm looking at him?
Matt: Sure. Make a performance check.
Sam: Performance check?
Taliesin: That's a thing.
Travis: Is this your first performance check?
Sam: You're definitely the right person to be doing this.
Ashley: Yeah, right. 13.
Matt: 13. In a very rudimentary, kindergarten recorder way: (off-key music) It's a little shaky, but you get the hang of it. It's the only sound in the room. It's dead quiet as you do this in the middle of breakfast, with food being brought to the table.
Laura: That was amazing, Pike.
Liam: Move over, Scanlan. Holy hell, that was good.
Ashley: Thanks. I learned once.
Laura: I don't think I've ever seen anyone play an instrument that well.
Sam: Wait, hey. This is my house.
Liam: Oh, look, the satyr's sad. What's the matter, friend?
Matt: "She has my ocarina."
Laura: Oh, that's terrible. Poor guy.
Taliesin: You're clever. I'm sure you'll be fine.
Ashley: Maybe we'll give it back to you, but I know what you did to my friend with this little thing, so I'm not going to give it back to you. Not just yet.
Matt: "Eat your breakfast."
Ashley: Already did.
Liam: Somebody get this poor asshole a handkerchief. He looks so sad.
Matt: He sits there and pouts. As you guys finish your meal, laughing and enjoying yourselves.
Marisha: As he pouts, I Druidcraft a little flower crown for him.
Matt: He somehow recedes even further into his grumpy self, his neck disappearing as his head pulls into his torso.
Marisha: He's so fun to mess with.
Laura: We are really shit at making friends.
Travis: So I'm curious. While we're eating, would you happen to tell us what our first objective might be?
Laura: He's going to show us.
Taliesin: I think it's time to make our way in.
Travis: Yeah, I'm full.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Scanlan. Scanlan!
Sam: What?
Ashley: I'm going to give this to you.
Sam: The Macarena?
Ashley: Yeah. Because I don't like performing.
Sam: You're really good at it.
Ashley: That's a lie. Just take this and maybe you can charm some people with it. I don't know if that's what it is, but I don't want him to have it.
Sam: Thank you. I will try my best.
Ashley: All right. Let's go.
Taliesin: Can't believe I wasted a natural 20 on his-- Sorry. I'm good.
Matt: You guys finish your breakfast. The guards come with you and escort you and your ally outside the door. As you exit, the--
Marisha: Wait. Take and roll up the painting, the charcoal drawing that he did and put it in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: It's going to disappear as soon as we take it out! Leave it in the mansion. That way it'll stay.
Taliesin: It's from the mansion, so it'll stay in the mansion.
Marisha: Will it stay in the mansion?
Matt: You've tried taking things out of the mansion, and they've turned to dust.
Marisha: But I know things will also get ejected from the mansion. Okay, I'll leave it.
Matt: You take it down, talk, put it back up. No worries. As you guys exit the mansion, the dusk light of the sky has not changed. You get the idea here, at least since you've arrived, that there has been no movement in the sun. You haven't even seen the sun. The light source of dusk beyond the distant mountains and horizon is stuck in the dusk hour, with the threat and curl of midnight in the opposite direction, the dark blue coming over the horizon, unmoving. It also is raining gently. There is a rather heavy cloud that has come over, and it's not a terrible downpour, but a gentle rainfall has been here for a while, and the floor between the grasses is quite slushy as you step out. (squelch)
Sam: Let's go to the city.
Marisha: Vex? Should we be dressing for the occasion? Should we put on our nice cloaks?
Taliesin: We do have nice cloaks we could wear.
Sam: I think we're going to be sneaking in to steal things.
Laura: No, there's no way we could sneak in.
Liam: We're going to go in and make introductions and get settled and then figure out what the fuck we're doing.
Marisha: Yeah, cloak me.
Laura: With what?
Marisha: Our nice cloaks.
Laura: He has some fancy cloaks, unless he's used them all.
Taliesin: Am I still made of wood, by the way?
Matt: No, that faded with the night's rest.
Travis: I don't have fancy robes. I do have your fancy winter stuff.
Taliesin: It's raining. It's not like Hawaii rain. It's rain, I would assume? It's not chilly, but cold.
Marisha: I'll cloak up. Try and look like I made some sort of effort.
Travis: All right, Keyleth gets a cloak. Do you want some nice shit?
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Liam: I'm not changing anything.
Sam: How long will it take to get to the city from where we are?
Matt: A few hours, maybe.
Laura: Can't you craft something to keep the rain off of us?
Marisha: I'll do a little cantrip Gust over top of us to make one of those air umbrellas that would never work in real life.
Matt: Okay. You guys would have to get close together to do that, but it's doable as a cantrip. She keeps this general revolving sphere of wind above that scatters most of the rain to the sides. For the most part, Grog, you still get pretty damp because of your size and difficulty, but most everyone else can stay pretty dry as you cluster together, walking through the grass. You travel for another hour or so before the grass towards the outskirts of the mountain range in the city begins to slowly subside. It grows thinner and shorter, and you come to a bit of marshland, almost. Treeless, open marshland with little bushes in clusters. Anything you guys want to--
Laura: Perception check? See if I can see anything moving ahead of us?
Matt: Okay, perception check.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin walking into the marsh, you can see there are areas where it's elevated mud patches, where it's very shallow water, maybe an inch at most, and there are a few different areas that get noticeably deep and murky. You watch to avoid those elements. You're not sure what might be beneath, if anything, but you naturally move through this terrain carefully. You do notice that, occasionally, upon this walk, you see, different from the rest of the bushes and pieces of terrain, these deep bluish purple sprout leaves, almost like carrot tops, very leafy plant top emerges in places, occasionally clusters of two or three. There aren't a lot of them, but many of them occur throughout the walk in this swampy landscape.
Laura: Garmelie? What are these?
Matt: "Oh, these are best to be avoided. They're mandrake. Don't disturb them. Don't pull them out. Don't do anything with them."
Marisha: Mandrakes? Oh, cool.
Laura: Let's leave it.
Taliesin: I've read things about those.
Laura: What's this?
Taliesin: That's just a thing. Just read it.
Liam: It's a potted screaming baby. Leave them.
Matt: "Best left to the side." You guys make your way through the marsh, occasionally passing by the mandrake tops, until it begins to subside, the marshland itself, and you come towards the base of the city before you. You see a massive, ivy-covered wall of jade-like stone surrounding a dense cluster of towering trees unlike those in any of the surrounding forests or the one you left. It is an open plain, and then within the city walls, there are trees emerging many stories into the air. Trees that you guys recognize have always been there. These trees came with the city, and they're actually from the Verdant Expanse where Syngorn usually resides. As you walk closer, you can see large sealed gates every so often along the outer wall. Every so often, you see these gates embedded in the wall, housing a massive emblem of a crescent moon flanked by two trees over a deep cerulean stone about two feet across. Twins, you know these as the threshold crests. These are the enchanted crests that enable the city to travel back and forth between the Feywild, should it be necessary. They're powerful, and they're rarely utilized, as the journey is not always accurate. It seemingly did so this time. Make a perception check, guys.
Travis: Everybody or just the twins?
Matt: Everybody who's paying attention.
Sam: I'm not. I'm reading.
Laura: This is not woods anymore? This is not forest? Is this marsh?
Matt: Just past marsh into flatland. 20?
Marisha: 21.
Laura: 21.
Liam: 21.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue towards the front of the gate. There's nobody on the outside of it. It's a solid, outside city. You can see white and gray tower spires that streak up from inside, some of which are entwined by trees that wrap around the base and cluster around the center of the tower's height, like its own canopy belt, if you will. As you get even closer still, you can see the white walls themselves are replaced with heavy gold and brass, gold-leaf edging across the top, and at each one of the various nooks where the solid stone walls are adjoined, this is a very intricately carved and well-crafted wall. Probably as part of the enchantment that was placed on it, amongst others, to keep it defended. You get about a hundred feet from the wall before you, Vex, hear (scrape) a quick sound. You leap back instinctually as all of you watch a series of bolts and arrows (arrow impacts) across the floor right in front of you.
Sam: That's exciting.
Matt: You all stop in place.
Sam: Should we attack?
Marisha: I look up on the wall. Is it coming from archers on the wall?
Matt: You can now see, up on the wall, dozens of figures atop, with longbows, and some with crossbows, drawn and nocked, trained on all of you.
Laura: I take my hood down. You know us. We're here to see my father.
Matt: There's a pause, and they're still 100 feet away from you. One of the voices says, "Who is us, if I might ask?"
Laura: The twins. Vex'ahlia and Vax'ildan.
Liam: Syldor's children.
Matt: There's a little bit of a conversation. You see a couple of figures disappear behind the wall. About five minutes pass, and as you guys get a little fidgety or one of you makes a swift movement, you can see the drawn bows tense up. They're trained on any movement you guys give at this moment. As time passes, an individual steps up to the top of the wall, adorned in similar Syngorian armor, but the helmet is taken off, and you see a woman with deep crimson hair braided to one side and shaved on the other. She steps up and looks out. "Vex'ahlia. Vax'ildan."
Laura: Do we know who she is?
Matt: "The Vessar twins return. Do I know why? What is your business here in Syngorn?"
Laura: We came to speak to our father.
Matt: "And the rest of your company?"
Liam: They're with us.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, both of you.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 14. I'll stop using that one tonight.
Matt: "Come forth to the gate. Relieve your arrows, please." The guards all take their bows off of you and release the tension in the strings. The woman turns and steps off the wall again. You can see the very front gate, the front of the wall, opens ever so slightly, about a five-foot gap left.
Liam: Everybody, let my sister and I do the talking for a minute. Thank you. I scoop up my sister's hand, down by my side, and walk forward.
Matt: As you guys walk single file, continuing towards the city, your satyr friend stays in the very back behind you, clutching. (whimpering) As you glance back, Grog, he's not there.
Laura: Can you still feel him? Oh, sorry.
Travis: Can I reach down to where he was?
Matt: Still tugging, he's holding on to you, but has lost visibility.
Travis: Clever little spider monkey.
Matt: As you guys approach, there waiting at the side of the gate within are about ten guards and this individual. She looks a little more battle-hardened and wasn't elevated before, was just one of the guards when you were children, but this is Iova. Now Watcher Iova, the Watchers which guard the wall. She appears to be of an elevated status within the Watchers of Syngorn. As you approach, she lowers her head in a respectful bow, but still not breaking eye contact, and has an aloof and distanced expression.
Laura: Watcher Iova. Nice to see you have elevated yourself.
Matt: "Time has passed since you were finding your own path. Surprised to see you return here, especially so far from the material realms."
Liam: Then you can imagine there is great cause for us to be here.
Matt: "Is your father aware of your arrival?"
Laura: No.
Matt: "He is now. You and your guests will be watched. You will be followed, until otherwise given proof and permission from individuals higher than my station within the city, preferably your father."
Laura: I would expect nothing less.
Matt: "Now, go. And welcome to Syngorn." She turns around, puts her helmet on, and half the guard walk away, while another six remain behind, keeping watch.
Taliesin: Interesting.
Marisha: Not quite a warm welcome.
Taliesin: I wouldn't expect one.
Laura: I guess we should probably make our way straight to-- so we can have free rein.
Liam: I motion for the rest to come up behind.
Matt: As the rest of you approach and find your way within the city walls, you're met with an astounding cityscape. Hundreds of homes and buildings and sanctuaries, formed with a natural grace and keen architectural mind as to seem almost grown from the trees and earth themselves. Upon closer look and a nearby inspection, you can see the craftsmanship, but from a distance, it's almost like they were born from the materials, than they were built or crafted. You can see distant magical lantern light shines all across the city, like the start of a glittering snowfall, as the rest of the streets themselves are ever lit by these little shining beacons. The center of the ageless place is divided by a grand lake of pure blue water, a roiling mist drifting across the surface, obscuring the view of boats currently on the surface of the water. You do notice a large military presence within the city, as the armored guard of Syngorn, these individuals, the armored military force known as the Verdant Guard, are walking throughout the city. Not with a hurried pace, but there is a general tension in the air, far more than you've ever seen in all the years that you did spend in your youth within Syngorn. That's where we'll finish our session for the evening.
Laura: Shit.
Ashley: I felt like we were just getting started.
Matt: It's 10 30, though.
Ashley: How?
Laura: I guess you just have to fly in next week, too!
Ashley: I wish I could.
Matt: As I look down and once again notice my Tick Spoons shirt I've had on the entire evening, my overshirt seems to have been shortening it to--
Travis: Poon!
Ashley: Oh, I noticed.
Matt: Or even better--
Marisha: Poo!
Laura: Well, that's okay. It says Spoon.
Matt: Spoon! It's intended to be. It all works fine. Both ways it's the new Scanlan shirt. Poon and poo! Scanlan Shorthalt. Autobiography. Well, great, guys! Thank you so much. We'll be picking up the next length of this journey in the reunion of Vex and Vax with their father, Syldor Vessar.
Marisha: Syldor. Such a dipshit.
Travis: Oh shit. At the live show.
Liam: Live show, no pressure.
Taliesin: I am so excited.
Matt: And you did notice that they were referred to as the Vessar twins.
Travis: Vessar twins?
Sam: What does that even mean?
Laura: That's our dad's stupid last name.
Sam: Vessar? Vax and Vex Vessar?
Matt: Whether they use the name, that's up to them, and I don't think that they do. But that it is. All right, folks, we'll see you guys, some of you, live at the-- well, we'll see you all live next week, but some of you we'll see at the actual venue in person.
Travis: Thank you to Loot Crate.
Matt: You guys are awesome.
Travis: One day left for Joe Mad.
Laura: (Dragon Ball Z war cry) There we go.
Matt: That's okay. Ashley, I'm glad you could join us.
Travis: Yay Ashley!
Matt: And we'll see you guys next week. Is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Taliesin: Pissblossom.
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where Taliesin jumps the gun and says his phrase too late.
Travis: Way too late, man! Way too late!
Matt: Welcome. Happy to be back. Very emotional episode last week. We're going to kick it into the next step of Vox Machina's adventure this week, and then, me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be gone next week, so there will not be progression in this current storyline. However, Liam O'Brien over there has been cracking up an awesome one-shot adventure for our remaining players and a few guests. Liam, if you want to talk a little about it?
Liam: Yeah, I'll tell you who's coming on by. Sure, I'll say who's coming on by. Mary Elizabeth McGlynn and Ashly Burch. And I don't want to spoil it, but Matt knows. It's different.
Matt: Yeah, it's going to be fun. This is Liam's brainchild, and I'm excited to see them play through it.
Liam: It could blow up in my face.
Matt: I think you'll be fine. If the last game was any indication, I think you'll be fine. All right, other announcements: once again, we have our wonderful sponsor with a new theme kicking in. Sam, you want to take this away?
Sam: Yes, I do, Matt Mercer. Guys  Loot Crate. Loot Crate has been such a great sponsor all year long, and we got another great week to share with you. Speed is this month's theme of the Loot Crate. I'm going to read this script first. Lace up your sneakers or rev your engines. September's all about speed. Feel the adrenaline with some of pop culture's quickest vehicles and characters. High-octane assortment of goodies from Batman, the Flash, the Arrow, the Battlestar Galactica, the Iron Man, the Gone in the Sixty the Seconds. (laughter)
Sam: It includes two collectibles, a figure, and as always, a monthly t-shirt. I'm wearing a t-shirt. Not from this month, but from last month.
Laura: It's got Futurama stuff on it.
Sam: Guys, I'm an actor. Why would you listen to me about this stuff? I'm a liar and a deceiver. But what you can listen to, and what you know in your heart, is hardcore facts. I'm talking statistics. I'm talking math. I've broken this down for you guys. If you use the promo-code CriticalRole, you'll get $3 off your first month. Doesn't sound like a lot, you think? Oh, that's 1.2 gallons of gas at the Quik Mart down the street. Regular, unleaded. Or let's say you're generous. You give Loot Crates to everyone in your family. That's four Loot Crates; that's $12. That is 25 and half Forever stamps that you've just gotten for free. For free! Let's say you're more generous than that. You give Loot Crates to everyone in your whole company. All 266 employees. You've just saved enough money to buy a 2002 Kia Sedona with 181,000 miles on it. The transmission is going out, and it doesn't shift in the higher gears, but it is for $800 on Craigslist. Go look for it right now, and it will be yours for free, essentially, if you buy 266 subscriptions to Loot Crate. 266.67. Okay, that is hardcore facts. You can't argue with that. Go out. Subscribe now. Save money. Get stamps and gas.
Liam: If you don't slow your roll, Loot Crate is going to poach you.
Matt: All right, thank you, Sam.
Sam: Don't forget to use the promo code CriticalRole.
Matt: Perfect. (laughs) All right, other announcements that we have. Let's see. Projects that have come up. They recently announced and put up the English cast video for Final Fantasy XV. I have the pleasure of playing Cor Leonis. It's a lot of fun. As a longtime Final Fantasy fan, being a part of this means a great deal, and I'm excited for the game that comes out in November. So if you haven't checked out the video, do so and you can watch me wax poetic briefly about my love of the series. Look forward to that.
Marisha: Soundbiting it up in that.
Matt: Yeah, man! They chose my soundbite for the end of it. I was like (explosion). Felt cool about that.
Marisha: It's like you're an actor.
Matt: It's like I played a bunch of them. Also, Deus Ex came out. Mankind Divided. I am scattered throughout the game with a very harsh Russian, Eastern European dialect, as many characters, probably yelling at you or being shot in the face. So enjoy that, as well.
Travis: I love shooting you in the face.
Matt: Hey, you know? Everyone's got a skillset. Anybody else have anything they want to announce?
Sam: We're nominated for an award, Matt.
Matt: That's right! We just got nominated for a Streamy. A Streamy award under gaming. Games. It's awesome!
Sam: It's our first nomination.
Taliesin: It's like the Kids' Choice Awards for adults.
Laura: But it's not. Fans don't get to vote.
Matt: It is now decided by whatever the Illuminati Streamy committee is.
Sam: Wait, fans don't get to vote? I'm sure they can influence things.
Marisha: Well, they nominated us, so we got this far because of them, and now we lose to Markiplier.
Matt: Love you, Mark. We're just excited to be in that ring. Thank you guys for being so awesome and supporting us, and hopefully some of us will get to dress up fancy and show up and go home proud that we went.
Taliesin: We'll plug our other friends who are also nominated.
Matt: And Muzzled the Musical, which I co-created, which Ashly Burch stars in, who you'll see next week, that got nominated for best indie.
Marisha: And Sean Becker. Who's my director for Signal Boost. All in the fam.
Matt: It's good. Awesome. Anything else you guys want to talk about?
Travis: Yes! In the world of sportsball, the 2016 future Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys are playing the Seattle Seahawks right now! So if you see me looking down, it's not because I'm not paying attention. I'm watching football.
Taliesin: I have never cared so much about football in my entire life as I do right now. Which is saying, I don't necessarily care a lot. But definitely--
Laura: More than it was.
Travis: Everybody send Sam a tweet. He's going to be crying at the outset of his team. Sam, a moment of silence.
Taliesin: I think he's lighting the set on fire.
Laura: Sam walked away so he wouldn't be on the same set as you were saying that.
Matt: Anyone else have anything they want to talk about before we jump into the game?
Taliesin: No announcements until I get back, I think.
Matt: All righty. That being the case, then let's go ahead and hop into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. So to get you guys caught up: our band of adventurers, Vox Machina, in raising an army, hopefully, of allies and powerful artifacts to face the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of powerful, dangerous chromatic dragons that have been tearing through the countryside of Tal'Dorei and distant Wildemount. They have recently found some information, had a close call with the Frigid Doom known as Vorugal. The white dragon flyover did not pierce through the illusionary barrier that was placed with the help of Allura, Gilmore, and Pike, there in Whitestone. You then decided to go ahead and using that cue, before the dragon returned to its current roost that it has created over the ruins of the city of Draconia, you traveled across to the continent of Wildemount. You had a meeting with the Ravenites, a rather subverted, long-enslaved offshoot species of dragonborn kin, tailless and now surviving amongst a recent winter that seems to have come with the ruin the dragon brought. You also discovered that most of Draconia and its royal elite have been slaughtered as a means of the dragon establishing its dominance and the worship of the Ravenites that survived the fall of Draconia. You made a deal with Tooma, the current clan leader of the remaining Ravenites, that you would aid in destroying this dragon, basically the master that they replaced the Draconians with when it came. However, to ensure your help there was a two-week time limit, and if you do not return before then they would see you as not keeping your end of the deal, and they would then, instead, direct the dragon towards what was going to be Whitestone until you altered her memory, which she recalls now as Emon. Anyway, before you could be finding your way home, one of the corpses upon one of the ice spire spikes outside of the dragon's new nest, Percy saw to be the remains of your long-traveled friend, Tiberius Stormwind. The party had a fateful farewell; set him to rest within the ruins of the nearby library, fallen from the islands of Draconia; said your goodbyes; and then, upon prepping a bit, plotting, and planning, found your way back to Whitestone to continue the next leg of your adventure. And that is where we begin. You have now taken some time in your own respective rooms. It's still late afternoon, going into dusk. You all took some time to yourselves within Castle Whitestone to take a short rest and ruminate over these recent events and reveals. The evening sun draws close to dusk. It is your choice which you wish to do. If you wish to spend the evening resting here and then leaving first thing in the morning, that is up to you.
Liam: Taking the initiative. This one came to my room, then inside. I think we've probably been quiet for a while, staring at the ceiling, and after a while finally say: We've really fucked things up, haven't we?
Marisha: In which particular way do you mean, aside from all of them?
Liam: I need to tell you. I know with all that's happened, between my new patron and my sister pretending to gag literally every time we attempt to share a word together, and mostly my own being fucked up in the head for weeks now, that I've pushed all of you away. You most of all. Because I've been afraid you would-- I'm sorry. And you didn't deserve any of that. Keyleth, I need you to know, through all of that, everything, nothing has changed about how I-- We've had so many near-misses. And now, finding Tiberius. Death is unavoidable. And it's all the more reason for life to be lived. And it doesn't matter to me what this is. What we call it. If you are willing to spend some time, any time, with me, then I will simply count myself lucky to have it. You're very dear to me.
Marisha: You're talking too much. It's not like I've made myself very accessible either. It's not on you. It might be a little on you, but it's on both of us. Anyway, my point is: for the longest time, I was terrified that I was going to lose you. First to death and then to the Raven Queen, which is still kind of like death, and then ultimately to yourself. And then I had an interesting talk with Pike recently, and she said something that really stood out to me, and that was that some people just have more of themselves to give. And I realized this whole time that I was afraid of losing you to a future that ultimately has not yet been written, which is stupid.
Liam: Maybe so.
Marisha: But you're ultimately right. We have nothing to lose. I love you, Vax. And I'm sorry for being me, that it took me this long to say it.
Liam: (sniffles) I'm sorry.
Marisha: Yeah. Me, too.
Liam: I love you. That's pretty fucking great.
Marisha: That is pretty great, yeah. High five. Yeah!
Liam: I tackle her into a bit of a hug into the bed.
Laura: Oh!
Liam: We're already on the bed.
Marisha: And that's it for now.
Sam: Pan to the fireplace.
Travis: (laughing) Pan to the fireplace!
Matt: All right, so. Vox Machina. Taking your time to mourn in your own interesting ways. What is your path of action? What is your course, going forward?
Liam: Sleeping in.
Marisha: Bacon.
Laura: Yeah, I think we need to spend at least the night in Whitestone and get up in the morning.
Matt: Okay. So you've all spent the majority of it in your respective rooms-- most of you in your respective rooms-- figuring out where you are as a person and where this story leads you. After an evening's rest, the next morning comes around, breakfast is already prepared by the servants in the castle, though maybe not the amount of bacon you were hoping, and easily rectified upon request. It's at your disposal. There is a tension in the city; the barrier remains up. As you're having breakfast, you can see Zahra wander in at the smell of bacon, glances over the rest of you, still holding a book at her side that she slams closed. "Oh. I'm glad to see you're all right, and you're safe. Please tell me there's more bacon."
Travis: Not for long.
Laura: There's more coming, dear.
Travis: What she said.
Matt: She comes and sits down and spends breakfast with you guys, catching up on what has transpired and what your current plan of action is.
Taliesin: Zahra, it occurs to me, you come from a family with power, connections.
Matt: "Kind of. Let's just say we're estranged at the moment."
Taliesin: Well, we're looking for any ally we could, and we were curious if--
Matt: "You will find no allies where you're asking. Believe me, I'd be happy to offer if we could, but no."
Taliesin: I had a feeling. It just felt worth asking.
Matt: "It's all right. I'm going to continue with my research, since the rest of the ziggurat clan are now scattered about or maintaining that barrier. Guess who has to do the research in the meantime?" And she rolls her sleeves up; you can see the slightly smudged dirt across her reddish skin. She's been hard at work digging around trying to figure out what the basis of this enchantment beneath the city still is.
Laura: Sorry you can't be out having your fun, dear.
Matt: "I'm certain time will allow me at some point. It better. I'm going a little stir-crazy." She grabs the bacon from the table and walks out of the room.
Taliesin: Is Kashaw around by any chance, as well?
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Taliesin: Kashaw. Is Kashaw around?
Matt: "I haven't seen him for a couple days. I've been underground most of the time."
Taliesin: Yes, of course. We have to send a letter to the Slayer's Take at some point. That should happen sooner rather than later.
Marisha: Trying to wrangle a beast?
Taliesin: Trying to wrangle a beast or seeing if they know of anything that's in the vicinity that we can at least feed to it in the meantime.
Laura: Maybe we can stop through on our way back. We are going to Marquet, aren't we?
Taliesin: I would hope so.
Marisha: And what's our intent in Marquet? To get the next Vestige?
Taliesin: To get to the next Vestige and to perhaps make some friends. The more the merrier.
Liam: And the means of travel is?
Taliesin: We have a sigil. We can teleport.
Laura: Gilmore. Gilmore's from Marquet.
Taliesin: This is a teleport sigil. This is not going to require his attention.
Marisha: Yeah, it's located in Whitestone Castle, correct? The teleport sigil?
Matt: It's actually a sigil by memory that he has, and it's a spell that he casts. It's not a permanent fixture in the city.
Taliesin: So we need him, but he can do it.
Sam: Yeah, but he's concentrating on the defensive wall right now.
Laura: It's up. As long as the dragon's not here and attacking.
Matt: It's a renewal feature. He has to spend some time each day maintaining it. He's not stuck there the whole time.
Sam: That would be awesome.
Taliesin: The worst job in Whitestone.
Sam: Before we go to Marquet. Let's say Marquet takes 13 days.
Taliesin: That's an awful long time.
Sam: I agree, but let's say it does. Do we know what we're doing with regards to Draconia when we come back? Do we have some sort of a plan? We're getting a beast. That's all we know.
Travis: Yep, we've got it covered. It's planned out to a T.
Laura: How are we even going to get a beast?
Taliesin: Talk to the Slayer's Take and see what is already on the continent.
Sam: What constitutes a beast? Because me and Keyleth can make some beasts.
Laura: I think a large enough beast to attract Vorugal.
Sam: Like a triceratops?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: They said it hunted something really intense recently.
Laura: He said they hunted remorhaz?
Marisha: Yeah, they went to the ocean.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: Roll an intelligence check.
Marisha: But I wrote it down.
Sam: For me. Ooh, a 19! Plus two.
Matt: That's what they look like.
Laura: Oh. Those are big and scary.
Sam: Is it a gargantuan monster?
Matt: They're huge. Most definitely. They're nasty; they burrow. The actual blood within their body is heated to such a degree that even to be in a scuffle with it is to scar yourself with flame and heat.
Sam: And it was bored with that?
Taliesin: We want to find a creature that would threaten a medium-sized city.
Marisha: So it wants competition.
Taliesin: We want to wear it down a bit before we go in for the attack. We want it to be breathing heavily.
Sam: And how are we going to get this creature there?
Taliesin: We're going to find something that's already on the continent.
Laura: And Vorugal will go to the creature.
Taliesin: He will be happy to attack it.
Travis: Can you put it in your necklace?
Sam: On the continent. What continent? The Draconian continent?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: So we have to go back there to search!
Marisha: The Slayer's Take should know. They've got contracts everywhere.
Sam: All right. This is slightly a better plan than I thought.
Marisha: We thought about it a little.
Taliesin: Six people cannot wage a war.
Sam: Then we should go talk to the Slayer's Take now so they can get started on this hunt.
Taliesin: We're going to send them a letter.
Sam: A letter?!
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Who's the letter carrier and how's he going to get out of this city that's protected by an invisible wall?
Taliesin: We're going to make Kashaw take the letter.
Liam: When we were last there, hadn't they talked about a brass or bronze dragon? But there are brass dragons, as you well know.
Laura: I know, because I'm an expert.
Liam: Is that overkill? We'd have to convince a dragon, not capture a dragon.
Taliesin: It would probably kill the dragon.
Marisha: Wait, are we talking about capturing another dragon to fight another dragon?
Sam: No, we're talking about convincing a dragon to go fight this dragon that would clearly kill it.
Taliesin: I was going to find Kashaw and see if he would run the letter to the Slayer's Take and be our emissary and convince them to do this so that we're not doing everything ourselves.
Sam: Wait, is there anyone else who can make this message delivery faster or safer?
Taliesin: Literally everyone. If we could find a child in a pub who could take it.
Sam: No, but faster and safer.
Taliesin: Kashaw is possibly slower than a child.
Marisha: No more small boys, Percy. No more.
Laura: We could ask Zahra, but she's busy with research.
Travis: I think Kashaw is a great people-person.
Taliesin: Just to get rid of him, they would say yes.
Sam: All right.
Liam: He wants to help. He does.
Laura: Yeah. Let's go find Kashaw.
Matt: You guys head outside of Castle Whitestone. Not far from the base of the pathway into the actual city, you can see there is a series of newer-outfitted guards. They are people being trained in the force of combat. You can see that there's definitely a ramping-up of the defense force for Whitestone as a precaution.
Marisha: Do they look like townspeople?
Matt: Many of them look able-bodied and people that are strong and fit, but they do appear to be civilians that have had to take up the cause just in case.
Marisha: Any kids?
Matt: No kids, no. They all look to be at least of strapping age, to be carrying a weapon.
Sam: Strapping boys?
Taliesin: Strapping. The strapping age.
Laura: Did we ever talk to Cassandra or anyone else about starting an alarm system here?
Sam: Yeah, and they were working on it already, weren't they?
Taliesin: No, they started. They are working on it now.
Sam: I think it's done.
Taliesin: I'd buy that. Yes, it was proposed.
Marisha: I do want to maybe talk to Gilmore, though.
Taliesin: Well, we're going to have to if we leave the city, anyway.
Matt: As you are watching the group go through their different weapon practice moments, they're breaking off into small sparring groups and they're going up against ramshackle built training dummies. There are a few that are doing forms in succession. (grunts) You know the deal. You do see on the opposite end that the person who is currently helming one section of the training is Kashaw. You can see a bunch of shield and spear fighters right now, and he's basically giving them instruction on how to use a shield defensively and the spear offensively simultaneously.
Laura: Maybe he's not the best messenger if he's training our armies.
Taliesin: This is not an army. This is something for the population to do while they pass time. The dragon shows up, they're all going to die, no matter how many times they learn how to put the spear forward.
Marisha: As cynical as Percy is being right now, he's right.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: But it doesn't mean that Kashaw is going to think that it's any less important, and I'm sure he might not take it as a compliment if we ask him to be the messenger boy.
Sam: It's an incredibly important mission!
Laura: It's not just a messenger, it's defeating a dragon.
Taliesin: And it's convincing the Slayer's Take to join.
Sam: The Slayer's Take, if I recall, doesn't do things for free. We're going to have to pay for this, even though we're members.
Taliesin: We're going to have to bring them some dragon parts.
Laura: No, we take a contract on a really large creature, and then we let the dragon do the work for us. We get the best of both worlds.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's very clever.
Sam: We take a contract on an existing creature that we have to somehow find in Draconia.
Travis: No, we bring the dragon to the creature.
Sam: How?
Laura: He hunts them. That's what he does.
Sam: Not transcontinentally.
Travis: You can't broker a fight between a huge beast and a white dragon?
Taliesin: We could sell tickets.
Travis: I think you've done better.
Liam: We don't necessarily have to sacrifice a dragon. We're fighting a war here. They're fuckers.
Sam: No, we're not talking about sacrificing a dragon. We're talking about finding a beast.
Liam: Well, I'm talking about a dragon. Couldn't we try to talk a dragon into helping us do what we're doing? They're not all evil, are they? They're not!
Marisha: Yeah, but do we know of any other dragons here?
Laura: Well, then we're going to have to fucking go to the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Can we go somewhere in the next 60 seconds?
Laura: This'll be great.
Marisha: Let's talk to Kashaw. We go up and we talk to Kashaw.
Matt: As you approach, you see him leaning in with younger, early twenties-looking men. A bit scrawny; they're still armored; the helmet looks a little lopsided. Kashaw's like, "You're not supposed to put the shield away. (sighs) Oh, wonderful. Take five. Take 30. So. You're alive. That's great. I'm excited. What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: Kashaw, how would you like to be anywhere else other than here right now?
Matt: "Depends on where and what you'd have me doing."
Taliesin: That's exactly the sort of enthusiasm I was hoping for. We have need of an emissary to the Slayer's Take. We need to convince them to help us kill the next dragon.
Laura: And Vanessa really likes you.
Taliesin: She does.
Marisha: We need a big beast on Draconia.
Matt: "So you're saying that I go back to frozen-ass Vasselheim to deliver a paper message to the headmistress, whom already I am so happy to be away from."
Marisha: Yeah. See?
Matt: He glances over at the rest of the soldiers. "Yeah, I'll take it." (laughter)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: We are in your debt. I'll have the paper drawn up, and anything you can do to put the weight of the situation behind us and make sure they know how clear it is and how necessary this is and how desperate we are.
Matt: "I'll do my best to muster some semblance of emphasis."
Taliesin: And we'll figure out ways to make sure there's money in it for them, or at least dragon parts.
Matt: "All right. Give me a list of what you've got to offer. I'll bring it to them."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Sam: What do we got to offer?
Liam: We don't have the troll dick anymore. That's gone.
Laura: We have 40 pounds of dragonhide. Black dragonhide.
Taliesin: And white dragonhide.
Laura: We don't have white dragonhide.
Taliesin: We have white scales.
Travis: We have 64 pounds of scales from me. We have four claws left.
Sam: I have a Tome of Leadership worth 30,000 gold.
Laura: No, that's Keyleth's, remember? In the next century, when she's still living.
Sam: We'll get it back before 100 years are up.
Marisha: I'll lend it to them for 100 years.
Sam: A 99-year lease.
Travis: And we got umber hulk pieces, too.
Taliesin: Mostly, I was thinking of also offering them whatever we can take from the dragon itself once it's destroyed.
Liam: I was about to say, yeah, we put into the contract that it has the remains of the beast we take down, which we will take down.
Taliesin: We keep some scales, we keep some teeth; we split it.
Liam: Sure, as a souvenir, right. Yes.
Marisha: We're basically doing a contract for free.
Liam: It's a very large creature.
Sam: That's provided we kill it. If we lose, they get nothing. I'm just saying, from their perspective, we're offering them literally nothing.
Marisha: If they lose, they don't lose anything either, right?
Laura: No, they do. They lose a contract.
Marisha: But wouldn't the contract just go right back into cycle?
Laura: No, if the dragon kills the creature and then we all die and we can't harvest it, the Slayer's Take doesn't have anything from its previous contract.
Liam: But that could happen with any contract. Any band of idiots could go die on the battlefield.
Marisha: They're used to having people die.
Laura: Well, fuck it.
Marisha: I think Grog's getting antsy.
Taliesin: I like this. I'm going to have it drawn up.
Liam: I look at Grog and see he's really bored. I pick up a wooden sword and I hit him as hard as I can on the small of his back.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Make a check.
Liam: It's not going to be that hard.
Laura: While all this is going on, Grog, you could be training these soldiers.
Liam: 17.
Travis: What, train them?
Matt: As you're having this conversation, (whack) right in the knee cap, a surprisingly painful and forceful blow. It's less the strength behind it and more the precision in which it strikes you right between the kneecap and the rest of the lower half of your knee.
Travis: Like when a doctor hits you and your knee jumps?
Matt: Yeah, and you're like (grunts) and you glance over and you see Vax hide a wooden sword quickly behind him as he backs away.
Liam: Come on, big guy! I know you're bored! Come on! I hit him again.
Matt: Roll a strength check. Actually, this time it's an attack roll, as well.
Marisha: Hit him in the nuts.
Liam: Okay, cool. That's a 20. Oh! But it's with a stick! Just strength modifier?
Matt: You're not proficient with a sword.
Liam: Oh dear. I'm going to use Luck. 14.
Matt: (laughs) You whack him. This time, it hits the meat of his thigh and has no effect.
Liam: I missed the nut? Ugh. Come on!
Travis: Do you have a death wish?
Liam: Come on, take a swing! I'm trying to do you a favor! Come on, get it out!
Travis: What am I missing here?
Taliesin: I'm seeing this going down. I've walked away.
Liam: I see a gauntlet on a table, and I throw it at his face.
Matt: Okay, roll an attack roll.
Liam: It's a one! (laughter)
Sam: I see this going on, and I stand up on something, and I yell to the students--
Matt: Before this happens, as you're getting up, you watch as Vax rears back, and as he throws it, (yelps) he pulls a muscle in his shoulder and it drops to the ground, and you're like (pained noises).
Laura: Seriously?
Sam: I jump up on a chair and I yell to the students: Instructor Kashaw has instructed us that this is a drill! You are to attack that man right there, that large man, as a test of your strength and training. Now!
Laura: Don't kill them, Grog!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Oh, this is going to be awful. Wow. That is cruel.
Sam: 34. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as roughly 45 armored soldiers all turn towards you with their shields and spears... and freeze. They all slowly look towards Scanlan and whisper among themselves, then look back at Grog and stay frozen and two creep forward for a minute. Get a little closer.
Travis: I take the Gauntlets and I smash them together, and I grow in size. (laughter)
Matt: As your form swells into your now enlarged goliath battle-ready form, you notice a few of them start giving off this rattling metal sound as their armored knees (clanging) together. Many of them step back about ten feet, and Kashaw, who hasn't left entirely, spins around and goes: "The gnome's fucking with you. It's fine!" He walks up to you, Scanlan, pats your arm and goes, "That was pretty funny."
Sam: I try.
Matt: "Don't get the people killed. I've been working on them for four days."
Sam: He wasn't going to kill-- Were you going to kill them, Grog?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Oh shit.
Travis: I look at Vax and I go, you were just playing around, right?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: And in my giant state, I'm going to kick him like a soccer ball.
Liam: I'm going to dodge. Uncanny Dodge, man.
Matt: Well, we'll see. Go ahead and roll an attack roll.
Travis: That's good. 32.
Liam: Ooh. No, I didn't miss that.
Matt: Roll a strength check.
Liam: Wait, I'm going to use another Luck and make him roll again and pick the lower of the two.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 15 on the strength check. 25.
Liam: Got to roll again for the hit.
Matt: Roll again because he used a Luck point to force you to reroll your attack roll.
Travis: 24.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: What was the strength roll again?
Travis: The strength was 24.
Matt: Strength check was 24. So as you peek out of the corner of your eye you hear this (heavy steps) and as you try and spin and dodge out of the way instinctually--
Liam: Uncanny Dodge!
Matt: I know and we'll get to that. Instinctually, you turn to dodge out of something Grog-sized, not giant-sized. And in that brief minute that you remember that he grew, you pause just long enough to (whack) feel the force of what feels like a giant battering ram slam into your side, sending you off your feet and arcing a good 30 feet before you (impact) tumble and skid to the ground. What's your strength modifier?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. You take 14 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half because you're taking Uncanny Dodge. So only seven points bludgeoning damage. You stay there for a second, stunned. You feel a bit of bile and iron taste in the back of your throat.
Liam: And in the distance you hear  (strained) I feel so alive. (laughter)
Taliesin: First rule of Fight Club.
Travis: Can I check the Titanstone Knuckles? Have they changed now that I've kicked a friend in the face?
Matt: (laughing) Make an investigation check.
Travis: Damn it! Eight.
Matt: They appear to have maintained their composure as gauntlets.
Liam: There's some blood and five long, dark hairs on them.
Matt: You watch as a lot of the soldiers who had been watching this endeavor step even further away from Grog, and some of them begin walking off, taking their helmets off. "All right, we're done."
Laura: Hey bonus, he's on our side. Eh? That's encouraging.
Matt: They all nod their heads. "Yeah, I know that. Thank god!" But they're all doing this while still locking eyes with him. "That's great." And slowly walk off.
Travis: (chuckles)
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: Help me up.
Laura: Don't you have wings?
Liam: Not going to use them right now. Just a hand. (groans) That's going to bruise. Worth it.
Travis: Thank you. I was getting so bored.
Liam: (sighs) I know.
Travis: Thanks, bubby.
Taliesin: What are the chances I would have at least a basic portable writing desk? They're not that complicated.
Matt: A portable writing desk?
Taliesin: 16th century-style. Just something to write on.
Marisha: What do you need a writing desk for?
Taliesin: Just something with paper, pen, and something to write on.
Matt: You have access to a quill and ink, you have access to parchment.
Liam: How about a fucking clipboard?
Taliesin: It's basically a fucking clipboard.
Matt: You have access to that, yes.
Liam: Percival de Rolo, Inventor of Clipboard.
Taliesin: No, it was called a writing desk back then. It was called a writing desk. There's a thing. It was that big and you put it on your lap. It was a writing desk.
Matt: All right. Yes, you have access to that.
Sam: So wait, what is in this letter? What are we offering them?
Marisha: Yeah, how's the letter going?
Taliesin: I'm writing the letter up. I've basically gotten it together. I've explained the situation briefly. I assume they're aware of the war and the current reality.
Sam: And to clarify for me. We're asking them--
Taliesin: I'm getting there. In this, I'm asking for their assistance in killing a dragon. For this assistance, they will get all bounty of biological remnants of the dragon, with a small percentage of scales and teeth kept for us. Asking for 20 percent, but negotiable. We want them to supply either a local or give some intel into where we can find a beast large enough for this dragon to attack. Information that we have on this dragon so that they actually help us strategize any ways of defeating it, and any other help that they could give in defeating this creature. And as a token of our goodwill, we are sending them a small package of black and white dragon scales and a dragon tooth.
Laura: Yes. And make sure to include that this must all be completed within 14 days.
Sam: But wait.
Travis: There's more.
Taliesin: There's more.
Sam: Asking them to help us kill a dragon?
Taliesin: For stuff.
Sam: No, but that's not what we're asking them. We're asking them to find a beast.
Laura: Yes, that's what he said.
Taliesin: It's in the letter.
Laura: That's part of that listening thing, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry.
Liam: He did talk for quite a while.
Taliesin: Is there a way to enchant me so that I have his voice? And then he'll listen more closely?
Marisha: Yeah, actually.
Matt: He has a spell for that. (laughter)
Taliesin: Don't answer that.
Matt: As you finish penning the letter, you read over it once, twice, make sure all the information is contained. You go ahead and grab the little bit of your offering of dragon scales and teeth. Present them to Kashaw. He takes the letter and reads it over. "Sure."
Sam: Should we add an NDA?
Taliesin: There's a rider at the end of everything I send.
Laura: Kashaw. No mention of Whitestone at all. Anywhere you go. Very important.
Travis: Good addendum. Whatever that word is.
Liam: Again, please?
Laura: No mention of Whitestone.
Taliesin: No mention of Whitestone.
Laura: Do we have a way to get him there very quickly?
Marisha: What? Kashaw?
Matt: "Are you going to do your tree thing for me? Otherwise, I can walk, but it'll be a month and a half before I get to shore."
Marisha: Yeah. We're going to be here the rest of the day, right?
Sam: How will he get back?
Marisha: Druids. People. Wizards. Sorcerers.
Sam: Wait! We got those rocks.
Laura: He's a really smart man.
Taliesin: Oh, the rock. That's a really good idea.
Laura: Yeah, but then he'll pop where we are.
Taliesin: No, we'll leave the rock here.
Sam: We're going to stay here at least a day.
Liam: Well, you've got friends, don't you?
Matt: "I'm can figure something out."
Laura: Don't worry about it.
Sam: Steal an airship on your way back.
Matt: (chuckles) "No."
Marisha: All right. Let's go to the Sun Tree.
Matt: "All right." Gets his shield and his spear and walks down with Keyleth towards the Sun Tree. As he's walking down, at your side.
Laura: Don't you want to walk with them?
Liam: No. Where is that coming from?
Sam: No, he definitely has a thing for you, Vax. I have a keen eye for these things.
Liam: But you can't address it. You just have to let it be. I'm not going to encourage it. I'm not interested in him.
Taliesin: I see it every time. He does. He smolders.
Matt: As he walks with you down the pathway, having this conversation. It's that awkward, quiet about three, four minutes of walking before he goes. (sniffs) "Ugh. So when all this is over--"
Marisha: Oh, come on, man. Why are you doing this to me? (laughter)
Travis: Hold on, it's going to happen. Let it happen.
Matt: "If we survive all this dragon business--"
Marisha: Fuck you, I hate you so much right now. (laughs) Uh-huh?
Matt: "Do you want to get a drink?"
Marisha: I love drinks.
Matt: "Good."
Marisha: So much.
Matt: "Great."
Marisha: What kind of a drink?
Matt: You guys begin to approach the edge of the tree. He goes: "I think you answered your own question."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "Is that a yes?"
Marisha: Well...
Matt: "Open the damn tree."
Marisha: Look. You know. It's really complicated right now, and I'm trying this whole "allowing myself to feel things" thing.
Matt: "Yeah. It doesn't work out for anybody. Trust me."
Marisha: Oh man. I don't know how to respond to that. I'll see you on the other side. We'll put a pin on this one. Bye, Kash. And I cast it through the tree and I push him in.
Matt: "All right, then. We'll just-- hey!" And you push him through the tree. Shuts behind him. You're left there alone, standing in the cold Whitestone air outside of the Sun Tree. Around mid-morning.
Sam: Did Kash leave already?
Marisha: Yeah, he's gone.
Sam: Aw, Vax, you didn't get a chance to say anything to him. I've talked to him about this. He has his eyes out on you.
Liam: I've got enough complications around me as it is.
Sam: I'm a really good reader of people.
Liam: It's true.
Sam: The dark eyeliner--
Laura: So now that that's handled, are we leaving today?
Taliesin: Oh, we're leaving today.
Sam: Well, one of us doesn't have any luck left, so maybe we should spend the night.
Liam: I've got a little bit of luck. I'm a lucky guy.
Taliesin: We'll get our luck back tomorrow.
Laura: We've got a limited amount of time on this.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way towards the building that has recently been essentially given to and is acting as the abode for Shaun Gilmore while he's here in Whitestone. As you come to the front door, the door's closed. You knock. (knocking) No response.
Liam: Shaun? Shaun! It's us. Are you home?
Matt: You hear a muffled voice in the distance within the building go, "Yeah, hold on."
Laura: Did it sound like anyone we knew?
Matt: It sounded like Gilmore. He's under some sort of duress.
Marisha: Sounded like he was under duress?
Matt: Slightly.
Laura: Is everything okay?
Matt: "Yes. Hold on, please." And you watch as the barrier flickers for a second and restores itself, almost like a wave of energy brought what was a slowly dwindling bit of the blue energy, now restored to its full strength.
Travis: He's got to use the privy at some point.
Sam: Yeah, he's probably squeezing one out. It's okay.
Matt: A moment passes before the door opens again and you see Gilmore there, beads of sweat down the front of his face. He's got his fuzzy purple-blue robe wrapped around him. "My sincerest apologies, I had to take care of the now morning ritual."
Laura: How are you holding up, Gilmore?
Matt: "I'm fine. This is child's play compared to what you're having to deal with on a daily basis, I'm sure."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15.
Laura: Oh! You got a whisper on a 15.
Sam: This is an early whisper. A first-hour whisper is rare.
Taliesin: It came at such a high speed. I wish it came so quickly.
Liam: I wish I knew more about Loot Crate right now.
Sam: Well, it's not just Loot Crate, Liam. It's Loot Wear. Those come in a separate bag.
Liam: Different than Loot Crate?
Sam: Yeah, it's different. You can find out all about it at lootcrate.com/criticalrole.
Laura: Actually, the shirt you're wearing, Sam, is from Loot Wear.
Sam: What? It is? Oh my god! And I'm so handsome.
Taliesin: Anyway, back to the game.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: Well, we plan to go to Marquet. Things have progressed much quicker than we expected it to, and unfortunately we are on a two-week time crunch before all hell breaks loose.
Matt: "Well, at the very least, that gives us a series of days to make the best of the time we have. So Marquet it is. All right. Come in." He closes his robe a little bit and walks in, and you enter. You can see there's a half-drunken tea set, and he begins to walk past. "Tea, anyone?"
Sam: I'd like a loose-leaf oolong, please.
Matt: "I'll do what I can."
Taliesin: How many cups are currently sitting with the teapot?
Matt: Currently, there is one cup, but as he walks by, he does this with his fingers and you watch as multiple cups drift off the shelf and find their way (cups landing) on the table.
Laura: How does his house look? Does it look together like it would normally be, or does it look disheveled at all?
Matt: It looks a little disheveled, but also it hasn't been too long since the assassination attempt on him and he threw his attacker into the far wall, but it looks like the furniture has been placed up. There are still some bits and pieces of broken things here and there, but for the most part it doesn't look like he's had lot of time to clean up other than just making it functional. It seems livable; it's not too bad. He goes into the kitchen. He comes back out a moment later with a fresh pot of hot tea and sets it down. "All right. So this isn't going to send you to where you're going--"
Sam: We literally know nothing about Marquet.
Matt: "It's hot. It's dry. Bring some water if you can."
Liam: You're not able to leave, are you?
Matt: "I should not. Got to keep this going until Allura comes back."
Sam: Is there anyone that we can say maybe vouches for us or someone who we are against so that we can win favor with the locals? Something like a no-tail, long-tail binary.
Liam: We walked into a sort of political snafu because we didn't know the lay of the land, so is there anything we should know in advance?
Matt: "Best I can tell you, because I haven't been there since I was very young, one: this going to send you not to Ank'Harel itself, it's going to send you to Shandal, which is a small oasis village a little ways south of Ank'Harel. It's where I grew up."
Liam: What was that name again?
Matt: "Shandal."
Liam: Shandal.
Matt: "I will say that it has been about 15 years, so I don't quite know what to expect there. I apologize in advance for any ensuing chaos, but it's a nice town. It's small, it's sleepy. It's not my speed. Hence why I came here. However, in Marquet, it's mostly music, culture, fun people, good food. Don't break the laws. Don't drink the water freely from the various channels you may stumble across. Water there is a commodity. It is controlled and sold throughout the city."
Liam: We got a jug.
Travis: We got loads.
Matt: "Those are the main things I can think of. I don't know what else you're really looking for there."
Sam: Well, I can tell you.
Taliesin: Cabal's Ruin.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: The Den of Druja.
Marisha: The Den of Druja.
Marisha: Druyah. Drujah?
Taliesin: Druhah.
Marisha: Jaja.
Taliesin: Thanks.
Matt: "I don't know anything about that, unfortunately, but most folks that have information are eager to give what they know with a little coin to grease the palm."
Taliesin: Or a little water.
Matt: "Depends on who you're talking to. Anything else?"
Liam: No, go ahead.
Matt: He pours tea for everyone else who asked for it. And for each person that asked for a different flavor of tea, he begins to snap his fingers and the tea color changes.
Laura: We are looking for a merchant warrior. Outside of you, do you know of any very powerful merchants?
Matt: "There are many."
Laura: One with a missing eye?
Matt: "That would definitely probably narrow it down, but none that I can remember off the top of my head."
Sam: Why don't we bring Jarett with us? Is that a thing?
Laura: We should talk to him.
Sam: Okay. Shaun, you do so much for us. We do nothing for you. Is there anything we can bring back for you or messages to give to someone there?
Liam: Is there anyone you haven't seen in all these years?
Matt: "When you meet them, and you'll know who they are, tell them I say hello. And actually--" He thinks to himself for a second. Rushes off. Comes back with a small backpack made of leather and thick, light tan wool. He opens it up and reaches inside. Pulls out a small silver locket and takes it and puts it in your hand, Vex. He goes, "Just give that to them."
Laura: To them?
Matt: He closes the bag and places it back in the other room.
Marisha: Shaun, are you doing okay? You look a little worn out.
Matt: (sighs) "We do what we must."
Marisha: I could only imagine a barrier of this size of a construct can be quite taxing on one's physical energy.
Matt: "Yes. I guess if I had one request of all of you, this goes universally, can we end this dragon business soon? Please? I really just want to set up shop again."
Liam: We would like nothing more. I think we're on the same page.
Matt: "Great."
Laura: We're very interested to start paying you for your service again, Gilmore, and stop expecting it for free.
Matt: "Good. Because I've been keeping a tally. I don't know about you guys, but the tab is running very deep."
Laura: Oh, believe me. I have, as well. This locket will take a nice little chunk off of that tally.
Matt: "Fantastic. I love it."
Liam: Birds of a feather, you two.
Sam: Should we go talk to Jarett and then come back?
Taliesin: Let's go talk to Jarett. We'll have appropriate clothing set up and prepare ourselves for the trip.
Sam: Robes and things?
Matt: "I'll be here if you need me."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: We'll be back in an hour.
Matt: "All right. You don't want the rest of your tea?"
Sam: Oh. I'll drink it.
Laura: Do you have any to-go cups? (laughs) Just kidding.
Matt: "These didn't belong to me, so please, take them if you want." (laughter)
Matt: He transitions the tea over into a couple of cups and hands them off to you guys who haven't finished. You head out. As you're leaving, you see Sherri coming up. Her hair's a bit tattered. She's usually more put together when she runs the shop. Now she's in casual Sherri mode. Her hair is frazzled and pulled back. Her glasses are pushed to the end of her nose, and she's carrying a bundle of groceries, various bits of produce and such. "Oh, hello, everyone. I'm bringing Gilmore his breakfast."
Liam: Sherri. We asked him, but he's modest. How's he doing?
Matt: "Not that he'd tell me anything, but he doesn't have a very lengthy period of keeping this up without him probably collapsing like he did back in the city. Just please, try to do your best to get this over with. I'm worried. At the very least, until Allura comes back. At least they can share the load. All right." She knocks on the door and opens it. "Gilmore? Gilmore, breakfast." The door closes behind her.
Travis: Hey, I have an idea.
Sam: Oh boy.
Travis: I know, it's thrilling. We need eight gallon wine skins or bottles or jugs. Because the Alchemy Jug can make out eight gallons of fresh water. We pour it all out and then at the end of the day it starts over, so we have eight gallons sitting in the bag.
Taliesin: In theory, we all have water skins, don't we?
Marisha: We should have a spread of our survival kits.
Liam: But all the same, that is a very good idea, Grog.
Laura: I'm surprised you even know how many eight gallons is, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, eight gallons.
Sam: But if we had an extra skin or something, we could trade it. We could give it away, so we should go get one, yeah?
Travis: Yeah, we could give it away, give it away, give it away now.
Laura: Wow. I walk off and look for Jarett.
Liam: A rift just opened in the universe.
Matt: It doesn't take you long. He is still stationed as one of the central figures guarding the actual castle of Whitestone itself. Similar to the place you saw him last time you guys had a conversation walking up to the castle. He stands there with his crossbow at the ready, giving a long view over the surrounding valley before he watches you approach. "Friends, you have returned. I hope all is well on your end. Can I be of service?"
Laura: You can tell us all about where you're from, actually. Did you leave Marquet a long time ago?
Matt: "It was maybe ten, nine years ago, and it was not under the best terms. Probably would be in jail had I not got away."
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: "They are not very forgiving of broken laws there, and based on certain judgments... let's just say a slap on the wrist usually takes the wrist with it."
Laura: What did you do?
Matt: (sighs) "Whatever was needed for survival."
Liam: Well, we're going there, so I'm hoping either you can give us a lot of tips so we don't run into problems, or I don't know if anyone can take your place right now. Do you want to go on a field trip?
Matt: "To Ank'Harel?"
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: "No!" (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry, I respect this. I think my strength and skill set is much better used here than in the Scarlet Prison beneath the Cerulean Palace. I do not want to even conjecture spending the rest of my life there, or in pieces. Also possible."
Liam: Forget it. We need all the knowledge in your head, in ours.
Marisha: Yeah, what was that Scarlet Prison you just mentioned, under the what now?
Matt: "The Cerulean Palace. The Cerulean Palace is where the Hand of Ord generally keeps most justice, where most of the courts are kept. It is also where the Tower of J'mon Sa Ord is maintained for watching over the entire city, and most of that eastern side of Marquet. The Scarlet Prison is where people go to disappear. It is also referred to as the Scarlet Oubliette. People are placed there to go away; people are placed there to be tortured; people are placed there, rumors say, to be part of various experiments. Regardless, I would highly recommend--" He looks to you. "Don't steal anything unless you are damn sure nobody knows of it."
Liam: I haven't stolen anything in years.
Travis: (coughing) Bullshit.
Laura: Me neither. (laughs nervously)
Marisha: I've never stolen anything!
Laura: Have you heard about the Den of Drujah. Drujah.
Matt: He closes his eyes a second. "That was... a very, very--"
Laura: It's unscrupulous.
Taliesin: It would have been in a tale of a one-eyed merchant.
Matt: "Not any merchant I know, but this Den you speak of, they were a rather serious gang running rather violent activities in the city maybe 70, 80 years ago."
Taliesin: Would they have been in the walls? Is it possible to be in the walls of Ank'Harel?
Matt: "In the outer walls? The outer walls are solid. They are thick; they are meant for defense only. I did not run with them. I do not know anything. It was before my time, but they have not been around for at the very least 50 years."
Laura: All right.
Sam: Do you know who rules Ank'Harel now?
Matt: "It is J'mon Sa Ord."
Liam: What can you tell us about him? Or her, or it?
Matt: "J'mon? I have not seen J'mon, though I have heard the stories. J'mon brought the city together 400 years before. When it began to grow, expand, when it became this great oasis, long ago, it went into chaos, and there were many who wished to utilize those who lived within the center desert to be abused, to be swindled, to be enslaved. J'mon started the Hand of Ord, which was the peacekeepers, and really brought the town of Ank'Harel into the grand city it is today. Not known to appear in public very often; there are many rumors that circulate. Some say that perhaps J'mon is some godling, an entity that has existed long before Ank'Harel and will exist long after. There is also-- and this is my personal belief-- I think J'mon Sa Ord is many people. I think J'mon is more of an office, a station, a title that's passed on from person to person, because I've heard referenced as a girl, I've heard referenced as a boy."
Laura: It's like the Man in Black.
Liam: What story is that?
Laura: It's this famous tale of the Princess Bride. Don't worry about it.
Sam: Does the Hand of Ord carry any symbol? Do you know of any way of identifying them?
Matt: "They carry ornate armor of a deep blue sapphire color, and brass."
Liam: Brass.
Laura: Like the dragon.
Sam: And this other city, Shumble. Humbal.
Laura: Shandal.
Marisha: Shandal.
Matt: "Shandal! Yes. (laughs) It's more of a podunk."
Laura: A very small town.
Matt: "Comparatively, yes. Ank'Harel is immense. Shandal is usually a small stop in case camels or other horses have died in transit, as well as a small water stop on the way to the city."
Laura: Is it a long trek from there to the city?
Matt: "I'd say maybe a day's travel."
Sam: In which direction?
Matt: "It is to the south-southwest of Ank'Harel."
Liam: On par with Emon, the city? Bigger? Smaller?
Matt: "Oh, Emon? Comparable. A bit bigger."
Laura: Wow. Shit.
Taliesin: We'll make waves.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe we shouldn't.
Taliesin: Well. We're going to have to get someone's attention.
Marisha: It's a city that has no water. We shouldn't make waves.
Laura: Do you remember, in all your time there, did you ever deal with-- this is completely ridiculous-- a merchant who only had one eye?
Matt: "I don't recall. I've met people missing many limbs and parts of their body. Kind of happens; it' a dangerous place, the deserts in Marquet. But there are also many people that live there."
Liam: And you're sure we can't talk you into going? Percy's giving out titles.
Taliesin: I am absolutely not!
Matt: "I have no interest in titles. I just wish to stay alive. I'm sorry. I am much more of use to you here, I assure you. I would be a perpetually nervous paranoid wreck if I were to come with you."
Laura: I can't even imagine you like that.
Matt: "Good. We'll keep it that way."
Marisha: Jarett, was there still a control of water going on while you were there?
Matt: "Yes, for many long years, yes. The oasis is built around."
Marisha: Is there anything we should know about that?
Matt: "Well, most of it's controlled in the River District. A number of canals begin in the River District. This is where there is the spring, the perpetual oasis that fuels the city, and many of the caravans that travel to and from."
Travis: Perpetual oasis.
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: Source of power. (laughter)
Sam: Good note-taking, Grog. How do people greet each other there in Ank'Harel? Is there a "Kord's strength be with you" thing?
Matt: "There is 'be pleased,' with a small bow, preferably with the hand down towards the stomach, with the hand out. Be pleased."
Laura: Be pleased.
Travis: Beep-bleep.
Liam: Bleep-bleep, yes. No stealing. Got it.
Sam: Water is valuable.
Laura: Don't drink the water.
Liam: Is there anything that's offensive? We don't want to offend anyone by accident.
Matt: "To be honest, anything you do will offend somebody in the right place, right time, but people are pretty laid back in Ank'Harel, as long as you follow the rules. It's a beautiful city. I'm actually excited for you to see it. I'm very proud of it, had I not made some mistakes."
Liam: Can we bring you anything back?
Matt: "You know what? If you can, there is a special spice that is harvested not far from the city. If you could find me some fusaka spice? Bring me a small-- not a lot, just a bit."
Travis: Is it for food?
Matt: "It's for food, yes."
Liam: I would love to do that. We'll keep an eye out.
Matt: "It's a bit pricey. I can give you some--"
All: No!
Liam: No, you've done way too much for us.
Taliesin: Fair trade.
Liam: Fair trade.
Matt: "All right. Well, I appreciate it."
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: We'll work on it.
Matt: "Work on it for a bit, maybe watch some folks. You'll pick it up right quick, just pay attention."
Sam: All right, well, shall we--
Taliesin: Let's go change, and then let's be off.
Matt: "All right, be safe, friends. Look forward to your return."
Laura: Keep everyone safe?
Matt: "That is my purpose."
Marisha: And Jarett, will you keep an eye on Gilmore for us?
Matt: "Is he all right?"
Marisha: I think he's just working himself a bit much.
Liam: Stretched a little thin.
Matt: "I may have noticed it myself. I will do this for you. Promise."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "My pleasure."
Sam: To Marquet?
Travis: To market!
Sam: To buy a fine pig.
Marisha: To market!
Sam: Home again, home again.
Laura: I didn't realize Marquet was like Emon. This might be a bit difficult, to find a one-eyed merchant in a city bigger than Emon.
Taliesin: I think that once we arrive, he'll find us. Or she.
Laura: This is true.
Sam: We get there, we start poking people in the eye until someone doesn't flinch, then we'll know we found them.
Taliesin: Can I point out that now we have to learn an entirely new lore? We've worked so hard, and now spices? Rivers, canals, fusaka! Oh god, I'd gotten everything together, and now.
Laura: We've only got two weeks. Fuck.
Taliesin: It takes a day to do Disneyland.
Sam: Does anyone speak Marquetian, or do they speak Common there?
Taliesin: We'll run into a lot of Common. Common is common for a reason.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right, you guys head back to Gilmore's place?
Laura: Oh, but are we going to get some water jugs and shit like that before we leave?
Sam: Sure, we get some water jugs.
Marisha: Yeah, more water's good.
Matt: You can pick up a few. We'll say for about five gold pieces here, you can acquire some jugs that are compact enough that they'll actually fit within the Bag of Holding, should you place them.
Liam: Five gold. Mark it off. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Sam: How we doing on potions? We got potions?
Laura: We need to get some potions.
Travis: There's no stores.
Matt: The healing potions that were available in the city you guys have already taken.
Marisha: Yeah, we've tapped them out there.
Taliesin: Yeah, Whitestone is not functioning.
Sam: All right, we'll get some in Marquet.
Taliesin: Trade them for water.
Travis: One for each?
Taliesin: You stabbed her bear while maintaining eye contact.
Laura: How many jugs did we get? Five jugs?
Matt: Five jugs.
Marisha: Slowly. Very slowly. Oh yeah.
Laura: And we fill up our wineskins with water.
Taliesin: We're changing out of the winters into the lighter clothing.
Marisha: I bust out some of my clothes from the Fire Ashari. Go lighter.
Taliesin: It's a shame Kit's very busy, or else we could get summer clothes.
Matt: She's so busy getting married or something.
Taliesin: Getting married or something.
Liam: I break into a cold sweat, thinking about the desert and this armor. Oh shit.
Laura: You're going to be a gross, sweaty, greasy mess.
Taliesin: Okay, actually there is a solution for this.
Liam: Yes, Percival. I have never needed your intellect more than right now. What is the solution?
Taliesin: I'm going to find him a white silk and cotton, linen cloak, very simple, to throw over his armor the way the Templars used to do, so you won't cook in your bloody armor.
Marisha: Does his little sachet--
Taliesin: Yes, it'll attach to the sachet.
Marisha: Well, I was going to say, does his sachet need a re-up of herbs? I thought you stuffed it with something.
Matt: Percival presents you with a nice, flowing, light whitish-gray cloak. Ceremonial, within older Whitestone gatherings. It seems nice; it seems light.
Liam: And I can put it over everything else?
Laura: Over your other cloaks.
Liam: Cloaks, plural. Fucking 90 episodes later cloaks, cloaks, cloaks.
Matt: You can totally place it over your Displacer Cloak.
Taliesin: Yeah. It's just a heat sink.
Liam: Yeah, it's to bounce the heat off.
Laura: Perfect.
Liam: Liam knows science. Vax doesn't know shit.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Sam: Before we go, quickly, guys. I'm sorry. I haven't done this yet, so can I try to see where Kaylie is and do a little scry?
Matt: You close your eyes and concentrate, and you see, peeking out from the metallic rim of the sword which you gave her, the Aberration's Bane longsword, you look up and you can see the edge of a wooden table. You hear faint music in the distance; it sounds like some sort of a piano being played. No accompaniment, just a straight piano. You hear distant whispers of conversation, the occasional burst of laughter, and you can see the edge of Kaylie's elbow, leaning against the edge of the table. There's a long pause, no movement. Then all of a sudden, she shifts back from the table and goes, "That's right, all the money on the table's mine. Nice try." Scoops down, throwing her hand of cards on the table. You hear a couple voices go (groaning). You see her scoop the coins over and go place them into a coin bag. "All right, so perhaps another round, then?"
Sam: Yeah! She's doing good!
Matt: "Where are you going? Are you a coward or something?" Shouting this in the distance, as apparently the previous people she card sharked walk off, frustrated and growling. You see one of them comes up to the edge of the table and goes, "Best be giving that money back, little girl or you're--" Before that happens, you see a large, meaty hand grab the back of his neck and pick up him by the scruff. You see appear into view the very edge of Dr. Dranzel's chin and hat and he goes, "I'm sorry, were you talking to my lady friend that way? That's poor manners." And drops him there at the table. The guy adjusts himself. "Better not see you guys in the street." He walks off. She reaches her hand up, watching the guy leave, and fist-bumps Dranzel. Your vision fades back and your consciousness comes back to you.
Sam: She's okay! Okay, good! All right! I feel good. Let's go!
Liam: What were you doing?
Sam: I had some bad tikka masala earlier.
Liam: We haven't even gone to Marquet!
Sam: They don't have Middle Eastern food there, I hope!
Taliesin: Well...
Liam: Not going to touch that one.
Travis: Are we going?
Liam: Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way back towards Gilmore's home. At this point in time, you come in and find there are a couple of plates, crumbs to the side. Gilmore's sitting in the chair with his tea, eyes closed in a meditative stance. As soon as you enter the room, he jolts back to momentary awareness. "All right! Gathered your things? Are you ready to go?"
Liam: Pretty much.
Matt: "If you don't mind." He grabs the edge of the central table in the center of the room with the tea on it. He looks towards you.
Travis: Oh yeah, no problem.
Matt: You guys shift it, move it to the side, leaving an open space on the ground. He kneels down and places one hand in the center of the floor. The other hand he reaches back into a small pouch on his side and pulls out a small amount of shimmering, glassy sand material you recognize as a hint of residuum processed into its dust crystallized form. He scatters it around while he's muttering under his breath. As he does, with his hand in the center, you see the dust pull together into these small symbols on their own, almost like magnets to iron filings. They're forming into these rigid structures. As they do, they begin to flare up and glow, and he takes a step back, his eyes still closed, brings his fist together into a grip. As he does, they light up, and you recognize this as a teleportation circle. He goes, "All right, it won't last long. In you go!"
Travis: Running through!
Laura: Thank you, Gilmore!
Matt: "My pleasure!" is the last thing you hear before you dive in as it begins to fade. Each of you guys step into and transition past, immediately piling up into each other as you come out the other side, as you're in a dark and enclosed cupboard or closet-type circumstance.
Taliesin: I'm reaching for a door handle.
Laura: Anywhere.
Matt: It looks like there is a set of doors to it. It's a giant armoire. You guys are pushed into it, but it is latched over.
Liam: Ugh, Grog's pec is right in my eye.
Laura: Can I get a little dagger through and flip the latch?
Matt: Flick it up. It bursts open, and you all come stumbling out.
Liam: I think he stabbed my eye out! Jeez!
Matt: As you all stop, Vex, you look back around. This is a very large dresser-like armoire. It's empty. It looks like there are a number of hangers inside, like it was a place for various outfits to be kept and stored. On the floor of the wood, you can see carved into it a small symbol or a sigil, if you will.
Sam: Drink!
Laura: Drink!
Matt: Marked as the symbol he put.
Laura: Good thing no one destroyed this thing while he was gone.
Matt: Glancing around, you can see a small dark wood room atop a wine-red circular carpet in the center. Empty shelves and cobwebs fill the corners. There's a bit of dust and sand coating over where the bed rests against the wall. A closed window hides behind a drawn curtain, with a little bit of peeking sunlight making its way through. There is one single door that sees you out, though it is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm going to stand on the carpet and will it to fly. Seems worth a shot.
Laura: Every carpet here.
Matt: Step onto the carpet, close your eyes. How do you will it?
Taliesin: I do believe in fairies. I do believe in fairies. I know it; I've killed several of them. They're definitely real.
Matt: Moments pass, no effect.
Liam: I'm going to do my due diligence and make sure the door's okay. Probably is, but just in case.
Taliesin: I'm going to look out the window, as well.
Laura: I look under the bed.
Liam: 22. Just to make sure that it's not trapped or locked.
Matt: The door is locked. It is not trapped. You're peeking out the window, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, I am.
Matt: You glance through the cloth, and it looks like it is a glass window, but it is partially opened and looks like there's a little cluster of sand that's gathered over time underneath the sill, from what little bit the wind's pushed through. Glancing out as soon as you push out, the light is very bright, and you have to take a moment for your eyes to adjust. Looking out, you see a simple street. There are some small buildings built of fine wood; nothing too extravagant. You can see a number of trees that protrude from the sand: long, tall, thin, palm frond-type tops to them, bearing some sort of large nut-like fruit. You can see what look to be small troughs of gathered water, whether it be from rain or them placed there intentionally, but they're currently locked with some semi-translucent top and chained shut, on the outside of two of the buildings. You do see a few people walking back up and down the street. General civilians, all dressed in longer, full-body robes, some of them with scarves around their neck. I wouldn't say peasants, per se, but definitely not well-off in their appearance. Casual civilians. Darker skin, looks like they've definitely been living in the desert for a long time. That is what you can see from the window's point of view.
Taliesin: Are we on the first floor or second floor?
Matt: Currently, you're on the first floor.
Sam: Is there a second floor?
Matt: You don't know.
Sam: Are there stairs? Oh, we're in a room. Let's go out the room. What could happen?
Matt: Looking under the bed, you see what appears to be a small wooden box that is closed and hidden toward the very back, and what appears to be a small series of shirts that have been folded up and have gathered a lot of dust over the top of them.
Laura: Can I reach them?
Matt: Yeah. Pull them out. Really nice, high-quality silk and cotton based, embroidered shirts. Look more ceremonial, special event type, long, maybe knee-length.
Marisha: What's the decoration like in the room?
Matt: Currently, it's pretty bland. You can see a couple of colored tapestries similar to the center of the floor rug that are hanging, but there are a lot of blank areas. It looks like decorations have been removed, or at least haven't been there for a long time. The room, for the most part, seems to be abandoned.
Laura: Is the box trapped?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Almost good, and then not. 14.
Matt: 14? It does not appear to be trapped.
Laura: Can I open it?
Matt: You do. Open it up, glance inside. It looks to be a series of folded papers.
Laura: Is it Gilmore's stuff?
Liam: Yeah, you're going through Shaun's shit. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm just seeing if this is his room!
Marisha: Ooh, whispers.
Travis: Oh shitballs. I have to move.
Marisha: How are those Cowboys doing, Travis?
Travis: Ten-ten, halftime.
Marisha: Oh snap.
Taliesin: Is that a good thing, ten-ten at halftime?
Travis: No, not good.
Taliesin: That's not good? Okay.
Travis: Their starting quarterback got hurt.
Taliesin: I understood all those words individually.
Travis: Because he's an old woman.
Taliesin: I know those words, as well.
Liam: Speaking in Half-Orc. Don't speak that.
Taliesin: I would pay good money to have you explain how football works to me.
Travis: That's what I was going with that!
Laura: Okay. I fold them back up and I put them under the bed.
Liam: Can I read your diary, then? Is that all right?
Laura: I was seeing if we were in Gilmore's room, that's all.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Don't act like I'm a dick. I'm not stealing the letters. I'm putting the shirts back, all right?
Liam: I didn't say it! Just maybe he wants a little privacy. I don't know! Think about it.
Marisha: She's learned from you well.
Laura: Is the door open? Can we go out of here?
Sam: Did you find anything good?
Liam: If 25 opens the door, then it's opened.
Matt: It's easy enough, like butter. (creaking door) The door opens.
Marisha: He did say we would meet his family.
Matt: As the door opens up, immediately, your nose catches the smell of sage and cooked meats. As the door opens, you look into a large room to your left with some furniture, not too extravagant, but nice, and a humble living space. As the door opens the other way, you look to the right, and you see two figures sitting at a table, seemingly eating. An older couple, with dark sun-weathered skin, graying hair, and bright eyes. They look confused and slightly scared at their table, staring back at people wandering into the middle of the room.
Travis: It's okay.
Marisha: Hi!
Taliesin: This is a bit awkward.
Sam: We're friends of Gilmore.
Laura: Shaun.
Matt: They both look at each other.
Sam: Oh, be pleased.
Travis: Bees knees.
Matt: They both look to each other and then immediately begin, mouths filled with food, laughing. (laughs) "This is unexpected. Friends of Shaun's, you say?"
All: Yes.
Matt: The man himself stands up and begins to walk over, wiping the edge of his mouth with a small piece of cloth, finishing chewing and swallowing the food he has currently. As he walks up, the man has thinning white hair that grows long, straight down towards his back, simple long robe-like dress with simple cloth pants that go round these slipper-like shoes on his feet. He approaches. Which one said Shaun?
Sam: You said Gilmore.
Matt: Gilmore and Shaun. Approaches you, as you, stepping forward as one of the more, you know, assertive members of the party, and goes, "How is he? If you could please tell me?"
Laura: He's quite well. He's very powerful, actually, and has wonderful businesses, all through--
Marisha: Tal'Dorei?
Laura: No, I know. It's just not there anymore.
Matt: "Opesa. Opesa, come." And the woman gets up from the table. "Yes, I'm sorry. It has been a while since we've had guests from so strange and sudden arrivals!" She walks up and pulls these small glasses out from her pocket and puts them on. You can see her eyes open up wide behind them, and she comes, leans to the side and puts her arm around him. They both hold each other. He goes, "I am sorry. Let me introduce. I am Soren Geddmore. This is Opesa Geddmore. You know our son?"
Liam: Yes, for quite some time.
Matt: "And you say he does well with his business?"
Laura: He does. So well, yes.
Taliesin: Continental.
Matt: "This is good."
Laura: Very respected.
Liam: Yes, and brave.
Matt: "He has always been a brave one."
Sam: Single-handedly protecting a whole city right now.
Matt: "You don't have to embellish. That's okay. Would you like to eat with us? We can make more food, yes?"
Laura: Actually, we need to head out pretty quickly.
Taliesin: We're sadly on a mission.
Laura: Can you tell us the direction to Ank'Harel?
Matt: "You are going to Ank'Harel?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Yes. Follow me." He takes her by the arm, and they both walk arm-in-arm, leading you guys to what looks to be a front door of this abode. As he pushes it open, revealing more of the street of this small oasis town, he goes, "Let's see, if you follow-- that is the sun." He looks up, and you see his eyes adjust to the brighter sky. "The sun is there. It will be setting... that direction. Continue... what is the word you speak?"
Sam: North, northwest. No, northeast.
Matt: "That is west. You want to north, so go that way. Yes. That is where you want to go."
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: Is there a road to follow, or is it just a direction?
Matt: "I haven't been in many years. As far as I know, there are signs. There are not roads. There are guides you could hire to bring you there."
Marisha: Can I do like a nature check or take note of what he said so I remember? Because that was vague.
Laura: I'm assuming these are the people that Gilmore said I would know.
Matt: You get the sense these are probably who he was referring to.
Laura: Yes, so as she's doing that, I want to pull out the locket and say, actually, Shaun asked me to deliver this to you.
Matt: "What--" And he looks to his wife. The woman steps forward adjusting her glasses. "Thank you so much!" She holds it and opens it up. Looks over to him and shows him. You get a bit of a glance, at that point. You can see it's a picture of Gilmore. He's happy. Jewel-encrusted rings. It's almost a promotional still, if there was one, for Gilmore's Glorious Goods. She takes it. She closes it and goes, "Gilmore is originally Geddmore. He changed his name when he went for better business to the Tal'Dorei place. Glad he's doing well."
Taliesin: He's respected across the continent.
Liam: Is there anything we can let him know?
Matt: "Give him our love and tell him he is more than welcome to visit. It has been many years."
Liam: We will.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Not a worry. Safe travels. You're sure you don't wish to have food?"
Liam: No, but if you could point us towards fusaka? Is there any around here? There's not, is there?
Matt: They both look at each other. "I'm not familiar with this spice you speak of. My apologies." She's like, "I'm sorry. I do not know this fusaka you speak of."
Liam: He's pulling our chain.
Sam: Or maybe it's something illicit.
Laura: It's possible.
Taliesin: It's possible.
Sam: Or something that you snort.
Liam: He's pretty cool.
Laura: I understand.
Taliesin: Can we leave them a bit of water?
Sam: Yeah, we should leave them some water.
Laura: Oh yes.
Sam: Grog! Water boy?
Travis: Yes?
Laura: Can you give them some water from our jug?
Taliesin: Where do you keep your personal water?
Laura: Would you like some water?
Travis: I got it. Here, take this jug of water with our compliments. You said give them a jug!
Taliesin: Where do you store your water in the house?
Matt: "We have, around this way--" He leads you towards the back of this small kitchen. It's very condensed. You can see there is a high metal fence, and there appears to be a rainwater receptacle there, like a well that is built into the homestead. It has chains over the top. He begins to pull keys out and lock to it, and as he pulls off the chains one by one, he pulls back the lid, this hard, dry wooden lid, and within it is a very deep well, though it looks like the water level's maybe ten feet down from the top of the well right now.
Travis: You want me to pour the Alchemy Jug in here? Or just one of the little ones?
Taliesin: Pour the Alchemy. The little one's for us today. The Alchemy Jug, this is where it's going.
Travis: All right, I take the Alchemy Jug and I go: You want to see a trick? Look inside. Do you see anything?
Matt: "Hey, Opesa, do you see anything?" And she blinks a bit. "No, it's empty."
Travis: And I say  Now, give it a listen. And I shake it. What do you hear?
Matt: "Nothing. You are a strange man." (laughter)
Travis: Forgot they're old. Right, well, it sounds-- fuck it. Water. And I start pouring. (laughter)
Matt: How much water does it create?
Travis: It creates eight gallons of fresh water.
Matt: Oh wow. "You are still a very strange man, but I'm very happy and appreciative."
Travis: I am a great sorcerer.
Matt: "All right. I can see, now. Gilmore has his work cut out for him."
Travis: Gedd-e-mo-ray.
Matt: He pats your shoulder. "Geddmore, indeed." As you finish pouring the water out, they lead you guys back to the front.
Laura: What time is it here?
Matt: He pulls out a small sundial from his pocket, holds it up. "It would be closer to late afternoon."
Laura: No, we aren't going to make it to Ank'Harel by dark. Yes, of course. That's all. Thank you!
Matt: "Well, thank you so much for coming."
Taliesin: Good day.
Travis: Beep-beep!
Sam: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Liam: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased." And they both, in a very rusty joints way, give you both a bow as you leave.
Liam: They were a couple of sweethearts.
Sam: They are adorable! They're both over 70, so who's going to kill them? Should Grog, or should I?
Taliesin: I think it's our turn.
Laura: You broke him!
Sam: You kill one, I'll kill the other.
Liam: Throwback Thursday.
Taliesin: This is what a d10 is for. Hold on, one second.
Marisha: Do we have any more reason to be here? Or should we start heading off to Ank'Harel?
Taliesin: I think we head off to Ank'Harel.
Laura: Yeah, unless we see any kind of potion shops here.
Marisha: I can mist us. I brought it today.
Taliesin: Oh. We can mist.
Liam: Is there enough moisture in the air? I have no idea how it works.
Travis: Shit, if we evaporate, I'll be so pissed.
Marisha: Wait. Can that happen?
Travis: You don't know!
Taliesin: I think it'll be fine.
Marisha: Because we're mist.
Taliesin: We're mostly water. I think it's our water. I think we end up very dehydrated at the end of it.
Marisha: Sorry, I just spit all over you. I'm sorry.
Taliesin: It's okay. Now I'm moister.
Marisha: That's how mist form works.
Travis: Now I'm moisture.
Marisha: I don't think we'd evaporate. I think he's fucking with us. I don't think we'd evaporate.
Laura: Let's mist it.
Matt: That would be the saddest TPK ever. "Let's go, guys!" And so ends the journey of Vox Machina. (laughter)
Marisha: They fade into existence!
Laura: That would be the worst thing ever.
Taliesin: Was that a global warming metaphor?
Travis: No songs to be sung. Just fucking another cloud in the fucking sky.
Sam: Some say you can see them still, overhead. (laughter)
Marisha: I don't think we'll evaporate.
Laura: Let's do it.
Sam: We're going to mist it?
Marisha: Do we need anything else while we're here, before I do this?
Taliesin: It's a one-camel town.
Marisha: I mist us.
Matt: All right. As you guys take a moment to concentrate, each one of you transforms into mist. As you begin to go one by the other, you do hear a couple of (gasps). You glance over your shoulder to see three kids, all looking up at you all with these big, scared smiles.
Marisha: Before I go, I say  stay in school, kids. And then I mist.
Taliesin: I'm going to Slimer the kid.
Laura: As I turn into mist, I go  I'm melting! Melting! Oh, what a world!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: I was trying to inspire them!
Taliesin: You're a terrible person!
Laura: 20.
Liam: Do they speak Common?
Matt: After you give your presentation, they, "Whoa!" As you begin transforming, you do that and they go, (terrified screaming) and go running indoors.
Taliesin: I'm still going to slime them on their way out.
Marisha: Sliming them!
Sam: We're tormenting children.
Liam: Hey, that's a step up for us!
Matt: That's what Vox Machina is all about.
Taliesin: Scarring children for life.
Travis: If you can't kill the old, terrify the young.
Taliesin: We're leaving them with a promise that we'll be back to finish the job.
Matt: You are terrible people. You guys rise into the air as the sun begins to bring itself to set in the west. You shift up over the city. You look down. Probably maybe 150, 200 buildings make up the entirety of Shandal. It's not a very large town, but you can see little dots of moving caravans both to and from the city. It is a fairly lively stop for people traveling to and from Ank'Harel.
Taliesin: We can follow traffic.
Marisha: Follow traffic.
Taliesin: There's a traffic line, then.
Matt: Every now and then. As you follow the direction they're going, you're traveling much faster than they are. The hot air does feel a little uncomfortable against your cloud-based misty forms, but you do not feel like it's responsible for evaporating any of your form.
Marisha: Yeah, we're just sweating a little bit more.
Matt: You're like, "oh this is uncomfortable." You continue to press forward as the sun slowly begins to set. The temperature begins to get colder and colder, and the sky grows darker.
Marisha: Do we condense a little bit? Turn into a low-lying fog? Never mind.
Matt: If you'd like to. It's up to you entirely. The form is your choice.
Travis: Could we turn into a marine layer?
Matt: You continue to travel throughout the night?
Sam: How long does this thing last?
Laura: Eight hours, right? It lasts eight hours?
Sam: We'll travel eight hours.
Taliesin: We'll take a late night. Once it wears off, then we'll camp.
Laura: Can we get the whole way there?
Marisha: Wind Walk, you said it was a day's journey, and we can travel faster by Wind Walking.
Sam: At night, will we know where northeast is?
Laura: Yeah, I've got an excellent sense of direction.
Taliesin: If it's only a day's travel, at some point we're going to see the city.
Marisha: I think we should be able to get there, right?
Laura: And we can camp just outside the city, maybe?
Sam: Okay. Let's do it.
Marisha: Because we have a flying speed of 300 feet.
Matt: Yes, you guys cruise. You guys push forward for another four to five hours post-dusk. You're now hitting the early hours of the morning before you begin to see in the distance hundreds of sparking lights begin to appear up above a distant sand dune. You can see the lit lights, lanterns, and general glowing night life of a massive city over the high walls that surround its exterior. This is a pretty amazing sight for those of you who have not been to such a large desert atmosphere, and it is pitch black below you, and at the height you're traveling-- How high are you traveling versus the ground? I guess I should ask.
Taliesin: 300 feet?
Marisha: An appropriate cloud height.
Sam: That's thousands.
Marisha: Hundreds. A couple hundred feet.
Matt: Okay. From this view, you can see a large queue about eight heavy caravan carts long of caravans that have camped for the night outside of the front main gates. You do see, along the line of the outer wall, there appear to be a number of small spires that open up like guard tower parapets that come to a pointed, what looks like a hand, cradling the outside of each section of the wall on the outside, but on the inside, you see a hundred or more of these long, multi-level spires that progress all throughout the city, and it goes on and on in its large oval-like shape. It's hard to make out much color other than the thousand small lights you see throughout the entire city. Orange, yellows, greens, blues. It is a beautiful view. What is your plan?
Taliesin: I say we camp outside.
Liam: Are we still clouds, though?
Taliesin: We're still clouds.
Liam: Can't talk at all.
Laura: Should we mist down?
Sam: Are we getting to the end of our eight hours anyway?
Marisha: It's been five or six.
Laura: It's still night?
Matt: Still night, yes.
Laura: It's good to camp.
Matt: It's two in the morning, at this point.
Marisha: Does there look like any patch of shrubs or a low point in the terrain? Cover.
Matt: You can't tell from this height, unfortunately.
Laura: We mist down a little bit.
Matt: You scoot down around the outside of the city walls. The landscape here near the town appears to be more packed and hardened badland dust and sand. You can see where lots of it, from a recent rain, have caked and hardened and then broken in places. It leaves this soft, shale-type texture to it that breaks into sand upon crumbling underfoot. From what you can see, there are a number of various heights of dunes in the distance. This city is thrown right in the center of what appears to be hundreds of miles of desert from the view that you had as the sun was setting.
Laura: And the gates to the city are closed at night?
Matt: The gates to the city are closed from this perspective, yes.
Liam: We did it, you guys. We made it to Burning Man.
Matt: You guys timed this, I didn't.
Laura: Can we see guards around? Do they look aggressive?
Matt: The giant iron gates stand about 65 feet tall and about as wide from end to end. They have a very tight weave of iron bars between them, to where it's almost a very thick fencing that you can almost see through. You can just see the outline of things that walk back and forth behind it. However, on the front side, you can see a number of guards.
Laura: We can see your piece of paper on the screen. Still see it.
Matt: Stop looking at my piece of paper on the screen!
Liam: There's a Vestige!
Matt: Not actually. Not anymore, it's not! It's gone! All right. Amongst the carved-out circle of caravan carts and people that are camping overnight before entering the city, you do see what appear to be a dozen guards, all dressed in dark blue and dark reddish metallic armor, many carrying heavy scimitars to their side or long pikes and shields. They're all wearing intricate helmets that crest down past the nose to the point where it looks like they just have eyes and a lower jaw. It flares out at the bottom and then curves to a point right across where the clavicle would be. The armor itself is designed in a very beautiful ornate fashion, but also looks very functional. You're at a distance; they don't seem to have noticed you as you've all crested down still in your cloud forms.
Laura: We should probably land far away.
Taliesin: I'm going to de-mist. There seems to be a section where people are camping. Let's just, for once, take this by the book. We want to make sure they know we're here. No sneaking into the city.
Marisha: I don't think they'd take kindly to surprises.
Taliesin: At worst, we've got the pretense of being emissaries from Emon looking for help.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: They punish people for nicking things. I don't think we want to try to break in.
Taliesin: No. we're going to try and be truthful as much as possible, although nobody say the W word.
Travis: Wine?
Laura: Wine, definitely wine.
Marisha: I'm assuming that that's the Hand of Ord that we're looking at.
Sam: The Hand of Ord is supposed to be super secret.
Taliesin: It might just be guards.
Matt: The Hand of Ord isn't secret.
Marisha: No, he said the Hand of Ord is the name of the peacekeeping guards.
Taliesin: Yes, that's right.
Laura: All right!
Taliesin: Let's camp for the evening.
Laura: Shall we camp in the mansion, then?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: So comfortable.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: We're still a distance though? Where we are, from the guards?
Laura: Yeah. We're off a little bit.
Matt: How far are you guys? How far did you decide to stop and transform? That's up to you.
Liam: I don't know.
Taliesin: Where were the other people camping for the night?
Matt: They're maybe 40 feet from the gates.
Taliesin: Well, let's camp 40 feet. Let's camp with them.
Travis: You want to put a magical door 40 feet?
Taliesin: I'm perfectly okay. It's not like they can come in. No one can enter who can't be invited.
Liam: You want to make a mystical door floating in the middle of their tents?
Laura: Do the people seem friendly? Do they seem tired?
Taliesin: We're going to camp next to their campsite.
Matt: Make a perception check
Liam: In this world, on the ground? I love it. We haven't done it that much lately.
Taliesin: We've been too used to being careful.
Marisha: In the mansion.
Laura: 22.
Marisha: So not really camping. We're glamping.
Matt: At a safe distance, you can make out some detail, and there is some lantern light on top of some of these carts. It appears that a number of the folks have set up small tents, and most appear to be sleeping. There are a few guards that are set on top of the carts with crossbows resting over their lap, keeping an eye in case anyone decides to get too close to their wares throughout the evening.
Laura: How about we keep a distance?
Marisha: Yeah, let's not mist down in the middle of a group.
Laura: No, let's keep a distance from them and be another group of people coming into the city.
Travis: I'd say 200 yards out.
Liam: Percival said he already un-misted.
Marisha: We're deciding how far. So 200 yards.
Taliesin: I can re-mist.
Liam: We can all do that?
Taliesin: As long as the eight hours hasn't passed, we can go in and out as you please, isn't that correct?
Matt: Yeah. It takes you a minute to transform.
Sam: Should we use our misting while we have it and mist into the city?
Travis: That's what I said, but they punish crime so harshly.
Sam: We haven't committed any crime.
Laura: No, but they have to document who goes in and out.
Sam: They won't even know--
Liam: Scan-man, let's start by playing nice, please.
Marisha: And if we get caught, they're going to know we didn't sign in correctly.
Taliesin: They have giant spires, yeah, and they're going to say "who are you?" and we're not going to be on the list.
Liam: We know nothing about these people or the customs here.
Travis: Yeah, we've got to learn a little bit before we kill all of them.
Marisha: I don't see any trees, and those guards look heavily funded. That looks like expensive armor they're all wearing.
Taliesin: You've got a good eye, yes.
Laura: Can we have the mansion, Scanlan?
Sam: Sure, yes, we can do the mansion.
Taliesin: Get close enough to the other group that they are aware that we exist, but they couldn't quite make us out, so just another group of travelers camping for the night.
Liam: With a door floating in the air.
Taliesin: It's magic. It's not like they've never seen it before.
Matt: The light radius beyond the wall itself is not very strong. It only low-lights maybe a 30- to 40-foot area around the gate itself, and there are a series of small torches that appear to be ever-burning on the outside of the wall. There are a few campfires that have been set up by the caravans that are waiting amongst the sand and broken ground there. They give a little more light. As you guys get to the outskirts of this, your shapes becoming visible to those that are keeping watch, you see a few individuals stand up on their carts with their crossbows at the ready. Just have a seat and keep an eye bead on those of you that are visible. Doesn't appear to be any aggressive action, just an acknowledgement of your presence and a show of readiness should any aggressive action be taken.
Liam: I'm going to not say anything but do the "be pleased" motion.
Laura: He already did that.
Liam: Well, I'm doing it, as well.
Laura: I'm going to watch you do it.
Sam: So we've un-misted. Are we going to mansion and go to sleep?
Taliesin: We're going to mansion. It's 2 00am. It's time to mansion and go to sleep.
Sam: All right. We'll do that.
Marisha: Okay, the people who are camping, what do they look like? Pretty common folk, I'm assuming?
Matt: Best you tell at this distance, the few that you can see-- because a lot of them appear to be in small tents encamped-- the few that you do make out appear to be dressed in a little more wealthy attire than the people you encountered in Shandal. You can see the gentlemen and ladies that are guarding the encampment are dressed in functional leathers with hints of hide and metal plates incorporated in the defense, but nothing that shows overt wealth or overt destitution. General mercenary guardians for a traveling caravan.
Marisha: Okay. Are we going to talk to any of them?
Taliesin: Unless there's a brazenly loud group around one of the campfires.
Matt: At this hour? No. You get the sense, looking at the surroundings of the campfires, it looks like some sort of party or gathering may have transpired earlier in the evening, but most everyone have passed out at this time.
Laura: The guards are guarding. Anybody that approaches is a threat.
Sam: Yeah, we'll just go to sleep.
Taliesin: Goodnight, all. I am ready for bed.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: I will make the mansion.
Matt: The doorway glows with a faint purple hue. In the distance, you see some of the guards step forward and keep an eye out there. Attention has been gained by the doorway, but none of them are approaching immediately. You guys begin to step into the doorway one by one as three of the guards begin to slowly walk towards the doorway.
Taliesin: I'll go last. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I go in.
Liam: Scanlan, why don't you hang with Percival? I go in.
Travis: Yeah, in.
Laura: I stand in the doorway.
Sam: We going to talk to these people?
Taliesin: We're going to let them know who we are and what we're doing. This is just that we have a very expensive tent.
Sam: Great.
Matt: So with that, Percival, Scanlan, and Vex wait outside the shimmering doorway to Scanlan's magnificent mansion. You see the guards begin to approach. The one at the front, a square-jawed, intense-looking man who looks to be not enjoying his current time schedule as a guard on the outside of the southern gates of Ank'Harel approaches, hand at the side clutching some sort of weapon that he has currently sheathed. "May I ask the business of this strange conjuration you've brought at this hour of the night?"
Taliesin: It is our very expensive tent.
Sam: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, Percy.
Taliesin: That'll do. 23. Yeah, 24 actually. 24!
Matt: "I do not know of the nature of this magic that you bring, but I recommend that you keep it outside of the city."
Taliesin: Oh, yes, of course.
Laura: Wait, is magic not allowed within the city?
Matt: "Oh, magic is allowed, but this is unknown to us, and unknown magic is a dangerous magic."
Taliesin: I thank you for your advice. We will heed it well. What is your name, sir?
Matt: "It does not matter. We have 12 crossbows trained on this doorway, and will for the remainder of the evening. Should anything strange happen, we will not hesitate but to fire."
Taliesin: The strangest thing you will see this evening will be us.
Matt: "Good."
Laura: Thank you for the warning.
Matt: Turns around and walks back to the gate.
Taliesin: That could not have gone better.
Travis: (singing) We've got to kill everybody. (laughter)
Laura: Magic is allowed, but this is strange magic. How will we know what isn't strange magic?
Taliesin: Everything we can do is strange magic. Be prepared that not being from around here is going to be trouble.
Marisha: Yeah, I think we're just strange.
Laura: I hold the door open.
Liam: We've had old magic, new magic, strange magic.
Matt: This is all the new schools of magic.
Sam: We go in.
Matt: You guys go in. Mansion's prepared, servants are at your ready, beds are freshly fluffed. Damaged kitchens are rearranged to have been not touched at all.
Travis: What?!
Laura: Wonderful.
Sam: I love it.
Matt: You are able to rest for the evening as you prepare for your next day entering the city of Ank'Harel itself.
Taliesin: I make my way, quietly in the night, to Grog's room. I was just kidding, sorry!
Travis: (laughing) I was like, "come get some, bitch!"
Laura: No, I want to go to sleep, and I'm holding on to Fenthras and thinking about everything.
Matt: Mulling over the events that recently transpired and digesting all the questions you still have.
Taliesin: I gave you a lot to think about, didn't I? Sorry. (laughs)
Sam: I play a card game by myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys have a restful night, we're going to take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes, and we'll pick this up in the following morning as they enter the city itself. See you in a minute! [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone! Returning from the break, Vox Machina has an evening of rest in Scanlan's magnificent mansion. You come to consciousness the following morning, stationed within the beautiful confines of this magical mansion, unaware directly of what awaits you on the other side of the doorway. However, the morning is yours. What do you wish to do?
Liam: I'm going to stealth back to my room.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: No one sees anything.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: No worries. I got a one, but I'll use luck.
Marisha: You're using a luck?
Liam: Two ones!
Taliesin: Two ones!
All: (yelling) Yes!
Taliesin: There is a god, and he hates you!
Marisha: You are so walk of shaming right now. (laughter)
Matt: So as the morning comes about, Vex, you go stretch out of your room, scratching the side of your head, messed up from sleeping wrong on the pillow, and as you walk out you hear (clicking) and look to your right and see your brother slowly slinking away from Keyleth's room.
Laura: (retching) I go back in my room.
Liam: Oh hey, hold on a second, though.
Travis: Oh man. (laughs) Talk it out.
Marisha: Talk it out right now.
Laura: I'm about to throw up.
Liam: No, you make jokes, but I want to go into your room for a second and talk to you.
Travis: Ew! Make him bathe.
Laura: Fine. And I go in my room and I sit down on the opposite side of the room.
Liam: Take a full minute to get over it, you fucker.
Laura: Hold on, it's not been a minute. All right.
Liam: You really should have gone into acting. It really was your calling. Yeah.
Laura: No, I'm happy for you. As foul as it is. What are you doing? What?
Liam: (sighs) Sorry, I'm a little discombobulated. I've never rolled two ones in a row.
Matt: Yeah, that happened.
Laura: Oh, that was so amazing.
Matt: Take that, Luck feat! (laughter)
Liam: I know this is a really stupid time to talk about it, but we never get to talk to each other, and I have a serious question. (nervous laugh) Relax. In that tree, that guy said a lot of fucked-up shit to you, and it just sounded like a lot of fucked-up shit and him trying to make you feel bad, so fuck him, right? Fuck that guy. But he said something about a dagger? And I saw your face fall.
Laura: (soft laugh) Jesus Christ.
Liam: And I asked you if you were all right the other day, and I think you might have not told me the entire truth. Are you all right?
Laura: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Right now?
Liam: I could be dead tomorrow, Vex. Right now.
Laura: He knew a lot of things, yes. I don't think he was completely wrong, and that's what makes me feel terrible.
Liam: About what, about you being shitty? Fuck that guy!
Laura: Well, he was right about the dagger.
Liam: I want you to tell me about the dagger. I want to know about the dagger, but I'm serious, fuck that guy on the rotten branches he was growing out of. He's not right. Your strength of character runs deep. Fuck that guy! It breaks my heart to see you doubt yourself. You have always been a wonderful woman! I'm not saying you have to be a fucking beefcake; you don't have to be a soldier, but--
Laura: That's good, because I am really weak. (laughs)
Liam: Whatever the case, you are a good person. All of them know that. They all know that. None of them doubt it. I don't doubt it. I don't have the words, I just want you to believe me.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: I'm not eloquent like Percival, but I've known you a long time. You are a good person.
Laura: Thank you. It makes me happy to see you happy.
Liam: Forgot what it feels like.
Laura: Yeah, right?
Liam: What's the dagger?
Laura: Oh, that. Yeah, I killed a couple people and I saved Trinket, that's all.
Liam: When?
Matt: Trinket comes waking up from what was his sleeping stance.
Liam: You'll have to be more specific than that.
Laura: Do you remember when I brought Trinket back to camp?
Liam: Originally?
Laura: Yeah! All those years ago?
Liam: Yes! I thought it was a terrible idea. I was dead wrong.
Laura: (laughs) Well... turns out, I found him in a camp where I'd been taken.
Liam: What?
Laura: Yes, and there was some really dark people there, and they had harvested--
Sam: (sneezes)
Laura: Trinket's mother. Bless you. Is Scanlan in the room?
Liam: The paintings do all have holes cut in the eyes, so you can never be sure.
Laura: I did what I had to do, and I killed them.
Liam: The people that took you.
Laura: Yes. I did.
Liam: The people that took you from me?
Laura: Yes. And I saved Trinket that night, and that's what Saundor saw. More than anything I just... I don't know how he saw it.
Liam: Are you just creeped out because he knew or because of what happened? Why are you upset?
Laura: I'm not.
Liam: Well, listen. I wasn't there. I don't know what happened, but... you came back to me, so whatever happened can't be wrong.
Laura: Right? (sniffles)
Liam: Oh, come here! Come here! If somebody took you from me... I don't know how to see it any other way than I do. You would have to do something really terrible, Vex'ahlia, for me to ever feel disappointment in you, and you have not ringed that bell. Rung it?
Laura: Rung it.
Liam: You studied harder than I did.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Goodness, please. One more time  You are a good person, and I've always seen that. Please see it, please. Oh god, my heart is breaking.
Laura: No! It's good. We all need to self-reflect every once in a while. I needed it. My heart is in the right place. I know it is. I'm just afraid sometimes actions speak louder than intentions. If things I was doing could be read the wrong way, then... maybe I need to change what I do.
Liam: (sighs) You've always been bold. That's not a crime. That's all right.
Laura: It's fine, dear.
Liam: I feel like a boy again.
Laura: (laughs) No, please. I'm so happy to see you happy. Don't worry about me. I'm fine!
Liam: Well, no, but--
Laura: And I can talk to Trinket now. We talk all the time.
Liam: Vex'ahlia.
Laura: We've talked through a lot.
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Right?
Liam: Vex.
Laura: Yes? (laughs)
Liam: Fuck, I'm just going around-- I love you.
Laura: I love you.
Liam: You don't have to talk to me about everything, but if you want to... if you want to. Should you need me.
Laura: "Should you need me."
Liam: All right. Sorry to babble.
Laura: Oh, yeah, no. Maybe go take a shower.
Liam: I'm not going to answer that. I'll see you at breakfast. And I walk away.
Matt: Yeah, you do. All right, as you all find breakfast, a fair prepared chicken feast, as they've been given no other instruction. (laughter)
Travis: Can't we change it up?
Liam: I'm afraid not.
Sam: Change up the food?
Laura: Yeah, maybe something other than chicken.
Sam: Why? It's nutritious. It's delicious.
Travis: Ravioli!
Sam: Ravioli for breakfast? All right.
Laura: Something with veggies?
Sam: Let's do ravioli. Staff?
Matt: "Yes, Scanlan?"
Laura: Oh, they speak?
Travis: Shit, they do talk!
Sam: Could you make us some chicken ravioli?
Liam: You unlocked "Ravioli in Marquet!"
Laura: They're learning.
Travis: They're smart. We have to kill them all!
Taliesin: They're going to learn.
Matt: The servants vanish for about ten minutes and return with a robust meal of bowls and bowls of chicken ravioli.
Travis: Chicken ravioli. (laughs)
Laura: Delicious.
Sam: Yummy.
Travis: Good call.
Taliesin: Adequate.
Matt: Slightly. You finish your meal, feel yourself satiated as much as you can be with chicken ravioli for breakfast. You guys exit, find yourself on the exterior walls of Ank'Harel, the sun blazing down in the early morning, a hotter temperature than you've been used to in quite some time. Would be the equivalent of probably the low 100s Fahrenheit by our standards. All of you with layers of armor, which is all of you except for Grog, immediately feel this is going to be uncomfortable fairly quickly. Grog, you are used to higher colder climates, even without being heavily armored, still fairly uncomfortable.
Travis: Sucks.
Liam: You're really pale, too.
Matt: It's not great. You can see the caravans that you guys were camping loosely next to are no longer there. It looks like there have been a couple of dark spots in the dust and the sand that have been kicked over where the campsites were, where the fires were put out, and tracks of where the carts and wheels have been dragged to and through the gate. You can now see about ten guards that are all stationed at the front of that iron gate on this side of the Ank'Harel wall.
Sam: Well? Should we go in and be traveling people and kill everyone that we see?
Travis: How about you let me take the lead on this?
Laura: How about no?
Sam: What's our angle? We are weary travelers from Tal'Dorei, seeking--
Marisha: I thought we were going into this one with honesty. Thought we agreed to that.
Sam: Seeking help?
Marisha: We're ambassadors from Emon.
Travis: Keyleth, do you really want to be honest or is it a ploy? Do we want to be honest?
Taliesin: The ploy is to be honest.
Marisha: Our normality is dishonesty, so technically we're switching it up.
Laura: This is the ploy.
Taliesin: This is a radical shift.
Marisha: We're not honest, so let's try it for once.
Sam: All right, let's do it. We're from Emon, we need help fighting dragons.
Marisha: I feel like that's pretty compelling.
Matt: Grog, make an intelligence check.
Travis: (laughs) Yeah, thank you. Travis needs to make an intelligence check. Oh Jesus, it's a 12. Minus two.
Matt: You have no idea what they're talking about. You find yourself instinctually nodding.
Sam: We'll just go in, big guy. We'll be fine.
Liam: First chance for violence is all yours. You're the first one in.
Travis: I'm all in. Violence. That's what I came away with.
Marisha: (sighs) We have to be careful with our word choices with him.
Taliesin: We head towards the gate.
Travis: (garbled) This ravioli is delicious, by the way. My compliments to the little purple men.
Sam: They're not men, but yes.
Matt: As you guys approach the outside of the gate, you can see seven of the guards stay behind while three, seemingly the same three that had been keeping a close eye upon your initial approach in the evening, walk up. The same man walks up, now looking a little tired; his day is probably finishing out the rest of his station here at the gate. Approaches, hand still on the side of his sheathed weapon. "So you awaken. You have rested. What is your business here in Ank'Harel?"
Sam: We are weary travelers from Emon, and we have come to seek assistance with the security of our home.
Matt: "What is your contact within the city? Who do you wish to speak to?"
Liam: Go for the top?
Marisha: Oh, that's a really far stretch. The king.
Sam: We are seeking a man called...
Liam: J'mon Sa Ord.
Sam: No, I don't think we want to talk to the king. Do we?
Marisha: Merchant warrior? No, not that one? Who the fuck are we trying to see?
Sam: We would like to talk to J'mon Sa Ord or his or her advisors to seek advice.
Matt: "You come for an audience with the emperor?"
Taliesin: We come for an audience with many people, to be honest. We are looking at many avenues of possible help. Contacts, trade, anything that can help us in our time of dire need.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: Me or him?
Matt: You.
Sam: Oh. Okay. It was a million.
Taliesin: I didn't know that that die went that high.
Sam: 34.
Laura: It's a million.
Matt: His arm relaxes at the side of his weapon, and he looks down upon your diminutive gnomish structure, though glances over at the much larger goliath and back at you. "If you indeed have business with J'mon Sa Ord, then the emperor will let you in. If you do not, you will be sent out. We have no business between either of those answers. If you wish to enter, do so, but keep your weapons sheathed, and keep an eye on that one."
Sam: The big one?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: He's well-behaved.
Matt: "I don't trust his face."
Taliesin: His face is usually not the trouble.
Liam: Is it the beard?
Matt: "Very well. Welcome to Ank'Harel. Be pleased."
All: Be pleased.
Matt: He turns around and walks away. His bow is much smaller than you were originally taught by Jarett. You get the sense that that's more of a formality and is on a smaller scale for more informal conversations. As he walks back, he lifts one hand and does a loop with it. As he does, (door thudding). The gates open ever so slightly, enough to bring through as broad-shouldered an individual as Grog, as well as the rest of you easily. You guys walk up and approach.
Laura: Is anybody looking at Trinket weird, or is it okay? He's with us.
Matt: Actually, no one seems to bat an eye at the large bear that's wandering inside.
Travis: But they give a shit about the goliath? That's fucked up.
Taliesin: One last question for our good friend at the gate.
Matt: Okay, as you walk past him.
Taliesin: One more thing, good sir. If you were going to find a place to sleep comfortably, quietly, and without incident for the evening in the city, is there a place that you would recommend to a friend?
Matt: "Well, best I can think, there are many fine establishments of rest where rooms can be rented throughout the entirety of the city. Depending on how much coin you have to give, I would say you could..." He thinks for a second as I look at my notes.
Taliesin: Where you would put a brother-in-law that you liked?
Liam: Medium to high.
Matt: "I would recommend within the Suncut Bazaar, you would find the Debt's Respite, the Shade, or the Corner Cove. All very fine establishments, and very well watched by the Hand."
Travis: The Hand?
Sam: Are you a member of the Hand?
Matt: "I am. Is this your first time in the city, then?"
Taliesin: It is absolutely, yes.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: What was the name of the district?
Laura: The Suncut Bazaar.
Marisha: Suncut Bazaar.
Matt: As he watches you guys enter, the gates closing behind you, you now see the incredible reveal of the interior of the mystical city itself. Streets of smooth cobblestone-like red pebbles lead your eyes to hundreds of visible, vertically-inclined buildings of reaching peaks and smooth, pointed rooftops as far as your eye can see across the cityscape. It's a city of vibrant color; you see nearly every home, storefront, and outhouse has some form of draping silks or painted mural to give it individual character, standing out against the rest of its neighboring abodes, creating a calming, beautiful symphony of really nothing, in the presentation of it all. The people are walking with purpose, and the sounds of foreign barking and shouts occasionally break the air. Welcome to Ank'Harel.
Taliesin: Let's get arrested right now!
Marisha: Fight!
Matt: What do you guys wish to do?
Sam: We need spice. We need to find out about this merchant guy.
Travis: Got to get laid.
Sam: We got to get laid. Every continent, right? That's our pact. (laughter)
Travis: There's nothing that doesn't mean it's a pact.
Taliesin: We're going to need to talk to some gentry. We're going to need to talk to a library.
Marisha: Well, we should probably start with a tavern.
Taliesin: And I should also mention, not just a tavern is available, but we do in fact have three titled people within our crowd, so we can actually talk to people of standing and note with very little difficulty.
Liam: Are we certain that that will hold any water on this continent?
Taliesin: It holds water on every continent. Only people who are not titled think it doesn't.
Sam: Should we split up into a couple parties? No? All right.
Taliesin: Let's find a tavern, find some rooms. Let's go to this bazaar.
Marisha: People tend to know things in taverns.
Taliesin: Get the word out of what we're looking for.
Sam: To the Suncut Bazaar!
Travis: Wait, what if there's a market, like an open farmer's market we could get some spice?
Laura: Yeah. As we look around, do we see any markets? Actually, the shopping district would be a wonderful place to look for--
Marisha: Is that in the Suncut Bazaar, or could we head that direction while we look?
Sam: Oi! Oi, you there, boy! (laughter)
Matt: As you glance over, you see walking down the street what appears to be two teenage boys, huddled together, wearing drab, ankle-length cloth robes. One of them has a purple shawl over their shoulders. The other has a hood up, and they're both carrying small satchels of fruit in their arms. They both stop and turn. They look curiously at the small gnome, the small, pale gnome in foreign clothes and adorned, beautiful armor that walks up to them in the street.
Sam: That looks like fine fruit. Where would you go to go shopping for things here, market-y things?
Matt: (muttered conversation) "You are a very small man."
Sam: I've heard that. It's a glandular condition. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry to hear that."
Sam: Yes. My cross to bear. I've seen many medicine men about it, but they can't cure it, but many have recommended that I get a diet of vegetables and fruit. Where could I buy some, just like the kind that you have?
Matt: "This fruit is actually very difficult to find and come across. If you wish, you could purchase this batch."
Sam: Okay. I've seen this before. I'm not interested in buying from you. I just want a market or a bazaar or anything.
Matt: "Bazaar. You are looking for the Suncut Bazaar?"
Sam: Yeah, that!
Matt: "It is farther down that way. Look to the blue tower in the center of the city? Walk in its direction to the eastern skyline--"
Laura: I'm not looking in the direction. I'm keeping my eyes on them the entire time he's talking.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Marisha: I'm desperately trying to commit every direction to memory.
Taliesin: I am so fearful that he's about to try and buy meth from children.
Laura: 20.
Matt: "Look for the strings of crimson flags that hang across the very street corners. That will signify the entrance to the Suncut Bazaar."
Sam: You're so helpful.
Matt: 20. They both seem confused, but also strangely enamored with this tiny man who's talking to them. No shifty behavior beyond that.
Travis: Their hands aren't moving into someone's pockets?
Laura: No.
Sam: Thank you so much, young men, for your help. Also, spice? (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Oh my god!
Taliesin: No!
Sam: Do you spice?
Marisha: Do you spice?!
Travis: Yo, you cool? You cool, dog?
Matt: (muttered conversation) "I don't know what you're talking about."
Sam: I'm not an authority. Do you spice? Spice it?
Matt: "I am sorry. I'm confused?"
Sam: It's cool. Ignore that part. Thank you so much. What do you think, a little spice?
Matt: He puts his hand out.
Sam: I flip him a coin.
Matt: He takes it. "Good luck finding your fruit."
Sam: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: And they both walk away, but at a slow pace, looking over their shoulder at you the whole way.
Sam: They seemed legit! They seemed like they were street kids.
Taliesin: What about that was legit?!
Sam: They're riffraff. They could know what spice is.
Taliesin: They were carrying fruit!
Sam: They look normal, but I've got a keen eye for these things. I was a kid on the street for a long time.
Liam: Sam? No joke, thanks for the ab workout. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh god.
Travis: Fuck. That was great.
Taliesin: I can't.
Liam: (deep sigh)
Travis: Do we go in the direction?
Laura: We walk towards the Suncut Bazaar, keeping an eye out.
Matt: All right. As you guys continue deeper into the city, the sheer size of this town reminds you of a mirror universe form of Emon, in the way that the streets narrow and then open, and the liveliness of culture around you in its heyday, and it saddens you, because it reminds you of back when the city was at its prime, when you first arrived and made it a home for yourself. But at the same time, the energy is infectious, and you can't help but feel like there's a lot of interesting people, culture, and momentum all about you no matter where you seem to walk across these streets. Though the culture here appears to be far older than that of Emon that you've encountered; even the buildings and constructs range in ways that-- maybe not as old as Vasselheim, per se, but at least you can see that there's some variation to some of the abodes here that have been worn through time more so than any you have encountered in Tal'Dorei, for the most part. These decorated and intricate buildings fill the streets. You can see pride in their construction, and the smells of horses and hot desert air combine with various burning spice and sage that occasionally wafts through the air to your nostrils. The ever-changing exotic skyline occasionally grabs your attention. You see the distant shadow of what looks like a skyship docked at a sky port. You get looks of many citizens, expressions ranging from amusement to mistrust as you pass by, until you come upon a massive building that shines with the sunlight. Above you, you see a number of red flags that hang and drift, about five feet in length, these thin, draping pieces of silk that shift with the breeze, and you can see numbers of these strands across different roads, and it's at this point that you look up and realize that this is the entrance to the Suncut Bazaar. Looking off towards the left, and what you've been watching as you approach, there are this cluster of dark blue and purple towers of various widths marking a central place in the center of the city. In the center of them, there is one very large, cylindrical tower that rises up past them all into what looks like a chalice or a cup-like platform at the very top that is impossibly high amongst the rest of the structures here in the city. It seems to be a beacon or watchtower over the entirety of Ank'Harel. But your attention now, here in the Suncut Bazaar, as you step around the corner, you can see tents and storefronts and buildings and voices raised as different barkers are shouting out for their wares. You can see carts being drawn through the streets by horse and camel. You can see what appear to be dozens upon dozens of people coming through with small satchels and coming by and purchasing their necessities for the day. You can smell cooking meats and food in the distance. You can see street performers juggling, and distant music of buskers in the side of the street, playing various flutes and instruments: some you recognize, some you do not. You actually see a shawm. It catches your attention on the side of the street.
Sam: I need a new reed for that.
Matt: And here you are, amongst the Suncut Bazaar.
Travis: Can I whip around and see if anyone's following us?
Sam: Ooh, Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Hammer down! 14.
Matt: 14. No matter where you walk, eyes are on you.
Travis: I am a gorgeous man.
Matt: Most people you come around here, it seems a largely human population. Beyond that, you've not seen a single dwarf as you've walked through the city, but you have seen a number of dark-skinned halflings, a few half-elves. Not an elf has caught your eye since you've wandered through. You've seen a couple of tieflings that walk openly in this city, which is a rare thing from Emon. Even there, most tieflings generally are met with mistrust and prejudice in the street. Here, no one seems to pay mind or bother. You do see a few half-orcs, this team of half-orcs that are shouting out in a language that none of you understand. Some sort of sales pitch they're giving, and there's a few people gathered around them. This is a very wide variety of people that live in this city, and everyone seems to mesh together without issue or prejudice, but not one goliath has caught your eye, and you've caught the eyes of many. And wherever you walk, you can see the townspeople stop, and they don't gawk. They don't stare intently. They're more curious, but no one appears to be following you.
Laura: Are the shops here indoors, or are they outdoor tent markets?
Matt: There are a few that appear to go into buildings, but the majority of this, as you look at now the Suncut Bazaar itself, while it is a section of the city, it is mostly open sky and is probably hundreds of various tents, carts, pop-up stand-ups, and even the center of the street, blankets set out, with the various merchants there with their wares strewn across the ground, waiting for anybody to come and approach.
Laura: Do we see any spice merchants?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: Also, while she's rolling, do we all see people eyeballing him?
Matt: Yeah. It's pretty easy to see, and most everyone's--
Travis: In love? Enamored? Jealous?
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11. You look around and ask a few people, and most everyone shrugs their shoulders or points you in an odd direction, and no immediate spice merchants catch your attention. You're still on the outskirts of the Suncut.
Marisha: Do there appear to be any fruit merchants?
Matt: There are a few, actually. Yeah. And it's interesting. In this very hot desert environment, and you understanding how most plant life exists, fruit should be pretty damn rare, and what fruit would make it here seems to be pretty dry and withered. But everything you come across here is very plump, beautiful, and fresh.
Taliesin: Life.
Marisha: Needs things to live.
Taliesin: Needs things to live.
Marisha: There's not many things, no. Can I go up to one of the fruit merchants?
Matt: You go up to what appears to be a woman, probably in her late thirties. Her hair is long past her shoulders, and these dark black, brunette waves that spray out like mermaid hair across her shoulders. As you approach, she eagerly reaches out. "You look like you are traveling here to Ank'Harel in search of beautiful, delicious fruits of which to whet your palate. Yes? Would you like for these fine apples, of which are the finest you could find?"
Marisha: Apples? Oh wow. I was looking for something a little bit more exotic. Something native to this land.
Matt: "Ah, well--" She takes the apples back. "What you'd prefer, then, would be the kurrak fruit." And she pulls out what looks like a mango, but the exterior of it is very rough, with these little spines all around it. "While it is difficult to hold, crack open for a delightful flavor. It is gentle. It is like a sweet water experience."
Marisha: That was very descriptive. Thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Marisha: How much do I owe you for this?
Matt: "For this, that would be two silver pieces."
Marisha: Two silver. And how much, just for future reference, are the apples?
Matt: "The apples would go for one silver piece apiece."
Marisha: One silver apiece. That's pretty steep. Don't worry about it. Here you go. I give her a little extra.
Matt: "Thank you so much for your patronage. Anything else you would like?"
Marisha: I think I'm good, thank you.
Laura: I peek around her shoulder. Where would the Shade be?
Matt: "The Shade? The Shade would be-- it's hard to explain. Do you see that building over there with the dark green steeple?" And you glance off in the distance. You can see, layers back, there appears to be one spire, this very harsh point that has a dark green tint. "That is the roof of the Shade. That'd be what you're looking for."
Laura: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Not a problem."
Liam: I would like to walk by, and as I'm passing Vex, I'm going to do that thing where you walk past a friend and you do that sideways kick in the butt, and I'm going to go stand by Grog, and anybody I see giving him the evil eye, I'm going to match it back.
Matt: Okay. You watch as she walks away, she had her hands out to Vex, and as soon as Vex keeps walking away, she goes--
Marisha: I toss her a gold. She's with me.
Matt: "You are free to shop here any day you like."
Marisha: And what was your name?
Matt: She pulls the coin out and pops it away and says, "I am Shubad."
Marisha: Shubad?
Matt: "Shubad."
Marisha: Keyleth.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you."
Marisha: A pleasure. Thank you so much.
Travis: Are any of the barkers talking about magic stuff?
Taliesin: I'm also looking for a soothsayer.
Liam: What do you want to see, a show?
Travis: Well, I don't know. It just seems so exotic.
Taliesin: Anything out of the ordinary and/or a soothsayer, card-reader, bones-reader, whatever they have that's like that.
Matt: Okay. Both of you make investigation checks as you look around and ask around.
Liam: And I don't like the way these folks are looking at big man, so I'm going to stay by him.
Matt: You stay close to Grog.
Laura: No going up from that. That's what it is.
Travis: Negative two. (laughter)
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: I am city-blind, apparently.
Laura: What are you looking for?
Taliesin: I'm looking for anything out of the ordinary, but specifically, a soothsayer, a card-reader, a bones-thrower.
Matt: Grog. Glancing about, you look to see something shine across the ground. As you rush up and find it, you find what looks to be a magically enchanted stone about that big. Rough around the edges, but the reddish color is brighter red than the rest of the stones on the ground, and you're sure that this may be exactly what you were looking for.
Liam: I'm watching him.
Travis: I quickly get on my hands and knees, and I start moving the sand around, looking for one just like it, just to make sure it's unique.
Matt: There are many red stones around it, as you press the bit of dust and sand gathered around the other cobblestones, but this one appears to be unique.
Travis: Oh! What does it taste like?
Matt: There's a hit of saltiness to the dust that has gathered in this vicinity.
Travis: I gave away my salt-lick rock!
Matt: You did. (laughter)
Liam: I take a moment to marvel at how a being of such ferocity and power can be such a doofus at the same time. It's amazing.
Sam: I'm going to plant myself at the end of two rows of the intersection and wait for people to walk by. And as they do, I say: Spice? Spice, spice, spice? You spice it? Spice, spice, spice?
Laura: Can I have seen Percy looking around?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Can I help him look?
Matt: Percival, what did you roll?
Taliesin: Where did it go? Investigation? I rolled a nine.
Matt: Yeah. It's funny. For all the preparation of being a noble and public speaking, you are utterly lost.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm terrible in urban areas. I've learned this. I get flustered.
Matt: The culture is so vastly different from what you're used to, and the people don't seem to really pay much mind to your relatively important outfit and presence, and you're lost at sea.
Taliesin: I've never rolled a decent investigation check. It has never happened.
Matt: Vex walks up to you.
Laura: What are you looking for, dear?
Taliesin: Beyond anything interesting. Everything is too interesting.
Laura: It's very colorful.
Taliesin: A soothsayer of some kind, perhaps. It might be a good way to start getting the word out of the sorts of things we're looking for.
Laura: What sorts of things?
Taliesin: We're looking for a cloak. We're looking for a merchant with one eye.
Travis: I found a rock!
Taliesin: And we're looking for rocks-- not anymore, I suppose. And those are usually the most trustworthy of the untrustworthy people you find in a city.
Laura: Investigation? 19.
Matt: 19. The two of you begin to meander around, look around. You see, after some wandering, what looks to be a single blanket set out with a small half-dome shade structure of various cotton cloths that have been layered and pinned to create this loose escape from the sunlight. And you see what appears to be an older man with a very long braided beard that goes past his belly-button. He sits there, sleeveless open shirt, baggy pants, no shoes, and before him a deck of cards that is laying in a stack, and he has his eyes closed with his hands resting at the ends of his knees.
Liam: It sounds like fun.
Laura: Want to walk up? Yeah?
Taliesin: You mind blowing a little bit of money on this?
Laura: No, actually.
Marisha: Are we all there?
Matt: Depends on if you guys want to follow.
Marisha: I'd like to follow.
Matt: Okay. as you guys are approaching, you over in the corner.
Sam: Spice it? Spice it? Fusaka!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: A billion. Deception?
Matt: Deception, yeah.
Sam: 32.
Matt: This marks your ability to double-talk or subtly put out the vibes for an individual.
Liam: Why aren't you a crime kingpin?
Matt: Who knows what Scanlan's ultimate destiny is?
Taliesin: I have a song for your next playlist. I'm so excited.
Matt: After a few moments of you doing this and a few people walking away, looking frustrated and taken aback, partially by your visual form and the unexpected contents of your words, one man in his early twenties walking up, what looks to be a damp cloth wrapped loosely around the head to keep the head cooled under the sun's heat, walks up and leans in and goes, "You're asking about spice, yes?"
Sam: Yes, hard-to-find spice. I don't know if they have it in this particular bazaar. It takes a seller with a keen eye to identify it.
Matt: "Well, I know folks who are purveyors of many spices here. Please, what do you seek?"
Sam: It's not really something that I want to discuss out in the open, but we could take a walk and talk about it.
Matt: "Good, good. Lead on. We'll have a conversation as we go." As he stands back up after leaning down for you, you get a little glance at what appears to be a slightly pointed ear and what looks like a hint of a mustache that's grown through. Very similar in visual presentation as to your comrades: not full elf, not full human, though definitely a much darker shade due to the out-in-the-open lifestyle of Ank'Harel. You begin to walk with this figure through the street. We'll get to you in just a moment. So as you guys make your way to the older gentleman sitting on the ground, eyes closed.
Laura: We sit down in front of him.
Matt: His eyes are still closed.
Laura: Be pleased.
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Marisha: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased." His eyes open, and you can see his eyes are snow-blind. They are clouded over with what would probably be terrible cataracts or something else that has caused him full blindness, but he stares past you as he opens his eyes. "So you wish to be read, then?"
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Five gold for my services."
Sam: (whispers) He won't know what you put in his hand!
Taliesin: You're not there.
Marisha: He will know. He's a fortune teller, for Christ's sake.
Liam: Five plumbing washers.
Laura: Should I put five or 15, for each of us?
Taliesin: Five, for the moment. He knows there's three of us.
Matt: He places it into a small side pouch. "What do you wish to be read for?" He takes the cards and begins shuffling.
Taliesin: We search for a garment. We search for a man.
Matt: His way of shuffling cards is interesting. As opposed to the usual like double shuffle, he picks up the deck in one hand and splits it and then shuffles it together. Turns it around, splits it, and then shuffles it together on each side. It's this weird boy with a crystal in Labyrinth, but with a card deck. It's wild. As he stays still, looking past all of you.
Taliesin: And we search for answers towards the future that we inevitably run to.
Matt: The shuffling stops, and he grabs the deck. "You search for a garment." And he takes two cards out and throws them across the center of the blanket for you guys. You guys step back and take a look. One of them appears to have a fire or a camp flame with smoke pouring up out of it, and the other one appears to have a storm, a torrent of water, and he goes, "This garment you seek. It looks to be in motion, moving. If you seek this garment here, may haste take you. Your second question." What were you saying in the second one?
Taliesin: We search for a man.
Laura: With one eye.
Taliesin: Well, I didn't say that far.
Marisha: A merchant warrior. Missing.
Taliesin: He doesn't need that. He's fine.
Matt: What did you say?
Taliesin: Oh, we search for a man.
Matt: Pulls up two more cards and throws them, and they land almost exactly in the same place as the other two cards that he tossed before. They scoot to a stop. One card appears to be mostly blank, except it carries some sort of a stylized symbol or letter that you don't recognize. And the other one appears to be a hand of cards stuffed within a pile of coin. "You seek this man, yet it is not a man you seek. To where the luck brings you, the answers lie." And he puts out his hand.
Taliesin: Five more. Five more.
Matt: "And the third question?"
Laura: Can I insight check him as he's reading the cards? See if his face twitches at all, if it looks like he's making shit up.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: 21?
Sam: Oh, the whispers! So many whispers. How are the Cowboys doing, Travis?
Travis: I stopped looking.
Sam: I can tell you how they're doing.
Liam: Sounds like a sad man right there.
Taliesin: Wait, let's consult the cards. That's the third question.
Travis: It's pre-season. Nobody playing right now.
Sam: Oh yeah, sure.
Taliesin: The cards say the Cowboys are not--
Sam: Hey, maybe you and me should go to a game sometime.
Travis: I would love to.
Laura: Okay. And the third question?
Taliesin: We move towards a conflict. What should we know? What should we be prepared for?
Matt: Pulls the two cards forward, throws them down, landing once again almost precisely on the same space as the last two tosses. They slide to a stop. One of them shows a chasm cracking in the earth, and the other appears to show a singular, sunken skull. "The path is to change historic, but many will fall as the transition is to take. Take your time wisely, for the hourglass runs quickly."
Laura: Goddamn it. Five more gold.
Matt: "Is this all of your questions?"
Taliesin: That will do, yes.
Matt: He bows his head ever so slowly towards you. "Then be pleased." And he takes the cards and shuffles them back into the deck, rights them into a perfect square with one quick move of his hand, and places them back in front, puts his hands back on his knees, and closes his eyes and puts his head down. There's a pause, and he reaches over and grabs a small, partially eaten apple and (chomp).
Laura: I as quietly as possible put another five gold in front of him.
Matt: His chewing stops, and he swallows. Reaches out, patting around it, and finds the gold coins. Puts it into a pocket. "You ask for one more question. What do you inquire?" (card shuffling)
Laura: Did I make the right choice?
Matt: Two cards land across the carpet before you. One of them shows upon it two hands joining, and the other one shows a symbol of a sun rising over a mountain range. He says, "You've made many choices, but the one you speak of brings unity and a new dawn."
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: He nods. "Be pleased." Takes the cards up, shuffles them back into the deck, and sets it down. He goes back into his meditative trance.
Taliesin: I feel that was money well spent.
Marisha: I guess.
Laura: That was so cool!
Taliesin: Well, we know we do not necessarily look for a man, which is important. We know that time is even more of the essence than we first implied, and considering that almost every soothsayer I've ever met is as crooked as the day is long, the word is now out that we're looking for them.
Laura: Well, that's the Shade. Should we head that direction?
Taliesin: We should.
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Do you want to bring your rock?
Travis: My what?
Taliesin: We should grab Scanlan.
Liam: Where is he?
Matt: Scanlan is gone.
Liam: Well, shit.
Marisha: We need one of those leashes for him.
Liam: Shorthalt?
Taliesin: Let's maintain a certain level of plausible deniability.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: I come over the earrings. Scanlan? Just making sure you're okay, wondering where you are. No biggie. Just checking in.
Matt: As you're walking with your half-elvish friend down one of the nearby alleyways, you hear Keyleth speaking over the earring.
Sam: I say  I'm cool.
Taliesin: We're going to die. Let's get a room.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So you guys make your way towards the Shade?
Laura: Yes. Scanlan, we're heading towards the Shade. It's the big green tent. Follow?
Sam: (clicks tongue) Yeah.
Matt: Your half-elven compadre goes, "Are you all right?"
Sam: I'm cool. I'm cool on these desert nights, and I need something to warm me up at night, so that's why I was inquiring about this spice.
Matt: "Please, which spice are you seeking?"
Sam: It might not be entirely legal, but fusaka?
Matt: He nods. "It may take a bit of time. I know someone who could bring this, but I could not bring you to them. They'd have to bring it to you."
Sam: Where can we meet?
Matt: "Well, where are you staying?"
Sam: I'm staying outside of the walls in a small encampment, but I can meet him sometime tonight inside the walls.
Matt: "Where would you need to meet?"
Sam: How about where we first met, at that same intersection, or is that too busy?
Matt: "That is far too busy. It needs to be private, away."
Sam: I'm sort of a visitor here.
Matt: "If you want a place to stay, there is Luck's Run, the casino. There are back rooms there."
Sam: There's a casino?
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: Hells yes.
Matt: "There is the Debt's Respite Inn, which has its own grasp of lowlifes. Those are probably the best bets."
Sam: Let's meet in a room at the casino.
Matt: "The casino it is. Which room?"
Sam: The red room? I'm not familiar with this casino. I'll need some guidance.
Matt: "Wear a red shirt. He will find you in the casino."
Sam: Okay. That sounds good.
Matt: "All right. Hour past sundown, we'll find you there."
Sam: Tonight? What time?
Matt: "An hour past sundown."
Sam: Oh, sorry. I was thinking about the casino. Sorry.
Matt: "How much do you want?"
Sam: Oh my god. I'm not prepared for this!
Matt: He starts looking a little untrusting.
Travis: Be cool, man. Be cool.
Sam: Enough to get me through a week of heavy use. I want to go on a bender.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: A billion. More than before. 35.
Taliesin: How are you rolling that?
Matt: He gives you a look and bends down.
Sam: I've had a rough few weeks, and I need to get away from it all and go to that place--
Matt: He gets close to your face, interrupts you, and goes, "I mean this with all due respect: Being as small a man as you are, you have to be careful."
Sam: Don't tell me what to do. I can take it, all right? (laughter)
Sam: Let's just say that when I started using, I was your height. (laughter)
Matt: He backs off, hands up. He goes, "Very well. The amount you ask, I have no specific amount. I'd have to inquire, but I would say, to be safe, bring about 200 gold pieces with you. Just in case."
Sam: It'll be pure, not cut with anything else? I want the good stuff.
Matt: He looks at you, confused.
Sam: Am I buying cinnamon here?
Marisha: Might be.
Taliesin: It's going to be a living baby.
Sam: It's going to be a pound of turmeric!
Liam: Cardamom.
Sam: Yes. We have a deal. Let's shake on it.
Matt: He reaches out and takes your hand, and you shake. "Very well. Hour after sundown. Casino." He brings his cloth up and brings it up over his face for a second and darts into one of the nearby corners and vanishes.
Sam: Where did you guys go? Hello?
Laura: We're at the Shade!
Sam: Okay! I'm coming! Where is that? Shit, where am I? I ask around for the Shade.
Matt: You eventually find it.
Marisha: Scanlan, stop panicking. I can hear you hyperventilating.
Sam: I'm sorry, I've just never done anything that cool before!
Taliesin: And you still haven't.
Liam: The hell you haven't!
Sam: I just did a drug deal, guys!
Marisha: Scanlan, not over the speakers! Not over the phone line!
Laura: You have drugs with you?
Sam: No! I'll tell you later!
Taliesin: These earrings are tapped. You know that.
Sam: They could be listening! I'm coming to you!
Liam: Pike hears everything. (laughter)
Matt: You guys find your way to the Shade, and it's a large, circular sandstone wall that has a pointed tent roof above it held by a singular pole in the center. It is segmented into various rooms that have no ceiling, so everyone shares the same roof. This is what appears to be a lounge tavern, meaning there are drinks and wine served, but each room seems to have a carpeted and pillowed floor. Looks like there are beaded curtains and various draperies that separate each of the different rooms, and there's large, hookah-type tobacco pipes. It's very much just a relaxing lounge area.
Taliesin: There's hookah.
Marisha: There's hookah!
Taliesin: I've never tried hookah before.
Marisha: You've never tried hookah?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: The Earth Ashari are super into the hookah. It's really nice, yeah.
Taliesin: This is the only thing I actually know about this continent, is that there's tobacco.
Marisha: We should try it!
Laura: Did Scanlan get here yet?
Matt: Scanlan takes about five minutes or so, but eventually catches up to you guys.
Laura: Are we staying here? It's not very private.
Taliesin: It's not very private, and privacy is definitely higher on the list.
Laura: Can I find a patron that seems chill?
Matt: Yeah. You look around. You can see what looks to be a matronly older woman wearing some nicer dark purple and black clothing, who is sitting there with one big hookah next to her side, by herself, with a glass of wine to one of the sides, and is staring into space.
Taliesin: I can literally only see my mother when you describe this image, by the way. (laughter)
Taliesin: And only you and you know how funny that is, because it's sealed in there.
Laura: I walk up. Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased. Can I help you?"
Laura: Actually, just a small trifle. Are you staying here?
Matt: "Over the next few hours, yes."
Laura: Lovely. We're from out of town--
Matt: "You don't say."
Laura: Yes, and I've noticed the Shade is rather open. Do you know if the Corner Cove or Debt's Respite are quite as private as this, or do they have actual rooms?
Matt: "Both of those have rooms, yes."
Laura: Oh. Lovely.
Matt: "Do you have any other specifics or requirements?"
Laura: Are they far from here?
Matt: "Corner Cove is maybe two miles that way, but the Debt's Respite is about a mile that way."
Laura: Thank you. Sorry to bother you.
Taliesin: Should we put some cards on the table?
Laura: Some cards?
Marisha: I thought that's what we just did with that other guy.
Taliesin: We've been searching for a friend of ours, and it's been very complicated. She's got one eye. She's been around for quite a while.
Laura: She's a merchant in town. We've been looking for her.
Matt: "There are many merchants that live here."
Taliesin: Are there many merchants with one eye?
Laura: She's quite strong, actually.
Marisha: Some call her a warrior merchant.
Matt: "Warrior? If you're looking for warrior merchants, you're probably looking for the Scarbearers."
Taliesin: Yes, that sounds about right.
Laura: Yeah, she is a Scarbearer. Are they around here?
Matt: "Well, this definitely narrows down your search. The Debt's Respite is where you'll want to go. It's actually run by one of the heads of their ilk."
Marisha: Ilk?
Taliesin: Not an animal.
Matt: "Scarbearers. They're a bit of a rough-and-tumble lot."
Laura: Oh, are they?
Matt: "They hunt for coin, sell what else they find. Odd jobs. Some of them maybe not the most up and legal, but they work with a guarantee, and the head of their troop I think runs, or at least partially owns, the Debt's Respite."
Taliesin: Thank you. What are you smoking at the moment, by the way?
Marisha: I was just about to ask her the same thing!
Matt: "This? I don't know." Raises her hand, and one of the various workers there approaches with another bottle of wine. "Yes, may I help?" "What is this you put in here?" Blows it in her face. "That would be a Dusk Blossom Sage." Walks away. "Dusk Blossom Sage."
Taliesin: It's very fragrant.
Matt: "Pungent would be the world you're looking for."
Liam: I walk over to Keyleth and say  I've done this, but I don't think I knew what I was doing. Your people do this?
Marisha: Well, the Earth Ashari do, and the Fire Ashari sometimes.
Liam: You've done this.
Marisha: Yeah. I stayed with the Earth Ashari for a few months. You want to try? It's fun. It's very nice. It relaxes you. Oh, come on guys! We've got time!
Laura: Do we?
Marisha: We never take time for ourselves. Come on!
Laura: We've got a ticking time bomb!
Marisha: Just 15 minutes!
Taliesin: The cards said our luck. Perhaps this is a good way to ignite it.
Marisha: 15 minutes. Please, Vex, pretty please!
Taliesin: We are still waiting for Scanlan to get here, and then we'll take him to the next stop.
Matt: Scanlan, by the way, is right behind you.
Sam: Hi!
Marisha: Scanlan!
Sam: Sorry. Didn't mean to sneak up on you.
Liam: Now we really need to do it.
Laura: We do need to talk to him, actually. Do you mind if we join you? I motion to the waitress. Could we have some more Dusk Sage?
Travis: Something stronger.
Matt: You see her eyes roll. "I mean no offense, but this is my 'me' time."
Laura: Oh, of course!
Marisha: Let's get our own! We'll get our own little booth.
Taliesin: I'm going to put a gold coin on her tray. So you can keep smoking, and thank you for the time spent in our company.
Matt: She takes the coin, flicks it back to you and goes, "I appreciate, but do not require your patronage."
Taliesin: I'm grateful for your time.
Sam: Yeah. I like her.
Taliesin: Thanks, mom. It is burned into my head.
Travis: Getting our own?
Laura: Yeah, we go get our own.
Matt: You guys are brought into one of the small sections of the Shade. You are given your choice of various tobaccos. While it's not a large room, per se, you can all comfortably lounge in there. It's a nice place to get away. You can hear the distant sounds of the city, but for the most part, there's a soft violin music that plays towards the center of the area, so at least it has a nice atmosphere to it.
Travis: As we're in there, do we notice anyone with any large scars walking around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: This'll go great. 12.
Matt: You see people with small, large scars. People with scars all over. Life out here can be a little tough at times, but no more scarred than most of the people you've encountered in your lifetime. And definitely nowhere near as scarred as the people you've run with for half of your lifetime.
Travis: There are no really large, scarred people in here.
Laura: Good to know. Thank you, Grog.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: Good to know.
Liam: Hey, can I see that ruby you found before?
Travis: I have no ruby.
Liam: You'd hold out on me?
Travis: Nope. There was no ruby.
Liam: Why are you lying to me, Grog?
Travis: Look, Little Teeny is my friend. All right? He spoke to me out of the deserts of fate, and he is mine and mine alone.
Liam: All right.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: Oi.
Laura: Spice dealer?
Marisha: Yes, I want to hear this story.
Sam: I made contact. I'm supposed to meet up tonight in the casino one hour after sunset. I'm supposed to wear red. I will not lie, I am shitting myself, I'm so nervous.
Laura: Are you going to wear red?
Sam: Well, how else will they discern who I am? I don't want to go alone.
Laura: Well, I'll go with you.
Sam: Are you cool?
Laura: Of course I'm cool. I'm so cool, darling.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm cool!
Marisha: Me, too!
Sam: Well...
Taliesin: No, what do you mean? We're cool.
Sam: I don't want to draw too much attention, but I want to be safe.
Travis: (loudly) Are you buying drugs? (laughter)
Taliesin: Could not be happier.
Liam: What an episode! What an episode.
Taliesin: There's so many valuable lessons that can be learned at any moment.
Laura: Do you think maybe the reason Jarett was almost arrested was because of this fucking spice?
Taliesin: I think that's precisely what happened.
Laura: What the hell was he thinking?
Sam: But we're going to do it smarter. We're going to do it better.
Taliesin: No, we're not! (laughs) He's legitimately smarter than us.
Sam: I can do this. I am the one who cocks. (laughter)
Sam: I can do this. But I need some backup. Maybe Vax could come and he could wear red. And he could be the guy who--
Laura: Aren't they going to be looking for a very little man?
Sam: Okay, I'll wear the red, but maybe you could be there.
Liam: I will go with you, and I will hang back, and I will be there to stab out the eyes of anyone who wants to hurt you, but you are the talker, man. You've always been the talker.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Why does Scanlan never think I'm very cool? Why does he think that?
Sam: No, I think you're great.
Laura: You never want me to go with you, I could've helped you find Kaylie, and you didn't ask me to.
Liam: Well, let's be real. She's the coolest one in the group, really.
Sam: The big pointy hat, it's really dorky.
Laura: You're the one who fucking makes me wear this thing!
Sam: I know!
Liam: Can she take it off at the casino, though?
Laura: I'm not flying. I can take it off whenever I fucking want!
Travis: Can we all come? It sounds super dangerous. I just want to watch. I'll be so sly.
Taliesin: We are, by the way, walking to our next destination.
Marisha: No, I am enjoying my hookah.
Taliesin: Oh, I forgot we got hookah. Oh my god.
Laura: We're sitting and hookah-ing through this whole fucking thing.
Liam: I did it before, but I don't think I really did it.
Marisha: Is this a split hose? We have a split hose.
Sam: No, thanks. I'm straight-edge tonight. I've got to think clearly.
Marisha: It's just tobacco, Scanlan.
Taliesin: Is it just tobacco? We really don't actually know.
Marisha: Actually, that's a good point. I do a few test puffs. Is it just tobacco? Is there something special about this hookah?
Matt: It seems to be just delightfully flavored tobacco.
Marisha: It's nice! So okay, you don't want to inhale all at once. It's more like flavor thing. Like a cigar.
Liam: Yeah. I copy Keyleth. (coughs)
Marisha: Vax. Come on.
Laura: Good job, brother. Good job.
Travis: What happened to you?
Liam: I just, (coughs, sniffs) I can't stop (coughs) coughing. (coughs) I'm fine.
Marisha: Wow. This is cute, actually. This is adorable. I hand him some water from my pouch. Just a little dry.
Liam: (coughs) It's really good.
Laura: Wow, you've never looked cooler in your entire life.
Liam: I agree with you.
Travis: Is there a bar in this place? A proper bar?
Matt: Not really a bar. It seems the servants take orders and bring you your various liquid imbibements.
Travis: Right. Can I flag down a--
Matt: Yeah. You see a man walks up to you, long dark curly hair, bit of a goatee growing. "How can I help you?"
Travis: Yeah, I'm royalty from a far-off land. I pride myself on trying the fiercest spirit in the area that I'm visiting. What do you guys pride yourself on?
Matt: "You want the Sandkheg's Hide."
Travis: The sandcake side?
Matt: "The Sandkheg's Hide."
Travis: Oh, hide. Oh, is it a food or a drink?
Matt: "It's a drink."
Travis: Yeah, then one of those'd be great.
Matt: "It's expensive."
Travis: Yeah, well, don't tell anybody but I'm super fucking rich. Only because I have to check with my national treasury, how much is it?
Matt: "Ah, do you wish to have a glass or a bottle?"
Travis: A bottle.
Matt: "A bottle will run you 350 gold pieces."
Sam: Oh!
Travis: I'll take two.
Matt: Walks off.
Taliesin: How have we not stopped this?!
Matt: Comes back with two very full-- (laughs)
Laura: That's from your personal fucking funds!
Travis: We be clubbing, motherfuckers.
Laura: That ain't no party funds.
Taliesin: Those are gold coins. You're not making it rain, you're making it hail, for god's sakes.
Marisha: Does that get to come with us, or is it bottle service? Because if this is bottle service, we're here for the night.
Travis: Okay, maybe there's champagne though, yes?
Matt: He comes back a little later with these two dark green glass wine bottles that have this heavy leather wrapped around them and bolted together at certain places. It looks like leather at times, but as you get closer, you feel it's actually hard. It's almost like a chitinous armor on the outside of the glass.
Travis: This was meant for me.
Matt: Both of these vials are given to you with heavy corks that are wax-coated over the top. "Here you are."
Travis: Oh! May I start a tab? No? Fine. Then I give, shit. (mutters) How much do I owe?
Laura: 700. TRAVIS 700. Here's 800 gold.
Sam: Oh my god.
Matt: "Thank you very much, and please, do let me know if you require anything else."
Travis: No problems.
Matt: And he exits the room.
Taliesin: I have never hated you so much before, in my entire life.
Travis: Prepare to drink like kings.
Liam: I feel the opposite way. I'm very proud.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Grog, I think this bottle's more well-armored than we are.
Travis: Yeah, it's like amazing animal-skin Maker's Mark. So how do we crack this bitch open?
Sam: Guys, I need you to be clear-headed tonight!
Taliesin: I'm having a glass of this. We've just paid a fortune for it.
Laura: We're saving a bottle.
Taliesin: We are saving a bottle.
Travis: Right. Are there any opening utensils around, because I don't want to unsheathe--
Taliesin: May I sword it?
Matt: You may.
Taliesin: I'm going to sword it.
Laura: But don't take your sword out, because we're not allowed to bring our weapons out.
Taliesin: Oh, there's no weapon in here?
Matt: You're currently private in the room.
Taliesin: Oh, we're private in the room.
Marisha: I thought this was an open tent-commune thing.
Matt: It's an open ceiling, but there are rooms segmented by cloth and what looks like sandstone walls, so there are little pockets and alcoves, and you guys currently have one that you're in right now.
Taliesin: It's not no weapons, it's just no usage of them.
Liam: Let's keep them sheathed, he said at the gate. But we are pretty hidden.
Taliesin: I'll just pop it.
Matt: Comes off, and the cork flies and bounces off one of the nearby walls. The smell that comes to you is extremely strong. It resembles a very vinegar turned wine mixed with this, for lack of a better term, a very earthy scent. It's almost herbal, medicinal. It's not at all what you would have expected for something so expensive.
Travis: Who wants to be first? Keyleth?
Marisha: Fill me up. Oh wait, you want me to go first?
Laura: I want a shot.
Travis: You want a shot?
Sam: Percival just took some.
Matt: As it touches your tongue, that smell transitions into a very acidic taste. It actually burns your tongue, and it goes numb within a matter of seconds. It is not a delightful flavor, and as the tongue goes numb, the back of the throat goes numb as you swallow. As the numbness continues down the rest of the body, the flavor has not improved at all, but it brings this universal numbness. And as the slight pain of the burn subsides, you, with just but a few sips, become extremely intoxicated, but also just numb.
Liam: How is it?
Marisha: How is it?
Taliesin: (slurring) Not very good.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: (slurring) But if--
Laura: Oh, he's fucking wasted.
Marisha: I slap him.
Taliesin: (slurring) You should do that again. That felt really good. I'll do it.
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: Liquid MDMA.
Marisha: I take a sip.
Laura: I'm not drinking mine. Here, Grog.
Marisha: I want to know! I take a sip.
Matt: You take a sip, and the same sensation takes, and the numbness sets in, this slight vibration at the back of the skull. Elements of this remind you of being very drunk, with but a few sips.
Liam: Hey, can you hear me? Yeah? You all right?
Marisha: (slurring) Oh holy shit.
Marisha: (slurring) This is so weird.
Taliesin: (slurring) This is so weird.
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: (slurring) We're good.
Liam: I take them by the cheeks. Can you feel this?
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: You can?
Marisha: (affirmative grunt)
Liam: Can you feel this?
Taliesin: (affirmative grunt)
Marisha: (affirmative grunt)
Travis: Does it taste good?
Taliesin: (dissenting grunt)
Marisha: (dissenting grunt)
Liam: Do you recommend it?
Taliesin: (non-committal grunt) (laughter)
Marisha: (non-committal grunt) (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) It hurts man, oh my god!
Laura: Are you going to try it, Grog? (laughter)
Liam: I am not going to have a sip of that right now. Definitely sometime, but--
Laura: Back in the mansion, maybe.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: But not when we have to do something tonight.
Taliesin: (slurring) What do we have to do?
Laura: As charming as you two are right now.
Travis: I'm going to stopper it and then I'm going to put the extra bottle in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: You didn't have any?
Travis: Nope.
Liam: Just these two?
Travis: (laughing) Money well spent!
Laura: Can I step out and find that waiter that we paid for?
Liam: Yeah, you're both really cute right now, but you're useless.
Marisha: I lean on Vax a little bit.
Laura: Wonderful beverages you just served us. How long does that last?
Matt: "Depends on how much you're drinking."
Laura: Just a tiny bit.
Matt: "Hour, maybe."
Laura: Fabulous. They came with quite a price tag, didn't they?
Matt: "'It's very dangerous to harvest and create, yes."
Laura: I could assume. What exactly is in?
Liam: Yes, what are they harvested from?
Matt: He thinks a minute, then goes, "I don't know which part of the sandkheg it is, but it is taken from the usually venomous bile or spittle of the creature."
Taliesin: (slurring) That's really good bile!
Travis: It's a living thing.
Laura: I'm assuming, I mean, back in the city that we're from--
Matt: "Mind you, it is refined and pickled by the finest of various-- It is a delicacy across Ank'Harel and northern areas of Marquet. I was merely fulfilling the request of your companion."
Taliesin: (slurring) No, it's very good.
Laura: Thank you so much. Where we're from, usually when purchasing such a great and expensive item, room service is included. I'm assuming we have somewhere to stay for the night?
Taliesin: (slurring) I don't think that it's that kind of place.
Matt: "I mean, you are welcome to stay, should you pay an evening price, yes, but that is not part of the price of the drink of which you have purchased, no."
Laura: Oh. Cultural differences! Good to know.
Taliesin: (slurring) We have to move.
Liam: Hey. Can you say your full name right now?
Taliesin: (slurred) Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third of Whitestone.
Sam: Don't say the W word!
Taliesin: (slurring) Whitestone?
Sam: Okay, it's fine now.
Taliesin: (slurring) What? (shushing)
Travis: How long until you have to meet this guy at the casino?
Taliesin: (slurring) Why're you talking? Just (shushes).
Sam: What time is it? Has the sun gone down?
Matt: No, you guys woke up maybe two and a half hours ago.
Taliesin: Day drinking! Yes!
Matt: You're maybe getting close to noon. The sun, last you saw before you got here, was close to the center of the sky.
Travis: Well, we've got time to kill, right?
Laura: We need to go find the Debt's Respite and maybe get a room.
Sam: Is that where we're going to sleep tonight?
Laura: That's where the Scarbearers are. We can get a room here.
Liam: And your deal is this evening, yes?
Sam: Yeah, we've got some time for that.
Travis: So we take off for the Debt's Respite.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading the charge for that?
Travis: No, you're not. I will.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check, if you don't mind.
Sam: Investigation. You're terrible at those.
Marisha: (laughing) This is everything I wanted.
Taliesin: I'm so happy right now.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 investigation check. Within ten minutes you've asked the right questions between a number of various street urchins and street salespersons, to be directed straight towards the Debt's Respite.
Sam: I wrote it down correctly, Matt.
Matt: In following the direction, you end up walking up to what looks like a rather rundown-looking establishment. The broken glass windows and missing front door lead you to think that perhaps it's been abandoned for months. Looks a little rough and ramshackle.
Laura: But they said this was being guarded by the Hand of Ord. Interesting.
Sam: My contact in the underworld said that this was a place that is a known hangout for seedy types. Right? Am I remembering that correctly?
Laura: No, the guard at the front of the city told us this was one of the places that you could stay, and it was guarded.
Matt: He said it was a place you could stay, because you were asking for taverns and inns.
Liam: We have accounts from two different people, and they're two different opinions.
Taliesin: It's like Yelp. But better. I'm going to knock. (knocking)
Matt: As you approach the front door, it's partially ajar and as you push it open, you can see the inside is a whole different story. As your eyes adjust to the interior you find actually a bustling business of barhands slinging tankards across seven stained wood tables, some of the folk look rather day-drunk, similar to these individuals, though it has worn a bit off since the original sip. And most look to be various miscreants or post-work farmers taking a break. The interior is familiar and probably closer to the taverns you're used to in more of the poorer districts of Emon and surrounding cities than some of the more luxurious areas you've recently found yourselves in. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth-- actually, Keyleth, make a perception check with disadvantage.
Marisha: Aw. I see why you're doing that. With disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Okay. Vex and Vax, as you guys walk into the room, you do catch off in the distance behind a series of barrels that are stacked and the edge of a shelf that contains rows and rows of glasses, tankards, plates, and various things. You just barely make out what looks to be an androgynous figure, face masked with dark blue and black cloth, with a hint of leather armor, hiding in the corner. Like barely visible to you and you can make out the details due to your very keen ability to gather your surroundings quickly.
Liam: Is the armor similar to that suit of armor we saw on the other guy?
Matt: Nope. This is very muddled, low leather armor.
Laura: Are they wearing a cloak?
Matt: Can't tell; their back's hidden, and they're quiet.
Laura: So they don't have something up? Do they have a hood over their head?
Matt: They have a hood and a mask. Looks to be like a cloth mask wrapped around him.
Liam: I'm going to hang by the two sobering-up twins over here and keep an eye on that person.
Matt: You guys also watch throughout all the various patrons and people that are wandering about this establishment, one figure stands out amongst the others. You see a bronze-scaled dragonborn: bulky and thick, muscular armored in light hides and bracers. He clutches an untouched mug that is brimming with an amber-colored ale and is lost in thought, staring off towards one of the broken windows that leads outside. Very heavy, muscular arms. Maybe not quite the height of Grog, but definitely a similar build.
Laura: Tail or no tail?
Matt: Sitting down, you can't tell.
Liam: You don't know.
Matt: What do you guys do?
Taliesin: (slurring) We're fine.
Laura: Wow. I guess I walk up to the tavernkeep.
Matt: There is no tavernkeep. There are barmaids walking around and passing drinks, but there is no barkeep right now.
Laura: I grab one of the barmaids. Who do we speak to about a room?
Matt: "You would speak to Treev," and points to the dragonborn, who is currently staring out of the window.
Laura: Oh. Well, there we go. I walk over.
Travis: I go with her.
Matt: He's spacing out. As soon as you approach he goes, (groans) "What do you want, bothering a fellow in mid-fantasy?"
Laura: Sorry, sir.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: We're interested in a room for the night, actually.
Matt: "All right, well, what's your name?"
Laura: Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "Vex'ahlia. Treev. Treev Bonebreaker." And grabs your arm. As opposed to a handshake, like a full-on forearm, meaty grasp. Treev. T-R-E-E-V. "Treev Bonebreaker. Current caretaker of this fine establishment. Looking for rooms? I've got three available."
Laura: Wonderful. Mind if I sit down?
Matt: "At this rate, sure. I doubt I'm going to find myself back to that dream. Anyway, what do you and your rather scrawny-looking friend there have to say?"
Travis: I look around.
Laura: We're actually here on a rather important mission from Emon.
Matt: "Never been there."
Laura: It was quite a beautiful city. Not as much anymore.
Matt: "Well, that's unfortunate. Sometimes cities fall to the lowest despots. It happens."
Laura: Yes, it does.
Matt: "Rooms?"
Laura: Yes. Three, you said?
Matt: "Three rooms available."
Laura: And how much would those rooms be?
Matt: "How many are staying?"
Sam: Six.
Laura: Six of us?
Matt: "And your bear?"
Laura: Well, yes, but he doesn't take up much space.
Matt: "Well we have to put a bear tax on this, you realize."
Laura: "A bear tax?"
Matt: "Yes. I haven't had a bear here before. Who knows what damage it can do? Consider it protection."
Laura: You know what? He can sleep outside, don't worry. Don't worry about the bear.
Matt: "All right. I take no responsibility what happens to your bear outside."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "That'll run you ten gold per room. 30 gold for the night."
Laura: (whispers) Ten gold? (louder) Are these really fancy rooms, then?
Matt: "No. God no. I don't know where you're from in Emon or what the prices are there, but here, it's expensive."
Laura: Every fucking thing is expensive here.
Taliesin: Can I attempt to start looking around the room to try and find anything interesting and try and be useful?
Matt: Make an investigation check with disadvantage.
Laura: Can I insight and see if he's just taking fucking advantage of us because we're tourists? I don't want to roll that one. I want to roll this one.
Taliesin: Investigation? 12.
Laura: Natural 20!
Marisha: Oh shit.
Matt: Yeah, he straight-up jacked the price up. He can see the foreigner on your face.
Laura: You know what? We probably don't need the three rooms. They offered us some over at The Shade. It's fine.
Matt: "Certainly. Whatever your business may be. Is that all you need?"
Laura: Are you from Tal'Dorei?
Matt: "Me? No. Not originally."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: So you haven't heard of Draconia? Can I see from here if he has a tail or not?
Matt: There is no tail behind him.
Laura: Have you heard?
Matt: "Of Draconia? Unfortunately."
Laura: Have you heard what happened?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Draconia has fallen.
Matt: Grabs his drink that he's holding up, slams it on the table. It spills over. "You fucking with me?"
Laura: No.
Matt: "Well, there's a reason for celebration." And just chugs the entire drink in one go, you can see his dragonborn gullet just accepting the entire drink in one gulp. (sighs)
Laura: Well, I'd be happy to tell you more detail for a reasonable price on the rooms.
Matt: (laughs) "Sit down. All of you. 15 gold for the lot. All the meaty details. Sure."
Laura: So we tell him.
Matt: You tell him about everything, and he listens in. He starts enjoying it, and eventually falls a bit, sinking in the stake of things, and eventually that celebration falls to acceptance.
Taliesin: Does anyone mind if I fill him in on the future of Draconia?
Sam: If you do it in a slurry speech, sure.
Taliesin: It's going to be slightly slurry, but at this point at least I'm English again. We have the next several weeks we were going to attempt to free the populace from their new lord and master. But in order to do that we are here on a mission. We're searching for something. We're searching for a one-eyed merchant warrior, and a cloak.
Matt: "Well look, if you're looking to hire, you've got to explain the task then. We do have a code. Fuck what the rumors say."
Taliesin: I've never found anyone who doesn't have a code who lived very long to tell about it.
Matt: "Aye. Long enough. What's the point in living without one? That's how you end up shivved in the stomach and left to bleed in the street. What you looking to hire for?"
Taliesin: We are looking for the one-eyed merchant warrior who wears the coat of Cabal's Ruin.
Matt: "I know who you're seeking, aye. Mistress Asharru."
Taliesin: Mistress Asharru?
Marisha: We have a name! Goddamn it.
Matt: "She's one of our finest, and expensive because of it. But friend, she's been off for a week since her last job, so mayhaps her schedule is open. Would have to inquire. Write me a summary of your job you have for her. I'll have it delivered. Her answer may take a week or so."
Taliesin: We do not have, sadly, a week or so. The dragon falls in two weeks.
Matt: "Well, write her a letter, she'll receive it, and she'll return to you when she sees it fit. Our business is our business. If you don't like it, shove off, find someone else."
Taliesin: Sadly no one else will do. Not that I want to inquire of the sort of business she's in, because that's inappropriate, but is she in the town at least? If we were to write her, could we get word to her quickly?
Matt: "Why, I can get word to her immediately, but it's up to her when she wants to respond."
Taliesin: Is there anything else you can tell me about her?
Matt: He starts giving you a curious look and goes, "You come in here asking to hire one of my finest and don't know what work she does?"
Taliesin: I know what work she does.
Matt: "What work do you need her for?"
Taliesin: We need to save the world.
Matt: "And you need her help to save the world."
Taliesin: Sadly, but true. We at the very least need her blessing.
Laura: While he's talking, can I keep an eye on the figure in the corner?
Matt: Yeah. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: There are things that have been released upon this earth that will burn everything. And they will make their way here. Draconia is gone. Tal'Dorei is gone. All swaths of civilization have been wiped off the earth.
Matt: "We've weathered beasts. We've weathered dragons here in Emon."
Taliesin: Not like we've seen.
Matt: "So be it. But nevertheless, you want to hire her, you've got to write her a proposal." And he slides across a piece of parchment with a small quill about it. "I'll deliver it, and she'll get back to you when she sees fit."
Sam: Does she have a normal price?
Matt: "Depends on the job you're asking. She'll set her price."
Sam: Okay.
Laura: 30 perception.
Matt: 30 perception? The figure is watching all of you intensely but has not moved an inch. All you've seen are the eyes move, but they've been trained on your entire group since you arrived.
Liam: I've been watching.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Could I ask, (coughs) other than gambling, what sort of entertainment can you find in this city?
Matt: "All sorts of entertainment. There's various singers, musicians, dancers, performers. If you're looking for company there's all sorts of entertainment in that regard, of all the spectrums. If you're looking for games, probably a few months out before we get to any sort of the gladiatorial events."
Travis: I'm sorry, could you just, a bit more on--
Matt: "That's months away."
Liam: There's no place for our friend to get into a scrap?
Matt: "Well, you could certainly find a scrap, but none that are sanctioned by the Hand, and they'll put you away."
Liam: Sorry, big man.
Matt: "Lest you have someone to duel you. That's a whole different business."
Travis: What? Duel?
Matt: "That's sanctioned by the law."
Travis: A duel? A one-on-one duel?
Matt: "If you challenge one to a duel and they accept, aye."
Travis: In this city, it's legal? Anytime? High noon, midnight, when?
Matt: "You just have to sanction it by the Hand. You have to make sure that you both agree to fight to the death, and the fight has to happen in the Bowl of Judgment."
Travis: The Bowl of Judgment?
Sam: The Bowl of Judgment?
Matt: "Sits about the Sandherald district outside of the Cerulean Palace."
Travis: Wait, is that that super fucking tall thing we saw?
Matt: "That's the Cerulean Palace. It's quite close to it, aye."
Laura: Are any items allowed in the bowl, or do you have to go in bare-handed?
Matt: "It depends on the sanctions of the Ord and the agreement you come to, but fisticuffs are great for the gladiatorial events, but if you're fighting to the death, sometimes it's nice to bring a blade in."
Marisha: So what type of people like to participate in these duels?
Matt: "The kind that got nothing to lose. The kind that got a point worth proving with their life. Those kind. Doesn't happen often. When it does happen, it's a spectacle."
Taliesin: Is there like a lighter fight that can be found?
Sam: Arm wrestling match.
Taliesin: Arm wrestling or-- I don't know, what would be worse less than--
Laura: UFC.
Marisha: Less than a Bowl of Judgment?
Sam: Cup of Truth? (laughter)
Taliesin: A Wok of Truth, maybe.
Marisha: Bowl of Wheaties.
Liam: Tablespoon of Wrath. (laughter)
Taliesin: This is really uncomfortable.
Matt: "A few months until the games begin, but until then, that's about the only way you'll find bloodshed here. At least that won't lend you up in prison."
Travis: All right.
Sam: Good to know.
Laura: Good to know.
Taliesin: I'm sitting and I'm starting to compose a letter.
Laura: How's his handwriting?
Taliesin: Flouncy.
Matt: You're starting to gain it back. What do you write?
Taliesin: I'm going to show everybody before I hand it in. I'm going to write the truth, top to bottom, of the world is peril, we are facing a battle, and she holds or knows of an item that would turn the tide, and I wish to know its price or know its rental.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: What are you asking her?
Marisha: I feel like that's not going to work.
Taliesin: I'm holding it. Before I hand it in I'm going to show. I don't feel that there is any deceit-- there is nothing I can think to say beyond the truth. We are either dealing with honest people, or we are not.
Marisha: I have a feeling that... yeah.
Laura: What if we just--
Taliesin: I'm also putting my rank and title and letting them know that I'm willing to--
Sam: Give away Vex's title?
Taliesin: I'm willing to give away Vex. Vex is entirely up for sale. No.
Travis: You're planning to recruit this person?
Taliesin: I'm not looking to recruit this person. I'm looking to rent or buy an object that she owns, or perhaps even trade, and we'll put 400 gold.
Marisha: Just to meet with her?
Laura: Just to meet with her.
Taliesin: As an offer of a meeting.
Liam: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's not bad.
Matt: He takes it. He packages in in a small container, a leather container.
Marisha: Did you put in there that it had to be prompt? That it had to be prompt?
Taliesin: And that time is of the essence.
Matt: "Oh, don't worry." (whistles) Whistles through his fingers and the figure in the wall that you'd been watching steps forward and slowly walks towards the table. Holds up the scroll, and the figure leans in. Covers his mouth and he whispers into the ear of the figure. The figure takes the scroll, gives a nod to all of you, and walks out of the tavern. "He'll deliver that to her promptly, now be on your way. 15 gold."
Laura: Oh yes, of course! Thank you for the rooms.
Matt: Takes a keyring out and starts fudging through the keys, pulls a few off and tosses them to you across the table. "All right, you've got it for a night."
Liam: I heard Grog. I'm going to follow out the door, go stealth.
Matt: Okay. You vanish out the door. Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. As you glance out the door and pull outside-- you're going stealth as well, you said? Roll stealth.
Liam: That is 25.
Matt: 25. Okay. You turn around the corner just as you see a flash of dark cloth around the edge of the Debt's Respite. You rush off to the edge and look around the corner way and down the alley. You can see the figure, full on, arms out to the side rushed behind, going into a very fast run, down the shaded hallway.
Liam: Shaded hallway?
Matt: The alleyway.
Liam: I'll follow.
Matt: Okay, so you continue to follow.
Liam: At a distance.
Matt: All right. Following the masked figure, you continue to give chance. It darts erratically, zig-zagging between areas. You can see this is a very trained pattern to lose anybody following them, but you're also trained in following those that wish not to be followed. Make another perception check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: You come around one corner, and you can see there's a wall that ends there, and you see just a little slip of material pass. And as you glance over, you can see the figure has jumped down onto a lower walkway onto what appears to be a recessed sector of this part of Ank'Harel, and has already darted beneath a nearby bridge and overpass that walks across to another series of buildings. You leap over, keeping in the shadow, and give chase down that way. You turn around underneath the bridge and you can see underneath the bridge, there is an archway that leads into a dark path down an actual hallway beneath the series of buildings you just saw ahead of you. Make another perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. You look down the hallway, and you see the shadow of the figure framed against what looks to be another opening on the opposite side but the sunlight is coming through. You can just see the dark outline as it darts forward and then leaps off again, down the right past that exit. You follow, and you look off the side just as you see the figure slink behind one large crate next to a storage section outside of a warehouse. It ducks behind another one. Darts up to a building that looks to be shuttered and closed. It looks like a furniture store with a little sign at the top that says, "A Kingly Home." It moves an empty rain barrel to the side and slips the leather case through a hole that was previously hidden by the barrel, dropping it inside the building, slides the barrel over it again. Looks back and forth. Make another stealth check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. Doesn't seem to make notice, and then darts off, leaping, leaping up onto a rooftop and vanishing off.
Liam: You said, "A Kingly Home"?
Matt: A Kingly Home.
Liam: I'm going to stealth back to the Debt's Respite.
Matt: Keeping a very close watch on the path you took and marking it mentally back to the Debt's Respite. It's probably a good mile off from where you guys were, if not a little further. You guys continue your conversation, go about your own business. Eventually, Vax returns with the information, the path of wherever this letter was dropped off to.
Travis: Just curious, have you ever had the Sandkheg Hide?
Matt: "Are you serious?"
Travis: Yeah. I'm just asking.
Matt: "No, I ain't drinking that bullshit."
Travis: Really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Too stiff for you?
Matt: "Too stiff for anyone! It's-- what?"
Travis: I mean, I hear only real bosses can drink that jazz.
Matt: "That's not a drink. That's probably squeezed from the arsehole of some sort of beast out in the desert. I prefer my stuff taken from berries and the sweet stuff."
Travis: What do you mean, some beast? Who'd make a drink out of some animal's whatever?
Matt: "Have you have some, have you tasted it?"
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: "Then I guess you know what an animal's bum tastes like, eh?"
Travis: (sputters) Hold on. You mean they squeeze the asshole of something out there?
Matt: "Oh, completely!"
Travis: No!
Matt: "They hold it down and just squeeze its abdomen and the whole sandkheg spews out into this little glass barrel and then you pay for it. Top dollar."
Travis: Yeah, it's 300 something gold!
Matt: "Oh, did you buy some?"
Travis: No.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: You brain is filled with image of whatever creature your imagination has come up with being held down.
Travis: It's a giant, hairy water yak.
Matt: And it is squeezing some sort of yellowish liquid from its abdomen into a glass wine bottle, and you're now looking over at Percy and Keyleth who had just had sips of this earlier. It's not sitting well with your stomach.
Travis: We were gifted a bottle, and a couple of my friends had partook.
Matt: (cackles)
Travis: They say the stuff we had is A-plus.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Vax now appears at the edge of the table.
Laura: Oh, hi!
Liam: Hey. Took a little walk.
Laura: Let's go to the rooms. Let's check it out. How about that?
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Thank you for the rooms. Breakfast? Is there breakfast here?
Matt: (scoffs) "No, you find your own food."
Laura: Awesome.
Marisha: Does he still have some drink in front of him?
Matt: It hasn't been filled since, no.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Matt: Do you guys head to your rooms? Okay. You make your way up to the rooms. They're all clean, serviceable, nothing too fancy, but functional rooms. Each with two beds.
Taliesin: I want to check for anything unusual, if there's anything iffy about the rooms.
Matt: Investigation check.
Laura: Oh, I would follow suit.
Matt: Investigation check.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of fucking--
Matt: Natural one?
Taliesin: No. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Nothing seems to be out of place or out of the ordinary.
Taliesin: Obviously.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13? Seems to be a room.
Sam: I'm just going to check under the beds, that's it.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: 29!
Matt: 29. You find dust, dead insects, a dried-out rodent husk, and that's it.
Liam: Grog, you want to bunk up?
Travis: Yeah, sure. Are we going two to a room?
Liam: Yeah, there's six of us.
Matt: It's also about 3 00 in the afternoon.
Liam: I know that. I'm not going to go lie down on the floor. I just thought I'd call dibs.
Travis: Yeah. Cool.
Laura: Scanlan, then. Me and you?
Sam: Sure!
Laura: No. I'm kidding. I don't want to be in the same room with you at all.
Sam: Oh, I need a bucket and a mop.
Laura: No. You're with him.
Marisha: I'm with Vex.
Taliesin: Yes. What?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Have fun!
Taliesin: With-- not-- no!
Liam: That's later.
Laura: What did you see?
Liam: Yeah, so we've got a backup plan because I followed whoever that person was back to where they dropped off. We should probably honor the offer first. If that goes sideways, then we have a backup plan.
Taliesin: It's so rare that we're actually given an opportunity to be honest about everything. We might as well try it once, see if we like it.
Sam: But do you know where this person receives her messages?
Liam: Absolutely.
Taliesin: Good.
Travis: Where is it?
Liam: Well, I don't know the names of the streets. I remember what it looked like. If you want to follow me, it's about a mile off. It looked like a furniture store. A Kingly Rest.
Laura: And you didn't even have to say jenga!
Liam: Wonders never cease.
Travis: A Kingly Rest. All right.
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Liam: Well, the casino's tonight. The deal's off. We can't get Grog in a fight.
Laura: Do you have a red shirt, Scanlan? Do we need to get you one?
Sam: Do we own anything red? Grog?
Travis: What?
Sam: Do we have anything red?
Travis: We have three fancy robes left.
Matt: You do not own a red shirt, but you could probably find one. Not too difficult.
Sam: All right. I'll find one. Take 20 minutes.
Matt: It doesn't take you too long. Costs you two silver pieces. You find a nice red shirt, billowing sleeves. It's totally up your alley.
Sam: Okay, great!
Travis: Can we go back out to the bazaar? Are far from there, or are we still close?
Matt: He's gone through the bazaar. You're not too far from it. Maybe a ten-minute walk.
Travis: They sell any weapons?
Laura: And potions. We need potions.
Taliesin: Trinkets.
Travis: Can I look and see if people are selling weapons?
Matt: You walk around. and there are weapons being sold.
Travis: Are there any exotic weapons?
Matt: No. Most weapons you find here are ornamental; they're for decoration. They're for putting above mantelpieces. There are various blades that have bolting mechanisms in the back where you can easily mount them to a wall. None of them, that you can see, at least, that are open in this bazaar for sale, are presented as an actual item for warfare.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Is there a magic shop?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Marisha: Come on, Percy. Roll something good. That's better!
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. Asking about, you do come to, within the bazaar, a small wooden building that's like a hut, but it's constructed of dark wood panels. It resembles those strange marionette performance boxes.
Taliesin: Punch and Judy box, yeah.
Matt: Except it just has this one frazzled-looking young woman standing there with long strands of curly dark brown hair. Red lips, dark eyeshadow. She's eagerly looking out with a sign in the front that reads, "Oddities and Eccentricities."
Taliesin: Good day.
Marisha: Be pleased.
Matt: "Good day."
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased to you as well."
Taliesin: I'm stocked up on eccentricities, but if you have any oddities for sale, I'd be very interested.
Matt: "There are many oddities at my disposal. I'm Nisaba."
Taliesin: Percival. Hello.
Matt: "What kind of oddities are you looking for?"
Taliesin: Honestly, this is my first time in the city, and I'm trying to get a sense of what's available for sale and what sorts of things one would find in the city, so really, I'm interested in touring your stock, especially if you have anything exotic.
Matt: "Well, let me show you." Over the next five minutes, she brings out all sorts of strange knickknacks. It's essentially a display from the most awkward of vintage Salvation Armies you've ever come across.
Taliesin: God, we've found a hipster.
Matt: However, you do catch a quick flash of what appears to be some small crystalline vials that appear to be strapped to some sort of leather bandolier.
Taliesin: Well, that's interesting. What do you call that?
Matt: "This is for, well, a gentleman who passed through many years ago, who claimed to be a great alchemist, sold this off when he had come into a lot of debt within the city, so I made a good price. No one has really showed much interest in it."
Taliesin: Interesting. May I? May I take a look at it?
Matt: "You may."
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: The leather's finely made, if a little worn. The chemicals inside-- one of them does have a familiar color, a deep herbal red. This looks to be some sort of a low to medium level healing potion, most likely, from your experience in the use of that. The two others are grayish and murky and don't really draw your attention or anything you're familiar with.
Taliesin: Interesting.
Marisha: Percy, what's that?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's quite nice, though, isn't it?
Marisha: Well. Can I do a check on the other two potions to see with my potion knowledge? My potion sense?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Not bad. Just straight intelligence? 15.
Matt: 15. They do appear to have been prepared in the way that you prepare magically enchanted vials for potions themselves, but you're not really able to make out just at a glance. You'd have to spend quite a time to make out what their nature is.
Marisha: I'd have to look at it. Not familiar, sorry. That looks like a health potion, though.
Taliesin: Yeah. It does look a bit--
Marisha: Healthy.
Sam: It's like Storage Wars. Just buy it. Who knows what's in there?
Taliesin: What were you hoping to unload for it?
Matt: "Well, knowing that is now a magic potion of healing and two other magical potions, that is a very valuable belt with its contents. I would sell you just the belt for five silver pieces. To include the vials, and they do come as a set, unfortunately, that would run you 275 gold pieces."
Taliesin: Now, see, we don't know what kind of healing potion that is, and those other two vials could have-- there is an expiration date on those things. And how long have you had it?
Matt: "We've had it for a number of years."
Taliesin: A number of years? Well, in that case, they've probably gone stale by now. I would say 75 gold at the very best.
Matt: (chuckles) "That is not going to work." She reaches out and takes the belt away from you and sets it back down on the inside.
Taliesin: 75 gold will not do you for that, then?
Matt: "For the belt, maybe."
Taliesin: For the belt, obviously. We've already established that that's in the silver range and certainly not touching the gold.
Matt: "Right, but you're willing to have and to offer that 75 gold for it, please."
Taliesin: 75 gold for the entire set.
Matt: "No, it's not going to work. I'm sorry."
Taliesin: No, and of course that makes sense that a hundred gold for that entire set would be very fair.
Liam: I'm starting to take a nap against a column standing up.
Sam: Just buy it.
Taliesin: 100 gold. You've had it for so long.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: This is going to go terribly. Where's my persuasion? Ooh, that's almost a number. Oh, good. 16?
Matt: She goes, "225 gold for the set."
Taliesin: 200. And an acknowledgement and compliment to your stunning hair. I'm attempting to flirt very poorly.
Travis: (laughing) That eyebrow.
Matt: Make a charisma check.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: Just a straight charisma modifier to your roll.
Liam: Come on, snitch.
Taliesin: Come on. 12.
Laura: You flirted with grass better!
Matt: She goes, "I appreciate your patronage, but I am a patient woman, and that is how I hold business." (laughter)
Travis: Stonewalled!
Taliesin: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Taliesin: I feel like I should have learned some sort of lesson here. I'm just not entirely sure what it was.
Marisha: Oh, you know--
Taliesin: Hardly matters, I suppose.
Marisha: Maybe you'll come to it at the end of being in Ank'Harel.
Travis: Hey, guys. I had a thought. You know we were all supposed to have a meeting with the king? And I haven't been paying attention if anyone's watching, and we got time to kill. Should we go have a talk with the big man?
Laura: Or at least put in for an audience.
Travis: Yeah. Who knows if they'll even get to us today?
Taliesin: I'm sobering up a bit. Which we should probably do that.
Laura: Does it seem like a long walk towards the Cerulean Palace?
Matt: Maybe a 45-minute to an hour walk.
Liam: We've got hours and hours before we have to do anything.
Taliesin: We do. It's 4 00 in the afternoon.
Laura: What time's the sun set here? Can I ask somebody?
Matt: You ask around. It looks to probably be about four hours from sunset.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Sam: All right. Fine. Let's go.
Marisha: Plus, the best way to see a new city is to walk, you guys!
Taliesin: Wait, hold on. I have to open my Pokémon.
Matt: So you guys are making your way towards the Cerulean Palace. As you approach the large, extremely imposing palace, you come upon what looks to be an endless series of stairs that brings you to the upper platform that is the central portion of the city where the palace seems to reside, eventually peaking in the Sandherald district that you were referred to earlier as the location of the palace and where the Bowl of Judgment exists. You step up to the very top of the stairs to find yourself already breathless at the sight of the immense purple-blue-colored palace. A dozen towers reach for the clouds, the daylight peeking through their slightly translucent material, like glassy waters ever-frozen in a fall. The central tower, the one that caught your eye, that ends in a large cup-like position, rises above all of them with a slight spiral-type texture to the outside of the palace that is incredibly tall amongst the rest of the cityscape. As you get closer, you can see the main palace structure presents hundreds of arches pointed at their apex in its structure, smaller and smaller as it recesses further into the palace. Its very architectural build is a marvel, and seems to both have consistency and a chaotic feel to the placement of some of these arches too, in size. It's a very strange but fascinating structure. You can also see turquoise detailing and trim against many of the pillars and carvings and statues that adorn the exterior of the grounds of this palace. As you approach what appear to be the front gates that ascend, with a very bright blue turquoise exterior, close to 50 Hands of Ord patrol various elements of the grounds around it. It looks like there are actual pockets of grass and gardens that exist around the Cerulean Palace in here. The topography changes almost to feel like it belongs entirely anywhere but the middle of the desert. The guards do eye you suspiciously as you approach, and you watch as one armored woman, her dark hair hidden mostly beneath an ornate helmet of brass and blue, approaches you guys. "Welcome to the Cerulean Palace. I must ask your business here."
Laura: Forgive us for our intrusion. We come seeking an audience of J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Our emperor does not take meetings. My apologies, but I must ask you to leave."
Taliesin: We are, in fact, a group of ambassadors from the continent of Emon, from the cities of--
Marisha: Continent of Tal'Dorei, city of Emon. It concerns the fate of the world.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Which one?
Taliesin: Not that one. That one. See? Listen to me. I'm not taking credit for that.
Marisha: 23. No, 24.
Matt: 24. "Let me inquire with the Grand Maven." She turns around, her armor clinking, and walks back to the palace, leaving you guys there amongst these courtyard grounds. A few moments pass before she returns, the doors opening. As she descends, next to her you see an older woman with these long, ceremonial robes that drag behind her, spilling across the stairs as she descends, seemingly dozens of gemmed bracelets that jingle as she walks with each step. She wears a tall headdress with what looks like brass quills that press behind her head and down her back. As she approaches you all, the woman earlier that you spoke to, the Hand that approached you, stays behind quietly and watches, weapon at the ready. The woman steps forward with a smile, and unlike the abrasive appearance that most of the Hand have given, she seems to be more welcoming, and gives, for the first time since you've been here, a very formal welcoming bow with her hand before her, the other hand out. Says, "Be pleased, everyone."
All: Be pleased.
Matt: "I must apologize. We were not aware of your arrival here. I am the Grand Maven Gameshega. Please, enter and follow me."
Travis: She's the what?
Marisha: Gameshega?
Matt: Gameshega.
Laura: Gameshega.
Liam: Gameshega.
Marisha: Gameshega?
Matt: Gameshega.
Liam: Gameshega.
Taliesin: This is good. This is very good.
Matt: As she walks past you and the female Hand that saw you earlier steps aside and watches you as you pass, then ends up stepping behind you and flanking, keeping a watch from the back as you guys are led up the final staircase, through the front turquoise gates of the Cerulean Palace, and they close behind you with a resounding (impact), the impact echoing through these long halls. From the interior, massive pointed archways that lead down ornately decorated halls that echo with each footfall that hits across what looks like endless white and black bespeckled marble. She leads you through a series of hallways, more Hands walking past, as well as a number of other robed individuals. What appears to be a central chamber that has a number of steps and seats, where it looks like various philosophers are in mid-heated discussion in once again, this same language that you have not heard on your ears before. You are eventually brought to a very intricate and decorated waiting room, with some finely upholstered silk chairs, couches. The Grand Maven stops. "If you would not mind, please have a seat."
Taliesin: Of course.
Sam: Sure, yeah.
Matt: She walks into a nearby doorway. It looks like a single door that leads into a small-looking room, from the brief moment you have to see it. The door closes and you hear a (magic sound). Two minutes pass. Five minutes pass. Ten eerie, quiet minutes pass.
Travis: Windows in this room?
Matt: No windows in this particular room, but you notice as you take a close look, the roofs, while they are built of this deep blue, almost glass-like thick crystal, they're ever so slightly translucent, and it gives this general blue glow about the entire room. You can't make out any details from the outside, but there is this strange translucence to the entire structure.
Travis: Was that the only door to the room?
Matt: There is the hallway that you left behind, but there standing in the doorway is the same Hand that approached you guys and has been keeping an eye the entire time.
Laura: He's in the room with us?
Matt: Is away from you, standing in the large archway hall that led you into this waiting room.
Laura: I'm up and pacing the room, trying to pace near the door that she went through so I can keep an ear on the door.
Travis: I walk up to the guard, and I say, sorry. I really should have peed before I came in. Is there a privy I could use?
Matt: She glances at you. "You look like a strapping young man. Perhaps you can hold onto that for a time."
Travis: It looks that way, but I also have a strapping-sized bladder, and I've been known to leave strapping-sized messes in corners. You see, I don't really come from all this finery, so the side of the wall is just as good with me. It's just I'm trying to be polite.
Matt: She leans behind the hallway. (foreign language) "Just a moment." Another guard walks up behind and kicks a bucket into the room.
Travis: That'll do.
Liam: Put up or shut up.
Laura: Can I hear anything from the other side of the door?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'm laughing out loud.
Sam: One?
Matt: You have your ear up against the wall.
Laura: I didn't want to have my ear against the wall. I wanted to be subtly doing it.
Matt: Well, you're subtly doing it, and there's nothing. You get closer and closer, and there's nothing. The rest of you hear (magic sounds), but you're still-- Eventually, the door opens again, and there the Grand Maven stands again. She looks up to the rest of you. "Come with me. You have been granted an audience." She steps back into the chamber.
Laura: That happened much easier than I expected.
Travis: Thank you for the bucket. I'll hold it.
Laura: Are you sure, Grog?
Liam: We were convincing.
Sam: They must know who we are.
Taliesin: Trust our luck. Our luck is going. I'm walking into this.
Sam: Anyone says jenga, kill everyone we meet.
Liam: It's the only plan we have.
Taliesin: I'm walking into it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You walk into what is a cylindrical chamber of smooth blue-purple quartz-like material with four strands of heavy chains taut between the ceiling and floor, about 15 feet above you. No other exit. You all enter and the door closes behind you, the Maven still relaxing, her arms to her side, her headdress still giving her this ominous presence. Looks up, and there's a (impact) shuddering sound. Suddenly, the bland, uncharacteristic walls, compared to the rest of the palace, begin to slide past the chains, now making this rattling sound as the floor itself seems to be lurching. You feel a bit of pressure in the room that wasn't there before. You're all being lifted, and the walls, now no longer walled in by the rest of the palace, you can now see this occasional traveling-down line as the spiral on the outside of the tower you once saw now surrounds you. The walls are much thinner than the rest of the palace, as you can see through this somewhat-translucent glass exterior the entirety of Emon surrounding you from upon high as it goes lower and lower as you're lifted higher and higher into this tower.
Laura: This is miraculous!
Matt: It's very off-putting, but beautiful at the same time. Everything's seen through this shimmering, somewhat-refracted blue passage. As you go higher and higher, you can see the countless homes, walls, and towers getting smaller and smaller, other towers eventually ending as you go higher in the tower. The Maven says, "I request you do not touch the walls, please."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: I really want to touch the walls.
Matt: The view reveals the entirety of the city around you, and beyond that, the distant dunes and the desert that seems to have no end. You view a far-off mountainscape a little bit in the northern direction that just begins to peek past your view, then (boom) the floor ceases again. You all seem to lurch for a moment, yourself, an inch before you catch yourself on your feet. The Maven catches herself, very used to this transition. You now see behind her, where it has stopped, there is another set of doors, similar to the ones you entered from in the bottom portion of this tower. The door opens, (creak) and you can see the next room is a set of staircases of the same color that slowly curl off and disappear upward above you. "Please, follow me." She walks in, her robe dragging behind her. You guys give enough berth for it to follow. As you're led up the stairway, choosing right or left, they both lead to the upper platform in what is the top of the central tower of the Cerulean Palace. As you enter this room, you see close to a hundred dangling silk tapestries from 50 or 60 feet up of multitudes of different colors; rainbowscapes of beautiful translucent cloths and silks, gently flowing with breezes and mingling and mixing into each other around the outside of the wall. High arched windows on each side, and behind, what looks to be a large opening reveals passing clouds surrounding this height and obfuscating certain portions as they meet with the height of this tower's apex. You see a large balcony from the opposite side of the room that is opened from its own similar-sized arch that extends outward. It has a railing about four feet up that is an opening that overlooks in open air all above the city to see. In the center of the chamber, you see a series of step-like platforms, circular, that rise up upon each other, and in the center, you see what seems to be a tall throne of bronze and sapphire that probably sits ten feet up from the base. Thin, but extremely long and widens towards the top. You can see hundreds of sapphires put into and set into this shiny, ruddy metallic material that frames the entirety of the throne. And there sitting atop this throne, you see a slender, human-like entity wearing no jewelry, no ceremonial adornments, no crown, just a simple brown cotton shirt over simple, elegant pants. Bare feet, no shoes. Androgynous and beautiful; you're unable to make out the sex of this creature. It's not a man, nor elf. Not fey, but something somewhat alien, almost. The skin a deep-set reddish brown, smooth and impeccable. The features are extremely fine and delicate. The eyes are what catch you: black like night, but the pupils, burning points of molten metal. The entity smiles and stands off the throne. Now, at this height, seeing it standing almost as tall as Grog, by comparison. The limbs are elongated. Extends a hand towards you as you step into the chamber. "Welcome to Ank'Harel, heroes of Tal'Dorei. I am J'mon Sa Ord, and it is my pleasure to greet you." And that is where we'll pick up our session in two weeks.
Laura: Oh shit, two weeks.
Matt: Two weeks.
Marisha: Two weeks.
Sam: Wow, guys. We did a lot of strange things.
Marisha: Yes, that was a weird day.
Travis: It's the pharaoh king from Stargate.
Matt: Yeah. We have two weeks until we pick up from that point in the story. Next week, look forward once again to Liam running his awesome one-shot.
Liam: I've got a party planned for you!
Matt: It's going to be awesome. It's been fun. But anyway, guys, thank you so much. Hope you had a fun time. Much love to all of you in the community. You're awesome; thank you so much for your support. Thank you for supporting our wonderful charities. 826 has been awesome, and they keep showing up. We saw recently in Target ads, actually, which is fantastic, so thank you guys so much for keeping up with them. You can still give them money. You can still support 826LA, as well as any of the other charities we have listed in our Guide to Critmas on the website. Those are great ways to give and great ways to support all of these wonderful people out there doing wonderful things.
Travis: And thank you, Loot Crate.
Matt: And thank you, Loot Crate, for your support of this show and support of our community, giving them an awesome discount. However, most of us will now adjourn to finish signing the posters forever.
Laura: Some of us are done.
Taliesin: Some of us will be doing it until the end of time.
Matt: Finishing for a lot of us.
Taliesin: Are we finishing tonight?
Matt: Finishing this weekend, so they should be going out soon to you guys. Thank you for your patience. The first batch of posters are now out. This batch will go out soon.
Liam: The desert awaits, Matt.
Matt: The desert waits for us, and it is much needed. Much love to you all. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [NO AUDIO]
Sam: -- about the company itself who so kindly sponsors us and about their founder, one Ebenezer Lootacrata. Born on a silk-worm farm in Budapest in 1919, Ebenezer Lootacrata was a unique child. His siblings-- Claudrica, Piterca, Dominocos, and Bob-- would always play checkers, but Ebenezer was fascinated by the box they came in. In fact, he was obsessed with boxes. Did he wear briefs? No, boxers. He traded in his backpack for a backbox. He wouldn't eat jelly from jars. He scooped it out of a large pine jelly box. Dick-in-a-box? He invented that in 1930. And in 1937 he packed up everything that was special to him-- one shirt, one sticker, one comic book, and one toy-- placed them in a crate and set off for college. One day later, he was expelled from college because he did not own pants. But he had a vision! A revolutionary idea! Before, people had boxes and people had cool stuff, but he dared to put the cool stuff inside the boxes! He named his company "Lootacrata". In America we bastardize it as Loot Crate, but history has never been the same.
Matt: Thank you, Sam. Very informative.
Sam: And you guys should know that you should go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Promo code this week, to celebrate the arrival of Taryon Darrington to Critical Role, please use code "Tary", that's T-A-R-Y, for 10% off your first month's order. We at Loot Crate welcome Taryon Darrington and look forward to his adventures. He totally isn't the worst. Definitely not the worst character to ever appear on Critical Role. Actually, we've changed our mind. Please use the code "criticalrole". (all laugh)
Travis: Do you know how many people are going to go to their website and enter in "Taryon". They're like "What the fuck!?" "Code not received."
Marisha: It's an ARG, I know it!
Matt: Exactly.
Taliesin: It's perfect. They'll enter 'Tary' and be disappointed.
Matt: Tary's the new Sombra. (all laugh)
Marisha: My subscription went up three dollars? Aw. (all laugh)
Matt: Hey, at least it's in character.
Marisha: Worse.
Matt: Thank you, Sam. Appreciate it. All righty, so, a number of us, if the weather is with us-- as a giant storm apparently just blew into the west coast-- are intending to fly out tomorrow to Anime Milwaukee. So it'll be me and Marisha--
Travis: Wisconsin!
Matt: Yes!
Marisha: It's gonna be cold.
Matt: It's gonna be cold. With Travis, Laura, myself, and Marisha will be out there along with a bunch of other awesome guests, so hopefully we'll see you guys there very soon. Also, as far as the merch goes, apparently we're out of dice! Right? We're out of dice. Dice are gone.
Laura: We even ordered a lot this time, but we're out.
Sam: But what will the people do? What will they roll?
Laura: Well, maybe they'll roll something extra special later. I don't know.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Matt: You speak like you know what you're talking about.
Travis: What a tease. What a tease.
Sam: You have no idea.
Laura: We do still have bracelets. We do still have pins. We do still have a few socks left. We still have shirts!
Taliesin: The Gilmore shirt is back--
Laura: We have Gilmore shirts. We have a few-- We have Strongjaw shirts! Are you wearing yours?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: No.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: There's our Critical Role logo shirt! All these shirts are still available in the store!
Liam: He's wearing it on his face. That's Strongjaw.
Laura: This is Strong-- this is a strong jaw.
Liam: Wears it every day.
Taliesin: You should work in radio.
Travis: They don't want me.
Laura: That's all I got.
Matt: No worries. Thank you, Laura. Marisha, do you want to talk about Signal Boost? I guess Amy Dallen just had her run, right?
Marisha: Yeah! Amy Dallen had her episode. It's great. This week is Eric Campbell coming up in the run. And you should go-- (airhorn noises)-- and you should go watch 'em.
Laura: We gotta stop.
Marisha: Yeah, where does that end? Once you stop-- once you pop you just don't stop-- oh god, now it's a Pringles reference. Okay, go watch Signal Boost!
Matt: (laughs) Well done!
Sam: And eat Pringles. (all laugh)
Marisha: Not boosted on the Signal Boost. But could be!
Matt: Indeed. (In Scottish accent) And there's a new thing called Wednesday Club. You want to talk about that? What's that about, Taliesin? Tell us about that!
Taliesin: For anybody who reads comic books normally, you know that Wednesdays is when comic books get released at comic book stores all across the country. And if you're a big comic book nerd-- and you had a really fun comic book store-- you would go on a Wednesday night and hang out with all the other comic book nerds and have six-week-long conversations on who would win in a fight, Superman or Thor.
Sam: Thor.
Taliesin: Superman.
Travis: Superman.
Taliesin: Actually, funny enough. You don't go to a Wednesday Club, so you--
Sam: Thor's a god.
Taliesin: Well, now you have a show to watch. So now that I don't really have time to do that any more, we thought it would be fun to just do it here with all of our comic book nerds, so Amy Dallen and Matt Key and I are going to be talking comics every Wednesday from noon to two on the Twitch stream and we're going to--
Laura: Yay!
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: New shows!
Taliesin: New show! The Wednesday Club, and we're going to try and make it fun to watch, and easy if you've not picked up a book in ages and you've maybe thought about getting into comics, or you had some kids and now the comic books have just turned into giant shreds of paper.
Marisha: Yeah, it's not a news show.
Taliesin: We're not talking news. We're just talking fun, cool comic book facts, and our first episode is going to be "Origin Stories" were we talk about why we got into comic books, and then starting the week after we're going to be talking about cool characters, team-ups, classic runs of books, anything and everything. It's going to be great.
Travis: Crossovers?
Taliesin: No crossovers. Never mention crossovers.
Sam: Special guests?
Taliesin: Special guests! We will have special guests and not-so-special guests-- you can come, too. So yes! Wednesday Club, we'll be talking about comic books! It's going to be great!
Laura: Yaaay!
Liam: So exciting!
Matt: Thank you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Check us out on Wednesday.
Matt: Also, there's a game called For Honor that just came out that a couple of you assholes are in.
Liam: Oh, it's on the shelves, we've been playing it for weeks here!
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: You can play it as well if you go to your local shop or download it or get it at a store--I already said that but you can play samurais-- we have no samurais here. You can play knights-- Hey!-- or you can play Vikings-- you can use this guy!
Travis: Buuhh, Vikings!
Laura: What kind of Viking are you?
Travis: (loud belch) The male raider.
Laura: The raider.
Travis: It comes out Tuesday, February 14th on all gaming platforms.
Laura: That's yesterday.
Matt: That was two days ago.
Travis: It's Valentine's Day-- I didn't... miss... (all laugh)
Laura: Our Valentine's Day consisted of me making chili and then us going to Menchie's.
Travis: And farting a lot.
Laura: Yup!
Matt: There ya go!
Laura: It was a gooood Valentine's Day.
Taliesin: It's good chili, to be fair.
Matt: You got out of the house, though.
Travis: That's true.
Marisha: We watched Jurassic World and Suicide Squad.
Travis: You did both of those?
Marisha: We wanted to get caught up on our, like--
Matt: Bad movies.
Marisha: -- questionably bad movies.
Travis: That's a bunch of stank.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: No, we had to sit quietly for an hour afterward, just to take it all in.
Marisha: My favorite is Rick Flag just shouting exposition through Suicide Squad and that's his purpose.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Including Katana's needless arrival-- Anyway! This is not this night's game of D&D.
Taliesin: I went to Underworld and met some Critters, it was good.
Matt: That's awesome!
Marisha: Oh! That's a better Valentine's Day.
Liam: You know, honestly, you two having the time to sit down and watch two bad movies--
Travis: Here it comes.
Liam: When I don't have time to watch one good movie--
Laura: Here we go. Here we go.
Liam: -- is offensive. That is offensive to me.
Travis: You have the joy of children in your life!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: That's right.
Travis: The beacons of hope in life. Of future generations. (all laugh)
Marisha: You have spawn.
Laura: Gulp gulp gulp gulp!
Travis: He's so thirsty! He's just dehydrated.
Marisha: They'll be holding your hand, you know, in later years.
Liam: It will help me when I'm dying. That is true--
Taliesin: Pushing you slowly off the edge.
Matt: Yes. We're just gonna be somewhere in a forest, lost, screaming to each other, Help! So that's our future.
Liam: I guess it's time to climb this mountain and throw myself off.
Travis: That's a good way to go.
Matt: Cultural heritage of ours.
Marisha: This is my child. This's what I've accomplished.
Matt: Last but not least, quick little note, due to the current difficulties with green cards and people that are in the country who weren't born here, one of our fantastic crew members, Amandine, unfortunately is having to leave and go back to Switzerland. This is her last episode of Critical Role. She's been a tremendously amazing member of our team, and we've loved having her here, and we certainly know this is not the last we'll see of her, but this'll be her last show for awhile, so I just wanted to bring her out and say hi to the community real fast.
Travis: Aw, yeah! Come on out! (all applaud)
Matt: Come here. You've been amazing.
Amandine: Thank you.
Sam: If anyone would like to sponsor-slash-marry her, she could stay-- (all laugh)
Sam: -- and she could stay on the crew. Just a quick little marriage.
Matt: We all tried, everyone here did our best, but we're going to miss you terribly and you've been amazing.
Amandine: I will miss you too.
Marisha: I know, you've been great, man.
Laura: You're amazing.
Marisha: She's been working on Talks Machina, kicking ass.
Matt: Yeah, she's been kicking ass on set.
Sam: She's why it looks good now.
Marisha: Really, yeah.
Matt: Seriously, so, everyone send your love, give your hearts out, and yeah, we'll look forward to seeing your adventures as you progress and we'll bring you back as soon as we can. We'll find a way.
Amandine: Okay.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: We love you!
Matt: Thank you.
Amandine: Thank you, guys.
Travis: Woo-woo!
Sam: Let's bring the show to her!
Matt: Yeah, perfect! We're coming to Switzerland!
Taliesin: I'm okay with that.
Matt: Guys. Let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode... of Critical Role. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. As we left off on the adventures of Vox Machina, you had just finished destroying the long-standing reign and terrorizing assault of the Chroma Conclave across the face of Tal'Dorei. As you finished that chapter, defeating Raishan and collecting the remnants of the necromancer's sanctum of where the final battle took place, you returned with the unfortunately fallen corpse of your friend, Scanlan Shorthalt. You succeeded in the resurrection, however upon returning from Vasselheim, Scanlan coming to consciousness, it was discovered that Scanlan was in a place in his life where he needed to take some time with his estranged and recently discovered daughter. And arguments ensued, and agreement was had that he would step away from Vox Machina to follow his own path. The group took a period to mourn, and then began to decide what their next layer of plans were, what loose ends still were held out there, and you made your way to the city of Ank'Harel on the continent of Marquet to return the right hand of Ripley, the person responsible for assassinating a member of the Scarbearers within the Debt's Respite tavern in the city. As you made your way past the bazaar towards the inn, on the outside you saw what appeared to be a large humanoid structure built of iron and metal walking on its own behind a very flashily dressed blond gentleman with goatee and a, for lack of a better term, braggartly demeanor who managed to weasel his way into the company of Vox Machina and to continue his adventures alongside theirs as his robot friend Doty continued to archive it in his book of his adventures. And that is where we left off. As you guys step into the relatively empty interior of the Debt's Respite at this hour, with this individual Taryon Darrington in tow.
Travis: Is that really his name?
Laura: That's his name.
Sam: Still his name.
Laura: Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Still his name.
Laura: We agreed to bring him along because he's paying us.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: That is an important fact.
Matt: That is a very important fact.
Travis: Oi, T-- Tar--
Sam: Friends call me Tary, Jumbo.
Travis: Tary Jumbo.
Sam: No, you're Jumbo, I'm Tary.
Travis: Jumbo-- Tar-- I'm Tary. Can you spell out your name for me on a piece of parchment?
Sam: Sure. Do you write?
Travis: Frequently.
Sam: T-A-R-Y-O-N-D-A-R-R-I-N-G-T-O-N
Travis: No, no. I asked you to spell it out on a piece of parchment.
Sam: Oh, you want me to write it down.
Travis: Yeah, I'm, uh, I study handwriting.
Sam: I understand. A scholarly mind is not a thing to shirk. Doty, write out my name in the finest calligraphy and give him a page.
Matt: (writing noises) And the hand seems to pick up speed and start rapidly whipping across the page--
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: (tearing paper noise) Tears it out and presents it to you rather forcefully just over Taryon's head. And it is pretty fine calligraphy, actually. Not that you can appreciate it.
Travis: I know.
Matt: It just looks like a god damn scribble. (all laugh)
Laura: Scribbles!
Travis: Mm! Yes. Uh-huh. Thank you.
Sam: You're quite welcome, Jumbo.
Travis: Oh my god, behind you!
Sam: What, what is it?
Travis: It was nothing. I'm always looking out for this group, though. Thank you.
Sam: Are you the leader of this collection of individuals? You are the biggest.
Travis: No, I'm--
Laura: Our leader isn't with us right now.
Travis: Yeah, just the biggest.
Sam: Hm. All right. Have we already begun our mission that we're on right now?
Travis: Nope.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: We just got here and then you started talking.
Sam: You're right.
Taliesin: I'm getting drinks for everybody. I assume we've got the table at this point.
Matt: The entire establishment pretty much is full except for a couple of individuals that you remember from before who are kind of masquerading as patrons, but each, while they have their drink in front of them, they haven't touched it, and they have their hand on the side of their sword belts. At the bar, there is nobody currently manning it. And as this conversation's occurring you do see the familiar face of Treev Bonebreaker, the bronze Dragonborn who is the Scarbearer Head here within the facility, turn the corner into the room. It looks like he's wiping out what looks to be a large tankard, as he kind of like gives it a shine and looks over. "Well, look at that. It looks like they all returned. It's not often you see folks who are at least trying to stick to their word."
Laura: Well, that's us--
Travis: We've been here before?
Laura: -- promise keepers. Yes, dear.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: We're trying to stick to our word at the very least.
Marisha: Key word is 'try'. Mainly by avoiding death at this point.
Matt: One would recommend that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Vax? Who has--
Laura: Grog.
Taliesin: Grog!
Laura: I believe.
Marisha: The bag of holding.
Travis: Oh god, don't point to me, I forgot we were even here.
Laura: Or maybe, unless you meant to say me and you said Vax.
Taliesin: No!
Laura: Because why would Vax have anything, I'm the one with the bag of colding.
Liam: See, actually, this is one of those instances where it sounded halfway between Vax and Vex--
Taliesin: It was not, it was a "Vax."
Liam: It could work for either of us.
Taliesin: I will definitely, I will stand behind that.
Marisha: Sure, it was like a long 'a' like a Vaaax.
Laura: Vaaax.
Liam: It's the "ae" thing.
Taliesin: It was Vax, it was not a Vex.
Sam: What's your name? I am a bit confused at what's going on here so-- (all laugh)
Sam: What's your name?
Matt: Treev. What's your name?
Sam: Taryon Darrington. You may have heard of me. Friends call me Tary.
Matt: No.
Sam: Well, you will once my book comes out.
Taliesin: I don't think that-- no.
Matt: Who's this fucker?
Laura: We don't know.
Taliesin: We don't know.
Marisha: We don't know.
Travis: Tary Jumbo.
Taliesin: He just sort of found us outside. And he had, honestly--
Laura: Just ignore him, really. How about that?
Taliesin: We're not entirely sure what happened here.
Matt: Ah, there's some fancy garb you're wearing.
Sam: Oh, yes. Quite fancy.
Matt: Good to know.
Sam: Deadly as well.
Matt: Anyway.
Laura: Grog--
Matt: He leans forward. "So what? Are you here to talk--"
Taliesin: Grog?
Matt: "-- or drink?  You here to talk?"
Laura: Shall we bust it out here or do you want to talk in private?
Matt: He does a quick scan of the room. "It's my people and you. Might as well."
Laura: Should I dig into the bag of holding?
Travis: What? I don't even remember being here!
Laura: Okay, I'm just gonna reach in the bag of holding and pull out the hand.
Matt: Okay, and you do. You find the mechanical digits of Ripley, plus some of them partially bent from the combat--
Travis: Oh!
Laura: Oh yeah!
Travis: I still don't have it, I'm trying to--
Laura: It's good.
Taliesin: We have the human hand as well. We have the mechanical hand and the human hand.
Marisha: Yeah, we took both.
Taliesin: We took both. We figured we'd have options, if I recall.
Laura: Oh, that's right, I put the regular hand-- did we?
Taliesin: We took both! We took the robot hand and the-- To be fair, I was dead at the time so I don't--
Travis: Tary, we work on very strict rules. If you fuck us, we take your hands.
Sam: You have more than one hand with you right now?
Liam: We have a lot of stuff in that bag.
Laura: You wouldn't even.
Taliesin: Huge collection.
Travis: We really don't know what's in there.
Laura: You don't want to see in there.
Marisha: Lots of body parts.
Taliesin: It's pretty gruesome.
Sam: Okay...
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: You have to ask, then--
Sam: Just tell me when to start swinging the sword.
Travis: Thought you had to-- oh, yeah! And it extends, but--
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Do you pass over the hand?
Laura: Sure!
Matt: While this is happening you kind of slam it down on the table. The giant, bronze dragonborn claw reaches out and grabs it, and rakes it forward, picks it up, and the fingers fall limp in the grasp. And he turns it around in his vision. (sniffs) "It's a strange contraption. Certainly looks like a hand."
Laura: She was a strange woman.
Matt: So you're telling me, this is the one that took out the Mistress Asharru?
Taliesin: I put the Retort Pistol on the table. She used one of these devices.
Matt: "Right, right. Very well." He takes the hand and begins scraping the pistol back with him as well.
Taliesin: The pistol was just for show. It wasn't a gift.
Matt: "All right. Well, at least the Mistress can lay at rest. I thank you for your deed." And he spins his finger in the air and one of the men at the table gets up and walks out of the room and exits through the front door behind you.
Taliesin: I won't pretend that we didn't have our own reasons for it. But we are grateful that you recognize that we respect your authority.
Matt: Takes some balls to come back here and not have anything to show for it. So, glad you got balls, all of you. Except for that one.
Laura: Giant balls. Yeah, his I'm not sure of--
Taliesin: We haven't checked his, to be fair.
Sam: They're quite-- quite lovely. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, I have called off my associates. The hunt is null and void. You're free to wander without worry.
Laura: Thank you, Treev.
Taliesin: We'll probably only be another day or two in town before we head home. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
Laura: We're out.
Travis: Did we not get anything for that?
Laura: We got our lives.
Taliesin: We got someone to remove a debt upon our heads.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Could we see the debt or was it magic?
Taliesin: It was metaphorical.
Laura: Magic. Pure magic.
Taliesin: Magic. Sure.
Travis: Whoa. Glad we did that. (all laugh)
Matt: Stay for a drink?
Travis: Yes! Yes! Yes!
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Yeah. Let the big guy play.
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Sure.
Laura: But I wanna keep an eye out on the bar because I still don't trust our environment.
Matt: Certainly. It's been kinda low-key here for the day.
Travis: Tary, do you drink anything?
Sam: Wine, mostly, yes.
Travis: Does Dottie drink anything?
Sam: Doty.
Travis: Right.
Sam: He does not drink.
Travis: Then that's two for you. I'll have two of your strongest whatevers for blond-chin over there.
Matt: All right. Anyone else?
Taliesin: Yes, please.
Matt: "Round it is." And he goes and he gathers up a number of small mugs, tankards, it's ramshackle in here. This essentially acts as a base of operations first and a tavern a distant second, so it's barely functional really as a comparable establishment for fine drinks and atmosphere, but it works.
Taliesin: Heineken's coming, basically.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. The drinks are passed around, some small talk's made with Treev, discussing just how things have been pretty low-key since Asharru was killed and you guys last left, there hasn't been an upset. There was apparently a vision of some sort of a creature at the top of the Cerulean Palace a few days ago.
Laura: Really?
Matt: But people were wondering if that was a sighting of Devo'ssa, and some of the rather intense historians and younger believers in the myth of Devo'ssa have been up in a tizzy, and Treev just kinda shrugs it off and takes a drink and goes, "Just what we need is another bigger fucking dragon."
Taliesin: Not for a long time, one would hope.
Matt: Aye.
Taliesin: So. Tary?
Sam: Yes?
Taliesin: I have to admit, I'm curious, where did you get your friend there?
Sam: Why, I made him!
Taliesin: Did you?
Sam: Yes, I did?
Taliesin: Really? What's his power? How's he powered? What runs him? I'm just sort of curious.
Sam: I-- no offense, but I doubt you would understand the inner workings of something as complicated as this.
Taliesin: That's a very interesting thought you have there. But, still, I would be just delighted to hear your attempt to simplify it for me.
Sam: All right, I will. Are you familiar with levers? Things that move up and down?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Yes? Some of those. There's also a machine called a pulley where you can apply force and it will amplify it with a wheel and a string.
Taliesin: I think I've read about such things before, yes.
Sam: Some of those are in there. Also, an incline. It's another simple machine.
Taliesin: You didn't build it, did you?
Sam: I did build it.
Taliesin: Did you? Did you build it?
Sam: I did build it.
Taliesin: So, one would assume there's an access panel somewhere on him where one can make adjustments, or otherwise fix him if he breaks down?
Sam: Pretty fancy technological speak.
Taliesin: Thank you. Where would the access panel be?
Sam: Why do you care to know?
Taliesin: Well, just in case you're knocked unconscious by, let's say, someone sneaking up behind you and hitting you with a weapon?
Sam: Won't happen. Doty has my back. Right, Doty?
Matt: At which point Doty crams in right behind and is dwarfing Tary in size with the broad metallic shoulders and is (heavy footfalls)
Taliesin: Doty? Did he build you?
Matt: No response.
Sam: I'm a bit of a tinkerer. I can show you a few things if we have a quiet moment, not in public.
Taliesin: Can you?
Travis: Holy fuck.
Taliesin: That would be... excellent.
Sam: I look forward to the lesson.
Taliesin: I look forward to giving the lesson, yes.
Liam: I'm curious if we could uh, it was Ermergerd, right?
Sam: My name?
Liam: Ermergerd Swearengen, yeah. (all laugh)
Sam: Nope. You misheard me, Little Elf Boy, it's Taryon Darrington.
Liam: Fucking don't like this guy. I'm curious, where do you hail from? Are you from here?
Sam: Nope, not from here. Matt, we discussed this, where am I from? (all laugh)
Sam: You gave me three options.
Matt: I did.
Sam: And I was like, "hmm, I don't know what any of those--"
Travis: Hey Tary! Open up!
Liam: Ooh.
Travis: Missile snaring!
Laura: Missile snaring!
Taliesin: Gloves of Missile Snaring are currently equipped, motherfucker!
Matt: Oh, shit! (all laugh)
Marisha: That's great.
Matt: That's beautiful. Okay. Let me go look up the information that I emailed you.
Sam: I can also look it up.
Liam: Who is that guy and what is email?
Laura: Yeah?
Taliesin: Doty's got email.
Matt: You are from the city of Diastock, in the Truscan Empire of Wildmount.
Sam: What he just said.
Laura: Wildmount! You're from Wildmount.
Taliesin: Wildmount, fine.
Marisha: He's from Dias-where?
Matt: Diastock.
Marisha: Diastock.
Matt: In the Truscan Empire
Marisha: Dia--
Liam: Stark.
Marisha: --stock.
Laura: Wildmount, hm?
Marisha: Truscan?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Have you been?
Laura: I haven't been no.
Liam: No we've not been.
Sam: It's quite lovely.
Liam: Yeah?
Sam: My family has quite a reputation there and I live on a vast compound with beautiful orchards and--
Marisha: Wait! You're not related to the Briarwoods, are you?
Sam: I'm sorry, no, I don't know them.
Taliesin: He doesn't look like a Briarwood.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Have you ever heard the name Briarwood before?
Sam: I have not, I'm sorry. Is Antlers okay over here?
Laura: She's quite all right.
Sam: All right. She seems a bit drunk already or something.
Laura: She always does.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: That's true. Especially these days.
Liam: Bring back the history lesson, though. So pampered, young, everything you could ever want--
Sam: I wouldn't say pampered. All right?
Liam: Those were my words. Go on.
Travis: Huggies.
Sam: I had a normal upbringing. Private tutors, classes--
Laura: Right, as you do.
Liam: Same. Same.
Laura: Right.
Sam: I wandered through the halls of our extensive library many nights. Read many books about adventure--
Travis: Yes, keep going.
Sam: -- exploration, magic, alchemy--
Liam: Is that code for masturbating?
Sam: I mean... you know.
Taliesin: Yes, yes it is.
Marisha: Kind of sounds like your upbringing, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes, it was code for masturbating. (all laugh)
Sam: My family runs a very prosperous business, and yes, I have received some benefits from that.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Sam: But I am a self-starter in my own mind and--
Laura: Oh God!
Taliesin: (yells)
Marisha: God!
Sam: I've gone out on my own to seek my fortune--
Travis: Oh God. The universe is collapsing.
Taliesin: We've lost Liam.
Sam: -- and record my exploits.
Laura: Did you purchase that armor all on your own as well, or did Mommy and Daddy buy it for you?
Sam: I purchased it myself. With my money, that--
Liam: Bequeathed to you.
Sam: -- that I can withdraw once a month. (all laugh)
Taliesin: It is quite lovely.
Sam: But it is mine.
Laura: That's good.
Sam: It belongs to me. It's my birthright.
Travis: Tary Jumbo, do you have a most dangerous conquest in that book? That Dotty has.
Sam: Doty. I have a list of adventures that I am currently going through.
Laura: (quietly) He's such an ass.
Sam: Some of the adventures include  Rescue a maiden--
Travis: Just any maiden?
Marisha: Oh jeez.
Sam: Transport a treasure. Escort a muckety-muck. A revenge plot. A classic dungeon crawl. Oh, this one I'm looking forward to! Solving a mysterious riddle.
Laura: Ooh!
Sam: The old fashioned double-cross. Teleport, haven't done that yet.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Shopping mission, but really I can wait on that one. (all laugh)
Sam: Slay a dragon. And there's more, but the list is extensive and I'd like to conquer various beasts, rescue different people, find different treasures. It's going to be quite an adventure.
Travis: Shopping is not what it's cracked up to be. You should just wipe it off the list right now.
Sam: Shopping?
Travis: While we're watching.
Sam: It's low on the list. It's a low one.
Travis: You can just erase it. You'll be fine.
Sam: All right, I will.
Laura: It's funny, that whole list... it seems like we've done all of it.
Marisha: I know.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Have you?
Travis: Several times.
Taliesin: Oh yes. How many dragons now?
Liam: Lost count.
Travis: Hard to count.
Laura: Five? Six? Something like that.
Sam: You haven't really, have you?
Liam: Yeah, we have.
Sam: An actual dragon?
Taliesin: Several of them.
Liam: Multiple dragons.
Laura: Ancient dragons
Travis: Dragons.
Sam: What was it like?
Laura: Deadly.
Marisha: Tary, do you feel like we look healthy and sane to you?
Sam: I mean--
Taliesin: Don't hold back.
Marisha: It's fine, you can be honest.
Sam: Healthy AND sane?
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: You seem healthy. You certainly are decked out in adventuring gear, which is quite attractive. Sanity I can't be a good judge of yet, I just met you. You seem like lovely creatures.
Liam: How old are you, exactly?
Sam: I'm a young 28.
Liam: You and I are the same age.
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: It's weird, you look older, but you act younger.
Sam: Oh, that is strange. Youthful exuberance, I suppose.
Laura: I suppose.
Sam: (hearty laugh)
Marisha: So, what do you hope to accomplish at the end of completing all these tasks, you know, slaying a dragon? What do you want in the other end?
Sam: The other end will be my masterpiece, my book. Doty has been very, very good about taking down all of my adventures and exploits, and at the end of it all... I know we just met, but may I share with you some of my working titles?
Travis: Please.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, please.
Laura: I would love to hear.
Travis: Hold on. Wait, one more!
Taliesin: Another round, I've got it, I've got it.
Matt: Treev's already on it. Treev is like, "Oh, don't worry. I'm loving this." Then he's just pouring all of you glasses and shoving them forward to you guys and crossing his arms.
Travis: Maybe some meats too, if you have any. Or cheeses.
Matt: We ain't got meat.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: I want to keep an eye-- I'm keeping an eye out for any kind of questionable behavior.
Matt: All right, perception check. Go ahead.
Laura: (quietly) God damn it.
Taliesin: That's a huge die you just rolled.
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: It's a newbie, it's a newbie.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Continue.
Travis: Which is why it screwed you.
Sam: Maybe you fellows could help me pick a title. Here's what I have so far.
Laura: I thought we already did, the Daring Adventures of--
Taliesin: We talked about it briefly.
Sam: That was a good one, but I have some other ones.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Tarry On with Taryon Darrington. The Terrific and Terrifying Tales of Daring Taryon Darrington--
Taliesin: That's pretty good.
Liam: That is all right.
Sam: Fifty Shades of Tary. (all laugh)
Sam: Bravado! The T. Darrington Story.
Laura: That one seems appropriate.
Sam: Zen and the Art of Robot Manservant Repair.
Liam: No. No. Thumbs down.
Sam: Adventuring for Dummies.
Taliesin: I feel like that's been done.
Sam: The Things They Tarried.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: The Blond Hair of Courage. (all laugh)
Sam: The Adventures of Huckle-Tary Finn. (all laugh)
Sam: The Odyssey.
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Classic.
Travis: What? No!
Taliesin: Seen it.
Sam: Tary's Daring Do's and Daring Do-Nots. Dungeons and Darringtons.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Travis: Oh my god.
Sam: And this one just popped into my head Critical Patrol. (all laugh)
Liam: I grab my sister by the arm, and I drag her off the the side. What-- Why are we doing this exactly? Why are we bringing him with us, exactly?
Marisha: Keyleth just gets a nosebleed, and she's not sure why.
Laura: His money.
Liam: You think he can pay 50k an hour for realsies?
Laura: Hey, Tary.
Sam: Hm? Oi.
Laura: How much money do you have in your account right now?
Sam: In my account?
Laura: In your account.
Sam: I would not care to say. We're in a public place.
Laura: You can whisper it in my ear.
Sam: (whispers) I would not care to say.
Laura: Here's what I need to know. Are you full of shit and you don't actually have any money, or do you have enough to pay our fee?
Sam: Does this helmet look like it's something that didn't cost a shit ton of money?
Laura: It looks like it did, but for all I know you spent all your money on it.
Sam: All right, well, if you don't want the money, we can break the contract right now, and I'll go my way.
Laura: How about you just show me some money, and that way we can be sure.
Sam: All right, I will. Come with me over to the corner.
Laura: All right.
Travis: That's where the good stuff happens.
Taliesin: That was a nice little Jerry Maguire there, especially considering the date. Very appropriate.
Travis: Tavern corner.
Sam: Are we away from--?
Matt: You guys have stepped away from the rest of the crowd, as you guys watch--
Taliesin: I am watching this--
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Matt: Tary kind of puts his arm on her shoulder--
Laura: Don't touch me.
Matt: Leads her over to the corner.
Laura: Don't touch me.
Sam: I'll reach into my Bag of Holding
Travis: (gasps)
Sam: And pull up just a handful of coin.
Matt: A nice fistful of pristine platinum pieces in his grip.
Laura: Just a whole bag of that? I want to look at one.
Travis: Yeah, insight check that money.
Sam: Ding!
Laura: Don't. Flick. Money at me. Dear. If you want to keep your hands.
Sam: I'm sorry, Little--
Laura: Is this--?
Matt: You hear the scratching sound of quill on parchment as Doty has arrived behind you and is now currently cataloguing the entire conversation. (all laugh)
Laura: Does it look real?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Travis: Fucking roll high.
Laura: I'm gonna use my gold dice for this. It makes sense.
Liam: Oh, that was not good.
Laura: Ah, fuckin' A.
Taliesin: Yellow and black!
Travis: That's not the cup of a carpenter.
Laura: That's only 15.
Matt: Okay. You've seen quite a few gold, platinum pieces in your time. This seems fairly legit.
Laura: All right.
Matt: It seems like it's been minted recently, relative in the past maybe ten or so years. It has not seen a lot of antiquing across its surface, and most of the coin is branded in a way that emanates from the Truscan Empire. It does appear to have Wildmount origin.
Laura: Lovely. I believe you. Congratulations on being born into privilege.
Sam: Yes, well, I didn't choose to be, and I am trying to lead my life honest and true, humble and brave, every day of my life. And I thank you for allowing me to travel with you, and perhaps go on a mission? I mean, is this mission going to start at some point?
Laura: It was just completed, didn't you notice?
Sam: I'm sorry?
Laura: It happened right under your eyes. Mysterious, isn't it?  And I walk away.
Marisha: It's true, she's actually very correct.
Travis: Hey, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We're not near them, right?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Hey, hey. Remember when we were at Greyskull Keep, and we made all the guards, like, audition to be guards?
Taliesin: Yes, that was quite a while ago.
Travis: What if we have an audition for Tary Jumbo?
Taliesin: It's not the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
Travis: I love it when I do that, right?
Taliesin: I know, it's quite good. Let's finish up our business here.
Travis: We have business here?
Taliesin: Well, I think we should--
Marisha: Does anyone not understand, we had a mission here that we just completed?
Laura: We just did it! We completed it!
Marisha: We just did it!
Taliesin: We were also going to go to the Cerulean Tower and have a quick conversation.
Laura: Yeah, no. We need to do that.
Taliesin: We need to do that. But we did just finish a mission.
Marisha: Wait, J'mon?
Taliesin: Yes, we have to talk to--
Marisha: I am not taking him to J'mon.
Liam: That's probably wise.
Travis: You know, I can stand outside with him.
Marisha: We're like specially, you know, trained. And proven ourselves warriors. We got permission to see--
Travis: How about I audition him outside, while you go have your convo? Like, we make him beat somebody up or something.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Audition who? What are you talking about?
Travis: I'm saying we should, like, initiate Ole Tary J.
Taliesin: Like we did back at Greyskull.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: If that's what the letter that second word starts with.
Laura: (laughs) Yeah, right.
Marisha: You did good, Grog.
Laura: Impressive.
Travis: Yup.
Marisha: Good job.
Laura: I thought you only learned Gs.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Tary G.
Taliesin: Our business concluded, we actually have some business at the Cerulean Tower, so we should all, perhaps, head there at this point.
Sam: I... not to be a pest, but--
Taliesin: Too late, but yes?
Sam: I paid for adventure.
Taliesin: Oh, we're heading-- there will be adventure.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: You didn't actually pay for anything. You haven't paid.
Sam: I understand.
Liam: And we also didn't offer access to every contact and person that we know on this globe, all right?
Sam: Understood.
Liam: You're a tag-along.
Sam: And happy to be one.
Travis: Plus, these are several, subtle steps. We don't just chuck you in the furnace right away. We've got to temper you a bit.
Sam: Yeah. That makes total sense.
Travis: Cool.
Marisha: Besides, things just seem to happen around us.
Taliesin: Inevitably.
Marisha: So if you just hang out long enough, I'm sure someone's gonna want to beat our ass over something.
Laura: Like, most boring day ever now that Tary's here, we don't do anything fun at all.
Travis: Set up a craft fair.
Taliesin: Critical Craft Fair.
Laura: We all sit down and start knitting.
Travis: I will kill myself.
Marisha: Go to the post office. Check our P.O. box.
Laura: (laughs) Do some grocery shopping.
Taliesin: Laundry.
Liam: VM Accounting.
Taliesin: Magazines.
Matt: If only.
Taliesin: So, yes. We would love to head in that direction.
Travis: Yeah! Cinnamon Tower! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That sounds weird.
Marisha: I want to live in that world!
Taliesin: I would also like to, quietly on the headphone, I would really like to know where this machine comes from, because I'm finding it just a bit creepy, and I would love to get that information out of him before he disappears.
Travis: How tall is it again?
Matt: It's roughly eight and a half feet tall.
Travis: So just a bit taller than me?
Matt: A bit taller, yeah, I'd say a little larger than that.
Travis: A head and a half?
Matt: It's kind of hunched forward as it walks, it probably could stand taller if it wanted to.
Travis: Was he kind of like, Fassbender size-ish, or?
Matt: Not as broad.
Laura: Fassbender was bigger, right?
Travis: Okay.
Matt: It's tall, but it's kind of lanky in its construction, and it seems to be thicker at the feet and the arms and fists, but the actual structure itself is proportionally pretty thin.
Travis: Got it. It's Groot.
Liam: Hey, Percy...
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: I faintly remember you talking about, you were talking to someone, I don't know who it was, but you were talking about plans you had for sort of a walking, automated something. Am I imagining that?
Taliesin: I dabbled... No, I talked about it. It always just seemed so impractical. And now I'm looking at one, and I'm irritated.
Liam: Yeah, I can see that.
Marisha: Irritated? Or was inferior the word you were looking for?
Taliesin: Vexed.
Marisha: Vexed, that's a good word.
Laura: It is a good word.
Travis: That's her name.
Liam: To be honest, you seem like you got your goolies burned there just from a conversation, a little bit.
Marisha: I know.
Taliesin: He didn't build this thing, and I'm worried about who did. He didn't build this thing.
Marisha: Percy,
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: Percy.
Liam: Well, you're the expert.
Taliesin: No. Yes. What?
Marisha: Look, you can turn this to your advantage. Brain drain him for all the knowledge you can!
Taliesin: I think we've already done that.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I think that was an oyster we've already supped upon.
Marisha: I trust your judgement.
Taliesin: Ah yes, that got weird. I'm gonna flip on the cloak by the way, now that we are well out of that area.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is anyone following us from the Scarbearers?
Matt: The eye that you have been keeping out, you don't notice anyone giving chase or following you.
Liam: Walking with Kelyeth. You know I don't know anything about that shit, but in my experience talent and skill have nothing to do with whether you're a douchenozzle or not. He seems like a schmuck.
Marisha: Oh, he's definitely a douchenozzle.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: (gasps) I think that's the first time I said douchenozzle.
Taliesin: I think it actually is.
Liam: He called you 'antlers'.
Marisha: Yeah he called you 'little elf-girl and little elf-boy'. I don't like him.
Liam: Mm.
Marisha: What's wrong with my antlers?
Liam: Nothing at all
Marisha: I know my hair's shorter so it makes my antlers look bigger, which I was concerned about.
Liam: No, they're very attractive I'm sure you heard---
Marisha: Is it okay?
Liam: Okay? It's your best feature.
Marisha: Thanks?
Laura: I like your face more than your antlers, but both are nice, dear.
Liam: No, definitely the antlers.
Marisha: All right, you know what? Let's move off this conversation.
Laura: I just wanted to ask Tary.
Sam: Oh, yes?
Laura: So your... Doty? Yes?
Marisha: Dottie.
Laura: Dottie, sorry.
Sam: Doty.
Liam: Duty.
Laura: Duty. Got it. Does he fight or does he just write?
Sam: He does what I tell him to do.
Laura: Is he competent in a battle?
Sam: I would say so.
Laura: Has he ever been in battle?
Sam: Doty has been in a battle.
Laura: Does he look like he has any battle scars?
Matt: Glancing over and getting a quick look-- make a perception check actually.
Laura: All right, just doing some--
Travis: Roll your new dice to redeem it for that shit--
Laura: (yells)
Travis: Should have done it.
Laura: No no no, at least it's not a one. 20.
Matt: Okay, glancing over and giving a once over of the giant mechanical creature (footsteps) walking a few feet behind you, you can see there are a lot of signs of repair. You can see there are a lot of places where bits of metal have been re-hammered. Elements have been patched over, and additional layers of armor have been added to it. You do see what appear to be some scrapes and areas where it has sustained various weapon attacks. That whole circumstance. It looks like it's seen some scuffles in it's time.
Laura: Duty looks... worn.
Sam: Doty.
Laura: Doty, my apologies. He looks worn. Old, far older than your armor.
Sam: That may be because in battle I am deft, fearless.
Travis: You're deaf?
Sam: No deft, with a T. I can dodge blows uncannily. I can anticipate what my opponent is going to do ahead of time and dodge out of the way.
Laura: I can see that about you.
Sam: Yes.
Laura: You seem very dexterous too.
Sam: I think I am.
Laura: Yes. Did Doty raise you? Is he like your nanny?
Sam: No, he's a mechanical construct that I made, he did not--
Laura: That you made when you were two? Because he looks like he raised you.
Sam: Doty did not raise me. He is a mechanical construct that I built when I learned how.
Liam: Does he cook?
Sam: He does not cook.
Liam: Does he clean?
Sam: He could clean. I---
Liam: Keep you warm at night?
Sam: No, he's cold as ice.
Laura: How old were you when you built him?
Sam: Well I'm 28 now.
Laura: Yes?
Sam: So that would have been 27.
Laura: He's a year old?
Sam: He's a year old.
Laura: And he only talks to you?
Sam: Nope. He doesn't talk to me.
Laura: Oh, he only listens to you.
Sam: He's the best really. Fearless, strong, big, and excellent penmanship. He's everything I could hope for in a friend. Silent.
Marisha: Were pen pals a thing for you? Is that why you like penmanship?
Sam: I mean, no. I don't think I ever had a penpal.
Marisha: No? Did you have any friends? Ever?
Liam: Or siblings?
Sam: I had tutors. I had the best teachers. I had--
Laura: Aww...
Marisha: Aww...
Sam: --wonderful. No, no! Don't 'aww'. They were wonderfully smart and engaging, but my best friends were the books I read.
Liam: What were Mom and Dad like?
Sam: They're still alive. There's no were. They are wonderful people my father--
Liam: I mean when you were a tyke.
Sam: (sighs) My father is a very talented businessman. He can be hard at times. He has great expectations for everyone he meets. My mother is... a saint; she's perfect in every way. She's a wonderful person and... yes.
Marisha: Really? And they're still alive? Weren't killed in some crazy raid, or... eaten by dragons or...fell in a pit of lava?
Sam: No, they are eagerly awaiting me to arrive back at home and tell them tales of my journeys and adventures.
Liam: What is your father's business?
Sam: He is a businessman.
Liam: A businessman? Is that a taboo subject with you?
Sam: No! Not at all. It's just, I'm not sure how well versed you are in financial transactions.
Liam: Oh, fuck-all. I thought you could give me the layman's terms.
Sam: He is in real estate. He buys and sells properties, charges rent, taxes...
Liam: A land baron.
Travis: So bored right now.
Sam: He owns a lot of things, places and makes a lot of money off of these places.
Liam: Interesting... Interesting.
Travis: Cinnamon Tower.
Sam: I will be forthcoming with anything that you ask me. I have nothing to hide. I come from money; this is clear.
Liam: Can I insight check him on 'I have nothing'?
Matt: Yeah, make an insight check.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: It's terrible, that's all right.
Laura: No, it's not! Don't use luck!
Liam: You shush!
Laura: You can--
Liam: I will use luck if I want to use luck!
Matt: Hard to read. For many reasons!
Liam: I'll say!
Taliesin: I also want to take a good long look at robot and see if I can-- this automaton.
Matt: Okay. Investigation check.
Taliesin: Come on. (sighs) Okay, 13.
Matt: What are you trying to ascertain about it?
Taliesin: How old it is, how it was built, where it was built. Just to get a sense of it, like looking over a classic car.
Matt: Best that you can tell from its construction and your understanding, there is a lot of ingenuity in its design. But it is, it exists, and moves through a combination of decent engineering and enchantment.
Taliesin: Oh thank God! Okay, I feel better.
Matt: You can see very, very faint engravings of various runic glyphs that are similar some of the ones that you saw on--
Taliesin: Fassbender?
Matt: -- Fassbender.
Taliesin: All right. I feel better already, thank you. Ego restored.
Liam: (sings the Legend of Zelda 'item' tune)
Matt: You guys make your way to the Sand Herald District and there you can see the distant towers of the Cerulean Place. The large central one that leads up into the chamber of J'mon Sa Ord. As you approach the outside, you see the familiar faces and armor of the Hands of Ord there, guarding the exterior of the palace walls. As you approach, one of the guards steps up with their same kind of brass and sapphire emblazoned armor, and one of them approaches and steps forward. "I'm sorry. Do you have business at the palace?"
Laura: Yes. Question  the symbol? Scanlan?
Liam: Scanlan had it...
Laura: That's what I thought.
Travis: Oh, fucking shit.
Marisha: I thought we got it back, though.
Laura: Did he give back to us or did he not?
Marisha: Wait, no. Are we talking about the flute?
Liam: No, there was a symbol.
Laura: Remember the symbol that had--
Liam: J'mon's symbol to show to all friends.
Taliesin: I think he still has the symbol, doesn't he?
Marisha: I have his flute because I picked it up last.
Laura: Yeah, that doesn't have his symbol on it though.
Liam: That's not the same thing.
Taliesin: We do bring news though, so...
Marisha: Fuck!
Liam: We are friends to-- the man on top. J'mon, I misspoke.
Laura: J'mon Sa Ord.
Marisha: We need to speak with him.
Liam: Vox Machina is here, he knows us.
Marisha: And return this  I show the flute. Maybe they'll recognize it?
Matt: The guard takes the flute and--
Marisha: I take it and I dust the ash and drug use off of it. And then--
Matt: The guard takes it and looks at it, confused. "Please to be patient, for just a moment."
Laura: Of course, be pleased!
Matt: "Be pleased." Turns around and walks back up the stairs, the front of the palace, and enters through one of the side doorways. About two, three minutes pass. The guards just keep a view out, and then eventually you see an older woman in familiar ceremonial robes exit from the doorway that the guard went into. This is the Grand Maven, Gameshega, who you met and escorted you up into the palace originally. She walks up with her bracelets still jingling as she steps down the stairs, her long robes trailing behind her a good like two-three feet. Her headdress still has little brass quills that streak down, past her shoulders into her mid-back, and as she steps up: "It is good to see all of you once more. I do not believe we have met, I'm sorry, what is your name?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington. Nice to meet you. Be pleased.
Matt: Taryon Darrington, friend of Vox Machina, it is a pleasure to make your acquaintance. So J'mon would like to extend their greetings to all of you, and respect in the wake of the news of the destruction of the Conclave. You've aided in closing a far too lingering chapter in the history of Marquet and the ruin of the Cinder King. Thank you.
Sam: You're welcome.
Taliesin: We wanted to make sure that they were aware that all of the dragons had been dealt with, and that the Conclave had been completely vanquished.
Matt: This information did make it to the ears of J'mon.
Taliesin: Excellent. And we thank you for your time.
Matt: Of course. Anything else?
Laura: Um.
Marisha: I guess not?
Laura: Well, could I take you aside for a moment?
Matt: "Of course, my dear." And she walks alongside you as you pull her off a little bit.
Laura: We have in our service, in Emon, a wonderful man, who has been of great aid in battling the Conclave as well, and we learned recently that he was expelled from Marquet due to crimes in his youth and was wondering if we could maybe speak in his name and his regard, to you, to clear his name?
Matt: I can see what I can do. What is the name of this gentleman?
Laura: Jarett. His last name?
Liam: Serpersveshzhg?
Sam: Anderson?
Marisha: Howarth.
Laura: Jarett...
Marisha: Howarth. Howarth.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Jarett Howorth?
Marisha: Howarth.
Laura: Jarett Howarth.
Sam: You have his name?
Laura: Of course she does, because she takes killer notes.
Sam: Holy Bajoly!
Taliesin: She writes everything down.
Sam: I didn't know that he had a name!
Matt: Jarrett Howarth.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. I will go and take this into the archives, discover and see what can be done.
Laura: Thank you so much. If you find out anything, will you please send word?
Matt: Yes, should we be sending it to Emon as well?
Laura: If you could, send it to Whitestone?
Matt: To Whitestone?
Laura: That would be wonderful.
Matt: Okay. Very well. We have not sent anything to Whitestone before. We will find a way to do so.
Laura: It's an up and coming city. Very prominent on Tal'dorei.
Taliesin: It's on the move.
Laura: It's on the move.
Liam: Would you send J'mon, would you send them our thanks?
Matt: I will do this. I apologize, J'mon is not currently taking audiences.
Laura: Totally fine.
Matt: But I will continue to pass this word onto them.
Laura: Thank you so much.
Matt: Thank you very much. And good day! Be pleased.
Laura: Be pleased.
Travis: Beep-beep!
Matt: As the Grand Maven turns around and heads back up the stairs, the guards take their place and the palace is at rest.
Laura: Welp.
Travis: He must be sick.
Laura: Probably.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: The flu, perhaps.
Marisha: It's been going around.
Laura: Lots of travel happening. Happens when you travel, I hear.
Marisha: It's true, yeah. Anytime you fly.
Taliesin: So I think that concludes this little jaunt, it might be back home now.
Laura: Oh jeez.
Travis: Well, I think it's about time that we see what Tary Jumbo's worth.
Sam: I'm sorry?
Travis: One of your things on your list, right, it was to get in a kerfuffle?
Sam: There's no kerfuffle on the list--
Travis: Riff-ram, bah-zhu.
Sam: --but we are going to have an adventure, is that right?
Laura: So many.
Sam: At some point?
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Laura: All of them.
Liam: Buddy boy, you're buying in for shit you're not really ready for, yes.
Sam: All right.
Travis: We gotta know how--
Sam: So far, we've delivered a dead body part to someone, and had a brief conversation with a guard.
Taliesin: It's only been two hours.
Sam: Is this what you all are about?
Liam: We're gonna take a little time for a day. And then we're gonna take you to hell.
Sam: All right.
Liam: How does that sound?
Sam: Are you speaking metaphorically?
Travis: No, no, literally hell.
Taliesin: No, we're going to hell.
Travis: There's like seven or eleven of them.
Sam: All right.
Liam: Wow.
Travis: Are those together? Close?
Laura: Very big numbers, Grog.
Liam: Sure.
Taliesin: We're taking this one to hell then?
Marisha: Might be a good trial run.
Liam: I don't know. Do you want to put him through his paces?
Travis: Yeah, I think so.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I want to save traveling the Ozmit Sea and heading to the water Ashari for when Pike is back.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: So, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Let's take this fucker to hell.
Sam: I don't know what you're talking about.
Marisha: No, we're speaking insanely literally right now. That's what's impressive about it.
Sam: I...
Liam: We are going to Hell.
Sam: All right.
Liam: And you are coming along.
Marisha: And we're taking you with us.
Laura: Shouldn't we see him fight first?
Liam: Yeah, well, let's bring him home.
Laura: I'd hate for him to die immediately.
Liam: Yeah, we want Grog to run him out like a labrador.
Travis: Do I see any large, intimidating looking creatures just walking around where we are at the moment?
Laura: No, not in the city, Grog.
Travis: I'm not talking to you.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: He only has to listen to you at home.
Laura: I know.
Travis: 12.
Matt: Uh, best that you can tell here in the Sand Herald district, no. Most everyone who wanders around here are of noble dress or part of the Hand of Ord.
Travis: You see that fruit merchant over there?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Killed many, many people.
Sam: Oh, well maybe I should pay him to take me on an adventure because Jesus Christ. This is about as fucking boring as I can get.
Travis: I might just hit him. I might just attack him.
Laura: Hey! You know what you can cross off your list? Teleportation, because that's what we're about to do.
Sam: No, really?
Laura: Oh yeah.
Marisha: It's true.
Sam: It's on my list; it's literally on my list.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Wait what? All right, let's go.
Sam: All right, all right, all right! Finally getting my money's worth.
Marisha: So we're going back to Whitestone?
Taliesin: Yes, Whitestone.
Liam: Yes, get your big boy pants on, Ermergerd.
Sam: It's Taryon!
Marisha: Come on, Doodee.
Sam: Doty.
Matt: All right, as you find a familiar tree you can utilize to transport over to Whitestone, Tary you watch as the center of this tree's trunk suddenly seems to split open with divine energy.
Sam: Cool.
Matt: On the opposite side, you watch this tunnel progress about four or five feet within where it just looks like the striations of the interior of the tree trunk before it emerges on the other side into another town square currently in the middle of an evening.
Sam: Doty, take this down. As the tree split in front of me--
Taliesin: I shove him through.
Sam: Ahhh!
Marisha: You have six seconds!
Matt: As you all tumble through the Transport via Plants spell, you all emerge on the opposite side of the Sun Tree in the center of Whitestone's courtyard. What do you wish to do?
Sam: Oh my. Oh my gods. Where are we? What's going on?  What happened? Where am I? Is this a fantasy world? What happened?
Marisha: Are you feeling nauseous?
Liam: Whack!
Sam: Ahh!
Taliesin: How about now?
Sam: Wow! That was exhilarating! It's like my body fell apart and came back together again!
Laura: That's exactly what it was like.
Sam: It was amazing!
Liam: I've never had that.
Laura: Or it was like walking forward.
Liam: Yeah. I've never had that sensation ever before. Ever.
Sam: I felt a great force behind me, pushing me forward! And then all of a sudden I opened my eyes and was in a new place. Doty, take this down. Today is the greatest day of Taryon Darrington's life. The day that he experienced the wonder of the gods. That's enough for now.
Marisha: Oh my god, did you guys hear that? He thinks I'm a god. Doucher!
Travis: Douchenozzle.
Marisha: Douchenozzle, that's right! That's what it was. Sorry, I'm just learning it.
Laura: What time is it here?
Matt: Technically now that I think about it, it would still be day, because you guys left in the morning to Ank'Harel, and you've been there for a few hours, so it's early afternoon at this point.
Laura: Okay. Oh, fabulous. All right.
Travis: So we're back on home turf, right?
Liam: Yeah, we're going to take this guy to a field and kick his ass, or what are we going to do?
Travis: Yeah, I kind of want to.
Laura: Oh, can I go find Jarett really fast?
Matt: Yeah, it's easy enough to find. You head down to where the makeshift garrison, which has now seen reconstruction, actually being turned into a decent functional garrison within the town itself. A lot of the guards are out there running through their drills for the afternoon, and you can see Jarrett is in the process of running them through what looks like ranged combat training. As you approach, Jarett looks over and watches you walking up from a distance and kind of gives a wave, "Hello!"
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "So, everything seems to be in order here. I have to say, I am very glad to know that we have no more dragons for quite some time." And you see he's recovering; he's healing, but there is noticeable scarring on the side of his neck. And it looks like he's going through the process of recovering from the Thordak battle, but he's doing much better than the last time you saw him.
Laura: How are you mentally?
Matt: To be perfectly honest, very happy to not be anywhere near that terrible city. I never thought I had the sense for the slower parts of the countryside, but I don't know; I've come to like it here in Whitestone.
Laura: It is quite nice. Well, you're welcome to stay.
Matt: Well, I was intending to.
Laura: We are planning to rebuild our home in Emon as well.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Laura: So it's up to you where you'd like to be.
Matt: Really, you employ me so it is more up to you, but I kind of like the change in temperature.
Laura: I do too.
Matt: Bit chillier up here, north.
Laura: Well, in case you're wondering, we just came from Marquet.
Matt: Oh?
Laura: Where we spoke with the Grand Maven?
Matt: Right?
Laura: Of J'mon Sa Ord. Spoke very highly of you and she's working on getting your name cleared.
Matt: Really?
Laura: Well, she said she would. I don't know what you did, dear, but hopefully it wasn't anything too terrible.
Liam: Serial killer.
Matt: He doesn't look nervous at all, he looks elated and is like, "Well, thank you. I hope that comes to a fruitful end. I've been living here long enough where it's not a huge deal to me, but it would be nice to occasionally return--"
Laura: See home?
Matt: Yeah. You know.
Laura: That's nice.
Matt: Thank you, I appreciate that.
Laura: Of course. And you may not have heard, but our resident bard has left us. Possibly for the time being, possibly for more. So you won't be seeing his face around here.
Matt: I am sorry to hear that.
Laura: I only tell you because I saw you speaking with him several times and thought you might want to know.
Matt: This is good to know. Well, I look forward to his return. That being the case, can I ask a favor of you?
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Could you hold this?" And he reaches back and pulls out a small pouch and puts it in your hand. "I don't feel comfortable holding on to this."
Laura: What is it?
Matt: It was requested by your small bard friend and I probably should not have it on my person.
Laura: Requested?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: What is it? Components of a potion? I don't...
Matt: One that you should not probably drink.
Laura: What is it, Jarrett?
Matt: It's suude. It's illegal. You should not-- It is dangerous.
Laura: It's drugs?
Matt: Yes! Yes it is! Let's talk about it in front of everyone I'm training! Yes, thank you!
Laura: I put it in my pocket.
Matt: Don't do drugs!
Laura: Don't do drugs! Scanlan was doing drugs? Jarett, you sold Scanlan drugs?
Matt: No, I procured them for him at his request.
Laura: Is this why you were expelled from Marquet?
Matt: (unconvincingly) No. (all laugh)
Matt: There are a number of reasons.
Laura: How long have you been providing this to him?
Matt: This was only the second. I did not want to do this! He is a very convincing person and looked like he was going through a hard time.
Laura: Yes, he is.
Matt: And look, I understand that, and I warned him. He knew full well the dangers involved; he's a much stronger man than I am. Who was I to tell him this? And he's very persuasive.
Laura: He is. When was the first time you gave it to him?
Matt: Not more than maybe a week or two ago?
Laura: Thank you. Thank you for giving them to me.
Matt: Yes, it was burning a hole in my pocket. And I don't want to hold onto it.
Laura: I understand.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: I appreciate your service, Jarrett.
Matt: I appreciate your understanding.
Laura: Get better. Keep training.
Matt: Yes, I should do that.
Laura: All right.
Matt: He turns around, "You lot heard nothing! Nock your crossbows, nock--" (whack) and slaps one guy on the back of the head. "All right. Focus up, on the targets," and you hear him begin taking a few volleys off in the distance as you walk your way back to the castle. The rest of you, as you walk through Whitestone, Taryon, you watch this beautiful, wonderfully slightly backwards city--
Taliesin: Hey! Okay...
Sam: It's amazing.
Matt: It's charming.
Sam: Yes, quaint really.
Matt: Yeah! And there's a castle. They have a castle!
Sam: Tourists must love it here.
Taliesin: We do quite well... in the on season.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. In years ago.
Travis: Do you mind if you come to the outskirts of the city with us?
Sam: I literally know nothing about this city.
Travis: Great, yeah, come with us. Just Vax knows the way, Vax will you... You know? The spot?
Liam: The beautiful parts of the city, actually, are the countryside, the woods around. It's drab in the middle.
Sam: I paid for adventure.
Travis: Yeah, it's out there.
Liam: And adventure you shall have, my friend.
Sam: All right.
Travis: So can we find our way to like a fairly open and not populated part of Whitestone?
Matt: Yeah. Your best bet, at this point, would be to make your way to the unclaimed gardens in the back of the castle.
Taliesin: I was going to say.
Marisha: Castle courtyards.
Matt: For awhile there was no greenery back there. The processing and disposing of the excess acids lead to the green fume that was billowing behind the castle when you first arrived here and destroyed most of the plant life. Through your aid and the people who kept the castle, those have been filled in and it looks like the castle grounds are starting to recover. There is now a fresh growing season of green back there, and that is closed off. It is protected. There are guards around and it is away from the general populace of Whitestone.
Travis: Nice. This looks like a great place. Now, if you want your first taste of adventure, you need to bring Dottie and come over here.
Sam: Doty.
Travis: I have to whisper it because it's very secret.
Sam: Four-eyes, shall I trust Jumbo here because he seems a bit shady.
Taliesin: Yes, no, you should trust him with your life. He's very trustworthy.
Sam: I will roll an insight check.
Liam: Grog and I are just waiting.
Sam: What do I add to it?
Matt: Your insight skill.
Sam: Oh yeah, that. I have forgotten how to play Dungeons and Dragons. 18.
Matt: Travis, I would like you to roll a deception.
Taliesin: Wait, is it Travis or is it me?
Laura: Is it deception?
Matt: Oh wait, no, it's from you, sorry. Yeah, this is Percival, technically.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: It's kind of both of you.
Travis: Bitch! I rolled a 17.
Liam: So Percy at advantage then, right?
Marisha: You can trust Grog for some things.
Laura: You can!
Sam: Go on!
Travis: Plus I do want to take him on an adventure.
Laura: I feel like Grog is getting far more trustworthy.
Marisha: I agree!
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: You get the sense that maybe not all the information is there.
Taliesin: It's not a lie.
Matt: It's not a lie, but it's definitely-- it speaks of a half truth.
Sam: What's going on out here?
Travis: Secret stuff. Are you ready?
Sam: For what?
Travis: Where's Dottie?
Sam: Doty. He's right behind me, as he always is.
Travis: Nice. So put out your hand like this.
Sam: What's going to happen?
Travis: And take your other hand, and you either make a boulder, a piece of paper, or a pair of shears. Right? And we do it on three.
Taliesin: To be perfectly honest, I'm not entirely sure what's happening either.
Marisha: You've never played Boulder, Paper, Shears?! (all laugh)
Sam: That's the best thing you've ever said, Marisha.
Taliesin: That just went right up my nose. It burns. That is not pleasant.
Sam: Of course I've played Boulder, Paper, Shears.
Travis: Great, great. It's just to see who goes first. Ready?
Sam: One, two, three--
Travis: And on the third one, I cast enlarge with the Titanstone Knuckles,
Liam: And I sneak attack Ermergerd.
Travis: And I smack Doty. (all laugh)
Sam: Fuck, I'm dead.
Liam: Pommel side, pommel side! I'm gonna Kynan him.
Matt: Okay, and you're going after Doty.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: With just your hands?
Travis: Yeah, just a backhand.
Matt: Okay, both you guys roll attack.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Taliesin: Boulder, Paper, Shears-- Boulder, Parchment, Shears.
Marisha: Boulder, Parchment, Shears.
Travis: 24.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: Why do you want a natural 20?! You're going to kill him!
Taliesin: No, no.
Liam: Not with the pommel side, man!
Matt: Okay, go ahead and do your sneak attack damage.
Marisha: Non-lethal.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: And double it cause you rolled a natural 20. You, go ahead and roll for the backhand, it's one--
Sam: I will be dead.
Travis: It's four, right?
Matt: It's just a backhand. I would say it's one damage plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: "Vax, where'd you get that amazing armor?"
Travis: Eight, so nine?
Matt: Okay, so nine damage.
Travis: My strength modifier is eight.
Matt: Yeah, so it'd be nine.
Sam: Doty is going to use his reaction to attack Vax.
Matt: Okay, yes.
Sam: Right? Because when attacked within five feet of me, he gets to react?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What?!
Sam: To defend me? Or to attack?
Matt: To attack the person who attacked you.
Travis: See, this is a real good way to figure shit out.
Taliesin: I'm already excited by this.
Laura: This is true! This is smart.
Travis: Thanks.
Laura: You're so smart!
Matt: After this round, actually, for the tension basis of this and for the arrangement for the circumstance, I'm going to take a break, and then come back to this, so we can give this the real feel you want to. So after this round. All right, so after-- Okay, so you do seven damage, you backhand Doty (impact sound)--
Travis: Nine! Nine damage, yeah.
Matt: -- and the head turns to the side. The tome falls to the ground, open on the ground so the pages fold a little bit, and the metallic creature (shifting metal) back to you, stands up, and now goes a full six inches taller than you, and then rears back with its fist, and right as it's about to swing, it sees from behind Vax creep up and hit-- how much damage?
Liam: 86.
Matt: 86 points of damage.
Sam: 86 to me?
Taliesin: What?!
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Great. Great.
Travis: Plus I'm enlarged, so I am probably taller than Doty now.
Matt: Actually, that's right, yeah, so even at your enlarged height, you're still probably a good foot and a half, two feet larger than Doty.
Travis: Let's say I hit him, he looks back, and he's looking at my nipples.
Laura: Oh, that's cool.
Matt: Yeah, there you go. As you're growing (robotic motion noises)--
Travis: What happened?
Matt: Goes to punch towards you, however out of the corner of Doty's eye, sees this half-elf show up and whack him right square in the center of the neck and spinal column and then the fist just goes wide and slams toward you. That is going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: Hits.
Matt: You suffer... Ooh! 16 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Ooh!
Matt: As the giant iron fist of Doty just (whack) clangs into the back of your head and part of your ear and you feel the ringing in your skull from the impact.
Liam: Mm-hm.
Matt: You, Taryon, fall to your knees--
Sam: (pained grunt)
Matt: -- and find a large portion of your vitality and breath and just general awareness knocked out of you from from one singular blow from nowhere. Your eyes go white for a second--
Sam: This is the sound that I make. (high pitched goat-like yelps) (all laugh)
Travis: That's a wuss panic.
Sam: Do I get a shot?
Matt: That was the surprise round, because you were not aware of this circumstance. We're going to continue combat after this break. (cheers and laughter)
Marisha: I'm getting in on this!
Liam: It was his idea!
Matt: Oh yeah. Just so you're aware, everyone who's watching, you just watched your boyfriend cold-cock an innocent person.
Marisha: I watched him walk up behind him and do it. I knew what he was doing.
Matt: All right, just so you're aware. All right guys--
Marisha: This is a part of our Vox Machina hazing. This is what we do!
Matt: This is pretty fucked up, you guys. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So fucked up!
Matt: All right, we'll come back in a few minutes after we take a quick break to continue this combat. We'll see you here shortly. [BREAK]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome back to Critical Role. So, last we left off, in the middle of the Whitestone courtyard, two members of Vox Machina decided, as part of the hazing process, to assault our new temporary party member.
Taliesin: (laughs) When you put it like that.
Travis: How about test?
Liam: This is literally the third time we have done this.
Matt: I know! I'm not surprised by any of you. It's just-- Oh no, I am surprised, I wasn't expecting it, but it makes sense.
Marisha: Wow, it sounds like us last week.
Matt: Yeah, exactly.
Laura: Hey!
Travis: Or every week.
Matt: That being the case, anyone who cares to get involved in this, I need you to roll initiative.
Taliesin: In.
Marisha: In.
Laura: Am I there?
Sam: Wait, you guys are all doing this to me?
Taliesin: No, I want to be in initiative just to make sure that I can actually make sure that--
Marisha: I want to make decisions.
Matt: Would you have gone with him, or would you have stayed back?
Laura: Well, I was coming from talking to Jarrett so, it's up to you if I'm there yet.
Matt: So yeah, you wouldn't be there actually, yeah.
Laura: Am I walking up as it's happening?
Matt: You will be walking up towards the castle.
Liam: This was a--
Travis: Yeah, this was a Tweedledee and Tweedledum.
Liam: -- Grog whispering to Vax thing, on a walk.
Matt: So. There is no Percival, no Keyleth in, but you guys were--
Taliesin: Oh, I'm in!
Marisha: No, I'm in.
Matt: Okay. Percival's in, yeah, they're there.
Liam: Yeah, we're not trying try to ditch them. I'm just saying. It wasn't an announced thing.
Matt: Yeah, so Vex is the only one who's not there. Okay, so, for those who are present and wish to be part of this: roll initiative. What have we got? So we have...
Sam: Eight.
Travis: (laughs)
Sam: (choking noise)
Taliesin: 25.
Sam: You shouldn't bother. It's over!
Marisha: 16.
Liam: (choking noise) Big 11.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Okay, Percival, you're up first. As you watch Grog backhand this mechanical entity in the face, while Vax appears from the shadows and just beans the back of Taryon across the center of the neck and spinal column--
Sam: (muffled scream)
Matt: -- and he falls to his knee making this horrible, horrible sound.
Liam: (laughs) That's my friend.
Taliesin: Come on man, pick it up, pick it up! I just draw my sword and stand on the sidelines, preparing for whatever is about to happen.
Sam: (gasping for breath)
Matt: Okay. Grog.
Travis: Did Doty go down or-- no, he just stood there looking at me afterwards, right?
Matt: Yeah. Doty just (twang), and looked back at you slowly.
Travis: Right. Where is--
Matt: Unblinking mechanical face.
Travis: Where is Tary Jumbo?
Matt: Right here, about five feet from you.
Travis: I look at him.
Sam: (whimpers)
Travis: I hold up my hand and say  Show me what you have learned (all laugh)
Matt: That's all you do?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: Okay, that's Grog's turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, first and foremost I'm going to create a windwall, around us, like an arena.
Matt: Like an arena.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (wind swirling) And then I'm gonna--
Matt: Suddenly, the wind kicks up around (heavy wind). The leaves and various fallen parts of the greenery around here kick up into this torrent around you, as the wind is now creating a barrier around the battlefield.
Marisha: Yeah, I turn to Percy and I say  man, you know, I almost feel bad for the guy.
Sam: (gasps loudly)
Taliesin: Give him a boost.
Marisha: Should I give him a boost?
Taliesin: Give him a boost.
Marisha: Should we give him an incentive?
Taliesin: Nah.
Marisha: All right, we'll start with a boost. And I give him a healing word.
Matt: Okay, what level?
Marisha: We'll give him a level two.
Matt: Level two, all right. 2d4 plus six.
Marisha: I guess you're worth it. Oh, you got real lucky Tary. I got a four and a three, which adds to be seven. Plus...
Matt: Plus six for your Wisdom, so it's 13.
Marisha: 13 points. And then I say  come on, Tary!
Sam: (high-pitched) What? Who said that? Why is the wind blowing?
Matt: Vax, what are you doing? (all laugh)
Liam: I bring my hand around the back of his head, and I'm gonna use my action to cast Lay on Hands and dump all 15 hit points into the back of his head. Then I'm going to use Disengage and hop back away from him and say-- Oh, no! Before I hop back and say: we are a bunch of fucking assholes and this is all you are going to get with us. Are you sure? And then use Disengage to roll back.
Matt: All right. And you move back away from him?
Liam: Yeah, but I have my movement plus-- Yes, back.
Matt: How far?
Liam: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet.
Matt: All righty. Yep, okay. That ends your turn. Taryon. What do you wish to do?
Travis: First time.
Sam: Hands shaking, body quivering, blood everywhere. (all laugh)
Liam: No, no, no--
Matt: No, out of the nose.
Liam: You have a massive headache.
Matt: You did 88 damage to him from behind with the back of your dagger. There is blood out of his nose, out of his ears.
Liam: I just wanted to get him to unconscious. If I'm not a master assassin--
Laura: Nope.
Liam: How can I not go (thu-kunk) and not--
Marisha: You at least split his head.
Travis: He has weak capillaries.
Matt: Understand, you critically hit him from behind to do 88 points of damage.
Liam: Right.
Matt: That would have killed a regular human being.
Liam: Right, right.
Matt: Or at least have put them in a-- He's not like, bleeding out.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: But he looks rough. (all laugh)
Liam: Did I make it clear that I was trying to do this to Sam and not Tary? (all laugh)
Matt: No. Sam, what are you doing?
Sam: I-- I, shit, well Grog gets an attack, but I'm going to--
Matt: Actually, Grog is not directly in a melee with you, so Grog does not.
Sam: Oh, I'm going to counter clockwise around Doty, all the way round.
Matt: All the way around to here?
Sam: Yeah, yeah. All the way round, yeah. So I'm facing Grog and the others, in a sort of a cone pattern. And I fumble, I'm fumbling on the helmet, trying to find the right gem to pull out. And I pull out a diamond. And I pluck it out of the helmet and I go (screams). And I will cast Prismatic Spray.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Oh shit!
Matt: So just past Doty, (whoosh), as a familiar, and previously prevented, blast of rainbow arcane energy comes shooting forth from Taryon's hand. Hitting Grog, Keyleth and Percival.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: I need you all to make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Awesome.
Taliesin: I get advantage on that.
Matt: You do, because of your cloak.
Taliesin: It's a-- What saving throw? I'm so sorry.
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: Oh! On me?
Matt: Yes, on the helmet.
Sam: The helm is 18.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: 23.
Sam: Wow.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wow, guys.
Matt: Okay, so. Both of you guys halve the damage. Grog does not.
Travis: Gimme what you got.
Liam: Show me what you got!
Marisha: Show me what you got!
Taliesin: I'm going to use my reaction to swallow part of the spell, so I'm going to take half damage of his half damage.
Matt: Okay, got you. I'm going to go ahead and do this.
Marisha: Can you do the chargey thing?
Taliesin: Mm-hm. But I'm fully charged.
Marisha: Oh, that's cool. That's cool.
Taliesin: I can use this as long as I have a reaction.
Marisha: Right.
Sam: Do I roll? Do you roll?
Matt: Actually, you get to roll. If you want to. So it's 10d6 damage.
Sam: Maybe you should roll.
Matt: Okay, I did roll for that one.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: Just in case, so--
Sam: 10d6 what damage?
Matt: I'm gonna figure that out here in just a minute.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Matt: 41 damage, however, against you, Percy.
Marisha: If you've vaporized me, I'm going to be real pissed.
Matt: That is 41 points of poison damage to you.
Taliesin: Halved.
Matt: Reduced to 20, reduced to ten.
Taliesin: To ten.
Matt: And your charges are still full, regardless.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You take 41 points of fire damage, halved to 20. So, 20 points of fire damage as the red beam hits you and the flames just burn across. The front of your hair blown back from the blast of the heat. Percival, you feel the sickly ray of the poison splatter past and cover your skin with this semi-translucent poisonous liquid. Grog, you take 41 points of cold damage.
Travis: I have resistance, with my new exalted knuckles.
Matt: You do. So, you take 20 points of cold damage from that.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: So, the beam subsides and you see them all blasted with it, but they're still standing.
Sam: (gasps)
Matt: Perturbed by it.
Sam: How are they still alive? (all laugh)
Matt: And Doty's at the ready, (metal hitting metal) What do you want Doty to do?
Marisha: New kid's got game.
Sam: Well, first of all, as my bonus action, I will cast Sanctuary on myself.
Marisha: What the fuck is that?
Travis: What is that?
Sam: It protects me from things. (all laugh)
Sam: Like a lot.
Travis: We'll see.
Matt: (laughing) Yeah, I love it.
Travis: That's a new one right? We haven't come up against that before.
Sam: They're all new, friend.
Matt: All right, so Sanctuary on you, and what do you want to tell Doty to do?
Sam: Doty, I will say, (gasping for breath) Doty, save me... Save me! Hit the big guy!
Matt: (metal grinding and a heavy force swinging) And is going to go in for ... The giant fist hit towards you. That is going to be a 17 to hit. What's your AC?
Travis: That is my AC.
Matt: All right, that hits. And then, after the fist comes back and smacks you in the face, across the jaw, for nine plus five-- 14 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Beautiful.
Matt: The hand grabs the front your clavicle, pulls back, and attempts to headbutt you. That's a natural 20.
Liam: Ooh.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Nice. I love it.
Marisha: Yeah? Yeah.
Matt: That is 14-- That is 19 points of bludgeoning damage. So, halved to nine.
Liam: That's terrible.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Matt: That's right! So--
Travis: 19 points of bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Yeah, so 19 points of bludgeoning damage. As Doty just (clang) slams you right in the middle of the face. You feel the nose kinda (cracking noise) from the break, and the blood getting gushed from your nostrils. From the headbutt.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: All right, that ends Doty's turn. Sanctuary's on you. Next up, top of the round, Percival.
Taliesin: Mm.
Marisha: Yeah, that Prismatic Spray was impressive.
Taliesin: That was very impressive, yes.
Marisha: What are you gonna do?
Taliesin: I don't know. I think I'm just gonna enjoy watching this for a minute.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm gonna hold my attack. Until he pulls out another object. Of any kind.
Matt: Okay, so you're holding until he fiddles with an object.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay. That brings it to Grog.
Travis: Right. That was a pretty good hit, and now I'm angry. And I rage.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm dead.
Matt: Bonus action, rage.
Travis: And I walk up so I am within melee-- Actually, I'll go opposite... yeah, on the other side of Tary from Doty.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't attack of opportunity, do I?
Travis: No, no, I wanna be on Tary, opposite of--
Matt: You weren't in combat with him.
Sam: Got it.
Travis: Yeah, no, I wanna be-- I wanna put Tary between me and the big robot.
Matt: Oh I see. So you go this way.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Great. I will say Doty does get an attack of opportunity on you.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: As you pull out of the way. That is a nine. That does not hit you.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: (whoosh) Just too slow, and too wide as the rage kinda instills you with adrenaline, and you dodge past.
Sam: Dammit, Doty, do better!
Matt: All right.
Travis: And as I look down, dribbling out of my mouth, I say, Is that it? And that's my turn.
Laura: Oh, God.
Sam: What? You're not gonna kill me?
Matt: That's your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: (sighs) Should I make this more interesting? What haven't we tested yet? We haven't really seen him dodge yet, right?
Taliesin: I think we should see him dodge.
Marisha: See how well he can dodge. And I throw a Fireball. (explosion)
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: Right next to Tary.
Matt: Next to Tary? Okay.
Marisha: I don't wanna mess up Grog. Just Tary and Doty.
Matt: Okay, make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Whoa.
Marisha: Make a wisdom saving throw?
Travis: (gasps)
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Why? Because...
Travis: Because he asked you to.
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: You find out afterwards.
Marisha: The fuck did you do?
Sam: I got tricks.
Travis: Sanctuary.
Marisha: I got-- oh, Sanctuary. Against spells? Even though this is an AOE?
Travis: What's an AOE?
Matt: Any attack or spell that targets the warded creature with an attack, so yes.
Marisha: Any attack or spell. All right. So, let's roll this one. Not great. That's not great, but luckily I got really high wisdom. So, 18.
Matt: What's your spell DC, Tary?
Sam: My spell DC? Is 17.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Go ahead and roll your Fireball damage. Tary, I'm gonna need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh my God.
Marisha: Ow, jeez, oh my God. There's like-- There was like a little twinge.
Taliesin: You should have Vax work that out, later.
Marisha: I think I was-- No, it's this guy.
Sam: What do I do?
Matt: Dexterity saving throw, please.
Sam: Oh, that's not gonna go well.
Taliesin: No, you should get someone to work on that.
Marisha: I think it's Tary.
Sam: Yeah, that's an 11.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll damage if you don't mind, Keyleth.
Liam: Oh my God, he is hanging on by a thread.
Travis: This is amazing.
Marisha: Wait, where's my-- Who stole my book?
Sam: I have your book.
Marisha: Fireball!
Sam: But I need it more than you, you get nothing!
Marisha: I need to know what Fireball does.
Matt: (laughs) 8d6 points of damage.
Marisha: What is it?
Matt: 8d6 points of fire damage.
Sam: Oh my God.
Marisha: 8d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I got it. One-- one, two...
Laura: Where am I on my walk up? Can I hear this going on?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: You hear the distant-- As you're walking up towards the front of the castle, you see, suddenly, this blast of multicolored arcane energy just, (shhhh) out from over the castle wall.
Laura: Take off running.
Matt: You start running. Through the castle?
Laura: As fast as I can get there-- The way I know to get there the--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Would it be faster to go up-- Broom up and over? Into the courtyard.
Matt: Probably, otherwise you'd--
Laura: Let's do that.
Matt: Okay so you immediately take the broom, slam it under, and begin flying at dash speed. It'll still take you a couple rounds to get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And as you begin to crest up you see a fiery explosion in the middle of the courtyard, now.
Laura: I make sure I take off my hat.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 34 damage. So he did not dodge, though, right?
Matt: No, so it's 34 points of fire damage.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You're still ...
Matt: Vax!
Sam: Alive?
Taliesin: You're still alive.
Matt: It is your turn.
Liam: I take both daggers and I shove them in my belt, and I start circling down-- I'm looking at the map-- yeah, that way, and just start talking. Tary. Tary.
Sam: Who's talking?!
Liam: It's the elf boy. This is what we do, this is what we're gonna be facing, all right? Guys, we're fine, we're fine, that's enough.
Marisha: You sure?
Liam: Are you sure you want to play with us? Because we're going somewhere very dangerous very soon, and they did not play nicely with me. We're about to go to hell with someone who did not deal fairly with me.
Taliesin: Several of us have already died.
Marisha: I drop the wind wall.
Matt: And as you come up over the outside perimeter wall of castle Whitestone, you watch as the wind that is whipping around slowly subsides, and there in the center of the courtyard, you see the rest of your friends encircling Taryon Darrington, who is currently on one knee almost, and looks a little worse for wear.
Liam: You can come along, and buddy, let me tell you something, if we get in the middle of the shit, I will protect you, but it is going to be rough. And they're not going to call off their attack like we are. Are you sure you want to write this book and come with us?
Laura: Can I cannonball Trinket into the middle of it?
Matt: Sure. In the middle of this conversation, you watch, out of the corner of your eye, Taryon--
Laura: Not at Taryon, at my party.
Matt: I know, but he looks over, because they're all facing him, and he looks up and sees you arcing over the top of the wall, and suddenly there's a flash of dark energy and a large bear, an armored bear, rolls out and just breaks into the center of everyone here as Taryon's pulling back, and now roars.
Sam: (yells)
Laura: What the fuck is happening? I step away for five seconds and everybody's at war.
Marisha: No, no, this isn't war.
Travis: Yeah, we're playing.
Marisha: This is great, we were just giving him a little trial run. Isn't that right, Tary? Isn't this great?
Sam: No, this is not good.
Marisha: He's fine.
Liam: Are you changing your mind?
Sam: I can't do this. I can't do any of this. I'm sorry.
Liam: Oh, wow.
Sam: I'm not a real adventurer. That was a story I told you. I know it was very convincing, but I haven't been on any real adventures, ever, and--
Marisha: We knew that as soon as you said you wanted to rescue a damsel.
Sam: I know that you thought that I was an adventurer.
Marisha: We never-- no.
Sam: I know that you all look at me and you just see the armor and the handsomeness--
Taliesin: The armor, yes.
Sam: --and the bravado.
Taliesin: The armor.
Sam: And you think, he has it all.
Taliesin: It's very nice armor.
Sam: He has everything that we want. But it's a lie. It's a ruse.
Laura: Can I land? (all laugh)
Matt: And Trinket is still holding this aggressive stance to the rest of you, just in the vicinity, and looks a little more confused and just sits down.
Laura: Yeah, I think we're fine here, Trinket.
Marisha: You notice we tend to make a lot of people cry?
Laura: You made him cry?
Taliesin: We do.
Marisha: We make a lot of people cry.
Laura: What the fuck happened?
Taliesin: We thought we would just give him a little taste of where he's going to make sure that he was up to it.
Marisha: We told him we were gonna go see Hotis and defeat him in the Nine Hells, and we wanted to make sure he lived.
Taliesin: We couldn't have this happen in the Nine Hells.
Marisha: Yeah, look at him.
Taliesin: There's no crying in the Nine Hells.
Liam: The worst place in all the multiverse, and we're gonna let him smack into that for his first time?
Laura: Tary, you could die.
Sam: I... can I be real with you guys?
Laura: Oh, we're ready.
Taliesin: All right, all right.
Sam: (tearfully) My sister's gonna get everything. All the money. The whole business. The compound, the villas, everything. He's giving it to my sister unless I prove myself. All right? I just came out here to prove myself to my old man. And I know that if I do, he will respect me finally, and he will give me my money, and my trust fund, and he will give me my villa, and I will be the guy who takes over the business. And I just-- I thought that I could. But I can't. And I neeeed to. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Oh son, oh son.
Laura: Oh, Tary.
Liam: I walk over.
Taliesin: Daddy issues, that's all we had to hear.
Sam: I need to, I need to.
Liam: I kneel in front of him and I start massaging where I fucking beaned him.
Laura: Oh, careful there, it'll leave a bruise.
Matt: It stings a lot.
Liam: No, no, I have very deft fingers.
Marisha: Honestly, if you would've led with daddy issues, we probably would've trusted you.
Taliesin: We would've just taken you right on.
Liam: Because fathers can be assholes.
Taliesin: They're so awful.
Sam: He doesn't like me, and he doesn't like the books I read, and he doesn't like that I like fantasy novels, and he doesn't like anything about me.
Taliesin: It's like looking into a dark mirror. I don't know how I feel about this very dark mirror right now.
Liam: I take him into a gentle headlock and I turn to my sister and say, Ahh, this guy.
Laura: Ahh, this guy.
Liam: Now I like this guy.
Travis: I raise my hands above my head.
Liam: Wait, what are you doing, what are you doing?
Travis: Are we not finishing this?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Liam: No.
Laura: Not so much.
Marisha: We just learned that Tary's an ugly crier. We can't beat him over the head after that.
Matt: Trinket's head pokes just into frame to you, Taryon, and he goes (licks)
Sam: (yelps)
Laura: No no no. He's my pet.
Liam: That was terrible tough love, and I'm very sorry. I think you should come with us.
Laura: What?
Liam: I think you should.
Sam: I can be like an apprentice. Or an intern. You guys are so powerful and I'm not.
Liam: Do you know something? That fucking gaudy hat you're wearing? I would have no idea how to harness the power of that hat.
Sam: Really?
Liam: I don't know shit about shit. All I know how to do is hit people in the back of the head, that's the one skill that I have. You know a lot more than I do. All you lack is experience.
Laura: Yeah, but I really am a little worried he's gonna die in the Nine Hells.
Liam: Well, I'm worried that we're all going to die in the Nine Hells.
Laura: Isn't there somewhere a little less scary we can take him?
Travis: Yeah, there's other stuff we need to do.
Liam: Is there?
Marisha: I guess we could go ahead and head to the Water Ashari. It should be fairly calm.
Travis: Tary, have you ever passed out from drinking too much?
Sam: No.
Travis: Have you ever been unconscious?
Sam: Only when I go to sleep at night. (all laugh)
Liam: Oh my gosh.
Laura: Oh no, I like him! Damn it.
Liam: We had to beat him to a bloody pulp before we liked him.
Marisha: Look, we're all fuck-ups. We like people who show their vulnerabilities.
Sam: No, I'm brave and strong.
Taliesin: No, no.
Laura: Nobody likes a dick. Well.
Marisha: Or a douchenozzle.
Laura: There it is.
Travis: Now you're using it too many times.
Marisha: Too much? Okay.
Taliesin: Your cowering honesty has won us over. Let's get you a beer. Would you like a beer?
Sam: No, I don't drink beer.
Taliesin: Would you like a glass of wine?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We have wine. We have a lot of wine. Some of it is quite good.
Sam: Really?
Taliesin: Really.
Sam: Because the stuff we had in Ank'harel was really gross. I didn't wanna say anything, but--
Taliesin: No, we know it was gross.
Sam: It was really gross.
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: It had no terroir.
Taliesin: Sometimes we must sacrifice for the adventure.
Laura: Do you have any wine in your bag of holding?
Sam: No!
Taliesin: We have wine.
Laura: I know, I just want to taste his wine.
Taliesin: Well, that's fair.
Sam: I don't have any wine.
Travis: Has Dotty been in any fights, or--
Sam: Doty.
Matt: Which, for the record, you now look over and Doty has been writing all this down. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You are the worst person, I love you.
Sam: Doty, no! Why? Just pause for now.
Laura: No, but seriously, was he your nanny? It's okay if he was. I just want to know.
Liam: I mean, honestly, we'd like--
Laura: We'd like you more.
Liam: We like fuck-ups. We're a family of fuck-ups, so, you want in or not?
Laura: If you're honest.
Sam: Doty is my best friend. My only friend. Because he listens to me, and understands me, and at night, when I play my characters, he plays with me. I play combat, and I pretend to be some of the characters I've read about, and he pretends to be the others.
Travis: I'm gonna kill him. (all laugh)
Laura: No, that's really wonderful. So you want to be an actor.
Sam: No, I want to be a hero. And I just haven't had the chance yet because my father says that I should just be focused on taking over the family business, learning financial things. And learning how to shake down a customer, and I'm so much more than that.
Marisha: There are other ways of being a hero than being an adventurer. There are a lot of ways you could be a hero.
Sam: Tell me one.
Laura: You could be a philanthropist.
Marisha: Yeah. People who spend a lot of their earnings and people who are more privileged, like you, who help people in less privileged places.
Liam: There are many ways to help people in need.
Sam: Do they write books about philanthropists?
Laura: A lot of times they do.
Marisha: Yeah. People generally like them.
Sam: But the stories I've read of adventure and derring-do and bravery--
Travis: Much cooler.
Sam: Much cooler!
Travis: Less boring.
Sam: Jumbo gets it.
Travis: I promise you, none of their dads leave the adventurers' money to their daughters, it's always to the sons.
Liam: But first I'd like to suggest a mantra. I don't know if you've ever tried it. It helps for me, it has in the past. Fuck your dad. That's one--
Laura: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Liam: You know what I mean, you fucking third-grade assholes, jeepers creepers.
Sam: He could have me or any of you killed.
Liam: We'll see. The other thing is, you've done the impossible.
Sam: Which is?
Liam: Well, I've taken a shine to you for some reason. Do you wanna shake off the child's play and do the real thing?
Sam: Very much.
Liam: The truth is, you never stop being afraid. Being brave doesn't mean you stop being afraid, it means you learn to compartmentalize it. You just live with it. So that feeling you're feeling? You're not gonna lose that.
Sam: Okay. But how will I survive in battle?
Liam: Well...
Travis: Healing potions, people who look out for each other.
Taliesin: Friends. Friends.
Laura: Hide behind your giant robot.
Liam: This guys absorbs damage, so stick by him.
Laura: Stay clear if what you do is cast spells. Don't get up in the fray.
Marisha: I can cast spells, and so can Vex, here. It's through my antlers, so respect the antlers.
Sam: Oh, I do. I do. They look very powerful.
Marisha: Respect.
Sam: Something about your eyes make me feel ashamed.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Wow.
Sam: I'm sorry.
Travis: Oh, shit. That is a new one.
Laura: Let's go get a drink.
Liam: Can we get this guy drunk, please.
Taliesin: We're getting into shame and we're sober, I think something must be done about this.
Travis: We got him so close to the brink, right? Shouldn't we just introduce him to the deep end so he can say he's been there, and then we bring him up?
Laura: What, like knock him unconscious?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Please don't.
Travis: No, no, really, there's something to be said for it.
Taliesin: Why don't we do it with wine?
Liam: Yeah, yes, Percy's right.
Marisha: We could do a little roleplay exercise, like in your stories.
Taliesin: We have a magnificent library.
Sam: You do?
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Travis: Oh, god.
Marisha: Full disclosure.
Taliesin: It's time we had another nerd.
Marisha: Full disclosure, Tary, there aren't many damsels you have to rescue in the wild. I've learned mainly because women in the world have to be tougher. So that doesn't happen very often. But, if you want, we can make pretend and do a little thought exercise, and I'll pretend to be in distress and you can rescue me if that'll make you feel better.
Travis: Yeah yeah yeah, he just has to vanquish me.
Marisha: Yeah, but you have to vanquish Grog.
Sam: All right, let's go get drunk, then.
Taliesin: Okay! (all laugh)
Marisha: Okay! (all laugh)
Liam: We really haven't had a barn-burner since we got back from the big do, you know. We should get your sister, we should get Shaun, we should get Allura and Kima and anyone who's in town.
Taliesin: Let's have a good drink, and in the morning we'll set off on the next leg of idiocy.
Liam: Yeah, you know, Tary, there's something you don't really know about-- we've just-- I mean, it's really complicated, it's hard to explain to you, you're an outsider. But we have just lost someone very dear to us. It's very complicated. And maybe we're dealing with shit that is hard, so I'm sorry if we pushed you too hard. I think there was benefit to be had from what just happened, but we're in a shitty headstate. A dear friend is gone, so, apologies.
Sam: I understand. I haven't really experienced loss of that type before. I mean. But I want to understand, and I thank you for your honesty with me and for not holding back. Did I at least cause you some harm in the battle?
Marisha: Yes!
Liam: I thought you would go down in one shot, and you were still standing!
Travis: It was pretty weak, actually.
Taliesin: I still feel a little ill.
Marisha: Yeah! And look, you singed a little of my hair!
Sam: That's good, right?
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: To be fair, we've killed dragons, so the fact that you actually managed to hold it together is actually quite impressive!
Liam: I mean, clearly we've been fucking with you a little bit, but you have ability and skill, and that's not bullshit. Seriously.
Travis: Yeah, the rest's just fake it 'til you make it, yeah?
Liam: Yeah. That will get you--
Laura: I didn't see any of it, so I'm not sure.
Sam: It was really great. It was really great?
Taliesin: Yes!
Liam: Yeah! Yes!
Sam: Thank you, thank you all. I'm sorry for deceiving you before, and I promise to do better and to aid you in whatever way I can. Please teach me your ways, and I will learn what I can.
Travis: Did you build Dotty?
Sam: For heaven's sake, yes! I did.
Liam: I believe him, I believe him.
Travis: Let's open him up and figure out if he's lying.
Sam: Please no, no, I, no--
Taliesin: No no no no no.
Laura: (laughs) Grog!
Travis: What.
Laura: Stop. (laughs)
Liam: (whispers) He's just-- he's fucking with you, it's fine. (normal volume) It's all right. It's all right. Let's go get drunk.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: That's all we do.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Get drunk and make people cry.
Liam: It's been too long, are you kidding?
Sam: All right, I hang back just a little bit to collect myself. Just try to dry my eyes, and I say to Doty: Doty, just delete most of that last chapter--
Matt: (sounds of Doty ripping and crumpling paper)
Sam: -- and take this down. "The battle a draw, Taryon decided it was better to lie than tell the truth, and embarked on a new adventure pretending to be their humble intern, when in actuality, they were working for him." End of chapter!
Matt: (sounds of book slamming shut and Doty walking)
Liam: Oh my gosh, that can go in any direction.
Taliesin: I love it.
Laura: So dark. SO DARK!
Travis: We're getting to the deep end!
Matt: (chuckles) As Doty follows you, you guys make your way into the castle. Wine bottles are brought about, and a raucous evening of drinking is easily found. The barn-burner you're looking for: Shaun is able to be mustered, Jarrett, Kima's still back in Emon, and actually Allura is in town briefly to retrieve Pike. And as Pike comes in, she reaches you guys. "Hi. Apparently there's still a lot of recovery that's needed in Emon and they need kind of an all-hands-on-deck circumstance with anyone who's trained in healing, so I may have to go help with that for a little bit, if that's okay?"
Liam: Oh, man.
Travis: Yeah, of course!
Laura: Whatever you need, dear.
Matt: I mean, don't-- don't go-- (sigh) don't go to any crazy hell places without me, let me know before that happens, please.
Laura: Oh. Right.
Travis: (scoffs) No, we would never!
Sam: That's exactly what they're planning on doing!
Travis: No, Tary, what did we say about lying?
Sam: They just said that they're taking me to hell, or something like that!
Laura: Well, we won't, obviously, if you don't want us to, Pike.
Taliesin: We've decided to go a little softer with him.
Liam: We're figuring it out.
Matt: I mean, try and at least let me know?
Laura: 'Course.
Marisha: Pike, I have to eventually go visit the Water Ashari, but I didn't want to do that without you.
Matt: It's fine, go! I mean, I don't know how much help I'll be other than just getting you there, but there's plenty of people that can, you know, helm a ship and get you across the sea.
Marisha: Is there any advice you can give?
Matt: Hire a good crew. Really. I was but one of many and everything I learned, I learned from watching other people. You might learn more than I did!
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Okay?
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Pike. I step away with her. (all laugh)
Laura: How are you? I mean, you're heading off to Emon right after Scanlan left, does this have anything to do with him?
Matt: I could use the distraction, to be honest. You'll be fine, I mean, it's all tying up loose ends, and I'm more needed helping people that really need what I can do right now.
Laura: I understand.
Matt: It won't be long, they're gathering a lot of great healers. I know Keeper Yennen's coming along--
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: -- and we're gonna be doing some people some real good.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Might even bring the love of my Lady to a few people. Her light can definitely heal a lot of wounds and spirits, so.
Laura: All right. I give her a big hug, and I whisper in her ear. You don't always have to put on a brave face, dear.
Matt: She pulls back from you and kind of pats you on the side of your face.
Matt: "Yeah, I do." And she smiles and turns around and puts her hand out, and Allura takes her hand. "Are we ready?"
Travis: Wait, bye, Pike!
Matt: She lets go of Allura's hand, runs up real fast, and just slugs you in the face--
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: -- and jumps into your arms.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Ohh.
Travis: You go be a monster, and you heal all the people.
Matt: I will!
Travis: All right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Okay, bye.
Matt: "Bye." She turns around and runs back to Allura.
Liam: It's pretty good.
Travis: That got harder, man, damn.
Liam: It's pretty good.
Matt: After Yennen is summoned forth, the three of them vanish into a swirl of arcane energy, towards the direction of Emon.
Laura: (exhales) First one goes, then the other.
Taliesin: She'll be back.
Laura: (sighs)
Liam: We're gnomeless.
Laura: Gnomeless.
Sam: Was that your girlfriend, Jumbo?
Travis: What'd you say?
Sam: Was that your girlfriend?
Liam: (sharp inhale) We just got good.
Sam: Oh. Sorry. I don't-- I'm just trying to catch up. I'll--
Taliesin: That's fair, that's fair.
Travis: Let me see your hand.
Laura: It's a fair question.
Sam: My hand?
Travis: Yeah, hold your hand out.
Sam: My hand?
Travis: Yeah, put it in mine.
Sam: Please don't kill me.
Marisha: Aw.
Taliesin: Aw.
Marisha: That was a good exercise in restraint, Grog. Proud of you.
Travis: (grumbling)
Liam: Come here. Tell me more about your father.
Sam: He's really a rotten guy. (sighs) He does these unfair deals-- nobody knows about them but me, and I tried to tell him to play on the up and up but he's just a liar and a cheat.
Liam: That's terrible. Drink up, by the way.
Sam: Oh, thank you.
Marisha: So how long have you been set forth on your little mission to prove yourself worthy?
Sam: Month, month and a half.
Liam: Really?
Marisha: Welcome aboard the proving-yourself train.
Sam: I hired a band of mercenaries to assist me for the first month.
Laura: Did you really get them killed?
Sam: No, they left me. (all laugh)
Taliesin: (sighs)
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Natural 20.
Marisha: (gasps)
Sam: Truth.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Is that your real name?
Sam: Yes, it is.
Travis: Thought you would've made a shitty name like that one up.
Sam: Taryon Gary Darrington. (all laugh)
Marisha: Wow, your dad really is an asshole.
Sam: Yes, he is.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: How's your sister, at least? Is your sister reasonable?
Sam: She's the fucking worst.
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Marisha: What?
Sam: Yes, she's so-- She's such a jock. She just does push-ups and sit-ups and pull-ups all day and all night and beats on me. She's younger than me, but she's so much stronger.
Travis: What's her name?
Sam: Her name is-- I wrote this down.
Laura: What's my sister's name? You don't know!
Sam: (ugly cries) (all laugh)
Sam: Mary-Anne.
Laura: Mary-Anne Darrington.
Travis: Mary-Anne.
Sam: Mary-Anne Darrington.
Taliesin: Mary-Anne. Marian Darrington.
Laura: Marion Darrington.
Travis: Is she older, or younger?
Taliesin: Marion Darrington.
Marisha: Marion Darrington. (laughs)
Sam: My father, Howard--
Taliesin: He is the worst person.
Sam: -- and my mom, Maria.
Marisha: Maria.
Travis: Is Mary-Anne older or younger than you?
Taliesin: Younger.
Sam: Younger!
Travis: Is she married?
Sam: No. She's not a married Marion. (all laugh)
Taliesin: She's a maid Marion?
Laura: Oh...
Marisha: She's a maid Marion.
Taliesin: No. Maid Marion Darrington.
Sam: She's all focused on the business, and taking it over when Dad's ready to retire.
Taliesin: Then she'll be a made maid Marion. (all laugh)
Travis: Wow...
Taliesin: I may be drunk. (all laugh)
Marisha: That's fun.
Liam: Was there anything good about your upbringing? Any positive points?
Sam: Yes. Yes, I learned so much. I was left to my own devices for hours on end. I traveled the world... in literature. And I experienced such great adventures, tales of history and fiction and-- For most of my life, I was just a happy-go-lucky kid in my room. Reading my books, and making up characters that I would fight against, and only recently have things gotten pretty bad with Dad, since I am now of age to take over the business, and uh--
Liam: At the early age of 28?
Sam: Well, he's getting up in years. Wants to retire to the southern villa.
Taliesin: This is such a dark mirror. This is a very dark mirror.
Marisha: I'm concerned-- I'm sorry, I'm confused. Tary. That was a Freudian slip. Why does your father think it's important to have brute strength and combat experience to run a business?
Sam: It's less about strength and more about a cutthroat attitude. Take no prisoners. Hold back nothing. Pull no punches.
Marisha: Are you sure your father's a real estate agent?
Sam: To be honest, he doesn't take me along with him to many business deals, but he has great influence over many places and cities, and important people, and I don't exactly know the ins and outs of the business--
Sam: But (inhales) I do know that he is ruthless and a bastard, if you ask me truthfully.
Liam: Literally?
Sam: No, I mean, we had a grandfather, so I-- I mean, I think he's not really a bastard. I think. I don't know. What do you mean? (all laugh)
Liam: I mean. What do I mean? I mean, was he the offspring of--
Sam: He has a father.
Liam: I'm sure he does. Was he married to your mother?
Sam: I think so. They were around a lot.
Liam: So you mean, shithead?
Sam: He's an asshole.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: That's a long walk to get to shithead.
Taliesin: That was a long walk to--
Liam: There's a lot of backstory here that you're not privy to.
Marisha: What's your father's name?
Sam: Howard.
Taliesin: Howard.
Liam: Howard.
Laura: Howard Darrington.
Travis: C'mon, note-taker.
Taliesin: Show him your tattoo, I'm just sort of curious. I just had a thought.
Liam: My tattoo? What? The Slayer's Take?
Taliesin: --the Clasp.
Liam: That's a fucking Keyleth palm at this point.
Marisha: I removed it.
Taliesin: You did?
Laura: Oh...
Marisha: I burnt it off of him.
Taliesin: You're gonna make me draw it? That's fine. I'm doing the Clasp logo, if I-- Does this look at all familiar? I have the Clasp logo.
Matt: Yeah, it does not.
Marisha: Hashtag Clasp.
Taliesin: Hashtag Clasp.
Marisha: Interesting.
Sam: No. You're all literate? You can read and write?
Taliesin: Most of us, yes.
Sam: Wow. I haven't met many of you in my travels that have--
Taliesin: We even have a library.
Sam: That's amazing.
Laura: Big one.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, he's particularly brainy. You guys have a lot in common.
Taliesin: We have quite a nice library.
Liam: I mean, there's a lot of differences between the two of you, but you have a lot in common.
Sam: Really?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Horrifyingly, yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, I was a bit of a reader growing up.
Sam: Oh?
Taliesin: Yes. Fiction and non-fiction. A bit of everything. I was a--
Sam: Perhaps we can compare books later?
Taliesin: I will happily show you my library.
Liam: Huh.
Sam: This guy-- This excites me.
Taliesin: Stop. Stop smiling at that.
Liam: You can teach him the art of nerd chic, Percy.
Taliesin: He seems to be well-built for it.
Marisha: You know, Percy is a bit of a tinkerer himself as well.
Taliesin: I do... Yeah.
Sam: Really?
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, I've built a few things.
Sam: That piece of equipment you showed to that weirdo earlier today-- the thing with the handle?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Did you make that?
Taliesin: I didn't make that, but I did make this one. And I pull down the folded ridiculous--
Matt: Bad News contraption?
Taliesin: Bad News.
Taliesin: Um, yeah.
Laura: I keep filling up Grog's mug, to make sure he gets his fill.
Sam: What does that-- What does that do?
Taliesin: It takes these-- and I pull out a musket ball-- and it fires them at great speed. In whatever direction I like.
Sam: That is--
Taliesin: Very dangerous--
Sam: Sexy.
Taliesin: Thank you. It's very dangerous.
Sam: It's very sexy.
Taliesin: Thank you. I think so.
Sam: Wow. And did you make this by yourself?
Taliesin: I did. This took about six months? Seven months? I mean, I'd been thinking about it for quite a while. I'm working on a few others, too--
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Oh, I didn't know that.
Taliesin: This is kind of the definitive-- Yes, this is when we were all--
Marisha: Built it on our little summer vacation.
Taliesin: -- on the last time we took a break.
Sam: Is the propellant part of this piece right here? Or is it in that big piece right there?
Taliesin: Ah, neither. It's in this--
Sam: Or is it magical?
Taliesin: No, it's not magical at all. Everything in this is purely physical. No magic involved whatsoever.
Sam: Oh...
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: What do you make of all this?
Sam: That's impressive.
Laura: Huh?
Taliesin: Showing the mechanism off.
Liam: I don't know-- nerd talk?
Laura: I think it's great.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Uh-huh.
Liam: What do you think of the new guy?
Laura: Oh, yeah. He's weird? I don't know.
Liam: I mean, he's not Scanlan.
Laura: No.
Liam: No.
Laura: Nobody is.
Sam: Oh, you know what? I'm sorry. One second. I forgot, I owe you some money, don't I?
Laura: Yes you do.
Sam: The adventure was 50 thousand, correct?
Laura: Yes, it was.
Sam: I think I had a good adventure today. But I didn't die. So, minus the Prismatic Spray, that's 6000 gold taken off. Minus the wear and tear on my armor and equipment, that's another 5000 taken off.
Laura: Darling, this wasn't part of the deal.
Sam: Minus the fact that I wasn't the star of the adventure, I'll halve the rest of it. Do you have a tax ID or some sort of tax-exempt status?
Liam: Wait, you need to be the lead character in your death-taunting? Is that what you're telling us?
Sam: I'm just trying to find out how much I actually owe you.
Laura: No contract stipulations when we made the deal, therefore, you pay full price, darling.
Sam: I am a man of business and I always follow the law. So by my calculations, 20% federal taxes, 9.5% local and city taxes, I put that at about 11,000 gold total left still. Doty?
Taliesin: Technically, she is tax-exempt.
Sam: Write a check.
Laura: A check?
Sam: Of course.
Taliesin: She is tax-exempt.
Sam: How is she tax-exempt?
Taliesin: She's a baroness.
Sam: Make it 16.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: My father will pay that. In full.
Laura: Oh, dear lord.
Taliesin: We can put it in the treasury, technically.
Marisha: Did he just give us an IOU?
Travis: What about all the jingly-jangly in your bag of holding?
Sam: Go on and reach in there.
Laura: I know how bags of holding work.
Travis: I'll just stick my hand in the bag of holding.
Matt: It is empty. What are you thinking of while you reach in there?
Travis: Candy. (all laugh)
Matt: Does he find candy?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Nope. It's just a void, an empty sack.
Travis: This is bullshit! You can't come with us.
Sam: Is he holding any equipment or weapons?
Matt: The weapon is near him, but not currently on him.
Sam: Okay. Fire. And I set his weapon on fire.
Matt: You watch as your hammer just ignites with flame.
Travis: You better put that out.
Sam: It's cool, though, right?
Travis: You burning my hammer?
Sam: No, no, it's magical, it's good. It helps!
Travis: I touch it.
Matt: It burns your hand. (all laugh)
Sam: Why would you touch a flame?
Travis: Because you said it was magical!
Sam: (whispers) Is he an idiot?
Taliesin: Well... I don't feel like I can answer that question appropriately at the moment.
Marisha: Legally? Maybe?
Travis: You know when people poke you in the sternum with their finger? I do that with the Titanstone Knuckle really hard.
Matt: Yeah, it hurts.
Taliesin: I pour more wine for him. More wine. More wine.
Sam: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm just getting used to this.
Taliesin: No, you're fitting in very well.
Travis: You have your strengths, and while you may be able to "read" with your friends over there, I think it's also important to work on your weaknesses.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Yeah, so we gotta work on your bravery, maybe your fighting voice.
Sam: Absolutely.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Was it really bad? Did I sound okay?
Laura: No, I mean, I wasn't there to witness it, I just know your normal voice.
Travis: When you were flying over the city, did it sound like a llama being mauled by a pack of wolves?
Laura: I heard this braying. I thought it was a goat, actually.
Travis: That was him.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: What a picture you just painted. That was lovely.
Travis: Yeah. Big tall neck, all furry.
Taliesin: No, I heard the llama.
Liam: I'm gonna squish in next to him and put my arm around with an ale and say, I don't know why I am suddenly taking a shine to you when I felt like I hated you a couple hours ago. Just stick with us. You don't have to know-- I hear everything you're saying. You're an asshole, and I love you, but you really are an asshole. I'm just talking to the guy. I have taken a shine to you, and I'm gonna look out for you, all right? The first time I got attacked I was a fucking mess. I'm still a fucking mess. That's the thing, people are writing stories about us, we're a bunch of fucking shitheads, and nobody talks about that-- maybe a few people do.
Taliesin: A few people do talk about that.
Liam: A few people do talk about that.
Marisha: I think more than a few.
Laura: A lot of people talk about that.
Liam: There's no way to prepare, you just have to hit your face against the wall a couple of times, then it starts to feel normal-ish.
Travis: I can help you with that.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: You're good, you've done it, you've been hazed, you're good, kid.
Sam: I am so appreciative of all of you, and I will repay this debt, I promise you. I will make you guest-stars in one chapter of my book, and it will be top three most epic chapters.
Liam: That's pretty cool.
Laura: Fabulous.
Taliesin: Is the money that you're paying us with your father's money as well? Please be honest.
Sam: Yes, absolutely.
Taliesin: That's fabulous.
Laura: Oh, I like that.
Taliesin: That makes everything even better. We'll get you a room right next to the library so you can have easy access.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: We can set that up right away.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: The doors don't lock, though, so you have to be on guard all night long. Training is a 24-hour regimen around here.
Sam: All right. I accept your conditions.
Taliesin: I'll give you access to the workshop if you feel like building yourself a lock. Feel free.
Sam: You have a workshop?
Taliesin: Oh, my.
Sam: For tinkering?
Taliesin: Oh, my.
Sam: Ooh, I like you.
Taliesin: Yes, it's my pleasure. It's so nice. Of course, you'll have a tour. In the morning, we'll do a brief tour.
Sam: Absolutely. And I could show you the inner workings of Doty.
Taliesin: I would be so delighted.
Sam: It's pretty outstanding if I do say so myself.
Taliesin: It's very good work, I'm very impressed.
Sam: Little bit of luck, little bit of magic.
Marisha: Do you want us to excuse the two of you?
Matt: The two of them, as you guys are having this conversation, without realizing it, slowly exit together.
Taliesin: I'm not leaving.
Matt: Right, then you stop yourself as you reach the door.
Taliesin: I'm gonna send him to the library at the very least.
Matt: Okay, the waitstaff come in and retrieve your belongings and lead you up to the chamber that'll be prepared for your evening.
Sam: Good evening. Bye.
Laura: Bidet.
Liam: Good night, Tary, good night. Oh, boy. What a babe in the woods.
Taliesin: I kind of like him.
Laura: Grog, how ragey are you right now?
Travis: Pretty ragey, yeah.
Laura: Super ragey?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All the people who tend not to like people are liking him.
Taliesin: It's a terrible sign, isn't it? Just really, really disturbing.
Marisha: I feel like the two of you never like the same person.
Taliesin: No, that's weird.
Liam: You know, we don't have the weight of the world crushing us at the moment, so I feel like that might have something to do with it, yeah.
Laura: It feels very strange for you two to be agreeing.
Taliesin: It does. It makes me want to take risks. It's nice.
Marisha: I thought we were taking a break from risk-taking for a second.
Taliesin: No, I feel like we've been playing it very safe, it's just been that the world has been taking risks.
Marisha: I love the way you frame things, Percy.
Liam: Once again you're a couple steps ahead of us.
Marisha: I love the way you lawyer your way out of every situation.
Taliesin: That's so nice.
Liam: I wonder where Scanlan is.
Marisha: I could check in on him. Haven't used the scrying eye today.
Taliesin: I wanna say let's give him some privacy, but at the same time I do kind of want to see him.
Laura: I just want to know if he's all right.
Travis: I don't.
Marisha: I'm gonna look. I take out the scrying eye.
Travis: Don't.
Marisha: What? Why?
Liam: I walk over to Grog and start playing-- what was it? Rock, paper, what was it?
Marisha: Boulder, parchment, shears.
Taliesin: Paper, shears or parchment, shears?
Sam: It should be parchment, shears.
Laura: It should be parchment, shears.
Liam: Trying to teach Grog that game.
Travis: No. Stop.
Liam: No?
Travis: I don't want you to look in on him.
Taliesin: I think I'm done for the evening.
Marisha: Why? We just want to make sure he's okay.
Travis: Because he asked us for his own time. Can we respect that or not? Or did you want him to yell at you more when we see him again?
Marisha: He can't know if I'm scrying on him.
Taliesin: He might know if you're scrying on him.
Laura: He might know.
Marisha: Not if I use my scrying eye.
Taliesin: Let's give him a little bit of time.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Thank you, Grog. That's a very fair point.
Travis: Okay, now I'll play.
Taliesin: Little elf girl?
Laura: Danger-zone. I swear.
Taliesin: Is it a danger zone?
Laura: Mm.
Taliesin: Because, you know, it occurs to me, I've never given you a full tour of the treasury room, have I?
Laura: Um. Why, no, Percival.
Taliesin: I'm grabbing the wine and I'm leaving right now.
Sam: You guys are gonna fuck in the treasury? Oh my god! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Who has never wanted to have the full Scrooge McDuck? For fuck's sake. (all laugh)
Laura: As we leave, I turn to Grog. And I think about talking to him for just a second, and then I leave the room.
Taliesin: I owe you for that shit. Thank you.
Matt: All right. As the rest of you wind down the evening, drinking, perusing the treasury, reading the various books that are at your disposal--
Taliesin: We do deposit the check at the treasury, by the way, while we're there.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Deposit the checks.
Matt: You find your evening to a close.
Marisha: We haven't had the night off in a while.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You enjoy the time to relax a bit and take another breath of air after this constant pressure that's been pushing you. Next morning comes in as the sun rises, you all come to consciousness, rouse yourselves for breakfast, and whatever the next day ensues. You all begin to gather in the common room of the castle once more.
Travis: We all healed up?
Taliesin: All healed up.
Matt: Yep, all healed up.
Taliesin: Airship or sea ship? This is your call.
Travis: We've never done a sea ship.
Liam: Yeah, I think we've got some-- We could go after the dude in hell, but I think we have some more time.
Laura: Pike asked us not to.
Taliesin: We should bring a Pike to hell.
Marisha: Pike wants to go.
Liam: I agree, I agree. So..
Marisha: All right.
Travis: Time to go finish your Atari. (all laugh)
Taliesin: We have twenty six hundred men in the back.
Marisha: All right. Do I know roughly where the water ashari are?
Matt: You vaguely know that it exists somewhere in the Ozmit Sea. Kind of south-ish from Tal'Dorei. But you don't really know. Maybe a little bit of information-gathering, or asking people who may traverse that area would help you, but you don't really know.
Laura: Yeah, we can go down to the docks. Are there docks here?
Marisha: Not in Whitestone. I think we're pretty landlocked.
Matt: Pretty landlocked in Whitest--
Taliesin: No. There is actually, technically there's the sea to the north, but that would be useless.
Sam: She meant the doctor's office.
Matt: Yeah, you have the Lucidian Ocean to the east of you.
Taliesin: Mm-hm.
Matt: But it is a very treacherous water, and the Shearing Channel, that is the series of broken land mass between here and Wildmount, the one that the Briarwoods were brokering the bridge for, is-- yeah.
Taliesin: There's a reason we're not a poor city.
Marisha: Is there like a port at the very south end of the continent, to where we could hop a ship and also do some research?
Matt: Uh, there's Stillben, very very far south.
Liam: Ooh.
Marisha: Stillben?
Matt: But that is still out to the Lucidian Ocean, east. The Ozmit Sea is on the western side of the continent. Emon is the closest port city to head to the Ozmit Sea.
Marisha: Oh, western. Oh you mean western. Okay well then, hang on. If it's w-- Nope.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, who has the map? You have the map. Okay.
Laura: Yeah, it would be Emon.
Marisha: 'Cause the Earth Ashari are on the eastern side of the continent. Right?
Taliesin: Do you have a map?
Matt: The Earth Ashari are kind of northern, like mid-northern of the continent. They're in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Taliesin: This is a conversation that is happening right now. I'm so amused.
Matt: Yes it is.
Taliesin: We're trying to remember the fake geography--
Marisha: Of our fake world--
Taliesin: Of our fantasy world.
Matt: Ask me, it's been my life for the past year. Writing all this down for a book for all you guys.
Sam: I got it.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So Emon is like--
Sam: We're up here.
Laura: Yeah, Emon is the place to go to.
Liam: Thanks, Matt.
Laura: Thanks, Matt.
Taliesin: Yeah, yeah. We're up here. Whitestone's here.
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: And we need to be the south-west, so--
Liam: We will live in the stars.
Taliesin: Emon's here. Emon is the biggest port city on the Ozmit Sea, isn't it?
Matt: Uh, on this continent? Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's--
Marisha: So we might as well leave out of Emon.
Taliesin: We might as well leave out of Emon.
Marisha: And then I could also do some research, because-- Is the libraries and the lyceums and stuff open again? Or are they just fucking demolished?
Matt: You don't know. I mean, a lot of that part of the town is just now being rebuilt and recovered so--
Taliesin: Where's the airship by the way, as well?
Matt: You have not checked in on the airship. You guys--
Taliesin: When was the last time we saw them?
Matt: The last time you saw them was in the throes of the battle with Thordak, when they came in and gave it a helping hand briefly.
Laura: Did they come back here?
Sam: Just to keep up the audience  We're in Maine, and we're trying to get to Los Angeles.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Well-put.
Sam: As Taryon, can't we teleport to wherever we're trying to go?
Taliesin: It's easier to teleport if you're already been there.
Sam: Ooh.
Marisha: Yeah, unfortunately, I can't-- I've never been there. And the Ashari are a very reclusive type people.
Sam: I've read about most people and places.
Marisha: Have you read about the Water Ashari and the Ashari people?
Matt: Make a history check.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: I'm gonna join in on this history check as well.
Sam: Yeah, that's a one.
Taliesin: Wow.
Sam: Her eyes just intimidate me.
Marisha: (whispering) Sam.
Laura: Shame you.
Liam: Shame! Shame!
Taliesin: (singing) No one knows what it's like, to be a bad man. Okay.
Marisha: Do you wanna touch my antlers?
Taliesin: Hey now.
Marisha: Ignore that, that got weird.
Taliesin: That got real weird. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm gonna join in on a terrible history check. That is a 19. It's not terrible, I just had a very high history.
Matt: It's not terrible, but your research hasn't delved too deeply into the Ashari. And the Ashari that you do know of are the Terra and uh, and the Air Ashari.
Taliesin: Yeah, I've only got what I read at home.
Matt: There's the Terra and the Zephra. Those are the only two you know about. Those are the only two on the continent. The Vesrah you're not too familiar with.
Taliesin: Well, who else can we talk to?
Marisha: I mean, I guess I could always go back to the Earth Ashari, or the Air Ashari, and talk to some of those people.
Laura: Maybe somebody at the docks in Emon would know?
Taliesin: She really wants to go to the docks in Emon.
Laura: I wanna just pay off that docks comment, really. (all laugh)
Sam: Worth it.
Taliesin: Magic.
Marisha: I don't know. I guess we could go back and talk to the Earth Ashari. You guys haven't been there yet.
Laura: Let's go!
Taliesin: Let's go to the Earth Ashari.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: Let's collect our things. What's the temperature like there?
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Right now, with it being the Season of-
Taliesin: The witch.
Matt: It's in essentially a heavy valley of stone in the center of the Cliffkeep Mountain range. It is far from civilization, it's maybe a few days of heavy mountain-- constant hiking north of where Kraghammer is.
Marisha: Oh. We'd have to hike to get there? No, there's gotta be trees that I can Tree Stride there to.
Matt: There are a couple that aren't too far outside of Terra that you can Tree Stride to.
Marisha: We're druids, there's gotta be trees within that camp, right? And stuff?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Like, nearby?
Matt: Yes, I'm saying that there are some that are like, just in the outskirts of Terra, none directly in it.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Oh shit! Okay, no. Nothing. I had resistance to something and I forgot to use it. (all laugh)
Travis: Resistance to a beating?
Sam: Yeah. Would not have helped me very much.
Taliesin: Let's also say, as we're getting ready, I'm gonna take Tary down and let him pick through the tinkering room, see if he needs any tools and upgrade anything that he might need, give him a quick tour.
Laura: And I wanna talk to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: (whispered) I'll take everything.
Matt: So as you guys are taking through the--
Taliesin: Showing him the equipment.
Matt: You find Grog off to the side.
Taliesin: Don't touch that.
Laura: How are you?
Travis: Me?
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'm good. I slept really well.
Laura: Yeah. Feeling less rage-y?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: That's good, that's good. Okay. Hey, so... This is difficult for me to do. Did you know that Scanlan had acquired drugs?
Travis: No?
Laura: Did you?
Travis: No.
Laura: I just found this out, that he was using drugs behind our back.
Travis: Like bad drugs?
Laura: I think so, I mean, I've never tried them, but--
Travis: Me neither.
Laura: So, I don't know, finding out secrets about people doesn't feel good. Feeling like they've broken your trust in some way, right? And being trustworthy is very important.
Travis: Right, yeah, I think that's very important.
Laura: Right. So. Just hold on.
Travis: I'm not even fighting anyone right now.
Laura: Ah. I pull out the deck. So, this is-- Do you know what this is? Do you remember this?
Travis: Where did you find one?
Laura: Okay. So, Grog, I have to be honest with you. When you asked me for this before, I lied. To you.
Travis: You lied?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: What do you mean?
Laura: Well, I sort of tricked you and thought it'd be funny if I gave you maybe the wrong thing. To see if you'd notice! But-- I'm still lying. I didn't-- I was afraid-- I gave you a false deck.
Travis: No, no, you gave it to me, it's in my bag.
Laura: You wanna pull it out?
Travis: But you said I wasn't supposed to look at it.
Laura: Well, you're still not supposed to, technically. Do you want me to pull it out?
Travis: Phrasing. (all laugh)
Laura: Should I-- Should you-- Do you just--
Travis: You want me to get the deck out?
Laura: Yeah, maybe close your eyes and get the deck out. (all laugh)
Travis: All right, I got it.
Laura: All right, I am taking it from your hand.
Travis: But these are mine!
Laura: These ones are--
Travis: Don't take them from me again!
Laura: Grog! Open your eyes. It's not really a deck, you see? It's a bag. With rocks in it.
Travis: Did you take my salt lick rock?
Laura: No. You gave that to Scanlan. Here's your deck. Still don't use it, still don't look at it, it's still very dangerous! But I want you to know that I trust you with it.
Travis: I know. You said, "Don't look at it," and I haven't looked at it.
Laura: Oh, good, then still don't, how about that?
Travis: I'm very confused. (all laugh)
Laura: I know, basically, I just--
Travis: Do you want a card?
Laura: No! I don't know.
Travis: I open the flap--
Laura: No no no! Don't-- Grog!
Travis: Do you want a card? What're you worried about, it's a deck of cards.
Laura: You're making me regret giving this back to you right now. I just want to say. I close it. Please don't make me regret this.
Travis: Why?
Laura: I'm sorry that I lied to you. Even though you didn't notice. I want you to know you can still trust me, and I can still trust you to not fuck with this.
Travis: I would like to insight check Vex.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: (laughing) I love you guys.
Travis: Six. (all laugh)
Matt: It's a lot of words. It's a lot of words. But you got your deck back.
Travis: But I always had it.
Matt: You-- It's really confusing. She's talking at you, but nothing changed.
Travis: Is this a lesson?
Laura: Sure.
Travis: Can we just skip to the part where you get so frustrated that I haven't got it and you just tell me the answer anyway?
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: You're a good person. Still don't look at the deck. I'm glad you have our back. Don't do drugs.
Travis: What do you think Scanlan did with the rest of those drugs?
Laura: What do you mean 'the rest of the drugs'?
Travis: Well, you said he was doing drugs, right?
Laura: Right.
Travis: Well, did he just take them with him?
Laura: Should we search his room?
Travis: Ooh, maybe!
Laura: Let's do it.
Travis: All right, I put the deck away.
Matt: Okay. You guys head up to Scanlan's room.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Both you guys make investigation checks.
Liam: You've done a lot of brilliant things. That was the most brilliant thing you have ever done.
Taliesin: I am so consistently proud of you.
Liam: Oh my god.
Travis: 16. 18 minus two.
Laura: Oh! 16 for me as well.
Travis: Hey!
Laura: Hey!
Matt: Together you both see-- You both spend the better part of an hour thumbing through the various drawers and odd boxes and sundries that were left behind in the wake of Scanlan's departure. And at the same time you both come to find that, no, there are-- no illegal substances remain.
Laura: He took them with him!
Travis: What about nudey pictures?
Laura: Oh, nudey pictures.
Taliesin: Other things, what else is in the room?
Matt: Honestly? There are no nudey pictures, per se.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: You do find a series of books on art and the human physique.
Travis: Ugh.
Matt: And all the corresponding images have been torn out.
Laura: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: Damn it.
Sam: I have magic that can make things that are way more real than a drawing.
Taliesin: He has three original print issues of Cherry Comics number one through four.
Travis: Well, there's no drugs.
Laura: Well, I guess he took them with him.
Travis: All right. When do I get to look at the cards?
Laura: Like, never, Grog.
Travis: Like, never never? Never, never?
Laura: Well, I heard from Percival that they're super, super dangerous. But I don't know what they do.
Travis: Yeah, you don't.
Laura: No, I don't.
Travis: Only one way to find out! Not today.
Laura: Not today, how about that?
Travis: Fair enough.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. You've joined the rest of the party, the rest of-- After you guys finish your perusal of the workshop, which is quite a workshop, mundane in a lot of ways, but functional for the basic purposes of tinkering.
Taliesin: Rustic!
Matt: Rustic.
Taliesin: Rustic.
Sam: I think it's magnificent, what you've put together here.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: And I'm impressed, and from me that's quite a compliment.
Taliesin: No, I'm feeling it. And, my workshop, obviously, is your workshop for as long as you stay here. Anything you need to work on, of course, it's fully available.
Sam: You know what? I don't normally do this, but... What's your name? (all laugh)
Marisha: Oh my god. He doesn't know any of our names!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: We're like a bad speed dating session. Holy shit.
Taliesin: This is so amazing. Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third. At your service.
Marisha: Oooh! He's still got it!
Sam: Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the third. All right.
Taliesin: Percy to my friends.
Sam: I'm Tary to mine.
Taliesin: Tary, it's a pleasure. This is the castle I live in, this is my sister's castle, except of course, she's lovely. Cassandra de Rolo.
Sam: Hm.
Taliesin: You are in Whitestone, as our guest.
Sam: It is my honor and privilege to be your guest, sir.
Taliesin: A pleasure. I recommend eventually, not necessarily today 'cause I am actually enjoying it, learning everyone else's name as well.
Sam: All right, well. Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: Let's Tary-on! No? Maybe?
Taliesin: No it's-- I'm okay with it, I'm rolling with it.
Marisha: No! No.
Sam: Doty! Doty, put it as a maybe.
Marisha: Not becoming a catchphrase.
Taliesin: It's not a catchphrase.
Sam: Doty, put it as a maybe for catchphrases.
Matt: You guys gather up--
Taliesin: Another daring rescue.
Matt: Together, prepare yourselves for what the next step of your journey is. What are you doing?
Marisha: Are we going? Are we going?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Going, going, gone, gotta go?
Taliesin: Got your stuff together? Everything you need?
Laura: Are we going to Emon? No. We're going to the earth-- the earth people.
Marisha: Got everything. Earth people first.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So we can be like, where do I find the other fourth of my tribe.
Taliesin: You've written your camp number. In pen, on your arm.
Marisha: Yes, I've got my safety tags.
Taliesin: You've got your safety tags.
Marisha: I'm good. I'm good.
Taliesin: You've got your rights written on the back, so that, y'know. If anyone tries to--
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: Let's do it, let's--
Marisha: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Respect. Respect the antlers.
Liam: Always have.
Taliesin: We decorated them at the last winter festival.
Marisha: I like decorating my antlers.
Taliesin: And it looked quite nice.
Marisha: It's a traditional Ashari tradition.
Liam: All right. Eyes on the prize.
Laura: Let's go!
Matt: (laughs) You guys find your way to the Sun Tree. Utilizing Transport via Plants you find yourself (teleportation sound) thrust through the trunk of the Sun Tree, and emerging on the opposite side, on the cusp of a deep bowl-like valley that goes probably for a good mile and a half, or two miles across, before you reach the other side of this crest.
Liam: Tary! That's two times! You've teleported two times.
Sam: (gasps) Oh my god, every time it's amazing. Wow, thank you. Thank you all. Where are we?
Taliesin: Uh.
Marisha: Well.
Matt: Central Cliffkeep.
Marisha: We are in the central Cliffkeep
Sam: Of?
Marisha: Of Tal'Dorei. And of the central-- Of the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: So cool.
Marisha: Yeah! (all laugh)
Matt: You glance around, and there are the edges of a forest here. A lot of them are stockier trees, and things that live in harsh environments, and a lot of them are rooted in cracks in the ground, and portions of the rock that have split open. Down within this valley, you can already see what appear to be dozens and dozens of trenches, that seem to have been dug. And there are areas of this valley that appear to have eroded or collapsed. Like small, long rockslides that are just kind of dotting the edges of the mountain walls. Down towards the center you can see, also, a cluster of dozens and dozens of small abodes, it looks like. Homes, huts, structures made of rock. This is Terra, this is the Earth Ashari village here. Currently guarding over the localized rift to the Earth Elemental plane. You guys are traversing down into it?
Marisha: Yep
Matt: It takes you a short time, you find one of the paths that kinda zigzags down the side of this mountain drop, and make your way in towards the center. The sun is now-- I'd say at this time, just over the very top, kind of noon-ish portion of the day. You begin to walk your way in and it's very warm here, partially because the-- It's northern enough where usually it's a colder temperature on the island-- Don't you even, you motherfucker.
Liam: Wow. You lasered in on that like nobody's business!
Travis: (gunshots)
Matt: I'm a little sensitive (all laugh)
Matt: But the further down you get it is just-- The tree line has stopped and it is just rock, stone, that is reflecting the light and it is warm. You're starting to find yourself sweat in your full armor as you traverse deeper and deeper into the center of this mountain valley.
Marisha: It's always like 20 degrees warmer in the valley.
Laura: (laughs) Terrible.
Matt: Disadvantage on the next roll. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Thank you for turning us into an episode of California, yes.
Liam: That's a little bit of Los Angeles actor humor for you guys over in Sweden today.
Travis: (surfer accent) Californians.
Taliesin: To get to Critical Role, take the 101 with the 5 to get up to Burbank to get to Critical Role.
Liam: For all you fans in Germany, that's a little San Fernando valley humor!
Taliesin: From beautiful downtown Burbank.
Sam: I loved it, you can do no wrong.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: I like Tary.
Matt: Yeah. So as you continue downward, you get maybe a quarter-mile into this walk, still relatively far from the village, before-- And you recognize this. You watch as one of the nearby trenches, (earth moving) shifts up about two feet in stone, and you watch as three figures step out from within the trench and begin walking towards you.
Travis: Are we killing these?
Marisha: Stop-- No, no? These are-- Grog!
Travis: Sorry, but--
Taliesin: They're sending us to the things we're going to kill.
Travis: Oh! Okay.
Marisha: Everyone, wait for a second. I step forward a second.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three humanoids approach.
Travis: Lambchop-looking motherfucker.
Sam: Just a stick. Just a stick. It doesn't do anything.
Taliesin: It's from the walking company.
Matt: They are clad in darkened leathers, furs, and it looks like a lot of the armor and garb here is taken from hunted creatures and animals that have been prepared and tanned, here within the sun-wracked center of this mountain valley. The two to the-- Flanking the central figure appear to be human, male and female, both very short, kind of tossed hair. Then at the center you see what appears to be a surprisingly short, but very stocky and thick, half orc female. As she approaches she has-- the hair is woven back into these thick braids that are pulled into a singular, what looks like a topknot, on the upper back of her skull. Her jaw protrudes a bit, you can see the two lower fangs kinda pushing past the lips.
Marisha: Is this Patisse?
Matt: No, this is--
Travis: Lower fangs?
Laura: She's a half orc.
Liam: Yeah, she's got the big teeth.
Matt: This is Rockcaller Dryden.
Laura: Rockcaller--?
Matt: Dryden.
Laura: Not that I would know that.
Liam: (sing-song) Rock Caller Dryden
Sam: Good old RCD.
Marisha: Do I know Dryden from before?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: This is not the headmaster of the tribe,
Marisha: Right.
Matt: But one of the central sentinels that's around this portion here.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: Approaches you, and for a moment puts a hand out almost to hail you, and then recognizes your face and steps forward. "Keyleth? What brings you to Terra?"
Marisha: Kaitiaki, Dryden.
Matt: Kaitiaki.
Marisha: How are you?
Matt: We are well.
Marisha: Have you fared well here recently, in the past several months?
Matt: We have hunkered down. Our business was to make sure that no more of the Rifts befall the same fate of the Pyrah.
Marisha: Have you talked to Cerkonos or Korren at all?
Matt: Not recently, no.
Marisha: We have slayed the Chroma Conclave. All the dragons are dead.
Matt: Then this is a time for celebration.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: I will pass this along.
Marisha: I was wondering if I could speak to Headmaster Patisse.
Matt: Perhaps, but what do you wish to speak on?
Marisha: I am intent on continuing my journey on to the Water Ashari tribe. And I need information from him.
Matt: To the Vesrah. Very well. I could help you with this information if need be.
Marisha: Is Patisse indisposed?
Matt: No. No, right this way.
Marisha: I mean it would just be nice to, like, say hi. While I'm here at least.
Matt: "Very well." They turn around and begin to lead you back towards the outskirts of the city, not directly into Terra itself, but as you approach, and walk past, you can see the ground here-- every ten minutes or so you feel a sudden shift, and a slight quake beneath your feet. The landscape here, the closer you walk to the center of the village, seems to be in this perpetual state of shifting rock. And you watch as different areas kind of collide. Areas of stone kind of (cracking noise), and rocks tumble down. Parts of it break and crack and reform. At one point, as you guys are not maybe 200 feet out from the first major structures, the ground has one major spike. (loud rock slide) And you hear this heavy rolling rumble, and you watch as, maybe 300 feet off from the side, a new pinnacle is formed. Two big plates kind of (crack), jut upward, one kind of coasting over the other and coming to a halt. There is very heavy localized seismic activity as part of the proximity to the rift of the earth elemental plane here. And you watch as three druids come rushing out of the side of the Terra tribe, and as they focus, the rocks (crumbling noises) crumble back down and subside. The central mountain landscape, here, brought back to a momentary beat of peace and quiet.
Marisha: I'm like a New Yorker on a subway.
Matt: Yeah. Just going straight in.
Marisha: I'm just like, whatever. Used to this.
Laura: Must wreak havoc on the local architexture.
Travis: Architexture?
Laura: Architexture.
Marisha: Oh, it's built-- We've got infrastructure built for that sort of thing. It's fine, they're used to it here.
Matt: Right. As you progress inward, and some of the other Terra Ashari--
Laura: Shut your mouth, you wouldn't even know what architecture is!
Matt: Different visual representations. Some appear to be more ornamental. Jewelry seems to be here, like jewels and metallics used, it seems to connote a level of prestige within the tribe, and every individual that walks, usually with a cluster or protectors around them, or at least, seems to be in a place of notable importance within groups, seems to be more adorned in this natural-based jewelry. You know exactly where to go to head straight to the hut in which the headmaster resides and as--
Liam: And I'm watching her stride through here with confidence, just impressed.
Marisha: Rockcaller. Rockcaller. Oh Jerry! How you been? How's the kids?
Liam: Jerry! Jerry!
Marisha: Jerry! JERRY!
Matt: What looks to be a heavy wooden doorway, built out of a series of tree trunks that are strapped to this one area. Just (tree trunks shifting) shifts open and now you see, walks a very tall, thin, and older, like mid-60s human male, who is adorned in a similar tattoo pattern as the Rockcaller you saw earlier. But it seems to reside from the center of the cheeks and through the jowls and then crosses across the neck and then across the arms all the way down to the fingertips.
Laura: (quietly) Tight.
Matt: And there are certain portions which are broken up by hard lines, it's like this parallel intersection multiple times as the tattoo progresses down. Very, very loose, almost a flowing central shoulder-based robe that tosses down the front of the body and meets with a long skirt that drags behind him as he steps out. And as he looks over in the direction of you, you can see the eyes are very hardened, dark, deep brown in color, and the sockets are very weathered, his skin texture in general is pretty weathered. He looks over towards you, clean-shaven, short white hair, puts a hand up. "Keyleth, you grace the Terra with your presence. What can we be of service to you for?"
Marisha: I stand more in attention, more formal. Good to see you, Patisse, it's been quite some time.
Matt: You as well.
Marisha: I just came to check in after the recent events in the world, make sure everyone was okay.
Matt: Everything seems to be fine. We've been intent of care to the rift, and from the word that seems to have passed quickly since your arrival over the past few days, it's come to our attention that Thordak no longer sits in the center of the city of Emon.
Marisha: That's correct. We've also slain his right-hand man, Raishan, who seemed to be the mastermind of the entire orchestration.
Matt: Good. Good and well done.
Marisha: Thank you. I couldn't have done it without your help and training, so I appreciate that.
Matt: You are but a seed, you allowed it to germinate. So what do you need?
Marisha: Well, I'm intent on continuing on with my Aramente now that there's relative peace in the world. The Vesrah people are quite insular, of course. I was wondering if you could give me some advice on how to get there and any advice in general on dealing with them?
Matt: It has been a long time since I've attended any sort of gathering with the Vesrah. It is for people of our skill set not the easiest of journeys, as many of us are capable of traversing through the sentinels of nature. Unfortunately, most of the tree life that exists around Vesrah is beneath the water.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: So your most likely form of transport will be that of a vessel across the waves.
Marisha: Who's their headmaster there now? Do you know?
Matt: The headmaster there-- Uvenda, the heart of the tides.
Marisha: Uvenda.
Matt: Uvenda.
Marisha: Uvenda, the heart of the tides. What can I expect of this Uvenda? Uvenda.
Matt: Not what you'd expect. I'll leave it at that.
Marisha: That's very vague of you, Patisse.
Matt: Well, what would be the fun if I were to unveil the next fold of your Aramente?
Marisha: No, you've got a point. Do you recommend by ship or would flight be more appropriate?
Matt: If you have the means, that is up to you.
Marisha: All right. Any other words of encouragement?
Matt: Listen closely. Keep your friends about you. That should be sufficient.
Marisha: Oh, sorry, I probably should've introduced-- by the way, this is my band I've been traveling with, Vox Machina. And Tary. Tary Darrington.
Sam: Lovely to meet you. I have no idea where we are right now.
Matt: Good, keep it that way.
Marisha: He's new.
Laura: Can I ask a question? Is that all right?
Marisha: Of course.
Laura: Is it polite?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: (quietly) Hi, sorry. You mentioned that the water Ashari live under the water.
Matt: They don't live beneath the water, not entirely.
Laura: Okay, I thought maybe they were like mer-people or something, I wasn't sure.
Marisha: That would be awesome.
Laura: Yeah, right? That'd be really cool.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Cool. So we'll see them above land then if we're flying.
Matt: Some of them, yes.
Laura: Some of them. All right, that was my question. Thank you for your answer. Thank you.
Marisha: Are there any other landmarks or ways of navigation to find them? They're an island in the middle of the Ozmit sea.
Matt: It's not the island of usual appearance. The beaches and sands of Vesrah are built upon a great circular reef. And part of the city lies above, part of it lies below.
Travis: (quietly) Sick.
Marisha: (quietly) Awesome.
Matt: Look for the white sands beneath the surface. Some structures will be visible from above. It would lie quite a ways to the southwest, not too far from the Hespit. I would recommend perhaps procuring the service of someone who knows the sea well.
Marisha: Yes. We were going to look into trying to do that. Well, is there anything you need from me, Patisse, before we head on?
Matt: No. Just do your best to have your friends keep the location of our village to themselves.
Marisha: Don't worry, we have many places we'd prefer to keep this way.
Matt: Good. I trust you all. Safe journeys. Keep her safe.
Taliesin: Of course.
Laura: Always.
Matt: The tempest needs a new voice.
Marisha: Thank you for your belief in me. Kaitiaki, Patisse.
Matt: Kaitiaki, young Keyleth.
Sam: You're welcome.
Laura: Kai... tiaki.
Marisha: (quietly) Good job.
Taliesin: Kaitiaki. (all laugh)
Sam: Kaiahoga.
Marisha: What did you say?
Laura: Kamehameha.
Liam: Ticonderoga... pencils.
Sam: I pull Vax aside and say--
Liam: What's up, buddy?
Sam: Poise, grace, confidence, she is amazing.
Liam: Yeah? That's true.
Sam: Is she your leader?
Liam: Sometimes, yeah. Sometimes.
Sam: (quietly) Incredible.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I'm learning so much already, thank you again.
Liam: That's-- you're welcome, that's good. That's good. One step at a time.
Sam: Absolutely.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Vax, you made sure Tary partook of some of the soil here, right? It's an Ashari tradition, right?
Liam: What? Are you asking me if he shit here? What are you talking about?
Travis: No, no. He has to eat-- did you? Tary, did you manage to get some of the soil in your mouth?
Sam: The what in my mouth?
Travis: It's a custom here you have to eat the dirt of the earth Ashari.
Liam: I walk off. I'm not getting part of this.
Sam: Absolutely. I will do it.
Travis: You don't want to be offensive.
Sam: You're absolutely right.
Travis: Yeah. Custom is important.
Sam: Mm-hm. Following the local customs, I took a handful of dirt and shoved it down my fucking throat. (all laugh)
Matt: (coughs) You go into an immediate coughing fit as the--
Sam: (coughs)
Matt: -- the surface dirt here is built from constant colliding of stone and rock, and a lot of it has been ground to almost a fine powder in places--
Liam: Have some volcanic ash.
Matt: -- yeah, yeah. It's akin to the cinnamon challenge in a way. (all laugh)
Sam: (coughs)
Travis: Just stay with it, the first time's the worst. Don't dilute it with any water or anything.
Taliesin: Just thinking, it's like diatomaceous earth. Just hateful.
Travis: You're toughening up already.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Ooh, your voice sounds deeper.
Sam: Yeah, that is my vocal cords being covered in dirt.
Travis: I like this.
Laura: Why are your vocal cords covered in dirt?
Sam: I just ate dirt.
Laura: Why on earth would you eat dirt?
Sam: I'll go into my satchel and pull out some healing draught, and just-- ah, just take a big gulp.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: It feels much better.
Sam: Much better. Shall we?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Liam: Kiki, what do you think? Are we staying here for the night, or-- I mean, we just got here, it's the middle of the day, isn't it?
Laura: Can we Treestride again today?
Marisha: Yeah, we can.
Liam: We need to make camp? You need to rest? Or can we go now?
Marisha: I'm good. After this we'll probably have-- No, I'm good. I mean--
Taliesin: We Treestride, we get a ship, and then--
Marisha: And then I'll be resting.
Taliesin: -- we spend a night on the ship.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Travis: I like it.
Taliesin: Isn't that gonna be fun?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I haven't been on a ship si-- Oh my, yeah.
Marisha: Are we gonna do the airship, or-- no, I guess we left the airship in Whitestone.
Taliesin: Well, we-- technically, we--
Marisha: Or did we leave it in Emon?
Taliesin: We left it in Emon.
Matt: Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Hopefully, it's-- you know, let's see if it's still intact.
Travis: What's wrong with a boat? We haven't been on a boat.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm kind of feeling the boat.
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: You guys wanna go on a boat?
Liam: You are feeling the boat over the airship?
Taliesin: I haven't been on a boat in a long time, and I'm feeling a little weird about an airship.
Travis: Thank you.
Liam: I know, but you practically sang ballads for airships for weeks.
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: Yeah, and we got one.
Taliesin: We did-- we could--
Travis: He tap-dances on boats.
Taliesin: I mean, I wouldn't object to it, I just--
Liam: So one and done, all right.
Marisha: Wait, does this mean--
Laura: We can be regular pirates now.
Marisha: Does this mean we can get yacht gear if we go on a boat-- or pirate gear?
Liam: I'm on a boat!
Taliesin: I'm not getting the proper shoes.
Laura: (gasps) Pirate gear!
Marisha: Pirate gear!
Sam: Boat shoes? I own boat shoes.
Taliesin: I knew you would.
Liam: What does that mean?
Travis: You do?
Sam: They're great, they're flat-soled, they are white, and--
Liam: White.
Taliesin: They are.
Sam: Yes, they are--
Marisha: You mean like Keds? You're talking about Keds?
Taliesin: No, no, they're boating shoes.
Sam: Boat shoes.
Marisha: Boat shoes. (laughs)
Taliesin: They're actually boating shoes. I am embarrassed that I know exactly what you're talking about.
Sam: Of course.
Liam: Your boating shoes, I'm sure, are very white.
Sam: Yes, they are.
Travis: What are they made of, leather?
Sam: With little leather stripes--
Travis: Yeah, they're made of leather.
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: And a little sailor's cap.
Laura: No.
Liam: Ooh, no.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Sam: I have a navigator's kit.
Matt: He does, it's-- (all laugh)
Matt: He does.
Sam: Let's set sail!
Matt: Yeah!
Sam: A sextant and everything.
Taliesin: That is-- that is my favorite phrase in the English language, is "I have a kit for that."
Marisha: I have a kit for that. (laughs)
Taliesin: You have just come upon it.
Matt: I'm so excited that worked out.
Liam: What is going on?
Matt: All right. So--
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: You find your way back to the edge of the valley, to the same tree that you made your Transport via Plants through--
Marisha: I do the touristy thing to 'em again on the way out, like I do.
Matt: Pointing out. What is your destination tree?
Marisha: (stammers)
Taliesin: Pine.
Marisha: Our keep. Greyskull Keep. Garden. Tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry. That just took a while to find in my brain.
Laura: I imagine you saying all that as you touch the tree.
Marisha: (stammers) It's been a long few weeks.
Travis: The channel just--
Marisha: Only the best, only the best.
Matt: You transport from the outskirts of Terra, find your way back to Greyskull Keep, and walking towards Emon proper. You can see now, even from the distance as you approach, the walls, some of the larger buildings, the higher towers and structures that just barely peek over the wall, you can see are already in the process of repair. You can see--
Laura: Wow, that was fast.
Matt: -- teams of people that are in-- currently trying to rebuild and restructure as you enter from the southern gates of the city and enter the streets, it's more lively than you've ever seen it. People are returning. People are coming back and reclaiming what remains of their homesteads, many of them still intact without a problem. The damage was extensive, but not universal in the city, and so I'd say there's still a good 60% to 70% of the city that is mostly without damage, and there are areas that are just destroyed, but even those, people are picking up, reclaiming-- There appears to be a process of memorial being constructed on the outskirts of the Cloudtop to remember those who fell in the battle for Emon. There is also the skyport, which was on the outskirts of the Cloudtop, and up there you can see the skyship Deera, however it looks to have sustained a severe amount of damage--
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: -- in the battle, and is in the process of also receiving its own repairs.
Liam: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Oh, I hope Captain Damon's all right.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, jesus.
Laura: He's so dreamy.
Travis: Heartthrob Damon.
Taliesin: He's just gotten a little scar.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: The perfect scar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Now he's dangerous Damon.
Marisha: Cap Damon.
Laura: He's got the-- no, he's got the Harrison Ford.
Taliesin: Is this the Harrison Ford, or is it the scar right below the cheek so that when he cries it hits the scar and goes down.
Marisha: Oh yeah, and it trickles down.
Liam: I mean either way, he can make it work, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: It's like a little pachinko machine of pain.
Travis: Run the canal, run the canal.
Liam: Don't leave me hanging up top. Woo!
Laura: That was a good one.
Marisha: Pike's here, right? She's in the city.
Matt: Pike is in the city somewhere, you haven't found her, you don't know where she is.
Marisha: 'Cause I imagine she would have good recommendations on good crews--
Liam: Boats.
Marisha: -- and boats.
Taliesin: Ooh.
Marisha: So, let's try and find Pike.
Travis: Didn't she just say a good crew? She just said to find a good crew.
Laura: Find a good crew.
Taliesin: She wouldn't maybe not know, necessarily.
Marisha: Would Pike know if there's a good crew? Let's save ten minutes on finding Pike. Would Pike know if there's a good crew?
Matt: Pike had one crew that she travelled with on the ocean--
Liam: Seems dodgy.
Sam: They're all dead.
Taliesin: They're not dead, they just left her.
Matt: But that crew, I will say for the sake of time, is not currently docked at Emon.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: She was busy doing push-ups on that cruise.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: One-handed.
Laura: Let's go to the docks, you guys. Today.
Marisha: To the docks!
Matt: You find yourself at the western docks of Emon.
Liam: Ter the dercks!
Marisha: Ter the dercks!
Taliesin: Ter the dercks.
Matt: You hear the familiar sound of seagulls and other water-based fowl, mixed with the creaking of wood from large ships that are all making their way in and out of this rather large port here on the side of the Ozmit Sea. You can see there's a lot of goods coming into the city now, as a lot of heavy orders have come from nearby villages to transport goods as part of the recovery, both from the south from the Mornset as well as things that were too large to carry by cart from Syngorn, and have been coming up along the coast, avoiding Dagger Bay, and making their way up to Emon. There are a number of individuals around, and who would want to spearhead the investigation--
Marisha: I'm not good at investigating. Who's good at investigating?
Laura: I'll go.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Liam: I'll back you up. Me too, me too.
Taliesin: Looks good.
Laura: 19?
Liam: 18. Oh, you've done me in by one.
Laura: Oh, by one!
Liam: One.
Matt: Asking about for a while, you eventually-- people point you in the direction of what appears to be an individual named Dockmaster Abban.
Marisha: Dockmaster Oban?
Liam: Abban.
Matt: Abban. A-B-B-A-N.
Marisha: Abban.
Taliesin: Abban.
Marisha: A-B-B-A-N.
Matt: You're eventually led to this individual who, pointed out, is dressed simply at first glance. The clothing he wears, just a plain white, billowing shirt, nice tailored pants, and some boots that go just up to the mid-calf. Dark brown-red skin, completely shaved, smooth, bald, shining in the sun, no facial hair, with piercing blue-grey eyes. As soon as you begin to approach, he's finishing a conversation with someone and turns to you and flashes the brightest of white smiles and goes, "Hello! Ah, you look like you are looking for some help, or in aid of something, yes? No?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You're staring at me. What do you want?
Laura: We are-- I don't know if you've noticed, but the city has just been saved.
Matt: I have noticed it, strangely enough. I've watched it be saved, and--
Laura: Yes, then you maybe saw us in the fray, and now, after saving this beautiful city, we are on our way to the middle of the fucking sea. Would somebody be able to take us?
Matt: Well, are you looking for a-- to purchase a vessel?
Laura: No. To rent a crew of well-seasoned sailors who know their way around the ocean.
Matt: I guess it really depends on the size of the vessel you're taking-- what ship do you have?
Taliesin: We're looking to-- I'm cutting in for a second--
Laura: Sure, darling.
Liam: Sure.
Taliesin: -- charter, dear, charter. You're looking to charter.
Laura: We're looking to charter a ship.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I just learn so much from you, you know?
Taliesin: I-- well, this was just--
Travis: Barf.
Laura: Take over.
Matt: And where are you travelling?
Taliesin: No, please.
Liam: Ah, that's complicated.
Laura: Well, just very close to Hespit, actually, not far so-- very far southwest--
Matt: How close to the Hespits?
Liam: We're hoping for a bit of a discount for the group that is responsible for this city still existing.
Taliesin: She's much better at this than you.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Liam: Give it a second, please.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: Doubting Thomas.
Matt: I have-- I apologise, I do not follow this train of thought. Discount?
Liam: (sighs) Do your fucking thing, whatever. (all laugh)
Liam: I didn't roll any kind of a check, I just got shat upon, but whatever, do your thing. And I walk off.
Travis: I just got shat upon.
Taliesin: I just-- I don't feel the dice were necessary at that point.
Travis: (laughs) Shat upon.
Liam: I do! I do! They're necessary all the time. All the time! Except when it comes--
Travis: Do I?
Liam: --to me. Go, go, do your thing. Do your thing. I'm gone.
Matt: No, you-- Okay. Vax walks away before he finishes his point, and doesn't get to make his roll.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, whatever, Matthew, whatever.
Matt: What?
Liam: What roll?
Matt: All right.
Sam: We'll never know.
Laura: Forgive my brother, he gets very embarrassed when he talks about how much we've saved. Humble creature.
Matt: I'm still very confused here. You're asking for a discount, why? Because the city was saved?
Laura: Oh, well I wasn't, of course not.
Matt: Look, I don't know who you are, I don't know what you're trying to do here--
Travis: We killed all the dragons.
Matt: --but we're in the process of trying to recover the economy of what was once a very strong economy, of a town that has been under attack. Now, we cannot offer discounts to anybody because right now, we're all in financial dire straits.
Laura: Understandable.
Matt: So, if you're going to ship, if you're going to move, if you're going to charter, if you're going to purchase, it's going to have to be the ask--
Laura: We're looking to charter a ship, full of sailors, who can get us to a circular reef to the southwest, near the Hespit.
Matt: Captain Adella. That would be your best bet.
Laura: Captain Adella.
Matt: "Now." And he points off to the end of one of the nearest docks, there's two that are close by, and there's a long row of various ships that are in the process of being loaded and unloaded, but there appears to be one sailing ship. They have some galleys and long-ships along the side, but there's a sailing ship with the sails currently tied up and bound to the mast, and a crew that is lounging on the deck. There is a woman, towards the edge, that's just walking past. You cannot make out a lot of details from this point, but he points over. "That is Captain Adella. She will be able to help you."
Laura: Thank you so much, Dockmaster.
Matt: Of course. Now, if you wish to charter, speak with her. Let her know that the Dockmaster is the one that brought you that point, and all shall be well.
Laura: Wonderful.
Matt: "All right. Good luck, travel safe." And he turns around and walks aw--
Laura: Percy, do we tip him? I don't know how this works.
Taliesin: No, I think we just--
Sam: No, we do not tip him.
Laura: Oh, all right.
Travis: Can I just ask before we leave, how much are the ships that are for sale?
Matt: Oh! Well, it depends on the ship that you are looking for. For a long-ship, no crew of course, which is a fairly decent speed, requires maybe 30 to 40 rowers, and a handful of deck hands, that would run you about 10,000 gold pieces?
Laura: Oh, that's it?
Taliesin: That's a long-ship--
Travis: Just let me ask the important questions, you all retire.
Laura: We don't even need that.
Taliesin: We need a big-- we need a bigger ship.
Travis: If I wanted a ship that had, let's say, this many sails, and came with a crew, how much would that be, about?
Matt: Are you talking about a fully outfitted galleon?
Travis: That.
Taliesin: Yes, yes you are.
Matt: I would put that... well, I mean the crew you'd have to pay whatever they're asking, but for the actual ship, the general asking price can range somewhere in around 30,000 to 40,000 gold pieces.
Travis: 30,000 to 40,000 pieces, that's what I thought. Yep. Thank you.
Matt: Right. Obviously a man of the world.
Taliesin: Do you want a galleon, Grog?
Travis: These dock pretzels are amazing.
Sam: He's literally picking up dried pieces of seagull poop. (all laugh)
Taliesin: There is this thing for seasickness, with seaweed--
Laura: Dock pretzels.
Travis: It's not pretty.
Marisha: Grog, that's-- that's not like free peanuts at the tavern.
Taliesin: That's not-- that's...
Laura: That was so gross.
Travis: Really crunchy.
Marisha: The profile of that.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: There's protein in everything. Everything.
Travis: Well, let's go get a ship.
Laura: Oh my god. Wow. We could seriously buy a ship.
Taliesin: We could, or we could just--
Laura: I mean we have no need for a ship.
Taliesin: What are we going to do when we're done with it?
Laura: I know, right?
Taliesin: I know, really.
Laura: We've gotta be frugal, even though we don't have to be, we should be.
Taliesin: It's not even frugal, this is just what you do once you have money--
Laura: Exactly.
Taliesin: -- you only buy things you need, and just lease everything else. It's very, very common. It's all good.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: This is very true.
Matt: All righty. As you guys walk to the edge of the--
Taliesin: Leasing.
Liam: It's true.
Matt: --aforementioned dock that was pointed out, you come to the outskirts of this larger sailing ship, and as you begin to walk up, and your footfalls 'clack-clack, clack-clack, clack' against the dock, a couple of the deckhands that are kind of leaning off to the side, kind of just looking up, one of them appears to be taking a hit off of a flask of some kind, both hear the footfalls and get up and turn around, spin and look. "Cap'n? Cap'n!" And they kind of point over and the coat-wearing figure that you saw walking across the deck of the ship spins around, and begins to abruptly quicken her pace in the direction of the gangplank that leads off onto the side of the dock. As she comes up to the edge, reaching and grabbing the sides of it, you see before you a woman with long, sea-air tattered mass of hair. It is just this halo of crimped, curled, and wild dark hair that's also been sun-bleached to the point where the tips kinda go light. It is crazed in appearance immediately as she arrives. She looks spry and somewhat young, maybe late 20s early 30s, but her skin has been very heavily weathered from all these days at sea, and you can see already she's getting these crows nests at the corners of her face, but has a very bright smile, and her light brown coat hangs just past her calf-high boots. She looks like the kind of woman who captains a ship. As she glances over, "Hi. You looking for a crew?"
Marisha: You look like a pirate!
Matt: I do not look like a pirate. Why would you say that?
Taliesin: She meant it as a compliment.
Marisha: Where do you buy your clothes?
Matt: Are you looking for a crew or not?
Laura: Why, yes we are! I assume you're Captain Adella.
Matt: Yes. (laughs) I see my reputation precedes me.
Taliesin: By about ten feet.
Laura: Yes, it does. Dockmaster Abban speaks very highly of you. Do you know your way around the Ozmit?
Matt: Quite a bit actually, I do. Where you looking to go?
Laura: Near the Hespit Sea? Near the Hespit? I don't know what the fuck I'm talking about.
Marisha: Yep, that's right. Southwest.
Liam: Hespit-bound.
Laura: Ish.
Matt: No. We don't travel to the Hespit. That's--
Laura: It's near the Hespit, not quite--
Marisha: Have you stumbled upon Vesrah?
Matt: Vesrah, I know of.
Laura: Oh! Perfect.
Matt: I know of it.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Goodness gracious.
Taliesin: We would be excited to make it worth your while.
Matt: How worth your while?
Laura: How worth our while are you thinking?
Taliesin: What is your while worth, I imagine?
Matt: Well, we have a crew here, 12 deckhands, my captaining and navigating skills, a first mate, and the use of the ship... that would run you-- let's put it at 150 gold per day for chartering the ship.
Taliesin: There's six of us and a bear.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: The bear sleeps in jewelry.
Sam: And a robot.
Taliesin: Oh, and a robot. An automaton. Can I say automaton?
Sam: He doesn't eat, it'll be fine.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Well this has certainly got real interesting, didn't it? All right! So, have we a deal?
Taliesin: 150 gold a day?
Liam: That's nothing for us.
Laura: How many crew-- 12-man crew?
Liam: Vex'ahlia. We have so--
Laura: No, I think that's a fair price.
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: She is such not a good negotiator. What is going on?
Liam: Hey, buddy?
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Liam: There's a lot of--
Sam: I will be quiet.
Liam: -- inner working dynamics in this group that you don't know anything about--
Sam: I'll be-- you're right.
Liam: If you'd just wait a bit, all right?
Sam: You're right, I will be quiet.
Liam: That sounds good.
Taliesin: I'm so pleased.
Matt: "Fine. You've found yourself a leader, a captain, and a partner." Shakes your hand. "So."
Travis: Are you all right?
Laura: Honestly, I feel...
Matt: Vesrah, you say? Crazy water folk. Who am I to judge? But yes, six to seven days travel at sea, depending on the weather, of course. Storms are common this time of year, do keep in mind we will be passing north of the Hespit, so be wary of any wandering bandit ships.
Laura: Bandit ships?
Marisha: Not pirates.
Matt: Or pirates, you can call them pirates as well, but we already had that conversation.
Marisha: And you are definitely not--
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: --a pirate.
Matt: Not anymore.
Marisha: Nope. You just look really cool.
Travis: What kinda weapons you got on this ship?
Matt: Oh! We've got some ballistae. We travel with speed.
Travis: Oh. It's a fast ship?
Liam: What d'you mean?
Matt: Fast ship.
Liam: You got-- you got nothing?
Marisha: Oh, we don't need weapons. We're weapons!
Laura: We're weapons.
Taliesin: We're quite fierce.
Marisha: We're the most deadly thing in this land.
Laura: How often do sea monsters sprout up on you? Ever? I've never been on the sea.
Matt: Often enough.
Marisha: Often enough?
Laura: Really?
Liam: We have, we were just way high above it.
Laura: Well yeah, not like in it.
Travis: Oh that's true, we have never been in a boat, yeah.
Taliesin: Actually, that's a good question. How many of us have actually been on a ship before?
Liam: I'm afraid of getting nauseous, actually.
Taliesin: Am I really-- come on.
Sam: I had a boat--
Laura: You own boat shoes.
Sam: I had a boat in one of my larger baths that I would take at night, and it would go on epic adventures through the bubbles! But never quite at sea.
Travis: What was the boat's name?
Sam: The boat was the SS... ... that's it. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Even better than I could have possibly imagined.
Matt: That's adorable. Well, welcome to my ship. She is called the Drensala Vis--
Sam: That's such a cool name.
Liam: Drensala Vis.
Marisha: Drensala Vis.
Liam: Drensala Vis!
Taliesin: The Drensala Vis.
Matt: It is Marquesian for Luck of the Mother.
Taliesin: Mother Lucker.
Liam: Mother Lucker.
Matt: Treat her well and she'll treat you well in kind. Respect my crew, respect my authority, respect our direction, and we'll do just fine. So! To the crazy water people. Welcome on board the Drensala Vis.
Taliesin: Aye, Captain.
Laura: Do we need anything? Do we need anything before we do--
Marisha: Did she just say crazy water people?
Liam: Too many mother luckers!
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: I don't think we need anything. Do we need anything?
Taliesin: I think as long as the ship is prepared and has--
Travis: Anything you can buy on dry land?
Taliesin: --everything stocked, everything it needs, I think we're just reasonable.
Travis: I've got a couple canisters of underwater breathing that nobody else has.
Taliesin: And I have the remnants of several bottles of liquor. I'm quite pleased.
Marisha: I will come stacked with some water-breathing stuff. I think we can do it to eight people for like an hour or something like that?
Travis: There you go.
Liam: That'll help in the middle of the ocean.
Marisha: That'll definitely help.
Laura: Do you think that Raven's Slumber is waterproof?
Matt: You imagine the enchantment probably is waterproof.
Laura: All right. I would hate to-- little baby, mini Trinket in there gets like drowned or something if I'm underwater.
Liam: Yeah. You don't wanna drop the iPhone in the toilet.
Laura: Exactly. Or the bathtub.
Travis: About what time of day is it right now?
Liam: What do you mean?
Matt: Right now, it's a little bit past three o'clock in the afternoon.
Travis: Shouldn't we go out early in the morning?
Taliesin: Why?
Travis: Isn't that what you do? You, like, set sail--
Sam: You can sail all night while we sleep on the ship.
Laura: I wanna sleep on the ship!
Marisha: It's gonna be like a seven-hour trip-- or a seven-day trip.
Taliesin: You're gonna get to sleep on a hammock, Grog.
Liam: You can spend days on a ship.
Taliesin: There'll be a hammock.
Travis: What if it's only a three-hour tour?
Liam: Tary, there wo-- what is that in reference to?
Taliesin: No. I'm not even dignifying that with a groan--
Travis: Come on, Tal, you're with me.
Taliesin: That would not even-- I expect better of you.
Liam: It would make for a good beginning of a chapter to set out at dawn.
Sam: That is true. Poetically it would be nice, but--
Taliesin: He could just write that we set out at dawn.
Sam: I am eager to get my adventuring on, L.E.B., so I am eager to go.
Travis: All right, yeah.
Taliesin: Little elf girl. L.E.B. Little elf boy.
Travis: I'm fine with that.
Marisha: Adella.
Matt: Yes?
Liam: Little elf boy?
Marisha: Oh, been on the sea a little long. Is your crew ready to go? Or would it be better to set sail in the morning?
Matt: Well. We leave at your leisure, but we're not against the idea of a raucous final evening at the local tavern.
Laura: How many beds do you have on that ship?
Sam: You're asking us to get her drunk?
Liam: Well...
Sam: Is that true?
Liam: I mean--
Sam: Is that what's happening?
Liam: We've really been through the shit, so I'm not opposed. Just saying.
Matt: Not including for my crew? we have bunks for at least 15 other passengers.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Bunks? Or rooms? I mean, obviously you don't have rooms for--
Matt: Between the bunks, six rooms.
Liam: How many bunks per room?
Matt: Two or three, depending.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: That's weird.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: No, no. It's quite common.
Laura: No, it's totally doable.
Liam: No, it's weird.
Taliesin: No, it's quite common.
Liam: I disagree.
Taliesin: I think it's perfectly fine.
Liam: Well, you're fucked.
Laura: Let's just go.
Matt: If you don't find--
Liam: Yeah. Fuck it.
Matt: "Good! Grab your things! On this ship! Let's set sail!" Starts giving out orders to her crew, seems to now kind of come to life, and they're starting to go ahead and start pulling up anchor, they're starting to get the sails ready. You already can feel the spray of the water as the tide's coming in now, the water's starting to get a little choppier as it's hitting up against the side of the docks and the shore end.
Sam: A sea voyage. This is unprecedented.
Liam: Oh, jeez.
Sam: Doty, take down every word of anyone saying anything ever on this whole trip. This is amazing. I'm so excited.
Matt: Doty stops for a second, leans back, and then starts scribbling furiously at anything that he can pick up within earshot.
Liam: Tary, staring off into the distance, shat his pants. Crying, into his poo--
Sam: Well, okay, all right, so zing, you got me.
Travis: He pulls out of his waistband-- (all laugh)
Travis: -- and notices the tiny member between his legs.
Sam: You're smarter than I thought, you.
Liam: No, I'm as smart as you thought I was.
Matt: Eventually, the ship disembarks, and begins making its way further out into the water, just as the sun begins to set into the slightly orange, purple, and dark blues of the end of daylight. You can see the various lights in Emon come on, especially towards the dock, as the night comes to life. And out the opposite side, the sparse clouds that are scattered in the distance, the ship picks up the winds and pushes with guiding speed out to the southwest, into the depths of the Ozmit Sea. And that's where we'll pick up next session!
Taliesin: And so--
Marisha: Moana!
Taliesin: As our ship sinks slowly in the west, we bid farewell!
Marisha: It just slowly sinks.
Matt: I finally get to use the ocean voyage audio! (all cheer)
Matt: Had that on my playlist for a long-ass time.
Marisha: Ocean voyage!
Matt: Awesome.
Marisha: We're going on a cruise, you guys!
Matt: That took some interesting turns tonight!
Marisha: Now we learn how shitty cruises are.
Taliesin: I love ships. Ships are great.
Liam: Everybody's vomiting.
Matt: Pretty much.
Taliesin: I think I'm the only character who's spent some time on a boat, at this point.
Marisha: Well, and Pike.
Taliesin: Who's been on a ship. And Pike--
Marisha: Well, Pike's not here--
Liam: I'm on a boat!
Matt: Yeah, Pike's still back at home. Ashley, come back to us!
Laura: I know!
Matt: Blindspot, stop filming! You finished your season, right?
Liam: Almost, almost.
Laura: Almost. So close!
Liam: Getting there.
Matt: We'll get her back. Guys, thank you so much.
Liam: What an episode.
Matt: Ridiculous fucking people.
Marisha: That was so good.
Matt: We're gonna pick up next week, as you head deeper into the Ozmit Sea towards Vesrah. Thank you again Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsors this evening--
All: Lootcrate!
Matt: -- you've been fantastic. The rest of you guys, rest well, sleep well, and is it Thursday yet?
Laura: I'll most likely kill you in the morning.
Matt: Have a good night. [ART]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
All: Dungeons and Dragons!
Matt: Just like that. Durr and Durr.
Ashley: How der der der der.
Matt: Indeed. So. Before we jump into the story for this evening, let's go ahead and get through our announcements. First and foremost, we have a fantastic sponsor for tonight's episode. Backblaze has returned to us. Good friends to the show, and Sam, you wanted to talk a little bit about this?
Sam: I haven't done this in a while. Little rusty. But Backblaze. Nervous. Backblaze is such an important sponsor, I didn't want to just do a commercial for them, I wanted to do an infomercial. Maestro? [infomercial music]
Sam: Hi, everybody, I'm Sam Riegel and welcome to Late-Night Deals. Guys, online backup systems. Just the sound of it gives me a headache. It's always so complicated, expensive, and frustrating. Am I right? Usually, when you back up your data, you look like this guy.
Taliesin: C drive? USB port? HTTP? Forward slash? Ugh! Speak English! All these wires and cables! I can't take it anymore!
Sam: But now there's Backblaze, a cloud-based backup system that's so easy, you'll look like this gal.
Marisha: And finished. Using Backblaze makes me feel so awesome and cool and hip and young and free and attractive and empowered and invincible. It's so easy, even a total jackass could use it.
Sam: That's right, Marisha, even a total jackass can use it, and I'm living proof. Taliesin, Backblaze backs up photos, documents, fanfic, and all your user data, and here's the best part. How much do you think it costs?
Taliesin: For a system like that? It's got to cost, what? $200, maybe? $300 a month?
Sam: Nope.
Marisha: That sounds too low. I'm going to guess $9,000 a month.
Sam: Nope. Keep guessing.
Taliesin: $100,000 a month!
Sam: Not even close. If you order now, you'll get Backblaze for just five dollars a month for unlimited and unfryable backup.
Taliesin: Five dollars? That's nothing!
Marisha: Five dollars? That's nothing!
Taliesin: I literally burn five-dollar bills to stay warm on chilly nights.
Marisha: Oh, me too. Oh, I'm so convinced. But Sam, how do I sign up?
Sam: Oh, it's simple, Marish. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole and you'll get a two-week free trial.
Taliesin: What was that URL again?
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole!
Marisha: One more time.
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole!
Taliesin: One more time.
Sam: backblaze.com/criticalrole! There's no end. I didn't write an end to the bit. That's it. It's over. Yay! And scene.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: Thank you, guys.
Taliesin: I'm caught in wires. There we are.
Matt: Thank you very much, Sam. Also, anyone who gives Backblaze a try through May will also be entered to win a contest to win some signed art, signed by all of us. And if you've already tried it, you've also already been entered, so don't worry about that. Anyway, thank you so much, Backblaze. Go check it out. And thank you. All righty. Wow. I don't want to follow that up. Laura, any merch news?
Laura: Oh, just the same merch news as always. We've got these amazing Vox Machina t-shirts in the store.
Sam: Is someone wearing?
Laura: Yev is wearing it, from Backblaze. But nobody here is, but they're so soft and they're amazing. We also have hoodies and hats and patches and nail wraps and stickers.
Matt: Did you guys want to thank the awesome Melissa Kelp for her design, by the way?
Laura: Yes! Who designed Vox Machina, and that was in our original fan contest that we did. We had that awesome design that was so cool that we decided to make that design, as well.
Matt: Thank you, Melissa.
Travis: Thank you, Melissa!
Laura: (sings) Amazing job!
Matt: All right. Wednesday Club, Taliesin.
Taliesin: We don't actually have an official theme yet, but I have a strong sensation that it's probably going to be something about Riverdale. I get the vibe that we might be going to Riverdale. There might be a teenage witch. Maybe a band. I don't know. We'll see. It's not official yet, but I'm working on it.
Matt: Elrond of Riverdale. Thank you very much, Taliesin. Marisha, Signal Boost.
Marisha: It's Brian Compton from over at Nerdist. (gasps) You got your Geek and Sundry in my Nerdist.
Taliesin: You got your Nerdist in my Geek and Sundry.
Marisha: You dick!
Taliesin: That's so disgusting.
Marisha: You fucking dick!
Sam: Jesus, this got dark really fast.
Matt: That and more you can look forward to at MomoCon, as me, Marisha, and Taliesin will be there in a couple weeks in Atlanta, Georgia. So we'll see you guys there May 25th to 28th, and I will be a guest at A-Kon June 8th-11th in Fort Worth, Texas. For all you folks out there in the Texas area, come say hi, that'll be fun.
Travis: (muffled) Fort Worth, Texas?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: (muffled) I went to college there!
Matt: You should come to your college.
Travis: (muffled) No, I'm good.
Matt: Okay. And to finish this off. Talks Machina, of course, we have starting next Tuesday about this episode, hosted by our fantastic Brian Wayne Foster. Make sure you submit your fanart and gif of the week to possibly win some cool prizes. Those will go to talksmachina@gmail.com. So. Without further ado, friends, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. So. Picking up where we left off. After Vox Machina had taken a year of peace and activity to handle their own respective endeavors, or communal endeavors, they discovered apparently some family of Pike Trickfoot coming and knocking at the door of Whitestone. A reunion with some of her family she had not seen since she was a child, coming in to impart her with the knowledge of a terrible family blood-curse that had been haunting them for ages and visions that were guided by her uncle Ogden to the possibility that she carries the same curse, and wanting to free the bloodline, or at least Pike of this, they had to amass some materials and make their way on a moonlit night to the top of the Alabaster Sierras to complete the ritual to exorcise this entity and destroy it. After gathering the materials and traveling to the top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras, the ritual was completed and the large, monstrous black cloud and skull entity is summoned forth from Pike's body, and you all leapt in to do battle. However, partway into this fray, Vex happened to realize that it was seemingly an illusion. There was no ritual, there was no blood curse, and this was a ploy from the family to make a little cash off you guys. After some threats to Uncle Ogden and nearly losing him off the edge of a cliff, you made a deal to offer some money. In exchange, you took your cousin JB under your wing, and they were forced to leave and never return. They accepted and went on their way, and with that, we begin today's episode. So you guys have been traveling down the side of the mountain, of the Alabaster Sierras, returning late-night to the city of Whitestone. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Kill them all before we change our mind. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, can I cast Locate Object and try to find that diamond that he chucked over the side?
Matt: What's the range on Locate Object?
Travis: Was it a thousand-foot cliff?
Taliesin: It was far down there.
Liam: Well, I've probably got about 30 or 40 minutes left on the--
Sam: You could fly down. Some of us own flying brooms.
Laura: Yeah, we can fly down on flying brooms.
Liam: Do that. Yeah? I can go swimming.
Laura: Shit, I don't have my thing.
Liam: Your thing?
Laura: That says what the distance on Locate Object is.
Matt: The distance is 1,000 feet of you.
Laura: Okay, so can I get on my broom and cast it and go try to find it down in the water?
Matt: Sure. It lasts for ten minutes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: I'll say, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm organizing my dice right now! 19!
Matt: 19. Okay. It takes you the better part of the next ten minutes or so to even get a blip on your arcane radar. And you suddenly sense as you're coasting along the very base of the surf where the waters crash against the rocks, the tide has been coming in with the full moon, and you can see now the water itself is rough and just smashing into the side of the cliff base. You get a small glimmer, a small beacon, a draw to you like a small pulling under the waves. And you sense about maybe 65 feet down, there it is.
Laura: 65 feet.
Travis: Under the water.
Matt: Under the water.
Travis: That's three diving tanks for competitive diving.
Laura: So probably couldn't do it unless I have breathing underwater?
Liam: Or your friend Keyleth.
Laura: She's up top. Would I remember the spot in the fucking water if I went up and got her and brought her back down? Do I have enough time to do it?
Matt: You could try and remember it and come back.
Sam: It's 1,000.
Laura: It's 1,500!
Taliesin: Are we within earpiece-shot?
Matt: Not with her right now. You'd have to go back up.
Laura: Okay. I fly straight up from the spot so I don't lose it.
Matt: All right. You're pretty much on the cusp of it. You've been a little flexible on the range of them, but we'll say you get a little ways up.
Laura: And I say, Keyleth! Can you swim?
Marisha: (chuckles) Yes.
Laura: Can you come help me get this diamond back?
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Yeah. (laughter)
Marisha: Am I on the cliff?
Matt: You're on top of the cliff, yeah.
Marisha: Is she down?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I can come-- Oh. Are you really?
Marisha: Can I do it?
Laura: That's a really high drop!
Marisha: Can I do the Pocahontas swan dive?
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Marisha: I run and cliff dive!
Laura: Oh Jesus. Oh no.
Taliesin: (sings) Sail!
Marisha: (sings) Sail! (laughter)
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: 11.
Matt: Okay. You get a few feet past the cliff edge. Not a majestic jump and the cliff is not completely sheer; it does slightly angle outwards. So you gently leap off, and as you're falling you can see you probably have, I'd say about 300 feet or so before you're going to hit rock.
Marisha: I'm going to hit rock?
Matt: The cliff is not perfectly vertical. It's a little bit angled and you're heading down to hit the rock.
Marisha: I go, oops! And can I do a Gust against the cliff wall to push me back a little bit further?
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom check. This is a straight wisdom modifier check.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! Just straight wisdom modifier? 20.
Matt: Okay. Like a gentle fart, you push yourself a little ways from the cliff. I'll say it does just enough of a shove where the trajectory changes slightly. You may or may not be right where the rock hits the surf. You can test it or not. It's up to you.
Travis: Test it!
Taliesin: And this was the end.
Laura: Kiki, don't kill yourself over this rock!
Liam: It was nice being in a couple.
Marisha: At the last minute, I'm going to (panicked squealing). And turn into a goldfish.
Travis: Before you hit the water?
Sam: Or the rock?
Marisha: Well, I'm assuming the goldfish would make it easier to hit water.
Laura: Yeah, but you're going to hit rock!
Sam: Goldfish are not magnetically attracted to water. They still just fall.
Laura: What about flying fish or something, so you can maybe--
Marisha: I don't think flying fish actually fly, though.
Laura: No, but they got big fins.
Travis: They do glide.
Matt: Regardless, as you turn into a goldfish, rocketing towards the base of the water...
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Oh no.
Travis: He's taking a picture of it!
Matt: No, I'm not. This is too many dice for me to roll. (gasping)
Ashley: What?
Marisha: I would just pop back to myself. I wouldn't die.
Matt: And then any additional damage would go over into your--
Marisha: No, I know.
Travis: There's too many dice to roll, Marisha.
Marisha: No, it's fine! We're gods!
Laura: Are we? She says as she dies on the rocks.
Travis: Why would you even tempt that shit?
Taliesin: Why am I drinking your coffee? I'm going to stop right now.
Sam: Oh boy.
Laura: Oh no. What is he doing? No. Seriously, though. What if she just died?
Marisha: That would be kind of amazing.
Matt: You took 363 points of damage.
Marisha: You are lying. You are lying! By hitting rocks?
Matt: By hitting rocks at terminal velocity. It's 1d6 per ten feet falling. Keyleth scatters across the edge of the rock. And just crumples into the surf and is now floating.
Marisha: Wait! What? You are lying!
Matt: No! You just--
Sam: What does that mean? That's below her total hit points!
Travis: That's instant death.
Matt: No, she's dead. Keyleth is dead and floating in the water.
Sam: Unrevivable death?
Matt: Probably revivable. You've just got to retrieve the body.
Laura: Oh my god!
Ashley: Oh my god!
Sam: Wait! Vex! I gave you a coin!
Laura: A Revivify coin!
Marisha: Wait! I thought you were trying to make it out like I'd still hit water!
Matt: I said the distance you jumped and then pushed--
Travis: You jumped from 1,000 feet in the air. Totally logical! You can't even see the water or rocks, but you're like, yep! I've got this, bitch!
Liam: I am having the best conversation with JB right now.
Marisha: This is the best thing that's ever happened!
Laura: Wait, but here's the thing, do I have to roll if I use the coin?
Matt: And now, officially, every member of Vox Machina has died. Most in battle, or some danger.
Travis: That took care of it!
Sam: You broke the seal!
Marisha: Wait! Was I supposed to turn into a flying creature? And be safe from this?
Matt: That's up to you! That's literally your choice!
Liam: Okay. I am starting to sweat! Who sees it? I don't see it!
Matt: The only person that sees it is Vex. Vex, you watch as Keyleth-- (jump, poof, splat). It's a scatter of red mess. And you see her floating in the water.
Ashley: It's only 7 15!
Matt: I know! This was not in my plan!
Ashley: Okay. Go get her!
Laura: I go fly down there! Is she a body, at least?
Sam: Because she hit as the goldfish!
Matt: Yes, and the goldfish which has a hit point.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Which then made the other 324 hit points go over to Marisha.
Sam: Sure.
Travis: So the goldfish turned into orange marmalade?
Liam: It was like a magic trick! It was like a fish turned into a corpse!
Laura: Can I use my coin that Tary gave me? My coin of Revivify on her?
Matt: Because you gave it to her before the battle, right? Yes, you can.
Laura: Okay. I do that. Don't touch my dice in anger!
Liam: I'm not angry!
Laura: I don't know. How do I do it?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a straight wisdom check.
Laura: A wisdom check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: (yells) I'm so nervous!
Ashley: Stop laughing, Travis! Stop it!
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I mean, you can't feel bad about it.
Marisha: I thought I was going to hit water and it would be cool!
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. As you go down and pull her out of the water, her soaked red hair covers her face, and that's probably a good thing. As you're a little scared to see--
Travis: It's like a red-haired The Ring.
Matt: And with that, you instinctively begin to seize up, and you sob, and then you realize: the coin! And you fumble for it in your pocket, and you hear the waves crashing below you. And you pull it out and you hold it in your palm. And you feel it glowing, warm in your hand as you press it against the back of Keyleth's broken body. And you watch as the warmth passes from the coin through her back. And as it does, you watch as her broken limbs all snap back into place. (laughter/gagging)
Matt: And she begins to breathe again. (laughter)
Liam: What the shit is this show?
Matt: I don't know! This was not in the--
Marisha: (screaming) That was higher than I thought!
Matt: Keyleth, by the way, looks wrecked. She's still scratched everywhere, she's covered in blood, but she's alive at one hit point.
Laura: Kiki, that was really, really stupid. I put my hands on both sides of her face and cast Cure Wounds at 4th level. Oh, no! At 3rd level, because I used Grasping Vine last time.
Matt: Yeah, 3rd level. Okay. So 3d8 plus your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Oh my god.
Sam: I better go check on them. I'll dive off the cliff. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah. Good. Just a little drop.
Matt: That was a beautiful D&D moment, right there.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: Vax is sitting with JB right now, going like, so what was Pike like when she was really little, little for a gnome?
Taliesin: We all were wearing the necklace, so we all got a beep.
Matt: You did, briefly.
Liam: I was really paying attention to JB, though.
Travis: Is yours broken? I think mine's broken!
Taliesin: I felt something.
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: I've been really stressed out here lately, and that might have been very impulsive. And I might have been blowing off some steam. And I'm really sorry! (crying) I thought it was going to be fine! I didn't know there was going to be rocks!
Laura: Maybe next time you're diving off a cliff, turn into a bird.
Marisha: Oh?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It might have been a last-minute panic.
Laura: I'm glad you're back.
Marisha: Thanks, that was--
Laura: You know what? Let's not even worry about that coin there. I mean the diamond. I feel like, maybe--
Marisha: I could go get it now! It's fine. I'm here now.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: I feel really bad, because-- I feel bad about that. I'm sorry.
Laura: I think maybe this is a lesson learned in what is worth risking our lives for.
Travis: Is there a cloud of red in the water?
Matt: There was, but the waves are crashing pretty heavy. Luckily, Vex grabbed her immediately, because otherwise her body would have been thrown under the rocks again by the surf. I just explained the ocean to you before you jumped! That's what would have happened!
Travis: A thousand feet was all you needed.
Taliesin: We have some amazing physics books that we will actually get into at some point.
Laura: How about you just climb onto the broom. Don't worry about flying right now.
Marisha: I can go get the thing.
Laura: We're just going up.
Marisha: I still have a Beast Shape left.
Laura: We're just going to go up.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: We're leaving.
Travis: She's covered in gore, right?
Matt: Okay. Yeah, she's covered in blood.
Laura: Price paid, I think.
Matt: So as you guys are talking to JB, who's still stunned by the whole thing-- all of this happened pretty quickly, so she's not necessarily opening up entirely, but she's like, "Well. You know, we were both troublemakers."
Liam: Yeah! Because she's got a wild streak. Now, does that run in the family, or is that just her and you?
Matt: "Oh, that definitely runs in the family." She looks over to you Pike, again, and is like, "I am so sorry. I didn't--"
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: "I'll try and make it up to you."
Ashley: Just know I don't want you to-- if you don't want to stay here, you don't have to stay here. I'm not holding you here against your will in any way, but I would love for you to stay because I would love to get to know you better.
Matt: "How could I say no? (chuckles) I'll stay until you need me to leave."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: At which point, you watch as Vex and Keyleth and the broom come up and land on the cliffside.
Taliesin: Have you two found that diamond-- oh, sweet Pelor!
Laura: You know what? We're not going to worry about the diamond right now. Yeah, let's just maybe take a moment and recover from that battle which was so hard on everyone.
Ashley: What happened?
Liam: What? You-- What?
Laura: She's fine. She's fine!
Sam: She's more blood than person.
Ashley: Do we need to fix anything?
Laura: Maybe, Pike. If you can do a little--
Ashley: Yes! Cure Wounds!
Laura: (whispers) Tary!
Sam: What?
Laura: (whispers) I used your coin.
Sam: Oh! Oh.
Laura: I know!
Sam: I'm glad I gave it to you, then. Ooh.
Marisha: It's fine. I can go back and get that diamond now. I feel really bad right now!
Taliesin: I think somebody's got a carpet ride down the hill coming to them.
Liam: I'm casting Lay on Hands for my piddly 20 hit points. What did you do?
Marisha: I thought it'd be fun. I haven't had a lot of fun here lately, okay? It felt like the old days of when Vox Machina was back together, because we've been away for a while.
Ashley: You just dove off, Free Willy-nilly?
Laura: You know, those rocks came out of nowhere. I thought you were in the clear, as well. All I saw was Keyleth and then this little tiny fleck of gold and then gone.
Travis: Wait, did you miss? Did you hit?
Liam: Did you die?!
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: She looks like a fucking macabre mess! What happened?!
Ashley: I forgot that that's what that was. I felt a (whirring), you know?
Marisha: It's been a lot of responsibility here lately, and a lot of being an adult and so I was like: Vox! We're reckless!
Liam: That's what alcohol is for! Don't jump off cliffs anymore, please!
Travis: Yeah, you fucked up. That was crazy.
Taliesin: I have to confess, I've been feeling a bit stir-crazy myself. Not jump-off-cliffs stir-crazy, dear god.
Liam: And I turn her bloody face to you and say, let this be a lesson to you, then!
Taliesin: I'm just saying that I understand the impulse. This was not necessarily the best expression of it.
Travis: We should go on a hunt. That's what we need.
Taliesin: I think let's take a nap and then maybe go out--
Liam: I start kissing the gory mess in my hands all over her forehead.
Marisha: That's gross. Don't.
Matt: That's pretty gross. You marked off the 300 gold for the Revivify, right?
Sam: Oh, how many?
Matt: Revivify. It consumes a diamond worth 300 gold.
Sam: 300!
Travis: Keyleth, did that hurt? Did it hurt?
Marisha: It felt like blackness.
Travis: Blackness?
Marisha: It felt like a lot of adrenaline. And it was super exciting and then next thing I knew, everyone was super concerned about my well-being.
Sam: Are you addicted to death now?
Marisha: No.
Sam: Have we healed her up a bit?
Ashley: I'm going to heal her up a little more.
Sam: I can do a healing draught for her.
Ashley: A what?
Sam: Healing draught.
Marisha: Did you guys know  hitting water and rocks from very high feels like hitting rocks!
Taliesin: I literally have books on the subject.
Matt: Keyleth, as you turn around, you watch as Tary is handing you this small glass vial of what looks to be-- what color liquid is it?
Sam: It's colorless and odorless.
Matt: Okay, it's like a thicker water.
Marisha: What's this?
Sam: Just drink it. It'll make you feel better.
Marisha: I just dove off a cliff, so fuck it at this point.
Matt: How much does she heal?
Sam: I rolled on my iPhone. 37. It's 8d8.
Matt: Keyleth, you heal 37 hit points.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, 37?
Laura: Do yours, too!
Ashley: Yeah! I'll do a Cure Wounds. I haven't used any spells. Let's do 5th level.
Travis: 5th level? Yeah!
Marisha: I'm fine! Don't worry about me.
Ashley: Where are you at now?
Marisha: I'm good! 104.
Taliesin: Let's all go home, have a drink, and discuss this over a drink.
Marisha: Why? What? Why?
Taliesin: Because I think this may speak to a larger issue amongst us that maybe you are the canary in the coal mine, here.
Laura: I heard "We're gods!" before she hit.
Taliesin: Was it "I'm a golden god?"
Marisha: I said  I'm a golden god! But you know what? I'm still alive; I wasn't entirely wrong.
Taliesin: You're not still alive, you're alive again!
Liam: We should celebrate because we've broken in the entire group.
Taliesin: Yes, I think everybody has at least been dead for a moment at this point.
Marisha: Was I dead?
Taliesin: Technically, yes.
Travis: Look how much red is all over you!
Matt: Enough to the point where if you die again, your resurrection DC has gone up. Be aware of that.
Taliesin: We could make another Kiki out of what you're wearing right now.
Laura: Have you died died? Tary died died.
Sam: Did I die? I think I died. In the water, I think I died.
Matt: He did.
Taliesin: He died at the palace.
Sam: Think I died.
Laura: Let's go home.
Marisha: Why are you looking at me like that?! Don't look at me like that!
Laura: I'm not looking at you like anything. You need a bath, is what you need.
Travis: Yeah, you're covered in shit.
Laura: It's really a lot right now.
Ashley: I say we go back. I would love to go back and maybe have lots of drinks.
Sam: Let's go home.
Liam: JB. Welcome to the family.
Matt: She's just like, eyes wide open. "Right." She clutches her book a little closer to her chest as you guys begin to make your way down the mountainside. A different path than the other Trickfoots were taking.
Ashley: Good call.
Taliesin: Maybe we need a hobby?
Travis: We'll never beat that death.
Laura: That's like Keyleth-falling-in-lava bad.
Taliesin: That was magical.
Matt: Marisha, how many fail compilation videos have you seen where people jump off the cliff and hit just at the bottom. That was what you did.
Marisha: (laughing) It was totally a fail video!
Travis: We were in a huge fight with a fake thing that did no damage and you killed yourself in four seconds.
Liam: I got this!
Travis: We're gods! (vomit sound) Unreal. Couldn't write it.
Marisha: I thought I could make it!
Matt: I was like, one to 50, she hits the water. 51 to 100, she hits the rock. 94.
Marisha: So I hit the rock.
Matt: Yeah, that's what happens.
Travis: Either way, you were really screwed.
Taliesin: To be fair, a goldfish, even at that velocity-- although the velocity would have lessened it more.
Marisha: I should have bailed out as a bird.
Liam: Make-believe has consequences.
Taliesin: That's so true.
Matt: Over the course of the next day or little over a day, you camp once in the Parchwood and make your way back to Whitestone.
Liam: Is 15 hours of that therapy?
Matt: For you, yeah.
Marisha: I love how out of everything we've seen, what I just did was apparently the most fucked up. Out of everything that's happened to us, and now we need therapy? Now we need therapy?
Taliesin: We were living Tolkien and now we've suddenly shifted into Game of Thrones. It got very dark, very random, very quickly.
Travis: Gods. Dead. Five Seconds. Hard to beat.
Liam: We all stand for something. What do you fall for?
Matt: You find your way back to Whitestone. You check in. The guards are happy to see that you've returned fine. They report to you that the Trickfoot clan have not returned and have not been seen near the city since your return. There are few questions as to where they went.
Taliesin: We're going to have their vehicle searched for anything that doesn't belong to them, and then made ready for them outside the city bounds.
Matt: "Very well, sir." And they search through it and mostly what's found in there are maybe 102 gold pieces.
Taliesin: Do we have anybody with a criminal background search the vehicle?
Matt: I mean, there are a number of people.
Taliesin: I would like someone extremely sketchy to search. Actually, Vax, would you search the vehicle?
Ashley: And JB, if there is anything you need out of there.
Travis: You have chocolate on your face.
Matt: JB wipes it with a thumb.
Taliesin: Including anything that you think would be in more capable hands if they were in your hands.
Matt: She shakes her head and "Wait." She climbs up on the cart and she comes back and has a book. Like a small tattered book and she puts it to her side. "That's all. I don't care about the rest."
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: Vax, quick check to see if there's anything we care about.
Liam: Oh, so good. Investigation, yeah? 18.
Matt: 18? You find the gold. You find a cache of dried jerky meats. You find what looks to be some leftover meat pie crust bits that have been there for a few days. Starting to smell a little bit. And you get the sense that anything of importance was on their persons. They weren't really storing a lot of things in an open cart.
Liam: This has been a bad couple of days.
Taliesin: All right, just wanted to make sure there wasn't anything (sighs) complicated. Leave the gold, obviously, and the food.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Burn the wagon. (laughter)
Matt: As you say that, Doty's like, "Tary."
Sam: No!
Ashley: No!
Sam: You have to learn humor, Doty. Sarcasm.
Matt: All righty, so. What do you want to do?
Sam: Is it night?
Matt: By the time you've returned, it's probably late afternoon. We'll say at this point because it's been about a little over a day and a half at this point, so, yeah. Mid-afternoon.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: What should we do?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: We can go check on the Slayer's Cake?
Laura: Oh yeah, we should probably do that. It's been a couple of days.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: What did we do with it while we were gone?
Sam: Did we have someone running it? Do we have someone?
Matt: (laughs) You do not.
Taliesin: There's a sign that says "Closed for adventuring."
Sam: Okay. We should hire someone.
Laura: We really should.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: To run it if we're not around. (gasps) JB!
Travis: Yeah, the thief. That's a good idea.
Ashley: Oh, that's a great idea!
Laura: Well, do you like baking?
Matt: "I haven't really tried."
Sam: Have you any management experience?
Matt: "I took care of Uncle Ogden."
Ashley: I feel like she would be great at it. Would you even be interested in maybe running a bakery? Or is that something that just sounds like the most dreadful thing in the world?
Matt: (nervous laugh) "I don't know." And she pulls her hair. "I could try."
Laura: How are you at math?
Matt: "I'm quite good at math, actually."
Laura: Fabulous. Let's head there and see how you do.
Sam: Yes. Let's see, but not make any promises, because someone who's never run any--
Laura: Right, Tary, you would know about hiring people far more than--
Sam: We should have a proper interview.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Check references.
Liam: Well, you weren't a proper adventurer until you were. Got to start somewhere.
Sam: True, but I had the advantage of being able to buy my way in.
Laura: That's true, but you were still pretty shitty at it, when we first started.
Taliesin: This is a form of nepotism. It's pretty reasonable.
Sam: I'm open to it.
Matt: All right, is everyone going to the Slayer's Cake?
Laura: Yeah, because we can eat, too!
Matt: Okay. Right, you guys all make your way to the Slayer's Cake, as the afternoon is coming to a close, dusk is starting to change the colors of the sky. Clouds are beginning to move in, as the night's evening air grows colder. As you come to the outside, you see, it's dark and closed, and you see what appears to be a figure sitting on the ground against the wall, back to the wall, knees huddled up.
Sam: Not JB?
Matt: No, JB is walking with you guys.
Sam: In front of the bakery?
Matt: By the door, a little bit adjacent to where the door is closed.
Laura: We don't recognize them. Can we see their face?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Is this the same day, or has it been a day now?
Sam: It's been a day.
Taliesin: Oh, thank god.
Laura: No! 30.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah! You see actually, a woman in her late thirties or so, early forties, platinum-blonde hair, that's pulled up in a ratty bun. She's got strands hanging in the front of her face, that go to about just past her chin. She has a very simple dress, and a somewhat dirty apron, and a small satchel on her side, and she's leaning against the wall, her knees clutched to her, she's looking forward, she hasn't noticed you guys yet; you're a little ways up.
Laura: And I don't recognize her.
Matt: No, you do not recognize her.
Laura: Excuse me?
Matt: "Oh!" And she gets up, and stands up, and (grunting) her back creaks a little bit, and she stretches it, and dusts off the front of her apron, you see little bit of dust (poof). "I'm terribly sorry, I wasn't sure when you were going to be coming back."
Laura: Oh, yeah, no. We were just off on an adventure, but it'll take a little while before the food is ready.
Matt: "Oh, that. (sighs) If you have a moment? Fine sirs and madams, I'm sorry to bother you, you see, my husband Dathen has not returned from sea in about six months. And I'm not certain if he's coming back, and I'm without work and coffers he left me have come empty this month, so could you perhaps use a hand here at the bakery?"
Laura: Timing is quite--
Matt: It was ridiculous timing, yeah.
Sam: Madam, what's your name?
Matt: "Hilda."
Sam: And you would like a job at our bakery?
Matt: "If at all possible."
Ashley: Do you bake?
Matt: "I do!" She reaches into her satchel and you see in the inside she has a bunch of these small things wrapped in paper, and she opens one and pulls it out and shows it to you. You see it's this tiny little cream puff. It's perfectly made, and has a little icing on the top. She's like, "I used to just make these for old Dathen, but--"
Sam: May we try it?
Matt: "Of course!" She goes and pulls a handful out and hands them amongst you and gives them over.
Ashley: This is a beautiful cream puff.
Laura: They're really hard to make.
Sam: Quick sidebar. This is better than anything we've ever made.
Laura: Did you already eat it?
Sam: Yes. It was really good.
Laura: I'm going to wait a few minutes to see if Tary looks like he just falls over or anything.
Sam: Wait. What? You think it's poisoned?
Laura: No. I'm sure it's not.
Sam: I ate it. I ate the whole thing in one bite.
Laura: It was really good?
Sam: Am I going to die?
Travis: Give me all your stuff.
Taliesin: How often do you just eat strangers' cream puffs?
Matt: Her eyes go wide and like (mumbles).
Sam: Am I going to die? Did you just kill me?
Matt: "No!"
Laura: No, she didn't.
Ashley: No. (laughter)
Matt: It's actually very good. It's very, very good.
Taliesin: You're right, that is fun.
Laura: It's really good.
Taliesin: Well, if it's all the same, I may have another prospect for JB anyway.
Laura: Well, come on inside, Hilda. Let's show you around.
Matt: "Oh, all right."
Ashley: This is delicious.
Sam: It's really good.
Ashley: This is better than anything that we make.
Taliesin: It can't possibly be that good.
Ashley: Have you tried any of our baked goods, yet?
Matt: "I haven't. I've seen it from a distance, but I couldn't really afford to. I'd like to."
Laura: Do you live here in Whitestone?
Matt: "I do. I live right behind--" And she points up to the left. Like if the Sun Tree is in the center and you head up straight on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the square, the path that leads up towards Whitestone Castle, she points about two blocks up and on the left. And there's a small hovel that's pushed between two buildings there. And she goes, "That's where I stay."
Ashley: Can I insight check her? Because I don't trust anybody.
Laura: I don't trust anybody!
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: It just makes us seem like assholes, because we're like (grumbles). I want to go in a little bit and ask around and see what people think of her.
Travis: What? A background check?
Laura: A little background check.
Ashley: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay.
Sam: The whispers.
Ashley: I get a whisper?!
Sam: Have you never had a whisper?
Ashley: I don't think on the show I've had a whisper.
Sam: Oh my god, everybody's firsts tonight. Backblaze, ladies and gentlemen. backblaze.com/criticalrole to get two weeks free or something.
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Sam: Yeah, two weeks. Oh, you want to do the infomercial bit again?
Laura: I really do, but you guys did such an amazing job, though.
Taliesin: This is why we're the cool table.
Ashley: Well, I think that she should die. I'm just kidding. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bake her into the pies.
Ashley: Do you have references?
Matt: "References?"
Sam: Have you worked anywhere else?
Matt: "No, I've mostly just been a housewife, until recently."
Sam: Do you have anyone in the community who could vouch for your character and trustworthiness?
Matt: "Perhaps. Norma Kell wakes up in the morning. There's also Keeper Yennen."
Sam: Oh, Keeper Yennen! We know him! I think, right? We know him?
Laura: Yeah, we know Keeper Yennen.
Matt: "Yeah, aye. That's all I can think of at the moment."
Ashley: How long has your husband been missing?
Matt: "About six months."
Ashley: About six months.
Laura: What was he doing?
Matt: "He's a merchant sailor, coming in and out, but he'd be back within the month usually. Some trips took longer, but six months seems extraordinarily long for him."
Sam: Where did he go, again?
Matt: "Last I know, he does a circle around the southern tip of Tal'Dorei and he usually hits Emon by ship. Occasionally heads over to the-- where is it? The shama?"
Travis: Shambala?
Matt: "Maybe something like that. I don't really know for sure. It's a long ways away."
Laura: Keyleth? I whisper to her. Keyleth, can you scry on people we don't know?
Marisha: If I have a piece of one of their belongings. Yeah, that definitely helps, yeah.
Laura: Hilda? Would you like us to check and see if we can potentially find him?
Matt: "You can do that?"
Laura: Well, if you have something of his that we can look at, we might be able to help.
Matt: "Oh, aye! Just a moment." And she goes and she goes rushing up the street real fast, this renewed excitement in her face.
Laura: How do we feel about her?
Sam: Pike, if you were dead set on JB taking over the business--
Ashley: No, I'm not. JB, don't feel pressured if you don't want to do this. She's a fantastic baker.
Laura: I mean, she's a really good baker. But maybe JB can handle the books, and she can handle the baking.
Taliesin: Well, there is another option. Which is that we have a giant pile of histories and library and novels in our collected library, and we are searching for information about the thing underneath the castle, and we need readers. We need lots and lots of people to read lots and lots of books.
Matt: JB, you watch, like the excitement you just saw on Hilda's face now hits JB's face. "I'm a good reader. I can--"
Laura: Well, okay.
Ashley: Yeah, that seems like a little more fun.
Matt: "Okay, yeah. I can also help with this if you want. I'm more than happy to do both. I have a lot of free time now."
Laura: That's true. You could run the bakery during the day.
Sam: Why don't while we're gone you could help Hilda. Hilda?
Ashley: Hilda.
Sam: Hilda. You could just help out, but maybe leave her in charge? She seems like a--
Taliesin: Or you could sit in the castle and read diaries and ancient tomes of Whitestone.
Marisha: Do I notice Grog looking uncomfortable?
Taliesin: I definitely notice. I don't care.
Liam: (cell phone ringing) Oh dear.
Laura: Timer's done!
Matt: Grog, does she notice you feeling uncomfortable?
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Marisha: I don't know, do I?
Matt: Grog, are you uncomfortable?
Travis: With this talk of reading? A little bit.
Ashley: (whispering) But Grog, you can read some of those books a little bit.
Travis: Yeah, let's not get ahead of ourselves, all right?
Ashley: Well, okay. I think this is a great idea.
Laura: I'm watching where Hilda is running.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I had a quick thought. If her husband's dead, are we just going to tell her that right now? Just you know, husband's dead. He's being eaten by fish.
Laura: No!
Liam: No, you didn't get a read.
Laura: Yeah, so Keyleth, if you like do read it and you see it's super bad, don't--
Liam: Oh, it's too hazy. I can't see him.
Travis: That doesn't seem right at all
Ashley: No, but I think she should plan for her life if he's not coming back.
Travis: Yep. Pike and I are in agreement.
Laura: But right now?
Sam: What if he's alive and in peril, do we tell her that? We're going to lose our only employee.
Laura: Well, then we go try to help him, maybe.
Sam: Really? We have to go help someone? We just met this person!
Laura: That's what we do, Tary!
Taliesin: We haven't done that in quite a while to be fair.
Travis: Plus, he was in somewhere like shambalam.
Sam: Do we know what she was talking about, by the way?
Matt: You get the sense she probably was meaning Shamel, which is the port where you guys had your vacation. The Bay of Gifts.
Sam: We could go on vacation again!
Matt: About ten minutes or so pass and then Hilda comes back, and you see she's clutching what looks to be a small, gold chain. And she takes it and goes, "This belonged to my husband. I don't know if this'll help."
Laura: Sure. Keyleth?
Sam: Ignore the blood all over her body.
Laura: She's fine.
Matt: You probably cleaned up over the past day or so travel. Unless you didn't, in which case you are just a sticky Carrie.
Marisha: No, I look awesome.
Liam: It's dried in the hair, though, and caked in.
Marisha: I'm a little spacey, maybe? For a little bit.
Matt: Yeah, understandably. You know, like you do.
Marisha: It's hard to say.
Matt: But anyway, she hands you the gold chain.
Taliesin: Just checking, do you want to know no matter what? Good or ill?
Matt: "Oh, I just want to know something."
Taliesin: Fair enough.
Marisha: What was his name?
Sam: Athen?
Matt: Yeah, it was Dathen. D-A-T-H-E-N. Dathen.
Marisha: Can you tell me anything else about him that would maybe help? What does he look like?
Matt: "He's got dusty brown hair, usually about shoulder length. Well, he doesn't really grow facial hair but he's pretty scruffy, lower the way. It's been many months, so I don't know. Medium build? Maybe about this high?" And she gives a couple of inches off her own height. "He's got a right scar across his neck and his chest right there he got when he was a kid."
Marisha: All right. Should be enough. I'll do an actual scrying spell.
Matt: All righty. So looking at the scrying spell here. All right. You sit there and focus and concentrate-- and darkness. Nothing. No link. She's looking expectantly.
Marisha: What's that?
Matt: She's looking at you expectantly.
Marisha: Hilda? If he is on this plane of existence, I don't know if it's a good sign. But it doesn't mean that he couldn't be lost somewhere else. My spell only extends to this plane of existence but there are many planes. I can try again.
Matt: "No. That's all right. That's all I needed to know. Thank you." At this point, as the sun is setting, starting to go into the evening, you can see the light causing her to blear a little bit. Here in the shade she's like, "Can we perhaps talk in the morning?"
Laura: Of course. Take the evening.
Matt: "Where can I find you? Up?" As she points over to the castle.
Laura: Sure, yeah. One of us will be back here tomorrow as well.
Matt: "All right. Thank you." And she quietly walks back to the corner of the city where she was from.
Laura: Well, shit.
Marisha: Well, that's not good.
Liam: Give the woman a job. Keep her busy.
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: I'm just throwing this out there. If that was a ploy to get a higher salary, I'm not biting.
Laura: Tary.
Sam: I'm just saying, she could be very cunning.
Travis: Yep, she might have killed her husband.
Marisha: I don't think so.
Travis: Pretty sure she did it.
Marisha: Do I have any further inkling?
Matt: No. Just did not find a source. Did not find a source. Nothing. Nothing for the spell to grab onto.
Laura: Maybe you and I can take a stroll up by her abode.
Liam: All right.
Laura: And just see.
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Make sure she's all right and--
Liam: Right, best of intentions, yeah. I feel you.
Travis: We are background checking a fucking bakery employee in our Dungeons and Dragons game!
Liam: Matt has burned us too many times.
Ashley: The stupid box that we buried still haunts me to this day.
Liam: We just got swindled yesterday.
Laura: Come on! We don't trust anyone
Sam: She didn't give us a social security, we don't have an I-9. There's nothing.
Laura: There's no way to know. She could just be in here trying to get close to Vox Machina before she takes us all down like Raishan.
Sam: She could be Raishan.
Laura: She could!
Taliesin: Speaking of deeply distrustful persons. JB, do you want to come see the library? Does anybody else want to come?
Ashley: I would love to come!
Matt: "Yes! Please!"
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: Are you insinuating that JB isn't trustful?
Taliesin: Oh! Absolutely, in the best possible way. I'm highly excited, and I think you're going to do very well.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: See?
Marisha: We like untrustworthy people. None of us are trustworthy; it's good.
Matt: "I know, I've read." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, that made me happy.
Laura: We go by her hovel.
Matt: Okay. As you guys make your way back to the castle you stop and go over there. You can see it's one of three small homes that are jammed in the alley areas between these larger buildings. Almost like there's businesses on this one corner and they have smaller people that are living more meager means. Each one of them appears to be occupied. The one that she pointed to, you go to it and it seems... there. There's like a very low light through one of the windows.
Liam: I'm going to be real shitty and stealth up and peek in and see what she's up to.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Laura: She's changing. Crying, naked.
Liam: We'll find out won't we. 33 for stealth.
Matt: All righty, and then make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and over the side and from the low candlelit interior, which you watch as there's a small candle that's lit on a little wick there. And there's almost no furniture in this house whatsoever. There's a stool and you just see her sitting on the stool, motionless.
Liam: I want to insight check and just get as good a read on her emotional state as I can, even though she's got a thousand-yard stare. This is insight?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I'll use Luck. Better.
Travis: Luck?
Liam: Sure, why not? What am I saving it for? 18.
Matt: 18. I mean she's faced away from you. It's hard to pick up-- away but to the side, and you just see her just there. And you see her rummage through her satchel on the side. Pull out a cream puff and eat it.
Laura: There's not even a bed in there? Just a stool?
Matt: Just a stool.
Liam: Into the earring I say  We are terrible, terrible assholes. She seems fine. She seems worthy of a baking job. You know, work with her for a day, but I'm not seeing anything hinky here. Yeah? You need anything else?
Laura: No, I'm going to go talk to Keeper Yennen.
Liam: Because I'm staring at a woman crying into her satchel.
Sam: Still going to talk to Yennen?
Laura: It's our fucking business, you know?
Sam: Yeah, of course.
Taliesin: This is more work than we put in hiring our first castle guards.
Laura: Yeah. Come on, at least we aren't trying to like ambush her and attack her like we attacked you, Tary.
Liam: My significant other just mangled herself. I need to keep busy. Let's go see Yennen. And so I lead her off.
Matt: Ha okay. You guys go ahead and make your way towards Yennen's small temple in town. It's past the evening sun, so you see Yennen's one younger boy who helps him keep the establishment. He's in the process of sweeping some of the fallen leaves and various dust that has found its way into the half-open dome place of worship. As you approach he says, "Hi."
Laura: Can I ask you a question, Keeper?
Matt: "Oh are you looking for Yennen?"
Laura: Oh shit, yeah, sorry.
Matt: This is the younger boy.
Laura: Keeper-in-training, is Keeper Yennen here?
Matt: "Let me get him." Puts the broom away. Leaves for a second. The door opens to the side, and you see Yennen come out, half awake. Looks like he's in his evening attire, sleeping attire.
Laura: Oh shit.
Liam: Sorry.
Laura: It's really that late? Oh, he's very old.
Liam: Sorry.
Laura: I'm so sorry to wake you.
Matt: "That's all right."
Laura: Oh, I feel like a dick.
Matt: "What can I do for you?"
Laura: I just wanted to ask you about someone you might know.
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Hilda?
Matt: "Hilda? Yes, yes."
Laura: What do you know about her?
Matt: "Not too much. She seems nice and keeps to herself. She lives that way."
Laura: How long have you known her?
Matt: "15 years?"
Laura: 15 years? She's been here 15 years?
Matt: "Her and her husband."
Laura: Yeah. All right. What was he like? What is he like?
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: "A bit of a rambunctious young lad, until he grew up. Don't see him very often. He comes in and out."
Laura: He's a sailor. Well, that was helpful. Anything remarkable? Any sort of untrustworthiness? Do you think she's fine? She's cool?
Matt: "I assume. Is everything all right?"
Laura: Everything's fine. You know, we're just weird people right now. It's great.
Liam: You don't know anything about Orcus, do you?
Matt: "I know of."
Liam: Didn't think so. We should leave.
Laura: Thank you so much. Get some rest. I'm so sorry to bother you.
Liam: Come on.
Matt: "All right. Goodnight."
Laura: We're making assholes of ourselves.
Liam: Surprise.
Laura: Fine. We'll go meet up with everyone else.
Sam: What did you find out?
Laura: So much.
Liam: So much.
Laura: She's a loner.
Ashley: She's a loner?
Laura: She's lived here for 15 years, but nobody really knows anything.
Sam: And you say she sits in a room by herself eating pastries?
Liam: That's what she's doing tonight. I don't think that's what she does every day.
Laura: Who knows? She doesn't have a bed.
Ashley: Why is there no furniture in her apartment?
Sam: Let's watch her work for a day. See how it goes.
Liam: Did I see more than one room, or was it a single-room home?
Matt: From what you can tell, it's a single room. There's a pile of linens in a corner. There was a stool. It looked like there was a small area for cooking.
Laura: It's like Skyrim, y'all. There's a stool and a cheese wheel.
Taliesin: And a pot, and if you break it, there's five coins.
Marisha: And steal their plants from outside.
Taliesin: And throw them at chickens.
Ashley: Mountain flowers.
Marisha: Nightshade.
Laura: Well, this was productive.
Taliesin: At least we know, and there's no harm in being careful. It's not like it's never happened before.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: It's not the first time that we've been trusting and been betrayed. Or the second or the third. It's reasonable to be a bit cautious and we were a bit cautious.
Liam: Of cakes?
Taliesin: Of cakes. To be fair, we are going to be eating them.
Travis: Are we reading right now?
Taliesin: I assume we've gotten to the library. I don't know.
Matt: They've traveled for a bit, you've had time to hit the library and begin showing JB around.
Ashley: Are there children's books in here?
Travis: I found one! Look! Bus-ee-ness. Buseness.
Marisha: He's learning.
Travis: Bus-ee-what?
Laura: Business?
Ashley: Business?
Marisha: Business?
Travis: Sound it out. Bus-eye-ness
Marisha: Did you find a ledger? Is that what you found?
Taliesin: There are books I read as a child.
Ashley: (whispers) Where are they?
Taliesin: Everywhere.
Ashley: Can I see if I can find a kid's book?
Liam: That's pronounced boysness.
Travis: Boysness. Can you use it in a sentence, please?
Liam: Grog got down to boysness and ended a fool's life.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13? You find what amounts to a children's book for Percival.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Sam: High school biology.
Taliesin: The Game of Logic by Lewis Carroll.
Matt: Yeah. Most of the books here are of relatively advanced reading level. You gather it's a trait of the De Rolo family.
Taliesin: Gives me the sense that this kid's going to be fine.
Travis: Or-chid.
Laura: Grog you can do the "ch?"
Travis: Or-chide.
Laura: Orchid.
Ashley: Orchid.
Travis: No, it's not kid.
Ashley: Sometimes when those letters are together, it sounds like a K.
Laura: What book are you reading that's about boysness and orchids?
Travis: It's an orchid business.
Laura: Boysness.
Travis: Boysness. Which is a location in Marquet.
Matt: All right. Are you guys doing anything else for the evening?
Taliesin: Just showing her what we would like to pay her to do. Which is: all of these books, there's this huge section that are mostly histories, diaries, folk tales, or otherwise. Take one of these slips of paper when you read a book. You write your name on it and you leave it in the book. Then anytime you find anything peculiar-- a ghost story or a strange occurrence in any of these books. Anything at all that might be fanciful or unexplained, you mark with a piece of gold thread and put it back on the shelf and then one of the other librarians will come and find that book and bring it down for further study. You just have to find the most interesting of these books and make sure that they're well marked.
Matt: "I can do that."
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling.
Marisha: What makes them interesting?
Taliesin: What makes a book interesting? I genuinely don't know how to answer that.
Laura: Sexy pictures.
Taliesin: There's not a lot of that in this library.
Marisha: Are you giving someone parameters by which they don't really have rules to follow?
Taliesin: Well that's the trouble with looking for something that if you don't know what it is.
Marisha: Right.
Taliesin: But if in one of these diaries someone remarks upon a strange murder or a ghost story, or honestly, anything interesting that's a bit peculiar, you just mark it and then we take a look. That way we thin out the amount that we have to read down to a manageable amount.
Marisha: So, it takes a peculiar person to know what's peculiar?
Taliesin: That does help, yes.
Matt: "Okay, I can do that."
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Is there a place-- just ask Percy privately. She can stay with me.
Taliesin: I assumed.
Ashley: Do I have an extra bedroom? Or how does this work?
Taliesin: Where is Pike?
Laura: Is she staying in the castle, right?
Matt: She has a room in the castle, one that used to be one of the guest rooms when you had people you were entertaining.
Ashley: Maybe there's a Murphy bed or something extra in the room.
Matt: It's easy enough to put a second bed in there. The doorways are wide.
Taliesin: If she would like her own room, that can absolutely be arranged.
Ashley: JB? Do you-- I don't know how--
Matt: She's in the process of looking and she's like writing down, taking notes of the different sections, talking to herself. She's not even looking at you.
Ashley: You are more than welcome to stay with me. I do have night terrors, so sometimes not fun, but you can stay with me or you could have your own room.
Matt: "No, that's fine."
Ashley: Okay. Wait, which one?
Matt: "Staying with you. Is there something I should do if you're having a night terror?"
Ashley: Just wait it out.
Matt: "Okay, don't wake you up?"
Ashley: Nah.
Matt: "Okay."
Ashley: Okay. This will be fun. It'll be like sleepovers. Maybe we can make a fort!
Matt: "We can make forts? Out of what?"
Ashley: Just all the blankets. Tapestries.
Matt: You watch all of a sudden her eyes-- in this library, there are a number of old tapestries and you know carpet elements around. You watch as she scans the entire room for materials and goes, "Oh, we can do this."
Ashley: I have a feeling you are a great fort builder.
Matt: "I haven't tried, but I have some theories."
Taliesin: I pull two engineering books off the shelf and hide them.
Matt: Perfect. All right.
Taliesin: I feel like this has been taken care of. You know the system.
Ashley: Percy, thank you.
Taliesin: Would you like an extra bed sent?
Ashley: Yes, please.
Taliesin: That can be arranged.
Matt: Okay, so you have a second bed installed in Pike's room. You guys have your dinner for the evening, anything else?
Taliesin: Take another look at the thing downstairs.
Laura: Well, I go with you.
Matt: Okay. You guys head down into the tunnels, make your way to the ziggurat beneath Whitestone and as you enter the inside of the chamber, you can see there's a few torches set up in there. There is that secondary platform where you guys met a year ago, where you had the small council with Raishan as well to decide what was to become of the Chroma Conclave. Up there, you can see there's a whole research bench set up with a couple of desks and pretty much all the information that's been gathered, and various things that have been studied over the past year or so about it. What has been figured out, and there were theories thrown around before of it being a siphon. An artifact that is related to something that was referred to as a Sphere of Annihilation. Not directly, but an offshoot of that type of enchantment. As opposed to completely destroying anything it comes into contact with, it's attuned in the siphoning of things from one location to another. It's a translocation type of magic. There have been a number of things that have been placed within this sphere and did not return, including one volunteer, a member of the Pale Guard, who during the year's research volunteered to step through and was not heard from again. And that stopped any future volunteers from rising to the occasion. But since the research that's been taken up about what the siphon's existence, during the Age of Arcanum they were one, used as a defensive measure against powerful mages, but that was more of a secondary use during the actual war that ended the Age of Arcanum. Their initial creation was supposed to be able to harness and shift ley line energy. The idea was wherever there was a large source of magical energy but it was inconvenient, its placement, its natural placement in the world, they could use these siphons to basically triangulate and shift where that energy would go.
Taliesin: It's been here an awful long time now. We don't even know if they created it or if they found it.
Matt: You don't know, like the information about them is I would say almost mythological, in the sense that there are stories that talk about them and a lot of the information was destroyed during the Divergence regarding to the older Age of Arcanum magics.
Taliesin: The castle's always had strange stories.
Matt: Yeah, and this is information that was brought together by Eskil Ryndarien when he was down here researching with Allura even during the Conclave. A lot of people have gone off because the research hit a wall, it was like, "Well, we find out pretty much everything about this, we just don't know where the siphon is going, and anything we've tried to put through doesn't come back." So the theory is to find the other half of the siphon because it's a connecting point. There's two sides to it, so if it this is correct, then the theory is there would be another side to it. Or if not it might just be a Sphere of Annihilation or something adjacent to it and is essentially a null and void circumstance. Those are where the theories stand.
Laura: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: The crystal that Lillith gave you. Does that work across planes?
Matt: You have to be on the same plane of existence
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: I've thought about it. I definitely think there's something on the other side of this, and this thing is how I think I know that our work is not yet done. I dream about it sometimes. Do you ever come down and just look at it?
Laura: To be honest, it intimidates me quite a bit.
Taliesin: What do you see?
Laura: What do I see? Can I use my oracle arrow and shoot it into it?
Matt: You can certainly give it a try. You can certainly try.
Sam: (whispers) What's an oracle arrow?
Travis: She can shoot her arrow--
Laura: And see through the arrow. Okay. What do I do?
Matt: All right, well, go ahead and roll an attack.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's back up a bit of a distance.
Laura: Yeah. We'll back up as far as we can so I can still hit the thing. It is a magical arrow, and this thing cuts out all the magic but maybe once it goes through the siphon, maybe I'll still be able to use it?
Taliesin: Well, we can actually get to the edge where magic starts again and then it might reconnect once it goes through.
Laura: Yeah, we'll stand outside of the door.
Sam: So you only have one of these?
Laura: I have two per short rest.
Sam: Oh, you're fine.
Matt: As part of your newly-exalted bow. Okay, this is going to be-- hold on to that roll whatever that was. So to get out of the radius, because it basically cuts right into the hallway that leads inside of it, you have to back out of the chamber into the hallway a few feet and basically get on the ground and aim upwards towards, and you're going to have to arc over the top of the ziggurat to get in. So this is a shot with a disadvantage.
Liam: Sharpshooter?
Laura: With disadvantage. I am sharpshooter.
Liam: Wouldn't that nullify that? Three-quarter cover means nothing. It's just full cover.
Matt: Well, what I was going to say it would have a really high AC with disadvantage. I'm not going to consider it with having a super high AC. It's still a very hard shot.
Laura: So disadvantage?
Matt: So disadvantage on the shot.
Laura: 30.
Sam: Whoa!
Liam: Yeah, both were high teens.
Ashley: It's Critical Role's dice.
Laura: It is the Critical Role dice.
Taliesin: What?! I'm so proud of you!
Sam: It shouldn't work.
Taliesin: It shouldn't work, but it did!
Ashley: T-shirts!
Sam: Weirdly, the arrow hits and kills Keyleth.
Marisha: (death rattle) Not like this.
Sam: Don't do that! This is a long whisper.
Liam: He's telling her real stuff, man.
Sam: Oh man, this is not what we normally get.
Taliesin: No, this is a whole chunk of stuff.
Ashley: Backblaze!
Sam: By the way, just a little insight, what we normally get on the whispers is, "From what you can tell, it seems totally normal." And then that's about it.
Marisha: That's actually really accurate.
Taliesin: Briefly, back in the old days, they were experimenting with texting us whispers.
Sam: As far as you can tell he thinks he's telling the truth.
Ashley: I want to know.
Taliesin: I'm glad we stopped trying to text each other whispers.
Sam: Whoa, her mind is blown.
Laura: Can I have a pencil! I got to write this shit down. Pencil!
Taliesin: Her eyes go white and it's just (scribbling). Yay.
Ashley: It was so much!
Sam: She's drawing a weird alien creature.
Laura: I got to write it down or else I'll forget!
Sam: Big head, big eyes, small body.
Taliesin: Three syllables. We're being invaded by dingbats.
Marisha: What does a smiley emoji mean? I don't understand.
Sam: She speaks Arrival language now.
Laura: Oh my god. Percy! I saw something!
Taliesin: You didn't. Really?
Laura: I did! I think it was another plane.
Liam: Vex dies.
Taliesin: We have to figure out how to-- is there a way to make sure we get every detail? I'm finding pen and paper; we're writing everything you can remember down. Is there a way to recall someone's memory in perfect detail, is there any sort of magic that can actually--
Matt: There are, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. This shit's happening!
Laura: Otherwise, I could just tell you what I sort of saw, but I heard a lot of "Backblaze!" in the background.
Taliesin: It was the Backblaze dimension?
Matt: They're not siphons. They're storage units!
Marisha: You saw the cloud? What did it look like?
Matt: Just Pelor backing up his hard drive. All right. It's pretty vivid for you, and so as you recount. What she saw is the arrow, it was darkness when she fired it, as it passed through the sphere of anti-magic, there was nothing. And then suddenly, imagery blinked through the arrow. From the perspective of it as it coasted away, she looked behind and could see the twin to this orb. Apparently not under the same anti-magic shell on the other side. Whereas this side steals magic, the other side emits it. As the arrow landed and clattered to the stonework maybe 20 feet below the orb, looking around, she saw a landscape of blackened, broken stone and ground. Distant mountainscapes of jagged crags, like teeth across the horizon. The sky itself was black and shadowed, like it was perpetually amidst a distant forest fire, and where you can see the grey in the sky you can see roiling thunder clouds with flashes of lightning. And roughly a mile or so from what you could tell from where this was you could see what appeared to be a large obsidian tower of twisted black stone that went up for what appeared to be a dozen or more stories.
Laura: Don't we know something about obsidian--
Marisha: The same tower we saw in the Nine Hells?
Laura: No.
Matt: No, different tower.
Laura: This is way bigger.
Matt: No, the tower in the Nine Hells was the biggest thing you've ever seen tower-wise. This is big, but imagine a 12-story obsidian tower that's pretty thin and tall.
Laura: Okay. I'm glad I remembered that correctly because I was remembering it as a citadel and it's just a tower.
Taliesin: This is spectacular! This is great! We have to let everybody know! Oh god, we have to let everybody know. And I grab her and we bolt out.
Laura: Does it sound like anything you know?
Taliesin: No? Yes? Maybe? I don't know! I'm not sure. This is a breakthrough. We have a breakthrough! We have a breakthrough! I am running to Cassandra, who I'm sure is asleep.
Matt: Yeah, most everyone's-- you guys have all gone to bed at this point I imagine; you guys were down there pretty late.
Liam: Well first I drag Keyleth off to the cozy little bathtubs that they have here in the castle and took the opportunity-- they're quite small, actually. And washed all of the caked-in, the last of the caked-in blood and everything.
Travis: Because they say it, it's true.
Taliesin: We have a full Roman sauna underneath, but that's fine, whatever you need.
Ashley: I took JB back and we built a fort in the room.
Matt: And you've gone to bed?
Sam: Oh yeah, I'm asleep.
Travis: I look for a book on werewolves.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Natural 20, Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It's that night.
Matt: Against all odds.
Taliesin: The trick is it requires human sacrifice.
Marisha: It is a full moon tonight, isn't it? Or was it last night? When was the full moon?
Matt: You surprise yourself, Grog, going "w-w-werewolves." There's a book that talks about the disease of lycanthropy and were-creatures and entities, and it's there before you and you find it's like your own little birthday party.
Travis: I take it with me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm calling a meeting of the council. I'm sending out the word. I'm telling everyone that we have new information.
Sam: At night?!
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm starting it now so that people who are not here can figure out their way here.
Marisha: Are you getting it over our earpieces?
Taliesin: Not them. To the studying council, anybody who's been studying the object. I'm letting everybody know as quickly as possible. There's new information.
Matt: All right, so that being the case, you let Cassandra know. Cassandra goes, "My god, all right. Well, let me-- I think I-- hold on." She goes and rushes back to her room and she comes back with a small, looks like a river stone, but has what looks to be a small rune carved into it. She takes it and holds it and goes "Sorry to bother you, my dear, but apparently Percival has a breakthrough in regards to the ziggurat and the orb. As soon as you can, please." Then takes it and puts it into a small pouch. "Hopefully, Allura received that and should be arriving soon. As to Eskil, I don't know how to get in touch with him; he's probably well into his sleep and he gets cranky."
Taliesin: He'll find out in the morning. This is good. We'll start looking with the new data as soon as everyone gets here. This is excellent. Excellent! Good night. Go to sleep. Why are you awake? No! And I'm out the door. I run to Vex's house. We're done.
Matt: All right, so you guys just go to bed?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: I guess so. Yeah. But, wait. Actually, Percy? Off-subject, but, when I saw Keyleth, I mean, she was destroyed right? I mean, fucking destroyed. Arms everywhere, limbs broken, just terrible.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: We put her back together like we always do, but I can't get Scanlan out of my mind. It's so random, I know, but what if that happened to him and we're not with him? No one's there to cast Revivify.
Taliesin: If he wanted to be found, he'd be found. His daughter's there, and maybe he is possibly smart enough to explain to her how that stone works.
Laura: Have you scryed on him again?
Taliesin: Not successfully. Not since I briefly found him and then I lost him. But I always have people looking.
Laura: All right. I don't know why he's on my mind. Obviously, we have much bigger things.
Taliesin: I think maybe bigger things will help. It's been too quiet.
Laura: Not good at quiet
Taliesin: No. I mean, I've enjoyed it. This has been great, everything, everything has been great. This is wonderful, but I will admit I miss-- I don't know what I miss. I miss it, though. I feel like I'm tempting fate and I'm going to regret everything I say right now, one day.
Laura: I think we are, who knows what this will lead to.
Taliesin: Maybe we can shut it down for good.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Maybe we're going to go find a small black tower somewhere filled with death and despair.
Laura: I don't know if I'm going to be able to sleep tonight!
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So as you find your rest for the evening, the morning comes. Bright, warm. The clouds that came in for the evening, it's still a cloudy sky and as you wake up the mist that usually takes up the bottom of the valley and the forest floor is beginning to burn off as the sun begins to peek through the clouds and show little bursts of blue above. You guys head back to the castle, where all of you are, everyone but Keyleth. We'll say Keyleth's still sleeping and Taryon's still sleeping.
Taliesin: Keyleth had a bit of day.
Matt: However, Allura is there waiting. She's there and as you approach she goes, "Well, isn't this a pleasant surprise?" She rushes up and gives Vex a big hug. She comes and takes your hand as well, Percival, and pulls you in. "So, Cassandra told me that there was some sort of a--"
Taliesin: Well, Vex had a brilliant idea. Recently, you came to a very interesting power.
Laura: Yes, from the exalted weapon that I got from Saundor.
Matt: "Oh, your Vestige. Yes."
Laura: Yes, and it has the ability to shoot arrows that see.
Matt: "I recall you telling me this, yes."
Laura: Right, so I shot it into the orb. And I saw through it.
Matt: "Oh." At which point you watch her whole demeanor change and she leans in, "What did you see?"
Laura: Fucking everything. A sky and an orb and a tower. An obsidian tower like twelve stories tall.
Matt: Keyleth comes down for breakfast.
Laura: Hey, Kiki. Good morning.
Marisha: Hi, sorry. I had weird dreams.
Travis: That you died?
Liam: No, that really happened. That actually happened yesterday.
Laura: Destroyed landscape, whole other plane. Very dark, very scary.
Matt: "Another plane?"
Laura: I think. I assume.
Taliesin: This is everything as she described it. This is everything I could write down.
Matt: As you describe down the location she goes, "This is certainly not a place that I know of on this plane."
Marisha: My dreams are on this plane?
Laura: Keyleth! We had a breakthrough.
Matt: "This sounds like a location that resides somewhere in the Shadowfell."
Laura: The Shadowfell?
Travis: Wait, Shadowfell?
Matt: "The Shadowfell, yes. You know how you went to the Feywild, which is more of an overgrown fey-based nature parallel to this world, yes? The Shadowfell is the dark shadow reflection of this same place. It's a plane of negative energy and darkness. A tower, you said? I have to go research this some more. This is good to know, but I get the sense that perhaps this ritual was not as foiled as we had initially anticipated."
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Have you been to this Shadowfell before?
Matt: "I have not been."
Laura: Does Vecna reside there?
Matt: "I may go do some research."
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: You watch her get a little thousand-yard stare for a second, thinking. Her eyes are darting around a little bit and her brain is just running and running. "All right. Well, unfortunately, I can't leave until tomorrow, I can only really transport myself once a day, but I'll immediately make my way to Vasselheim. That would hopefully be able to clarify some of these questions."
Laura: Do you need company?
Matt: "No, I can travel faster on my own."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "Besides, I can always go ahead and bring a friend."
Laura: How is Kima?
Matt: Make a perception check, actually.
Sam: She's in the room.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? Interesting. One thing you do catch, though subtle, is as she has her hands folded on one side you do see a small gold band across one of her fingers.
Sam: She's hitched!
Laura: Wait a minute! Did you guys get married?
Matt: "It was very small, very private, but anyway--"
Liam: Congratulations!
Matt: "Thank you. Sorry, this is conflicting emotions in this moment right now. Thank you."
Laura: When did it happen?! (laughter)
Matt: "Naught but four months ago. It was on a whim. We thought and discussed a lot about all the dangers we'd faced over the years together, and with you and the reality of not knowing how long either of us have on this planet. I figured at the very least, why not?"
Laura: I think it's brilliant. Brilliant.
Matt: "Thank you. We were going to tell you. There's been a lot to do in Emon. It's looking great, by the way. We've nearly completed. Thanks to the help of the Lyceum and many of the mages, reconstruction has been rapid."
Laura: We really should have gone there in the last year. We need to visit Emon.
Taliesin: We've been very busy.
Laura: True.
Matt: Then she covers the hand and is embarrassed.
Taliesin: We can get you back there today, if you think time is of the essence.
Marisha: I was in Emon not that long ago.
Taliesin: Why did you go to Emon?
Marisha: I had to talk to them about constructing the crisis orbs.
Laura: Oh! That's true.
Marisha: It was a lot of meetings. So many damn meetings.
Matt: "If you could actually send me to the Lyceum instead, and from there I can go to Vasselheim, but I can do my research there."
Marisha: You want to go to the Lyceum?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Right now?
Matt: "Well, it's whenever you wish."
Marisha: You want me to send you?
Travis: I'm going to reset Keyleth's brain.
Marisha: Oh yeah. Through the tree?
Travis: I'm going to jog her memory.
Marisha: Is there anyone else that needs to go while I'm doing this? Because this is it for the day. Anyone else need to go to Emon?
Taliesin: I think we're good.
Travis: Literally nobody needs to go there but her.
Marisha: No Kima?
Matt: Kima's not with her.
Marisha: I just didn't know if she wanted to go get her.
Laura: Oh my god, Keyleth.
Liam: You got a little bit of sleep stuff still in your eye.
Laura: Eye bogeys, for sure.
Liam: Yeah, that's better.
Marisha: I was just asking. Okay, let's go.
Matt: All right, so as you open the gate and Allura steps through, she around with a smile. "Thank you, Keyleth. And--"
Marisha: I say, (whispering) 'sup, Sun Tree? And then send her through.
Matt: (laughing) As she's trying to talk to you, she's like, (stutters). And you just push her through. She's like, "Whoa!"
Marisha: Okay, bye.
Matt: (thud) And it closes.
Taliesin: Why are you awake? Nothing. Never mind.
Matt: All right. So. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Well, shit! Well, what do we do now that we know? I guess we just research?
Taliesin: This changes everything. I'm changing the research focus in the library specifically to things on this subject so that we can more focus.
Matt: Okay. JB comes down with you and starts helping catalog and pulling out books and information.
Travis: I'll help you go read, too. And I start reading my book.
Laura: Oh shit. Hilda. Did anybody go down to the bakery?
Sam: She was going to come see us.
Matt: Yeah, you haven't. It's around noon now, as all this has happened and talking with her.
Taliesin: She was going to come to the castle.
Laura: Yeah, but-- okay.
Matt: Tary still hasn't woken up, by the way.
Sam: I'm currently-- Doty is brushing my teeth.
Travis: Brushing your teeth?
Matt: That's not true. Because eventually when you go to check on his room, Taryon isn't there.
Laura: What?
Marisha: What?
Liam: Sam...
Marisha: He's not going to Sam Riegel us again, is he? Because I can't handle that right now.
Laura: Where is Tary? Did he leave a note?
Matt: As you enter the room-- SAM (whispers) Hilda ate me.
Laura: Oh my god, did Hilda do something?
Matt: You can see the sheet is missing. Most of his personal belongings are gone. Doty is still there. And Doty appears to be shut down, nonfunctional.
Laura: Doty? Doty! Shit!
Matt: The eyes are cold.
Taliesin: Check the book!
Laura: What book?
Taliesin: Doty's book.
Laura: Oh! I go look at Doty's book!
Matt: It's within his chest compartment.
Taliesin: I know. I helped build this thing. Can I figure out how to get the book to eject?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm searching around the room, looking for any sign of Tary.
Taliesin: That's so cocked. That's a natural 20.
Matt: Okay. Not only do you find the latch, but you look underneath where one of the arms is. There appears to be a small glass bead, affixed with a piece of clay. And the bead has this pulsing blue light on it. And you notice it there, and it looks like it's the only thing with any sort of life on Doty's exterior.
Taliesin: Does that look like part of Doty?
Matt: It doesn't. It looks like something that was pressed onto him.
Laura: Should we take it off?
Taliesin: Is it magical?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: That's a 21.
Matt: It does appear to be magical. It is giving some sort of consistent pulse of energy.
Laura: Maybe don't touch it.
Matt: It looks fragile, whatever it is. The essence of the magic that you get from it, the nature of the effect, at least, is abjuration.
Laura: Abjuration?
Taliesin: I genuinely don't actually know what this word means.
Laura: I have no idea what that word means, either.
Sam: I've seen it in the Player's Handbook.
Laura: Yeah, what is it?
Taliesin: I normally have some clue about a word.
Matt: Abjuration is one of the schools of arcane magic.
Laura: What kind of school is it?
Matt: (laughs) It's the alteration and harnessing of raw arcane energy. Usually in some sort of-- there are a number of spells that fall into the category.
Laura: Shit. Shit, we just sent Allura away. Fuck. Balls.
Taliesin: Should we call everyone? Let's not call everyone. Who should we call?
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: Let's call everyone. Has anybody seen Tary?
Liam: He's sleeping in, isn't he?
Taliesin: He's not.
Ashley: Is he at the bakery?
Laura: Wait, go check the bakery. Will someone go check the bakery?
Ashley: I'll check the bakery.
Liam: Where are you?
Laura: Do I see any trace of him?
Matt: Make an investigation check again.
Marisha: Castle?
Liam: No, they're at Vex's house.
Laura: 15.
Taliesin: Can you have some coffee and come down here, quickly?
Marisha: Oh my god! Coffee sounds amazing to me.
Laura: Keyleth!
Marisha: Yeah?
Taliesin: Yes, what?
Laura: Focus.
Taliesin: Three coffees.
Marisha: Three coffees coming right up. I'll be right over. I get three coffees and I head over.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to pick up a lot of details. It looks like there was no struggle whatsoever. It looks like somebody entered and picked the lock to the room from the inside. That's all you're able to make out. From the inside of the castle.
Sam: Oh, from the inside of the castle.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Somebody that was in the castle did this? In my house?
Liam: Sam, why don't you just tell us where you are?
Sam: Sure. Doty is brushing my teeth.
Laura: Did you end up opening the thing? Can you see Doty's book?
Taliesin: I popped the book out, right?
Matt: You found the compartment where you (click, creak). It opens up and the tome is there.
Taliesin: I have my things upstairs. One second. I'm going to get all of my tools. I have everything on me including the cloak, because I want to be able to absorb any magic that comes off of what looks like possibly a bomb? Just going to be careful. I'm going to very gently remove the book.
Matt: You pull it out of the compartment.
Taliesin: Flip to the last written page.
Matt: The last written page spoke of, "An evening of curious bakery purveyors signed on to see to the future of goods, and to create in the name of the great Taryon Darrington and associates. And as a sudden slumber comes over me, I will find myself an evening's rest. Goodnight, Doty." And that was the final entry.
Taliesin: I'm waiting for Keyleth. I'm putting the book back.
Laura: The top sheet is gone from the bed.
Travis: Yeah, because they took him away in it.
Laura: Is it an eyelash? Do I get a wish?
Ashley: (whispers) Yeah.
Laura: Wait, get it so that I can make a wish.
Taliesin: Thankfully, we have a scry spell or two.
Matt: Keyleth, you arrive with three coffees.
Liam: I tag along.
Marisha: Okay, I have two regular, one decaf no foam--
Laura: Keyleth, scry on Tary. Pike, did you find anything at the bakery?
Matt: As you hurry down to the bakery, the bakery is still closed. Nobody was there to open it.
Ashley: Is Hilda there?
Matt: Hilda is not there, no.
Ashley: I don't see anything here, Hilda's not here.
Laura: The bakery looks normal?
Ashley: The bakery looks normal.
Matt: Locked and closed, untouched since you left it the evening before.
Marisha: Wait, you think Doty's been boobytrapped?
Taliesin: Look at that. That doesn't look normal.
Liam: I want to a take a look at that and see if it looks like a trap, and I don't understand magic, but if it is similar to any trigger mechanisms that I've seen.
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Laura: Keyleth, come out of the room with me.
Liam: 31.
Matt: Okay, it does not appear to be a trap, necessarily. It looks like whatever it's meant to be triggered to do has already been triggered.
Laura: (gasps) Somebody boobytrapped Doty. Can you scry on Taryon? Scry on Taryon.
Marisha: Yeah, what-- I'm sorry.
Laura: He's missing.
Marisha: What?
Laura: He's missing. Somebody broke in and took him. I go around and start asking-- no, I'm going to stay right here. Will you scry on him? I need to find out what happened.
Marisha: Okay, last time I tried to scry on Scanlan, everyone gave me a lot of grief about it.
Laura: Okay, Scanlan left on his own. Tary didn't. He left Doty here. There is no way this was not foul play.
Liam: Do you think this thing is looking at us? This little bead?
Taliesin: Once everyone clears out of the room, I will try and remove it.
Marisha: Who is all in the room? Is it the four of us?
Laura: No, me and you, we went outside.
Matt: It is just Vax and Percy.
Taliesin: I am going to try and remove it.
Liam: Yeah, I don't think it's trapped or anything. You probably can do that.
Taliesin: Let's see what happens. I'm going to use the cloak to pull it off so that I'm shielded from it if anything happens.
Matt: Okay, you grab it, and as you pull it off, it's fixed and as you pull it off, the bead shatters in your hand and the blue spark fizzles out and you watch Doty go, "Tary."
Liam: Looks like the bead shut him down.
Matt: You get the sense that the basis of this magic was a one-use Dispel.
Laura: We're not in the room. You're scrying. Will you scry?
Matt: You watch as Doty immediately starts going "Tary?" and lifts the bed. "Tary?"
Marisha: It'd be better if I had something of Tary's.
Matt: Doty leaves and charges through the room and (footsteps) into the hallway.
Laura: Doty? Doty, come here.
Marisha: Hey, Doty.
Laura: Doty belonged to him. Scry with Doty.
Marisha: What's up, bud?
Matt: Doty stops and looks. "Tary?"
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to Professor Xavier this shit and put my hands on Doty's little head. Come here, bend down. Down, Doty. Doty, down. Doty, kneel! Doty, take a knee. Doty, down.
Laura: Doty? Will you kneel down, please? Fuck.
Marisha: You know what? It's fine. And I'm going to do the scry.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Do you know what is happening right now?
Sam: I'm getting my rogue character ready.
Matt: Keyleth. Your vision pulls back up into the sky above the clouds. For a second, you feel a rush of wind; you're not sure of the direction. You feel a flash of speed and then with a blink, all of a sudden your vision is above what appears to be a small village along a road. And the vision blinks once again and you're within a hallway, a wooden low-lit hallway, and then the flash. You're inside of a room. A wood paneling wall. You see Taryon, unconscious and wrapped in a sheet, still in his armor, propped against the shaded side of the wall, while a figure stands just out of the peripheral. A familiar voice from just out of your range says, "It's okay, dear. We just had a bit to drink. Appreciate your concern." And you hear the door close (click). Then a few footsteps, and you watch as in the peripheral, Hilda steps in next to Taryon, pulling the sheet from his body, revealing him tied up from head to toe. Hilda's image shimmers slightly and dissipates, revealing a woman of ink-blue skin, long white hair tied into almost a topknot ponytail. Pale silver eyes that inspect her handiwork. Under her dark green cloak that you see her hood fall back, you see dark burgundy leather armor. She seems to check Taryon's vitals, under his neck, feel for breathing. Very methodically, and begins to loosen some of his bindings in some places. And you hear her voice say, "Can't have you losing too much circulation, boy. I've got a reputation to keep." She quickly tosses the blanket back over him after fixing the straps and goes, "Sleep soundly, boy. You'll be home soon enough." She stands up and walks across the room, almost out of sight, and sits in the chair facing him. You watch her rummage through her satchel, pull out a cream puff, and throw it to the side of the corner. Pulls out a small box and begins making something.
Marisha: I don't know what she is making?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Sam: She probably bought those cream puffs and didn't even bake them herself!
Travis: It was Ralph's cream puffs.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, okay. Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: You've seen Vex do this before. It is a fletching kit. She is in the process of making arrows.
Marisha: She's making arrows?
Matt: She's making arrows in a casual passing-her-time way. And then the vision pulls you back (whoosh) and you're within yourself once more.
Marisha: (gasps)
Laura: What did you see?
Marisha: (shouting) Bitch! Fucking bitch! God!
Laura: Where is he? Who has him?
Marisha: (shouting) People wonder why we have trust issues!
Laura: Who, what--
Marisha: (shouting) It's fucking Hilda! She's a vampire or a werewolf or a lich or something. I don't know. Don't quote me on any of this. She was just like, I don't want your vitals going down and why do people take everything away from us?
Laura: Slap her across the face.
Marisha: (yelps)
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Ow!
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can you fucking calm down and tell me what you saw?
Liam: Did you see Tary-town?
Marisha: I saw Tary.
Laura: Is he in trouble? Is he in danger?
Marisha: Yeah, he looked unconscious, and it was Hilda, and she had ink-blue, sparkly skin.
Matt: Not sparkly, necessarily. Ink-blue skin, silver eyes.
Marisha: Ink-blue skin and long silvery hair that was in a top long ponytail thing. Long green-- and she had burgundy armor. He was in a wooden room, somewhere.
Laura: Is it close by?
Matt: Her ears were pointed.
Marisha: In a hallway. Her ears were pointy. I know a lot of people have pointy ears, including myself, so I'm not judging anyone who has pointy ears.
Liam: Was she a drow?
Matt: You, Keyleth, who have not actually seen a drow elf in person, really, over an extended period of time to know much about their culture, but through this conversation, she does appear to be, yes.
Marisha: She sounds like those things you have said before. Yes.
Laura: The drow?
Marisha: The drow, yeah. Like us but blue skin, white hair. And she said she doesn't want him losing too much of his vitality, and that she was going to take him back to where he came from and that he was special.
Laura: (gasps) She was bringing him home?
Marisha: Yeah, she was bringing him home.
Laura: To his piece of shit family?
Marisha: To his piece of shit family!
Laura: We have to get him. We have to help him.
Marisha: But why is Tary special?
Laura: He's very rich. I'm sure his family is just looking for him.
Liam: Yeah, he is daddy's boy.
Marisha: I don't know. This seems like she was interested in something other than his money.
Liam: Well. It's irrelevant, though. We've got to go get him.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: It just means we knock her unconscious as opposed to killing her when we get there. It will be fun. Let's do this.
Marisha: Do I have any idea of the hallway and the room, of how far away it was?
Matt: It felt like some sort of roadside inn. That's you have no idea where.
Taliesin: Well, this we can deal with. A roadside inn. We know were Tary comes from.
Marisha: He could be literally anywhere within a hundred-mile radius.
Taliesin: We know which roads one would take to get there from Whitestone, conveniently?
Matt: From what you know, the town of Deastok that he comes from, which is in Wildmount. There are no roads that go there from Whitestone because it is across the Shearing Channel to the other continent. Which means you have to either go by boat-- and even then, it's probably a few hundred miles away from Whitestone on that side of the continent.
Taliesin: We could do a Locate Object.
Laura: Yeah, on his dangling earring.
Matt: It's a hundred-foot range.
Laura: I thought it was a thousand feet range.
Matt: Sorry, a thousand-foot range.
Laura: Which is still very, very close.
Marisha: Or very far, when jumping off a cliff.
Ashley: What if he's still here?
Laura: Okay wait, what if I use primeval awareness-- I can't search out a drow. No, fuck. Can I look around to see if there's any tracks or any hint of anything that she may have dropped in the room or anything that he might have dropped?
Taliesin: Go check Hilda's house, as well, for clues.
Matt: Searching the room... you searched it once before. Looking over it with a second glance, there doesn't appear to be any sign of anything that she dropped. The best you can tell, especially being a tracker, there doesn't appear to be any sign that either of them left the room. There was nowhere they could have gone. There is no window that exits, then the door was picked, and nobody saw anybody leave the room.
Laura: She bamfed out. She's got magic. She could be anywhere.
Taliesin: Then why is she at an inn?
Laura: Are we sure she was at an inn?
Taliesin: Well, if she is at what sounds like a waypoint, and if you can travel as far as you want, why would you need a waypoint?
Marisha: Actually, who is good at math? Oh, Percy! You're good at math.
Taliesin: I am good at math, why? What sort of math?
Marisha: Well, when was the last time we saw Tary?
Taliesin: Last night.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Train traveling...
Marisha: Exactly. A train traveling by foot.
Liam: A Tree Stride spell traveling. Yeah.
Taliesin: It wasn't necessary a bamf. It might have just been, in and out, get on a horse and head towards--
Liam: That's a lot of ifs, though.
Laura: But she didn't leave the room.
Marisha: She was making arrows.
Ashley: I've made my way upstairs?
Matt: Yeah, you've come back at this point now.
Ashley: Well, Hilda never showed up for her interview! (laughter)
Ashley: I don't think we should hire her, for one. Where is he? Did you find him? Anything? Nothing?
Taliesin: How far could they have gotten on horseback? Within the reasonable--
Matt: Well, I mean. The last you saw him, it's been probably 12 hours. On horseback, could have gotten, I'd say, probably a little over 100 miles or so.
Taliesin: 100 miles. There's only so many roads that lead out of the city. I'm pulling out a map and I'm marking any roadside tavern that's within 100 miles of the city.
Laura: Doty? Do you know how to find Tary?
Matt: "Doty. Taryon."
Laura: Yes. Can you find him? Are you drawn to him?
Ashley: Doty?
Matt: I know, it's one phrase.
Taliesin: I can't make Doty do things, can I?
Sam: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: Doty, look at me.
Matt: "Tary?"
Taliesin: Never mind.
Ashley: Doty? Do you know where Taryon went?
Matt: "Tary."
Ashley: I feel like-- could you give him the book?
Taliesin: Oh. Yeah. I gave him the book back. Yes.
Ashley: Could you draw something for me again?
Matt: "Tary?"
Laura: Try it. Give him the book. Give him some paper and a pencil.
Ashley: Do you know where Taryon went? Can you draw it? Shit, I thought he listened to me.
Sam: He does.
Ashley: He does listen to me.
Matt: Well. The old Doty did.
Sam: Oh fuck.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Travis: And you had to lose that one.
Ashley: Oh, that's right, Doty. You're new. You're new Doty.
Taliesin: Doty, don't do that.
Ashley: Doty, don't do that. Doty, don't play that.
Taliesin: I've got a plan. I need to borrow the scrying orb. I'm going to make a list. On a map, I'm going to mark every roadside inn within about 200 miles.
Matt: Okay. There's a number of inns in the Turst Fields. There's a couple at the Jorenn Village, which you are familiar with. They might be just outside of the range, but you put them on there as well. Westruun, and along the road of the Silver Cut.
Marisha: What was that thing you said? Turns field?
Matt: There's the Turst Fields.
Marisha: And what was the other one?
Matt: Jorenn Village. That's where you found Percy in prison.
Taliesin: Okay. Where's the sun?
Matt: Right now? It's close to noon.
Taliesin: We'll finish this and I'll give it a few hours for the sun to go down so that I can actually figure out what direction the inn is facing.
Marisha: And I couldn't try and do a nature check to try and figure out what direction the wind was coming from when it hit me during the scry?
Matt: The wind was less of a natural wind and more of just your vision being shifted. It would not have an impact whatsoever.
Taliesin: Save the sphere. I've got a plan. In the meantime, let's search Hilda's house.
Laura: Yeah. Okay. We go and search Hilda's house.
Matt: Okay. As you get to Hilda's home, you look inside. It's dark on the interior. You knock. There's no response.
Laura: Does Trinket smell-- We go in-- Wait! Sorry. Check for traps. Right.
Liam: 22. No, 24.
Matt: 24. It is locked, but it does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: All right. It's not locked anymore. 32.
Matt: Okay, yeah. It's a simple lock. As you walk inside, you see the candle that was lit the other night has melted entirely and the wax is dripping off the side of the small bench where it was laid on.
Liam: One more in here. Is there any bullshit hiding around in here? 29.
Matt: 29. There's no bullshit, necessarily, but there is that pile of linens in the corner. You see it shifting slightly, and as you pull off the side you see there, bound, Hilda. She's like, (muffled noises).
Liam: All right, Whisper out, and I cut her free.
Matt: "Oh!"
Liam: You all right?
Matt: "I'm all right."
Liam: What happened?
Matt: (stuttering) "Naught but a few days ago, this blue-skinned woman came, and she seemed nice enough, and she asked me questions. She didn't hurt me or nothing, she just asked a lot of questions."
Liam: And you've met us before? No?
Matt: "No. I've seen you around town. People talk about you, saying what you've done for the people..."
Ashley: Do you bake cream puffs?
Matt: "I have before, yeah."
Laura: Do you want to work in a bakery? Just kidding. We were in the middle of something; we'll talk to you later! (laughter)
Laura: Wait, does Trinket smell anything having to do with-- can he smell a different smell? Can he smell the evil Hilda?
Matt: Make a perception check with advantage for Trinket.
Liam: That's good. That's also pretty good.
Laura: Perception? That is 24!
Matt: Okay, Trinket goes, (sniffing, grunting) and picks up what appears to be some sort of a scent.
Laura: Yeah! Where did it go?
Matt: Not really a bloodhound-style scent, but a decent scent. Guiding him around over the next hour or so, and trying to go in the areas you know he might have been, the last strong scent is in Taryon's room, and there's no trail from there.
Laura: Motherfucker. This is terrible. I feel like we did this to him.
Taliesin: We're going to get him back. Now.
Laura: He's just so vulnerable.
Taliesin: Right. Do I have enough of an angle on the sun now, where this should be doable?
Matt: To?
Taliesin: Figure out which way is north, south, east, and west if I try and scry on Tary?
Matt: Sure. Yeah, you gauge the sun in the sky.
Taliesin: All right. Kiki, let's do this.
Marisha: Am I helping you? Are we doing this together?
Taliesin: Well, you're giving me the orb, since you have the orb.
Marisha: I'm giving you the orb.
Taliesin: And I'm going to give it back to you when I'm done.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel like you did this before.
Taliesin: I did.
Marisha: Successfully.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I underestimated you. Do you need my help?
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and glean as much information about the nature of the landscape around the person that I'm focusing on as humanly possible.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm going to try and figure out a discerned direction?
Taliesin: Help with type of plants, whether or not it's getting south, east, west. Not north. Most probably south.
Matt: Okay. So, before you do that. You take the orb and sit down and concentrate, and Keyleth aids you in setting up this small ritual. As you close your eyes and focus on Taryon once more, your vision shifts and seem to be jettisoned across hundreds of miles within a second. No direction at the moment; it's too much of a blur of color and light and movement until it comes to a halt, and there you see Taryon, somewhat jostled by the spell kicking in and the momentum, you see him thrown over what appears to be the back of a horse, just (hoofbeats).
Taliesin: Which way is the shadow of the horse?
Matt: Taryon, you come to consciousness ever so slightly, and looking down, you see hooves clattering on the ground behind you. You glance around. Percival, I want you to go ahead and make a nature check.
Laura: Come on! They're going to Wildmount.
Taliesin: This is not my strong suit. That'll do, though! 22.
Matt: 22. The skies here grow gray with clouds as the mountain spire-peppered landscape is broken up by far-reaching forests and river-traced glades. The air appears cold, as the winter here seems to cling to the countryside for a majority of the year, a mixture of gloom and beauty as unique as it is impressive. That's about as much as you can glean from this standpoint. It's very blurred on the outskirts. It seems similar to a harsher Whitestone landscape. This is definitely further east. Looking at placement of the sun in the sky, it's further to the west.
Taliesin: They've gone east. They're still on the northern end of the continent, if they're on the continent at all.
Matt: No, any further north from here and they'd be in the water. For the time they've traveled, they're east on Wildmount somewhere, you can gather.
Taliesin: East on Wildmount. Is there any other sign? Can I see a tree?
Matt: Unfortunately, the scrying location, the actual orb that you see from is very limited in scope. The fact that you're able to even make out the details that I told you are because you're seeing color and images and shapes in the distance. You get a vague idea of landscape, but it's all very blurred.
Taliesin: Is it giving me any sense of anywhere I've been before?
Matt: You have not really traveled length and breadth of anywhere outside of Tal'Dorei, so no. What you do see, though, is on the front of the horse, you see the same cloaked figure riding the horse. Glances back over the shoulder and you can see what appears to be a pale-skinned human woman, looks in her twenties or so, but same outfit. And looks back and checks on him. He's stirring a little bit, and she glances back and goes, "Be patient. We're almost there." (hoofbeats)
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: Am I with him in the vision?
Matt: No, you're watching him as his eyes glaze over for a moment.
Taliesin: Well, that'll do.
Laura: Where is he?
Taliesin: They're taking him home.
Laura: Well, yes, we knew that!
Taliesin: They're on horseback. They're already quite far... I don't know precisely where they are, but if we can make our way to--
Laura: Wildmount.
Liam: Yeah. What's our fastest method there?
Taliesin: They're going by horse. They'll probably be there sooner rather than later, would be my guess.
Laura: You don't know where any trees are in Wildmount?
Marisha: The closest tree that we've ever been to was the one we used to get to Draconia, but I don't know how close Draconia is to him. I can try and scry on where they are and look and see for the biggest tree myself and pop out right there.
Taliesin: Well, the city that Tary's from--
Matt: Deastok.
Taliesin: It would be best to go there and cut them off. We know that they're coming from the west. There's got to be a way to get there.
Marisha: Can I scry on Deastok?
Matt: You can only scry on locations that you've seen or been to.
Marisha: And people that I have connections to.
Matt: People you can scry on with certain levels of knowing them or hearing about them and such.
Taliesin: How far is it?
Matt: I'll double-check real fast because I don't want to get a lot of anger on the internet. Instead of targeting a creature, you can choose a location you have seen before as the target of the spell.
Marisha: Instead of choosing a creature. But I could try and scry on Tary again and get a nearby tree?
Matt: It's only a ten-foot radius to see anything clearly around the center, so you'd have to be pretty close to a tree for you to make it out enough.
Marisha: Do we have any images or any books here on Deastok that I can look at and then try and scry on, and then after I have the knowledge?
Laura: Doty's book? He might have written some things about it.
Liam: Gilmore's been many places. He might have something from there.
Taliesin: How far away is it? How far away is the city from us? How many days on horseback?
Matt: Let's see. From Whitestone directly, it would be probably about-- you can't cross the channel on horseback, but if you were to start at the other side of the Shearing Channel on horseback and ride, let's say 12 hours a day, you could probably get there in about four days. Three to four days.
Taliesin: So if we misted...
Marisha: It still wouldn't be enough time.
Laura: No, just bamf there.
Marisha: We have to bamf there.
Liam: Two days. Go to Emon, talk to Shaun. He's been everywhere.
Laura: Scry on her again!
Taliesin: Draconia. How close would Draconia be to this?
Marisha: Yeah, do we know how close Draconia is?
Matt: The Dremoth Ravine, with the remains of Draconia, would probably be about 150, 200 miles from it.
Taliesin: That's not bad. We could misty from Draconia.
Marisha: Yes, we could.
Laura: Sure.
Taliesin: But you can't Tree Stride today, can you?
Laura: Oh, you already used it on Allura.
Marisha: Is that the same day? I thought we slept.
Taliesin: No, that was the same day.
Matt: Well, you used it once today. You had a full night's sleep, got all your spells back, and then you sent Allura off once today.
Laura: So we have two.
Marisha: So that was today. I could do it again, and then I can Misty Step us, and then I would be out of my 6th, 7th, and 8th-level spells. I would be burning higher spell slots to get us there, but I could do it.
Taliesin: We could be there-- We could be there in hours, if need be.
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: You have no books here on Deastok? None in Whitestone?
Laura: Let's look in the Doty book real fast.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. There's a lot of writing in here.
Laura: Towards the beginning.
Matt: Towards the beginning, it talks about Deastok. It talks about the frustrations of the small-town life and the open world around and all the adventures they're seeking there. It's not written to show any detail or interest about the city where he grew up.
Marisha: (groans) All right, to Draconia! Let's go!
Taliesin: Gear up, everyone.
Marisha: Everyone, the Uber will be here in five minutes.
Matt: All right, you guys gather your materials, make your way to the Sun Tree, and Keyleth, you open Transport Via Plants to the exterior of the Dremoth Ravine in the ruins of Draconia. And that's where we'll take a break!
Laura: Why can't anybody be nice?
Taliesin: She was nice! She was tied up by a bad person! She was tied up by some elfy Boba Fett. She was fine.
Matt: Well, if you're really frustrated with how untrustworthy this NPC is, you can thank chat for it!
Ashley: Thank the chat?
Laura: The chat did this to us?
Sam: Fuck you, chat!
Laura: You turned our own bakery against us! You!
Ashley: They know.
Taliesin: To be fair, carbs are never really your friend, are they?
Travis: They are in workouts!
Matt: All right. We're going to take a quick break. Before we go, guys, we have the giveaway for this. This looks to be a Katalox dice tray here, which is pretty awesome, with a leather interior from our good friends at Wyrmwood. We're going to go ahead and, because I feel like I have to, the code for this contest in the Twitch chat is Samsshirt, one word, with two mid-s's. S-A-M-S-S-H-I-R-T. Sam's shirt.
Taliesin: Sam's shirt.
Matt: So find your way over to the Twitch chat, put that in there for the chance to win this awesome giveaway! All right, guys. We'll see you in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back to Critical Role. We have our winner in the chat. Tonight's winner is FormaldehydeG. You win. Denova will contact you via a whisper to get your contact and shipping information, and you will get your awesome prize of your Wyrmwood box.
Laura: (mocking) Prize.
Matt: (Christopher Walken voice) Prize.
Liam: Don't do it.
Matt: Oh god, I did it. I'm sorry. It's my fault. Right. So, jumping back into the game. You guys have learned of the current whereabouts of Taryon Darrington. Proceeding in the direction of which he is getting transported. Which, let's go ahead and take a moment here, actually. Taryon, as you've come to consciousness on the back of this horse and you hear this woman, cloaked and riding in front of you, tell you, "We're almost there," and then (hoofbeats). You're hopping around on the back, bound. You try and move your arms and legs, and they're tied tightly.
Sam: Doty! Doty. I'm having a dream again. Doty? Oh boy. Ugh. Hello? You there, driver person! Hello?
Matt: The head looks back over. "Oh! You've awakened. Isn't that very interesting?"
Sam: What's going on? Where are you taking me? Have I won a lottery of some sort?
Matt: "You could say that, perhaps. Yes. I have a contract to bring you back to Deastok, and I am fulfilling that contract."
Sam: Oh no. Did my father pay you to do this?
Matt: "Howaardt Darrington? Because if so, yes."
Sam: He is.
Matt: "Then that is where you are going."
Sam: I will pay you whatever he has promised you, double, if you let me go right now.
Matt: She shakes her head for a second. "I've looked through your belongings. You do not have the money you speak of."
Sam: I will write you a check and I will guarantee it with the name Taryon Darrington.
Matt: She laughs and turns back and focuses more on the horse riding.
Sam: Damn it. (sighs) Money is so good. Not when you don't have it. I have armor. I have jewels that are worth a lot. Please, you don't want to do this. Please. Just let it go and no one will get hurt.
Matt: She turns back over her shoulder. "The money is one thing. But another is one's reputation. When I take a contract, I fulfill it. I have not failed. I will not fail. So you are going home. My apologies." (hoofbeats) And goes right back.
Sam: I respect her so much. (sighs)
Travis: (mouthing) What's her name?
Sam: I don't ask people names, friend. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So what are the rest of you guys doing?
Laura: Running around like crazy people.
Marisha: We bamfed through the tree, right?
Matt: Right. Yep. So you gathered your elements and you transport through one of the trees that you created on the outside of the Dremoth Ravine.
Marisha: That's right. We grew them a forest.
Matt: You did.
Marisha: Oh my god. That's right.
Liam: The last time we came here, we came flying out of a tree on an angle.
Matt: On an angle, yeah. You do not come through that same tree.
Marisha: Off the edge of a cliff. (laughs nervously) It's a theme.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: All right, so which way is Wildmount?
Taliesin: Northeast?
Matt: From this area, it would be northeast, yes.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: So I say we head north first. Find the main road.
Matt: You're on Wildmount the continent, but you're heading more towards the city of Deastok, which is on the outskirts of the Dwendalian Empire.
Taliesin: We did know that they were on a road headed west. Heading east. Which means if we head north and then the minute that we hit that main road start heading in that direction, we might even pass them on the way and be able to identify a horse.
Laura: Especially if we're in like fart form.
Matt: All right, so you guys are going into your Wind Walk form?
Liam: Before we do. Percy, do you know anything about this country we're in? Anything?
Matt: Make a history check.
Taliesin: Not really my area of expertise, but 22. History check, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: This area of Wildmount known as Wynandir is divided into two different kingdoms, essentially. This one you're going towards is called the Dwendalian Empire. This is the strongest and the most functional empire this side of Exandria. It is a tyranny. There is a king, and the law is ruled absolutely through this king. It is a functional economy. Its people aren't mistreated, from what you've read, though it is-- I want to say, it's very Prussian. People work, people live, people die.
Laura: Harsh?
Matt: It's a harsh environment. It's a colder environment. Whereas the center of Tal'Dorei is a lot of fields and rolling hills across the midsection framed by mountains, across Wildmount, it is a smattering of mountain ranges and spires throughout, and chunks of forest. It is a much harsher environment, as far as the topography and the biomes than Tal'Dorei, and as such, the pockets where people do live, they live as well as they can amongst a very oppressive environment.
Taliesin: What's the name of the city, one more time?
Matt: Deastok.
Marisha: Oh, this is Deastok. Okay.
Taliesin: Deastok. So it's a bit Prussian?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. That will do. So don't expect a lot of hospitality, and let's just have our business, get it done, and get out.
Liam: Also, we can't talk when we're farts, so when we get there, what's the plan, plan man?
Taliesin: We're going to fly up until we see the main road. We see the main road, we're going to take it towards the city. We're going to stay a bit high. If anyone spots a lone horse and a rider with a human-sized package on the back, we're going to do a little spin-around, spin-around, spin-around, and we're all going to park ourselves maybe a quarter of a mile up the road.
Ashley: I like that idea.
Liam: What happens if we don't see the person on the horse? What happens? We just land right outside the gates and ring the bell?
Taliesin: We land inside the gates.
Liam: Okay, but that seems a little dicey if we want to work out what we're going to do. We're just going to appear and say howdy?
Taliesin: From what I know of this city, it's not a locked city, is it?
Matt: It's not a locked city. There are perimeter walls and there are gates that can close in case of times of war. You do know that there is a strong military presence in most cities and there are patrols that often make sure that peace is kept.
Taliesin: So we can walk in if we need to, but let's not make any waves unless we need to.
Matt: It's a somewhat militaristic nation. It's to the point where you don't know, or at least have not heard, of any widespread abuses of power. At least, not on the outskirt cities. You don't know that much about the political structure there, other than the fact that it is a tyranny. But it has a strong standing military and they do exercise it in times of peace as a form of law enforcement.
Liam: You and Tary are thick as thieves, now. How plugged in is his dad?
Laura: Super. Right? I mean, he's not the most powerful guy, but he does well for himself. He runs an area.
Matt: The way Taryon talks about his father is he is a land baron in Deastok. He owns a number of plots and homes and farms and collects taxes on them. His family has been doing this for at least a generation or two and has made quite a fortune off of it.
Laura: And his sister's name is?
Matt: His sister's name is Maryanne.
Laura: Maryanne. That's creative. Okay. All right.
Liam: Yes, Maryanne Darrington.
Laura: And his mom is Mariya. (laughs) All right.
Travis: Mariya and Howaardt?
Laura: Mariya and Howaardt Darrington.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: All right.
Laura: See, I know his mother's name!
Matt: All right. Do you go ahead and accept Keyleth's Wind Walk? All right. With a moment of concentration, you all convert yourselves into plumes of smoke, mist. By the way, did you leave Doty behind or take Doty with you?
Marisha: We can't take him with us.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, then. Doty is back in Whitestone.
Laura: I mean, yeah, he doesn't respond to us.
Marisha: I mean, we would have had to have had--
Travis: Just say no.
Marisha: No, we didn't.
Matt: I was just reconfirming. All right, then. So, you guys convert to your--
Laura: I can't put him in the necklace! He won't go in the necklace! I tried before. He doesn't go.
Liam: Who are you talking to?
Matt: You all coast in the shapes of mist into the moist, freezing air over the Dremoth Ravine and head northward. You guys move as a cluster of small plumes of moisture. As you look forward over the next-- 300 feet a round, at double speed--
Laura: Carry the three.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Doing air math; it's great. Nothing quite like air math.
Matt: Once again, this is twice in an episode where it's magical-fantasy-realm physics. Somewhere in the middle, you find a fun narrative. I'd say within probably an hour and a half to two hours of travel, because you guys are going pretty fast, you eventually come upon a very well-ridden and apparent pathway that goes from east to west. The topography does seem at least to be somewhat in line with what you saw the brief time that you scryed upon Taryon.
Taliesin: I'm just heading the direction--
Laura: That smoke plume definitely--
Ashley: That smoke plume knows where it's going.
Taliesin: I can't hear you.
Matt: So you guys all continue heading east.
Laura: Do we have normal mental thoughts when we're smoke plumes? Or do we just think in terms of (wind noises)?
Matt: No, you think normally. You're still mentally you. You just can't talk. If you do talk, it comes out as (blows raspberry).
Liam: (blows raspberry)
Matt: There you go.
Laura: What does it sound like if you laugh?
Liam: (airy laughter)
Taliesin: (airy laughter)
Laura: Sorry. We're going.
Matt: As you guys continue pushing east...
Taliesin: I'm going to be keeping an eye out for anybody on the road.
Laura: Ditto.
Matt: Perception check from the two of you guys.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. You see what looks to be one small caravan, a series of carts that are heading west along the path. That's the only thing that you see at the moment. You, Vex, after a couple more hours of travel in an eastern direction you see what looks to be a big, thick forest. The forest itself is pretty dense in this area, and there are pockets where it's open and you get a little more of a green field. You've been traveling over a larger green field area, so you start hitting where the forest gets thicker and thicker. The pathway carves through this forest. Then a ways ahead, you see what appears to be a large hill that rises up, and then around the hill, the forest has been cleared and you can see what amounts to acres and acres and acres of farmland that circles almost like a disk around this large central hill. The top of the hill is cleared off, and there you can see what appears to be a metropolitan city. A large town, if you will. You can see what appear to be-- actually, no. You're not quite close enough. So that's what you see. You see this village on top of this cleared hill surrounded by farmland and then surrounded by forest and what appear to be some broken mountain ranges maybe a few miles out each direction.
Taliesin: I keep skirting around, looking for a lone horseman.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I fly down and see if I see any signs along the road? Any markers saying what city it is?
Matt: Okay. You cruise down and begin riding a little closer to the surface. With your general, even passive perception, you do catch what appears to be-- there are a few splinter trails that seem to be the perimeter on the outside of where the forest leads inward and heads along the outskirts of the tree line. There you do see a sign. The arrow leads forward towards what is called the Siren Green Forest, and then eastward towards Deastok. You gather that the large town on this carved hilltop seems to be the town in question.
Laura: But nobody on horseback?
Matt: You don't see anybody on horseback at the moment, no.
Taliesin: (hiccups)
Travis: (laughing) Is that the cloud hiccups?
Taliesin: I'm going to scout around a little closer to the ground and see if there's anybody. Maybe any of the paths off the main road where someone might be hiding and just run through the trees looking for anything. I'm searching around a little bit. I know we're close to the city, and I'm keeping an aerial view because we should be able to see an awful lot from high up.
Matt: You do. You see hundreds of acres of farmland that surround this large hill. It's built all across the top of the hill then built along the front side of it. You can see a number of paths that zigzag down. Elements of it sprawl a bit into the farm, but the majority of the metropolis is on top of the hill itself, and then the farmland around it. You do see, as you get closer and skirt the sides, there are patrols. You see men on horseback with crossbows slung over the side that do perimeters. Some of them are weaving independently through the fields, keeping an eye on people who are in the process of harvesting.
Taliesin: No interest of getting anywhere near that.
Matt: The rest of you guys continue heading east towards the town, or are you following?
Taliesin: I'm popping back on the road.
Matt: Okay. Percival catches up to you guys.
Laura: At this point, I feel like our option is only to go towards the house, if we can find his family's keep.
Travis: Did we beat him here?
Laura: I don't know. There's no way to know.
Taliesin: We can land and have a conversation.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys (whoosh) make your way to the-- where do you want to land?
Laura: Maybe the edge of town, into the Siren Gate Forest.
Matt: Okay. So you find the edge of the tree line before it opens up into the farmland surrounding the city. As you all take a moment to concentrate, your forms congeal once more into your physical selves and you are able to discuss as you prefer.
Laura: Well! Anybody see anything?
Ashley: Is it possible she could've put some kind of covering over them?
Laura: Like we did with Whitestone or something?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Many things are possible, though.
Marisha: Can we still see their tracks if we went back and looked? That would be a ranger question.
Laura: I mean, it's just horse tracks, but I can look. Horse tracks on a main road. Unless Tary is thinking and he's leaving something behind so that we can track him.
Taliesin: Tary, can you hear us?
Laura: Tary? Good idea, Percy!
Matt: Nothing at the moment.
Liam: Have to be within 500 feet.
Marisha: I could try Commune With Nature, but it only extends for a few miles.
Laura: I'm going to cast Locate-- oh, should I do that? Should I waste it right now?
Marisha: How long does it last?
Laura: Ten minutes. I'm going to try. Wait, a thousand feet. That's not very far, compared to where the city is.
Travis: A few miles is better.
Marisha: Plus, that's a concentration spell. The mist form is my concentration spell, so we should be able to do both at once, correct? If we move quickly while she has her Locate Object on?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. Let's do that.
Taliesin: All right!
Laura: I'm going to try to locate his dangly earring.
Ashley: Dangly bits.
Taliesin: His dangly bit.
Laura: His penis!
Ashley: Penis!
Travis: Penis!
Marisha: Penis!
Taliesin: His Tary.
Marisha: (giggling) His Tary!
Liam: Going down to Tary-town.
Sam: Matt's doing something.
Laura: I know, it's something.
Matt: Okay. I was making sure the Wind Walk wouldn't affect any concentrations.
Travis: He's doing trigonometry.
Taliesin: Squaring his hypotenuse.
Matt: And you're attempting Locate Object on Taryon's earring, you said?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: His dangly bit.
Matt: You focus and concentrate. It does not pick up within a thousand feet of you.
Laura: Okay. So we're going to misty form towards the city and see if we can...
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) You all head back up into the sky, and you can see now the clouds in this vicinity are growing darker. It looks like it's probably going to rain in the next few hours or so.
Laura: Okay. So we're less noticeable?
Matt: The temperature right now means it might even sleet; you're not sure. You make your way, coasting over the farmland. Looking down, you can see it's all segmented and all marked off with various colored fences. Everything is really well-organized here, and all the land has been divided. You eventually make your way towards the base of the hill and cruise up to the outskirts of the city, where you see the large stone walls that encircle elements of the outskirts, and you see where each one of these walls opens up to some sort of a pathway. There is a large metallic gate that is currently separated and lifted up in the back that can be slammed and closed and shut in case you need to keep anybody in or out.
Laura: Ping!
Matt: You're getting no ping yet.
Laura: No pings? Okay.
Matt: You guys are now over the wall now, these six plumes of mist coasting above. What do you do?
Marisha: Do we backtrack?
Laura: We're over his family's keep?
Matt: You don't know what his family's keep looks like.
Marisha: But we're over the city.
Matt: You're over the city right now, yeah.
Marisha: So we theoretically haven't intercepted them yet.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and motion everyone to follow me in a circle around the city and then back out the front gate.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Okay. You move pretty fast. It's a big radius to go around the entire wall perimeter of the city. At your full speed, I'd say you can do a full pass in about 15 minutes or so. That's a careful cruising through. Nothing seems to ping.
Laura: I think we beat him. Maybe we beat him.
Sam: Oh Matt, I forgot to tell you. When I left home, I left a large eternal flame burning on my keep's roof. Is that okay?
Matt: Oh, right! Good to clarify! No. All right. So.
Taliesin: I don't know. Maybe we beat her. I'm going to try and motion everyone--
Laura: Back out to the fucking woods?
Taliesin: Just a little. Not far.
Matt: Back out to the woods? Okay.
Taliesin: Back onto the road. And off the road so that we're not super visible.
Matt: So you're heading back over the farmland, back to the outskirts of the Siren Gate Forest into the tree line?
Taliesin: About an hour's walk to the city is where I want to put us.
Liam: To where we can see the city and see the road coming to it.
Matt: All right, cool. So you guys find your way there. You wait for a moment to make sure the patrols aren't anywhere nearby, and you turn back into your physical selves.
Taliesin: Well, we've either beat them here or she's really clever.
Laura: Or she took off all of his clothing and he's riding around naked.
Marisha: But she would still theoretically have his clothing. It would still exist.
Laura: Yeah, hopefully.
Liam: What do you think, you think we should camp out here for a while and keep an eye on the road for a day or two? See if we can intercept? And if they never show up, then we need to figure out going into the city.
Taliesin: Do we have a way of scrying one more time before the day is up?
Marisha: I do!
Laura: Okay, then let's scry one more time and see if we beat them.
Marisha: I can do one of two things. I can either scry on them, or I can do a Commune With Nature spell.
Laura: Scry!
Marisha: All right. Scry!
Matt: All right. Your vision shifts once more to Taryon, who uncomfortably, like "Ow, ow, ow" on the back of this horse a little bit, and as you start audibly making a pained sound, a hand grabs the back of where the ropes are entwined and shifts you in the back of the seat to be a little more comfortable.
Sam: Oh, thank you!
Matt: No response from her. Still riding on the back of the horse. It's getting darker now, and you can see the clouds are still a little pushing towards that stormy look that you saw when you were in the city. So they're still on the road. They're still traveling.
Taliesin: But it's the road that we've...
Matt: Seems familiar.
Marisha: Is the sun in the same direction that we're heading?
Matt: Yes. The sun's more westward at this point.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: So we could, in theory, mist low to the ground on this road in that direction, and in theory catch up with them.
Marisha: And he's conscious. Which is good. He's still alive.
Laura: And he has his clothing on.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Good. That's good.
Marisha: We won't see his dangling bits.
Taliesin: Just the one.
Marisha: Just the one.
Ashley: Should we mist that way?
Taliesin: I say we mist that way.
Liam: And intercept him.
Ashley: I like that idea.
Laura: Yeah, let's intercept them.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go back into mist form (whoosh) and begin coasting westward along the path. You travel for about ten minutes before Vex and Vax, you pick up what looks to be a small dark shape on the road.
Liam: (whoosh)
Laura: (whoosh)
Matt: Okay, so what do you do?
Laura: We're trying to signal everyone!
Liam: Is there forest on the sides of the road from where we are?
Matt: No, you traveled away from the forest now. You're in open fields.
Liam: So open fields and roads. Shite. Okay.
Laura: Oh! But wait! Turn back into-- wait--
Matt: You can't talk.
Laura: I turn back into a thing!
Matt: So you go and land. Vex lands and takes a minute to concentrate and go back to her physical form.
Laura: They're up ahead! Maybe we should just bamf here, be solid. I can disguise the landscape and we can ambush her!
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: So I do that.
Travis: Should we set a fallback?
Marisha: You guys, does this make us highway bandits? Are we highway bandits?
Laura: As she's saying that, I start using--
Matt: You have about a minute until she gets to you right now, by the way. You're able to see the horse traveling a little above the road, so they're almost upon you.
Laura: Oh god. What do we do? She knows all of us.
Taliesin: I'm going to start making my way a decent distance and running a little bit off the road, I'm going to try and find some cover and get ready to injure a horse.
Laura: Who wants to stand in the middle of the road?
Liam: And what's on the sides of the road? Is it tall grass, bald?
Matt: It's maybe knee-high grass with sections of bald. The landscape here, outside of the farmland and the forest that you can see, looks a little hard and badlands-ish. Scrubland.
Travis: I'm going to go 200, 300 yards back towards the city, just in case they manage to get through.
Matt: Okay. So you're getting down, you're doing that...
Liam: I'm going to get into some grass, as close to the road as I can.
Laura: I bamf Trinket out! And we get in the grass and stealth.
Matt: Okay. Roll a stealth check. Disadvantage for Trinket.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace!
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Nice. And for Trinket, with disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Liam: Oh that's a good one.
Laura: Oh, he got a 19, which is a crit for him! That sucks. 19!
Matt: Well, it's not a crit. That's only on attacks.
Laura: Oh. Well, still.
Ashley: It's a critical stealth!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Plus ten!
Marisha: Oh wait, did you want someone in the middle of the road?
Ashley: I'll stand in the middle of the road.
Travis: Unassuming.
Marisha: Unassuming, okay. I'm going to go into crow form. (caws)
Ashley: Maybe I can act like I'm an old woman trying to cross the road.
Matt: So you go into crow form.
Marisha: I'm going to aid to her bird lady aesthetic.
Matt: Stealth roll, Percy?
Taliesin: Stealth roll?
Matt: And stealth roll for you, too, Vax.
Liam: 37.
Travis: Do drows have magic sight or anything?
Laura: I don't know!
Liam: It's a reliable talent, in fact.
Taliesin: Stealth roll is-- oh that's not bad. 21.
Laura: Plus ten!
Taliesin: Plus ten. 31!
Matt: Okay. Grog's a ways back.
Travis: Not stealthing.
Taliesin: And I'm getting down. I'm preparing for the shot.
Laura: Ditto!
Ashley: I'm going to pull up my cloak and slowly start crossing.
Taliesin: I'm also going to activate the secondary mechanism in the Diplomacy glove.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I follow Pike and peck at her bread crumbs as she crosses the road.
Matt: Okay! All right, so as this is happening, and this is a really fast rush over, rush over, get into places, and you watch as the horse has galloped (hoofbeats). You have Pike in the middle of the road, dressed the same in memory.
Travis: I have to pee. It's like hide and go seek. The waiting.
Matt: And you watch as the horse (hoofbeats) goes off the path and begins to make a wide circle.
Laura: Motherfucker! She's going around us?
Matt: Seemingly, yeah.
Ashley: Excuse me! Ma'am?
Matt: Full gallop burst.
Marisha: I take off in crow form.
Taliesin: I was actually going to-- the second she started to leave the road, I take a shot.
Matt: At?
Taliesin: At the horse's legs.
Matt: All right.
Laura: We'll heal it!
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack with disadvantage.
Taliesin: Disadvantage?
Matt: Because you're aiming specifically for the legs.
Taliesin: Can I burn a grit for it?
Matt: Oh, you do technically have an actual-- yeah, so you will not have disadvantage on this.
Taliesin: I'll burn a grit for this. This is worth a grit.
Liam: Horse killing is a feat you took, right?
Marisha: We're gods, remember?
Travis: Yeah. Remember that?
Taliesin: That's not great, but it's not bad. 20.
Matt: 20 will hit. So what's the effect on that one, again?
Taliesin: That's a strength saving throw or prone.
Matt: What's the DC?
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: So you watch. No gunshot. Complete silence as you all begin to maneuver. You watch as the horse suddenly (neighs) and goes ass over tea kettle forward, jettisoning both Taryon and the rider from the horse into a neat roll. Since you have not moved, Tary, you make a full spill, skittering across the ground.
Sam: (screams)
Matt: You suffer ten points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: What about the horse. Does he fall off?
Matt: No, the horse is prone and still takes damage from the shot, so roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh, and also takes damage.
Matt: Because you shot it with...
Taliesin: I did. I really shot it. It didn't have a good day. Do I have enough...
Laura: We'll heal it so good!
Travis: I'm going to eat it.
Taliesin: There's no horse left. Yeah, oh boy. That's 30 points of damage.
Matt: 30 points of damage!
Laura: Is that a lot for a horse?
Taliesin: That's my maximum damage with a single unaffected shot.
Matt: Yeah, as the horse skids over and hits the ground, it falls onto its side, and you watch its heavy breathing become still.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Travis: Dinner!
Taliesin: I'm keeping a second shot. The second I see her head, I am taking a head shot on this girl.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check because you were down in the grass.
Taliesin: Nope.
Sam: I lift my head up. What's going on?
Matt: You can't, because you are tied.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: No, you see nothing. What were you doing?
Liam: (whoosh)
Matt: Okay, so you (whoosh) up in the air. Okay.
Laura: I'm brooming.
Matt: You're brooming towards. All right, so she comes to a tumble. For this purpose, I'm going to have you two, since you're both pretty quick, roll initiative checks, please.
Laura: 26.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Jesus. Okay. So. You both rush over and you watch as she tumbles and catches herself, skidding into the dirt. You can see bits where she's rubbed and gashed in the face. Pale skin, blonde hair, nowhere near the description that you were given by those who were trying to scry earlier, but catches herself and lands, reaches over and sees Taryon about three feet behind and immediately darts over, grabbing something from the satchel--
Laura: Can I shoot her with an arrow?
Matt: It would've taken your movement to get to her, but you can move half as quickly and go for a shot if you want to.
Laura: I want to try to go for a shot.
Liam: How close are we, right in this second?
Matt: Well, you're going to close the distance because you're apparently a bullet. Learn to balance your magical items, people!
Liam: Or not.
Matt: Or not.
Laura: Or let your players spread them out and not keep them all for themselves.
Matt: Exactly, yeah.
Liam: Salt, salt.
Matt: It's all good. So you'll be able to get your shots off about the time that you get there.
Laura: Salty. Oh no.
Liam: You got a four because of all that salt.
Laura: Yeah, I know. That was 19.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: The first, and then more than that on the second.
Matt: Okay, so both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Oh, is it too late to say I want one to be a bramble shot?
Matt: You can bramble shot, sure.
Laura: Yeah! Okay!
Matt: You decide a bramble shot as you hit.
Laura: Oh, sweet! DC of 17.
Matt: DC of 17? Not with an eight.
Laura: She's restrained!
Matt: She's restrained.
Travis: Nice. That's huge.
Laura: 12, 13.
Sam: Pretty calm fight music, Matt.
Matt: The volume is really low on that speaker. My apologies.
Laura: 13 plus eight is 21.
Matt: There we go.
Laura: 21 plus eight is 29, plus 1d6 lightning damage. 29 plus six is 35! 35 on the first shot.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then 16. 24 on the second, and I was wrong, add two more to the first shot because I forgot I was using my bracers.
Matt: Okay, so 37, got it. So you (flying arrows) and fire both off as your broom is coasting inward from an arc and the first arrow catches her in the knee and she (yelps) and is still reaching for Taryon. However, as the arrow smashes into her, it bursts into a series of thorny vines that (whoosh) wrap around and ensnare her and she falls over, now bound like Taryon is for the moment. Falls on the ground. Whatever was in her hand stumbles forward.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: And she's like (grunts) reaching out just as the second arrow hits her in the back and (groans) gives out a yelp in pain. Vax.
Liam: What distance am I right now, would you say?
Matt: You almost closed the distance with your movement.
Travis: Get in there, Barry Allen.
Liam: Okay, but am I within 50 feet? 60 feet?
Matt: You're within 60 feet.
Liam: 60 feet? All right, so I'm going to throw Whisper at her, and she's brambled.
Matt: She's restrained; you have advantage.
Liam: Right. Yeah, that hits. That's a 32. I'm going to bamf there on this one, right up to her. That is four plus eight is 12, plus this guy makes it 19, plus these guys. Now we do some more math. 20, 26, 27, 31, 34, 39, 42. With Whisper, right into her back, and then click the Boots of Haste and then I'm going to scuttle to Tary and cut ropes. He's probably within ten feet, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's like five feet from her.
Liam: All right, so I'm cutting him totally loose and I'm going to lift him away. Whatever you'll let me do. Action, action, bonus action, right, and movement to get there.
Matt: Well, no. Your movement was to get there, your action was to attack her, and so you have your bonus action, still.
Liam: Then I'll use it to cut him loose.
Matt: Okay, you begin to cut him loose. Because there's a lot of ropes around him, there's not a single binding.
Liam: Okay. Good enough.
Matt: All right, so now it's her turn. She's bound on the ground. Coughs up blood as she's suffered a severe amount of damage in just a few moments. As she's lying there on the ground, the vines twisting around her, she goes, "Wait. Wait. (sighs) Stop." And she's going to... what's the DC?
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17. She does manage to break free from the restraints. She breaks free from the vines, and then she puts her hands up. That's her turn.
Laura: Can I land?
Matt: Yeah. If anyone else wants to take any of their actions right now, we're technically not in initiative order. She's put her hands up.
Taliesin: I'm slowly making my way a little closer to the action, but I'm going to find a place where I can watch both sides of the road and also what's happening off the road right now.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I'm writing my name in the path with a stick.
Laura: I'm grabbing the thing that she was trying to grab.
Marisha: Same as Percy, but as a crow.
Taliesin: Actually, if you come-- well, that would be interesting, actually.
Marisha: (caws)
Matt: What you find on the ground is a small marble, similar in size to the one that you saw attached to the side of Doty earlier, but it's a different color. The one that you saw earlier was a bluish tint, a light blue tint. This one appears clear.
Laura: Can I pick it up? I'll pocket that shit.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I stand up yet? Am I still tied up?
Matt: At the moment, as all of you begin to converge and close in on her, she just has her hands up at this point. I'd say for the next minute or so, you get cut free, yeah. You still have your armor on, you still have all your equipment that was on you. Yeah, she took everything with you. You're not robbed. You were just bound and taken.
Liam: You all right, T?
Sam: I will, yeah. (panting) What took you people so long? I was on a horse for what felt like days!
Liam: Well, initially we thought you could handle it.
Sam: No! You know me better than that!
Laura: We're here, aren't we?
Matt: You do have a massive headache, by the way. It's pounding.
Sam: Please tell me that someone brought my toothbrush.
Laura: Your breath smells disgusting right now.
Sam: Please don't smell it. I'm very embarrassed. I went to sleep. I don't know what this is! I mean. She's taking me. She's paid by my father, probably.
Ashley: What's your name?
Matt: "K'ryyn."
All: K'ryyn?
Sam: And what, you work for my father? On a regular basis?
Matt: "I was contracted by your father. This is the first time."
Laura: Just to find him? And bring him back?
Matt: "That's what I do."
Laura: How much were you being paid? I want to know how much he's worth.
Liam: You're not really in a position of power here, darling.
Matt: "Upon delivery, I was to be paid 5,000 gold pieces."
Sam: Oh, that's nearly nothing. I'm worth far more than that.
Laura: You know his father has way more money than that.
Liam: You are rose gold.
Sam: I am.
Laura: How long ago did he send you?
Matt: "He sent me out on this job about two months back."
Laura: It took that long to find him? Does anyone in this town, Deastok, know about Whitestone? Know where you found him?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge. I don't care about people in this town. I was called here to pick up the contract, and I left."
Laura: What guild do you work for?
Matt: "I work for no guild. I am a solo agent."
Sam: So cool.
Laura: Can I insight check her?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: She's so cool. 17.
Matt: 17? She's hard to read. By nature and by business, you get the sense, and at this point as you're looking at her, she sees you glaring and looking over her intensely, she (sighs) takes one hand up under her hood and presses her thumb to the side of what looks like a small circlet, and her image shimmers and you now see before you the drow elf that was described to you, wincing as the sun is still in the sky and you can see, while the illusion did not seem to give off that, she's physically not enjoying being under direct sunlight.
Liam: Bet you're glad for that cloud cover today, aren't you?
Matt: "It's been helpful. That's why I prefer to do most of my work in Wildmount."
Liam: What should we do here?
Sam: Well, we should bind her and search her. Make sure she's not holding any weapons or anything.
Travis: You were just supposed to bring Tary back to his dad?
Matt: "That is all. Unharmed. I took great care to make sure he was not harmed. I have a business I run based purely on reputation."
Sam: I respect that, but I did get a bruise right here from the horse falling over, so I'm not totally okay.
Matt: "That is, apparently, an issue for you to take up with your friends."
Travis: Tary, I thought you left your home. Or were you kicked out?
Sam: I left.
Travis: Yeah?
Sam: Yes. I left of my own accord.
Laura: Did you leave suddenly, without any word, or did they know you were leaving?
Sam: They knew I was leaving.
Liam: And how do you want to play this? Because your pops wants you back, obviously.
Sam: Well, this is just some paid shithead, so I don't think we should kill her or anything like that.
Laura: What happens if you don't deliver your quarry?
Matt: "Then my contract is broken, I do not get paid, and it is a blight on future business."
Travis: Are you armed? Somebody remove her weapons so she can put her arms down.
Matt: You pat her down? Yeah, she has two daggers, one placed in each boot, stealthily hidden. She has a shortbow that is over her chest and shoulder, and a side quiver of about 40 arrows.
Laura: Oh shit! These are good arrows.
Matt: She goes, "Thank you."
Laura: Just noticed the good work, that's all.
Matt: "I make them myself."
Laura: I show her one of my owlbear arrows.
Matt: "Owlbear?"
Laura: I know. (laughter)
Liam: What do you want to do?
Sam: I want to take her belongings and send her on her way.
Travis: You don't want to see her dead?
Sam: That's a separate question, isn't it?
Travis: Yep.
Sam: We're very close-- proximity, I mean. Seems foolish not to at least go have it out with him. This is unacceptable behavior, I think, in any relationship. This is not cool, right?
Laura: No, he should have offered way more money for you.
Sam: Well, yes, there's that, too.
Travis: She did surrender. I'm just thinking, maybe we go in, she gets paid, she keeps her reputation, and then you can--
Sam: You want her to get paid? She kidnapped me!
Ashley: You should still make your dad pay, though!
Sam: What?!
Ashley: You could say, I would've come here--
Sam: She committed a crime against me. I don't want her to get money!
Matt: As you're having this conversation, she slowly puts her hands down.
Liam: I'm still watching.
Travis: And she surrendered, right?
Sam: I'm sorry. I guess I was raised with a different appreciation for money, but Pike, your family came in and robbed us and you gave them a bunch of gold. Then this person kidnapped me, and you want to give her 5,000 gold.
Laura: Well, we don't want to give her 5,000 gold. We want your dad to have to give her 5,000 gold.
Ashley: And if you show up with all of us and her, say you could've just called, I would've shown up, but you still have to pay her.
Sam: You think he'll be guilted?
Ashley: Well, I don't know. I don't know him.
Taliesin: I think it might be an easy way into the city.
Sam: I live in the city. I'll just walk in!
Travis: Maybe she owes us one after this.
Sam: It's my house!
Laura: Should we all be in disguise?
Liam: Are you sure you're cool to walk in right now?
Sam: Yes! I'm Taryon fucking Darrington. People shake when they see me walking down the street here.
Ashley: You know, she was able to find you. Maybe she could also find somebody else for us.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Who?
Ashley: A very good friend.
Laura: I think that's a wonderful idea.
Travis: Yeah. Maybe she owes us one. K'ryyn, would you like to owe us a favor if we let you live, and get you paid, and you keep your reputation all on the same day?
Matt: "To be perfectly honest, this is an offer I very well cannot refuse, given the circumstances. If you are serious."
Laura: We are. We want you to find someone.
Matt: "Then find them, I will."
Sam: I abstain! With an attitude!
Travis: Noted. All in favor of getting her paid, letting her live, and earning a favor?
Ashley: Well, hold on, Tary. If you had it your way, what would you want?
Travis: What are you doing?
Ashley: Majority rules, but let's hear what you have to say.
Sam: I would like an apology.
Taliesin: I think that's fair.
Laura: That's fair.
Ashley: That's fair.
Matt: Her eyes become these narrow slits and the jaw clenches. "I apologize for any discomfort or embarrassment my retrieval of you may have caused."
Laura: That's a good apology.
Sam: And as to the amount that was promised, do you think that was a fair amount?
Travis: Oh, this is a bit much.
Matt: "It was my standard rate."
Sam: I accept your apology. And as I said, I admire your diligence and faith to your contract. You don't get any of your belongings back! Is that all right?
All: (negative noises)
Laura: She might need it.
Sam: You don't get any of your magical belongings back! I want it.
Laura: Well, I want you to look at them. I want to know what it is.
Sam: Yeah. But we'll, I guess, walk in together and you can present me to my father. This seems so stupid, but sure, I'll go along with it.
Laura: And then you'll help us out.
Matt: "Very well. It seems we are at an accord."
Liam: I'm going to yank Vex aside, actually.
Laura: Well, I'm going to shake her hand before-- shit.
Liam: Are you talking about what I think you are talking about?
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: You want to send her after your friend?
Laura: Our friend.
Liam: You think he wants a mercenary showing up in his life, looking for him? Think about it.
Laura: He could be dead.
Liam: He's doing what he wants to do.
Ashley: Did I overhear them?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: How quiet were you guys being?
Taliesin: Pretty quiet.
Matt: You glean elements of the conversation.
Liam: I wasn't trying to hide it.
Matt: Yeah, you get the gist of what they were talking about.
Ashley: Okay. She doesn't have to bring him or anything, it could be just looking, bring us information if she sees him.
Travis: Like a two-day report.
Ashley: We don't have to! We don't have to do it, but I do like the idea of this woman-- this woman had a job to do. It's not her fault. I'm sorry, Tary, but I do feel like we need to let her complete her mission.
Taliesin: It's a bit her fault.
Sam: Fine. And then we can send her to look after that little creep that you're always talking about.
Liam: When you were in Vasselheim--
Laura: It was a cube, Tary. Like a cube.
Sam: That's gross. That's disgusting.
Liam: How would you feel if you learned that we'd sent someone to watch you? He left. He wanted to go. He wanted to be away from us.
Ashley: I know.
Liam: If he wants to come back, I want him back.
Ashley: I know, but I feel like he should've come back already.
Laura: What if he's dead?
Ashley: What if he's dead?
Liam: What if he's being a father to his child? What if he's enjoying his life?
Travis: Boring.
Ashley: If that's the case, then maybe she can tell us that and then we'll leave it alone. But what if he's dead?
Taliesin: Why doesn't she just owe us one favor to be claimed later?
Ashley: Yes, I like that idea.
Marisha: I fly down to Pike's shoulder and I go, (caws).
Laura: Yeah, I know, right?
Ashley: See, she thinks-- I like that idea. She owes us a favor at some point.
Travis: But I want to find Scanlan!
Ashley: Maybe we should table it.
Sam: Yeah, let's go talk to my dad and get this settled, and then we'll figure out your next assignment or whatever.
Laura: You'll hang out, though? You're not going to disappear?
Matt: "I have business still to make, and you have been merciful, so I will remain."
Marisha: I fly over to Percy's shoulder and I go, (caws).
Taliesin: I am Groot.
Matt: "Very well. Into the city, then?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: She looks back at her horse. "I assume we'll be walking. Very well." And her image shimmers once more to the pale-skinned blonde woman in the same outfit, and you all walk along with her through the forest, down the path, through the farm fields, making your way to the outskirts of Deastok. As you are making your way up the hillside path, one of the patrol guards comes down on horseback, crossbow slung over his shoulder and his hand on the side of his sword as he glances down and goes, "Hail, you there!" And as soon as he glances over the group of you. "Mister Darrington, welcome home."
Sam: Thank you. These are my friends. They should be treated with respect.
Matt: "Of course. Good day."
Travis: Bidet.
Taliesin: Bidet.
Matt: He continues clomping by, (hoofbeats), making his way down the rest of his patrol.
Taliesin: It's going to be a dark window, isn't it? This entire trip.
Sam: No, the town was never the problem. It's a fine place to grow up.
Taliesin: I'm very curious. Let's see this place.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and drop form so I'm not a bird.
Taliesin: Ow! Oh god!
Marisha: Oh, I always forget that. I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: That's all right, it's not my shooting arm.
Marisha: I'm learning, still.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: Sorry!
Taliesin: It's okay.
Marisha: Here, let me just--
Taliesin: Yeah, ow. Yeah.
Marisha: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll need a bit more later. Thanks.
Laura: Tary?
Sam: Yeah, oi?
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: For what?
Laura: Well, you know.
Sam: No, you're right. We can't punish people who are just hired to do a job. It's fine.
Laura: It's how we all started out, really.
Sam: Yes, I hired you.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: He's got a point.
Sam: And now, we're so close! Here, let's go to my dad's house, but... I need to make an entrance. I'll be on broom.
Laura: Can I be on broom, too, though?
Sam: Yes. Behind me. And I should be front and center. You guys can flank--
Laura: Flying V behind you.
Sam: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: I catch up to Tary a little bit and I go, hey! Are you special in some way? Is there something about you that's magical and special?
Sam: Is this a trick question? There's everything. Most things are special about me.
Marisha: That's true. Is there a reason a vampire would want you?
Sam: What? There's vampires here?
Marisha: Do you have special blood?
Sam: No? Wait, what?
Marisha: Can I look at your eyes?
Sam: I mean, sure? They're the bluest of blue.
Marisha: That's true! Do you know anything about your bloodline? Is there something about you? I feel like I have an essence about you now.
Travis: How much of her brains were left in the rocks?
Laura: I know, she got rattled.
Matt: Yeah, she's gone full Phoebe from Friends.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: I'm off to the side with Grog going one, two, three, shoot!
Sam: My town here, it doesn't have very many high hills, but still, stay on the ground, will you?
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: As you guys make your way into the actual city of Deastok, the architecture here is very tall and as intricate as it is old. The stonework is edged and almost sharp in places, the shape and design of most roofs and windows leaning towards the gothic. You can see similar roots here to some of Whitestone's older buildings and architecture, common space where the original de Rolos traveled once from Wildmount. The architecture here, as opposed to the more built-for-function that a lot of you are used to in Tal'Dorei, anywhere from huts to, I want to push almost Tudor to colonial, this definitely has tall stone archways, tall stained-glass windows, in places. A lot of the buildings, edges, and roofs will come to tiny metal spires where points or occasionally flags or tapestries would hang from in the wind. Very different visual feel than anything you've seen over in Tal'Dorei. As you guys make your way through the streets, in the presentational mode of which Taryon has requested, people do stop and stare. You can hear whispers, some folks pointing, some of the patrols gather to keep a close eye as you pass. No excitement, no parade, no cursing or aggression, just acknowledgement of the arrival of these strangers and a very flashy lord. Eventually, you lead them to the Darrington estate. This is a large, three-story building surrounded by tall, iron pike-topped gates that surround the somewhat octagonal shape of the grounds. The main gate is watched by a single man in a simple leather outfit and a metallic helmet. Who, as he sees you approach goes, "Have you-- sir! Welcome home!"
Sam: Thank you. Tell the master of the house that we've arrived.
Matt: "Yes. Right away, sir!" Opens the gate and rushes off to the front door and disappears inside for a moment. The door opens again, and you see emerging from it a very tall, thin, brass-scaled dragonborn with very fine clothing. His lack of tail speaks of his Ravinite lineage. You recognize this individual as Berthold; he is the servant of the house and quarters. As he approaches he goes, "Oh, Master Taryon, it has been some time! Good to see you in good health!"
Sam: Yes, excellent to see you, too. You've been keeping the grounds quite nice.
Matt: "We've been doing our best. I take it you--" and he looks over to the woman K'ryyn, goes, "You--" "Yes, I would like to complete my contract." "Very well. Please, follow me inside. This way." The dragonborn turns around. He almost towers over you; he's this spindling tree of a dragonborn. As he leads you into the home, you watch him; he has to dip down to enter the interior of the house. As you step inside the estate, you're immediately hit with the smell of musty carpets, wood oil stain, and some since turned-to-smoke-and-embers burning wood in a fireplace. You see immediately in the darkly lit interior fine tables and well-crafted furniture that clutter hallways, holding vases and dried flowers that probably have been in long need of a change. It's eerily silent. It seems, at least on this floor, empty of pretty much all life except for Berthold. He begins to walk up the stairs. "Right this way. You know." And he heads up the second flight of stairs to the very top of the interior of the estate, and there is the very heavy oak door that marks the study quarters of your father. He knocks lightly on the door. "Master Howard, you have some unexpected guests, including the one you hired to bring your son home. And is here with your son." There's a pause. You hear a voice on the other side say, "Let them enter." The door creaks open. (creak) Berthold steps back. "I'll wait here." He bows and gestures for you all to step into the room. As you guys step into this study you see, standing right across from you, looking into the fireplace, you occasionally hear the crack and the snap of what looks to be a halfway burned fire. A human man in his late forties. His short blond hair is receding to the top of his head. You can see the firelight glistening across his somewhat oily forehead, and two heavy sideburns that are an uncombed mass that frame the sides of his very hardened square jaw. He is dressed in a nobleman's coat and breeches, though his shoes are nowhere to be seen. Just barefoot on the ground. He looks over and sees you enter and looks towards Taryon and his hardened face turns to a softened smile. "My son."
Sam: Papa.
Matt: He looks over to the woman, K'ryyn. "What I've heard is true, and I thank you for your time. Berthold will see that you are paid." She nods. There is a nod to you.
Sam: You'll wait for us outside the grounds, and we'll give you your next assignment soon.
Matt: "That is the arrangement." She leaves the room and you hear Berthold walking alongside her and chatting with her about payment as she leaves. As soon as they walk down the stairs he turns and goes, "I am glad to see you are well."
Sam: Are you? You sent that woman to kidnap me.
Matt: "I sent that woman to bring you home. To see that you were safe."
Sam: She bound and gagged me and threw me on the back of a horse. That's how you brought me home?
Matt: "You're a hard man to find when you want to be."
Sam: I am literally the least hard man to find. I tell everyone my name, I wear a gold helmet, and I walk around talking about myself.
Matt: His smile fades for a moment. "And yet you were very far from these lands."
Sam: Yes, I was. I was living a new life, as I told you I would. I was finding myself and becoming someone.
Matt: "That is good. Just know that I was worried. You fill your head with these fantasies and ideals and step out into the unknown. Do you know how many men and women are found gutted in the streets and left and abandoned to rot away in forests by some bandits on the roadside? Not to mention the various beasts of the wild out there. I was worried about you."
Sam: Well, I was in danger for much of my time away, but that's not a bad thing, sometimes. Becoming an adventurer or whatever I am now, it wasn't supposed to be easy. It was supposed to be hard, and it was, and it had risks. But along the way, I did much, and I stand before you now as a different man than who left. One who has been through a lot and knows the dangers of the world, but is also a survivor. You know, when I left, I told you I was going to prove myself to you. That I would bring you back stories of my exploits and show you what kind of a man I really was. And I wrote a lot of them down in a book, but I don't think I want to show it to you, because I don't think you deserve to see it. You never supported me as a child, and you don't now. Financially, yes, but not as a father. And the things I did while I was away-- well, the book is a diary now. It's for me, not for you.
Matt: "Taryon... while my parenting may have been strict or distant at times, I didn't reflect on my care for you. We have a legacy in this family to maintain."
Sam: Yes, I know. That's all you seem to care about.
Matt: "That's all that matters."
Sam: It's not all that matters. I know that I carry your blood and that means a lot to you.
Matt: "This money that you seem to relish in, that you took without asking, the last of our coffers. Your grandfather started this, and I've done everything to maintain it. And your interests, your attention, could not be brought to learn and maintain this business after me, so I've had to turn to Maryanne. It's not that I don't love you, but you have another purpose in this family. And that is why I've brought you here."
Sam: And what is that?
Matt: And you watch as his hands are shaking and he's fidgeting and scratching his chin and running his fingers through his sideburns. "We're impoverished. I haven't been able to pay our staff in nearly two months. Everything that I had to do to maintain this legacy has come back to bear fruit, and the debt that we owe is vast."
Sam: I don't believe you. Where's the money? Where's the family money?
Matt: He looks around at the rest of you, and you can see now there is trepidation with having this conversation in front of strangers.
Sam: It's all right. They're with me.
Matt: He reaches over and grabs off his desk an already opened bottle of some sort of wine. Takes a quick swig and sets it down. Slumps into his chair in front of the fire and rests his face on his hand. "Everything your grandfather Oberon built, it's on the verge of fading away. All the taxes we claim on our lands now go straight to a syndicate that we owe a lot of money to. Unless we find a way to pay off the debts of your father and his father before him, we will all be thrown into the cold or worse. Now, I've seen this storm coming for a while, Taryon. I've spent years trying to coax a family union with the Truscans; you know this. After much toil and diplomacy, they have agreed to wed you to their daughter Lydia. This union will bring our family a renewed avenue to wealth and protection within the empire! We can stave off this terrible end, and you will be a hero within the family."
Sam: I don't understand. The way we lived, the way you talked, made it seem like there was endless money, forever.
Matt: "This stems to your lack of respect."
Sam: My lack of respect? What happened? How did you ruin us like this?
Laura: What is this syndicate you speak of?
Matt: His eyes dart to you with a fiery hatred, like how dare you speak up right now. "When your grandfather passed, when you were still but a baby, our lands were nearly taken from us by a rival barony from within the Dwendalian court. Lord Jaipher found loopholes to revoking our ownership and titles set by Oberon and in my panic and necessity, I found an ally in the Myriad."
Sam: In the Myriad?
Matt: "Through a whispered hint, I met a man named Korshad, who ensured our surviving ownership in trade for a partnership with him. I signed, not wanting to toss, at the time, my only child onto the street. But as the decades passed, I did not realize in my haste, the depths of the deal that I had made. And with many harvests failing in recent years, the agreement now devours our livelihood from within. They now demand our accrued debt paid in full or they take full ownership of everything."
Sam: I'm having trouble wrapping my head around this. You're saying everything I've lived has all been built on this deal with this shady group? You're a criminal? You're just a criminal.
Matt: "No. No, it is built on what we built as a family."
Sam: We didn't build anything as a family!
Matt: "We did, and nearly had it taken away. I did this to maintain it. And I let you live as you all deserved to live."
Sam: But Papa, you never told me any of this. You were cold to us, and you told us a bare minimum of what you did and how you ran things.
Matt: "I hoped to find a way to fix this before I needed to, yet here I am, prostrate before my own child. Broken." And he starts, like, tears just pour down his cheeks. "I was just trying to make it right."
Sam: I didn't know any of this. How would I? And now I have to fix it for you by marrying some girl?
Matt: "It's a marriage of convenience."
Sam: That's still a marriage.
Matt: "It means nothing more than political gain. Your life is still yours to live."
Sam: No, it's not! I have to be here, I have to be with her. I have to live in her castle or she in mine. (sighs) Listen, I've learned a lot from these people over the last year or so. And one thing I've learned is that you are who you are whether you have a lot of money or not. And I don't have that much anymore and I'm still okay with that. And it's not because of the things I own, it's because of the deeds that I do. You've done some bad deeds in your life, and it sounds like you've done them to preserve our family and preserve our legacy, but that's not a reason to do them.
Matt: He leans forward to you and looks to you with an honest, more honest than you've seen him, very vulnerable expression. "Every man and woman who has money has done bad things."
Sam: Yes, I'm sure that's true. And I assume I'm somehow complicit in this.
Matt: "You are not. I tried to keep you, your sister, and your mother as innocent as I could. My back is to a wall now."
Sam: I'll have to think about this.
Matt: "Think on it. The choice is still yours; I would not force you into this, but it is a chance I wish you to contemplate."
Sam: What have you done to our name? Do people know of this?
Matt: "No."
Sam: And if I marry this girl, it will just all go away?
Matt: "If you marry this girl, we will have the influence and the wealth to pay this debt and cut ties with the Myriad entirely. We would be a free family once more."
Laura: How much debt are we talking?
Matt: "The last amount we were given  230,000 gold."
Laura: Well. That's a lot.
Ashley: Is there any other way than marriage that you can think of?
Matt: "I've exhausted the options I have at my disposal."
Laura: What if we just wipe out the Myriad?
Matt: He laughs.
Sam: They're far too big.
Matt: "You underestimate the sheer size and how ingrained they are in the society here. This is no guild. Wildmount is the Myriad in many ways."
Sam: And if I say no and they take all of our possessions and our estate, everything, what then? We're ruined.
Matt: "We're on the street. We are but beggars within our own city, at the mercy of those we've been taxing."
Sam: How could you do this to us?
Matt: "Because I loved you. I loved you all, and I did what was necessary."
Sam: You never told us that. You always talked about bloodlines and legacies and the Darrington name. But you never told us you were proud. You never comforted us. You never cared what I wanted to do or who I wanted to be. I'm cursed with this name now, Darrington. You've sullied our name by enforcing these taxes and just being an asshole to everyone around our whole city, and now I have to live with it or marry this girl to save it. Listen, I'm sorry I left, and I'm sorry I took all of that gold. I did not know it was everything. But what you're asking me is-- I'll need to think. I'm sorry.
Matt: "I owe you that, at least. I never claimed to be a good man. I never claimed to be a good father, good husband, but I can try to be better, can't I?"
Sam: Yes, you can. I'm going to go see Mother and Sister. Might my friends stay here the night?
Matt: "Of course, and enjoy the grounds while you can."
Laura: This Korshad, and the Myriad, where do you meet with him?
Matt: "It's been some time, but if you wish to seek him out, ask for who you can speak with the Many, in the Grumpy Lily."
Sam: Grumpy Lillian?
Matt: The Grumpy Lily. You know this to be one of the seedier bars in town.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Laura: And I'm asking to speak with the Many?
Matt: You're wishing to speak with the Many.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Well, good to see you. Have a good afternoon.
Matt: "I'm glad you're safe."
Sam: Thank you. It's good to see you again.
Matt: "You too. More than you know, my son."
Laura: Do we leave the room?
Sam: Yes, let's leave the room.
Liam: We could have cut that air with a knife.
Laura: So here's the thing, though. You said he like hated you, and he didn't seem like he hated you at all!
Sam: He's acting differently than I recall. It's been a while. I'm not used to seeing him like this, and honestly, I don't know how to take it.
Laura: Well, you can't marry that bitch.
Ashley: You can't marry her.
Sam: It seems like I have to.
Laura: No, you don't.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: Got to do it.
Sam: Grog says I do.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Simplest. The shortest distance between two--
Ashley: Two points.
Travis: Yep. Is--
Sam: Marriage.
Travis: Marriage. Yep.
Laura: You're getting so smart, Grog! So smart.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Liam: I know some about the Myriad, correct?
Matt: You've encountered them once. Back in Stillben, back at the very beginning of your adventures. The very beginning.
Taliesin: Not me.
Matt: Percy, this is the first you've heard.
Marisha: Wait, you?
Laura: He wasn't with us yet. We had that other guy he was playing. (laughter)
Liam: Rusty. Rusty Trombone?
Taliesin: Rusty Trombone.
Sam: He was a weird character choice.
Matt: That's a good name for an artificer. (laughter)
Matt: As you exit the study and close the door behind you, left in the cold, quiet silence of the house, you continue your conversation.
Taliesin: Where is your sister?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: How much money did you take when you left?
Sam: I thought a meager amount. 50,000 gold.
Marisha: That's a lot.
Laura: But, I mean, considering the debt that they're in.
Marisha: That's literally more than my entire tribe owns.
Laura: Well, we have a lot more than that in our party fund.
Marisha: I know. We own more than my tribe owns.
Taliesin: I own more than your tribe owns.
Marisha: I know. I will say, Tary, I think you are special. You have very large dangling bits. Along with your earring. Very large other bits.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: We were working on that particular compliment, and I feel like we have a little way to go.
Marisha: Is it all right? No? I thought that was a compliment.
Sam: Tell her she did good.
Travis: Are you cool with your sister?
Sam: No. I'm not cool with my sister. She's not that great.
Travis: Is she married?
Taliesin: Do you think she knows about this?
Sam: I guess. I suppose she knows about this.
Marisha: And the last time you spoke with her was when you left, I'm assuming?
Sam: Yes, that's right. She was being groomed as the heir to the family, and I was being shut out. My mother is here somewhere, too. She's pretty quiet.
Taliesin: What do you want to do?
Sam: I guess talk to them, but we can't go after the Myriad; they're powerful and dark.
Travis: What if we offer services, and they excuse part of the debt?
Sam: No, he offered services, and look where it got him.
Ashley: Do you know Lydia?
Matt: You've never met Lydia in your life. You don't even know what she looks like.
Taliesin: I'm not even sure if that's something that should be entertained.
Sam: We could go talk to them, but I don't see how that's going to change anything.
Laura: Maybe she's a really cool girl that won't be into you and you can just hang out and be besties?
Sam: Gross.
Laura: Hey!
Sam: No. I like being besties with you. I don't want some rando.
Taliesin: It's not fair to her, either.
Marisha: It's not. Honestly, maybe we should just go talk to her first.
Sam: Lydia?
Laura: No, she's in a whole other town.
Ashley: Here's the thing, you're not going to marry her. Okay?
Sam: Why not?
Ashley: Because if he wants to be a better father to you, then he's going to let this go and not let you do this. If that means him being out on the street, that's my opinion.
Travis: That's harsh.
Sam: Everything he is, is his status, though. This place, where he lives, his servants. If he's got nothing, then he's just... he'll die.
Ashley: Sometimes, when you let that go, only then are you able to truly live.
Travis: Whoa.
Laura: Deep.
Sam: That is maybe true, but listen. I've been working on this for a year, and I'm starting to get really nervous. I'm down to my last few bits of gold, and I don't know how that would feel to run out.
Ashley: I don't even have any money.
Laura: Because you gave it all away.
Travis: Technically, I've got a lot of money.
Ashley: Money gives you everything you want.
Laura: It's the best thing.
Marisha: Hey, but you're thrifty. You're good.
Sam: No, I'm not thrifty.
Marisha: Yes, you are! Taryon, I've seen make amazing things. You can survive. You've been to the depths of the watery abyss. And you've lived, kind of.
Taliesin: That's a bad example.
Laura: I'm really wishing we had taken a lot more money from Thordak. If we had taken more money, everything would be fine right now.
Marisha: No! That's not the lesson of the story, you guys!
Sam: Yes, money would have solved this.
Marisha: No! Not the lesson, not the lesson we're supposed to take away!
Taliesin: No, I mean he's right that money would have solved this. But that's not the lesson. Keyleth is right.
Marisha: I don't have an alternative for the lesson. It's just not the lesson.
Taliesin: We're here. We can figure out a way out of this. We're smart, we're clever, we're powerful. And what's one more cliff?
Marisha: Yeah, we're gods!
Taliesin: Not again.
Travis: Not going to say that ever again.
Ashley: I say we go talk to the Many.
Laura: Yes, let's go talk to the Many.
Liam: I understand this is very complicated. Are we really looking for a solution to fix several generations of your family's misdeeds? It sounds like your father, your grandfather have been navigating murky waters for some time.
Taliesin: I want to find out what your sister knows.
Liam: I don't know what the right decision is, either. Do you marry this woman to fix decades of terrible decisions?
Taliesin: I don't necessarily see how two wrongs right anything here. It's just really kicking the ball down the road while you make another random human being you have not met miserable.
Laura: That's right.
Sam: I assume I would be a fine husband.
Laura: You'd be amazing.
Sam: I feel like I'd be okay.
Liam: You make really good blondies, and many things besides blondies, as well.
Taliesin: Oh, this is so depressing. I'm not going to even pretend that this is true. Absolutely not. No. You'll be miserable, and that will make her miserable.
Sam: Yes, it's true.
Liam: So if we know that that's not happening, then we deal with the problem that is left behind. Which is: do we worry about your family's life, their safety? Are they safe here, or are they gonna be eaten alive?
Sam: I'd assume they are not safe here. We'd have to convince them to leave, or protect them somehow, or make a deal to at least protect them in poverty.
Laura: Maybe we just talk to the Myriad, talk to Korshad and see what we can do. Maybe he needs something, and we can provide it.
Taliesin: We are bad news for anybody like that. I'm sure it would be worth their time to get us out of town, possibly get you out of town. You can't be good for business.
Sam: All right. Well, a quick stop to talk to my sister, possibly, and then let's go at least investigate this contact.
Liam: God, this sucks.
Sam: I appreciate you all being here for me. I'm sorry. I didn't realize that this was going to happen and I don't want-- if you fellows want to go back and just continue on, I can solve this.
Liam: Nah, man! You're one of us now!
Laura: Just next time you get abducted by a bounty hunter, give us some warning, would you?
Sam: I'll try. Maybe I should sleep with bells on.
Laura: That would be a good idea.
Liam: You're halfway there.
Sam: Percy, can you make me some?
Taliesin: Some bells? Absolutely. I'm going to regret this, but yes.
Travis: Don't do it, man. They tried to make me wear bells. Don't let them hold you down.
Laura: I thought you liked that hat.
Taliesin: I like that you approve of the arranged marriage, but it's the bells that really--
Travis: Yeah, you don't get to keep eyes on me all hours of the day.
Sam: All right, I'll walk through the place and look for sis.
Matt: Okay, and we'll pick up there next week, as it is 11:00, we'll pick this up.
Laura: Your dad is not what I expected!
Ashley: No!
Sam: (singing) Me, neither!
Laura: Ugh!
Sam: Mercer!
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: What?
Laura: You have a way of taking our backstories that we think we've created and then just flipping it on us.
Taliesin: Nothing happened.
Sam: No, Grog jumped off a roof and died.
Marisha: Was it 1,000 feet? Yeah, all right.
Liam: He actually can take that much damage, though.
Marisha: 360 points?
Travis: Yeah, raging, reduced to half. Yep.
Marisha: Technically, I don't think falling damage counts as weapon damage. I don't know if you can take half damage.
Matt: Well, bludgeoning, it would.
Taliesin: Bludgeoning.
Laura: Damn it! (laughs)
Marisha: Oh, half damage.
Laura: How many hit points do you have?
Travis: A lot.
Taliesin: He doesn't like to brag.
Matt: Awesome, guys. We'll see how this goes.
Travis: There's not a lot of real sound family structures in this campaign.
Ashley: We all have such terrible families.
Laura: We all have shitty families.
Travis: Let this be a lesson.
Liam: Mom was great.
Laura: Yeah, Mom was real great.
Liam: She was the best.
Taliesin: Every fucking moment of my backstory, man. I'm so excited for this shit.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Bonus backstory.
Matt: You guys keep creating-- you act like you didn't hand me backstories with traumatic relationships with your parents already.
Travis: You're so dark, man. Why do you make this shit up?
Liam: It was years ago!
Taliesin: One fucking page.
Matt: I take what I'm given, and I extrapolate.
Sam: Yeah, you do.
Taliesin: You came up with most of that shit off on your own. You didn't even write it down.
Sam: Yeah, for some of it I had.
Matt: Yeah, he had a lot of it, and then a few things from this.
Taliesin: Maryanne was off the cuff?
Sam: No, I think I had their names written down.
Matt: Yeah, you did.
Marisha: Well, for anyone who has been asking  I am okay. I did not leap off the cliff out of some weird parallel allegory.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Taliesin: I thought it was because your Logan's Run crystal started flashing.
Marisha: This was not a cry for help. Not a cry for help. I thought it was going to be dope. That's it. I just thought it was going to be cool as shit, and then it wasn't.
Matt: No, and then it was absolutely was cool as shit. What are you talking about? That's the kind of shit that makes D&D. Are you kidding me?
Marisha: Yeah, you'd know if it's a cry for help.
Travis: Yeah, great take-off, action was amazing. The finish, though, the landing--
Laura: Should have stuck the landing.
Matt: Everyone would have remembered a goldfish's entry into the ocean for five minutes. Everyone is going to remember Keyleth splattering across the rocks forever.
Taliesin: That goldfish wouldn't have remembered it very long either.
Liam: I've got this great trick, but I can only do it once.
Marisha: In my head, I was an awesome cartoon, and it worked.
Matt: And it would have, but it got down to the dice. As always, if I rolled lower than 50%, it would have been fine.
Marisha: 100d6 dice, yeah.
Matt: Percentage dice is what I meant, but anyway. All right, guys. Have a good night, a good weekend, rest well, and we'll see you guys next week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. I think we're recording, because my camera light's not on, but nevertheless, welcome. (laughs)
Travis: We're totally recording.
Matt: I'm pretty sure we are. Anyway guys, welcome, we have a fantastic guest who will be joining us later this evening, but before we get to that we have announcements to go over real fast. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by a new sponsor, a fantastic group called Quidd! If you want to talk about that first?
Sam: Hi, guys. Vacation Sam here. Quidd is our sponsor tonight, a fantastic new sticker app for your phone. You can check it out at bitly, that's bit.ly/crquidd. I didn't know much about the company, but Quidd sounded vaguely British, so little-known fact about me, I have access to the BBC archives at home, so I did some snooping and sure enough, I found a World War II newsreel transcript that talked about Quidd, so I thought I would do a dramatic reading of it for you right now.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: News from the front! This is Nigel J. Creamhutch reporting from BBC London. March 23, 1944 may be a turning point in WWII as PM Churchill announces a new weapon in the fight against those devilish Nazis. They're calling it Quidd, a new app where you can collect stickers, cards and Funko figures on your telephone device. Our lads on the frontlines are already using it! We spoke with Lieutenant Neville Bingham of the Royal Navy. Right, yeah, Quidd's this free app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play, and it's helping us drive Hitler back to Berlin. But it's not just our Tommies. The Reds have discovered Quidd as well! We spoke with tank commander Ivan Bashenko. With Quidd, Russian army is strongest in world. Morale better now with thousands of stickers to collect that can be used like emojis in messages to your friends. Stalingrad will not fall with these cute stickers! Why, they're even using Quidd across the pond! We spoke with American sergeant John Smith, an American Doughboy. I'm John, an American. We American GIs love to collect stickers from brands like Rick and Morty, Bob's Burgers, Family Guy, Breaking Bad, Star Trek, and newly announced Game of Thrones. Take that, Emperor Hirohito! Well, there you have it, ladies and gents. Your British Armed Forces and our allies will defeat the Nazis and win the Second Great War if you go to bit.ly/crquidd and check out Quidd. Good night, good luck, and god save the queen, pip pip! (cheering)
Travis: I'm so glad that's available on the BBC.
Sam: Yeah, it was a weird transcript. I would have shown the newsreel, but it was just a transcript.
Matt: Fair enough. Well, thank you for the update on that, and thank you, Quidd for sponsoring tonight's episode. Really appreciate it.
Liam: Did they win the war?
Sam: Find out next time! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, let's see. Do you have any merch updates at all, Laura?
Laura: There's stuff in the store!
Matt: There you go. Perfect. Good, I like it, thank you. The Green Ronin Campaign Guide. Pre-orders go up on Monday, guys!
All: What!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Yes, and if you get the book and the pdf, I think the pdf is available immediately, so some of you will have access to actually read the book on Monday.
Laura: Are you so nervous, Matt?
Matt: I'm so nervous. (laughs nervously)
Taliesin: People can actually, in real time, call us when we're wrong on our own stuff.
Travis: What do you mean, finally? They do that every week.
Marisha: Finally? Although you are Taliesin Jaffe.
Taliesin: This is a level of pain I've only dreamed of; I'm very excited.
Liam: Hey. We're so proud of you.
Travis: Yeah, nice job with the words and stuff.
Sam: Hold on though, we haven't read it yet. What if it's terribly written, by a child?
Laura: We'll find out he used crayon. It's all written in marker.
Matt: Probably. Do you know how hard it is to get crayon printed these days?
Marisha: Only if the writers' room dropped the ball.
Matt: Well, I hope you guys enjoy it, so look forward to that. The podcast is now episodes 11 through 20, right? Up on the Apple Store. So you can go ahead and download those, which are awesome.
Marisha: Yep, Apple and Google Play.
Matt: Yes. And those are the ones. Of course we'll have Talks Machina next Tuesday at 7:00pm about this episode tonight, here on Twitch and Alpha, 7:00pm Pacific, with our fantastic host Brian Foster, so you can check that out. Wednesday Club next week for you?
Taliesin: Wednesday Club, we're talking about Comic Con, because Comic Con is coming up, and we're going to try and give you a first-timer's guide to Comic Con: If you've never been to one, what to expect, what to do for fun, and all sorts of things that you could see or do in San Diego. Other than us. Thank you, I was very proud of last night.
Matt: We're not having a show next week, we're going to be at Comic Con. Yeah, we have a week off. So we'll miss you guys next week, but we do have our Critical Role panel on Saturday at Comic Con, it's at 10:30am in Room 6...
Travis: BC... E.
Matt: It's a nice big room. You guys should come, we're going to have silly questions, Q and A, conversations, stories and a lot of funness and some cool surprises!
Sam: Prizes?
Taliesin: Prizes?
Matt: Surprises!
Marisha: Oh yeah, we have some announcements.
Matt: So hopefully you guys can make it at San Diego Comic Con. If you're going to be there we'd love to see you. And last but not least, Sagas of Sundry: Dread. The third episode went up today.
Matt: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Marisha: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Matt: I'm going to marry you. (laughter)
Matt: What's that? Oh that's right, and at GenCon next month we have our live show, we mentioned it last week. Tickets are still on sale for the general admission. We're looking forward to having you guys there, it's Friday evening.
Travis: Yeah, it's Friday evening, 7 30. In fact, we got an even bigger theatre this year. The last theatre had 1,500 seats, we're like, oh, we'll never get that many people, and it went (explosion sound). It filled up, so we got a 2,500 seat theatre. It's massive, it's a huge party, if you didn't join us last year, you want to come to this mayhem. It's so much fun. You don't need passes to GenCon, by the way, you don't have to have a badge or anything for that, it's a standalone thing. There are definitely tickets still available, it's going to be super fun.
Sam: I feel like with that many people we should have beach balls in the audience, and they can do the wave.
Matt: Inflatable d20s to throw out there...
Marisha: (gasps) You can get them. They're on ThinkGeek I think.
Matt: This is a terrible idea.
Travis: It's a great idea!
Matt: Anyway, without further ado, I think that concludes our announcements, and as such, let us dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So where we left off last time. Vox Machina, having finally encountered the Undying King, returned in physical form in the Shadowfell, did battle and fled, quite unprepared for that venture, and gathered some tidbits of information about what Vecna's plans may be. Upon returning and discovering that your disintegrated Vax has returned through some deal he made with his patron the Raven Queen after disintegrating, you decided to go ahead and try and gather more information about this and beseech some of the higher powers within Exandria. Pike talked to Sarenrae and was given the invitation to come visit her in Elysium on the Island of Renewal, and upon gathering your materials and causing a mess in Vasselheim, you got together and went to meet this fantastic Everlight. On her island, you spoke with her. She gathered some information from you, as Vecna seemed to be blocking at least the influence and vision from a lot of the deities, and then gave her blessing unto Pike, transferring you over to one of the other gods that lives among the Blessed Fields of Elysium: Pelor, the Dawnfather. You then walked through the orchards that led to the Fortress of the Sun where he resides, spoke with some of the guardians there, and were led into the center of the citadel, where you met, in the central throne room under the Zenith Tower, Pelor himself. Upon exchanging information, you spoke of your need to gather the favor of certain gods in the battles to come, and were given a challenge. To step up to plate: Vex'ahlia. You accepted the challenge and racing to the top of the tower, the zenith, before the fires could be extinguished in the brazier that awaited you, you threw yourself into the fire, and upon the party speaking on what it was that made Vex'ahlia such an important member of not just your team, but your family, and gave you strength, she was imbued with a blessing of the Dawnfather himself. After which, we left off as you exited the front of the Fortress of the Sun, stepped into the central glade that marks the center of the seemingly endless orchards that surround this region, and Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Travis: Eat all of the fruit.
Laura: No.
Travis: It was really good. It was just fruit, by the way. Like I said.
Sam: We're still in heaven right now?
Laura: We're still in Elysium.
Taliesin: It's not quite heaven.
Travis: Are there any other gods here that we should curry favor with? For? Of?
Laura: Are there any more gods here? Not that we know of.
Sam: We forgot to ask.
Travis: Did we?
Laura: Yeah. I don't think Ioun is here.
Matt: You're looking at the series of the Sun Tree cousins, one of which you've met, scattered amongst this glade surrounding the central citadel.
Marisha: What a douche.
Sam: No other people? Guards? Nothing.
Matt: You have the guards behind you, the large planetar and deva entities that stand there, armored in their golden plate, after ushering you out, are standing guard.
Laura: Maybe we can ask them.
Sam: Sure. I'll go up to one and say, hello there, big fellow.
Matt: Standing a full ten feet taller than you, practically, the wings slightly bent, the large planar entity kneels down. "Hello."
Sam: Hello. Vacation Scanlan here. Couple questions. By the way, was he one of the ones who fought in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh. Do they all look alike? 17 plus one.
Matt: Hard to tell. You didn't pay a lot of attention.
Sam: Okay. Hey, just wondering, a few questions. A: How does one get out of here? Is there a door to another plane?
Matt: "I imagine the same way you came in."
Sam: A god brought us here. All right, cool. Number two: Are there any other like your Dawnfather around here? Any other gods in the area?
Matt: "Across Elysium, there are two deities that call it home: the Dawnfather and the Everlight."
Sam: So we covered our bases. Out of curiosity What are you called?
Matt: He looks very closely, and you get sense that part of its nature is scanning through you; it's getting a sense and a read of you as an individual, and it says, "No one you need to worry about." Stands up and then takes two steps back (heavy footfalls) into place and looks straight ahead.
Marisha: Scanlan, you should remember that line, that's a good one.
Sam: Yeah. I already forgot it. I'm too intimidated. Was it no one or something? I don't know. Well, good speaking to you.
Matt: Still looks out. Doesn't respond.
Sam: Well, how do we get out of here? Can she take us home?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: She does on the daily.
Sam: I know, but I don't know. They talked about some sort of a gate that keeps the gods out and the bad gods in.
Matt: To remind you of what happened last time. There was talking about possibly... or at least there was the Trammel, the Prime Trammels that were used previously to seal the Chained Oblivion, Tharizdun, and that the orchestrator, the designer of those was Ioun, the Knowing Goddess. Ioun, however, has sealed herself away, being a wounded god, long recovering, and the only information that Pelor has of where she hid herself, the key, essentially, is not an object but a person. You're seeking an individual, of which you were given a solar light map of a single small home in a forest ravine not far from a place that you've noticed was near the Pools of Wittebak, which is in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: Yeah, but there was also a mention of some Divine Gate that keeps people from--
Matt: Well, the Divine Gate is a known existing entity. It's essentially a large gate that prevents the gods from returning to the Prime Material Plane.
Liam: It's like a metaphysical screen door that keeps flies out.
Laura: So the gods can't get in and out.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Marisha: Yeah, the Prime Trammel. Which we now have to get--
Laura: We have to get near the the Cliffkeep Range, near the Pools of Wittebak, is where we need to go.
Marisha: And the Cliffkeep is not too far from Whitestone?
Matt: Cliffkeep Mountains go across a lot of the northern side of Tal'Dorei, from what you're familiar with. Like, we're talking Kraghammer to Gatshadow to the Jorenn Village. There's a lot of things. It's like a big horizontal mountain range that caps the top part of the continent.
Marisha: Do I recognize the city that I can get us to that's close?
Matt: Fort Daxio or Kraghammer.
Sam: Haven't been to Kraghammer for a while, although Daxio might be worth a check.
Taliesin: What's closest to the pools?
Matt: Probably Terrah or the Pools of Wittebak. Those are the two that are closest.
Laura: What is Terrah?
Marisha: My home.
Matt: Terrah's not your home.
Marisha: Sorry. Sorry, Terrah is the Earth Ashari.
Sam: My other home, summer home.
Matt: The home away from home.
Liam: Can you also remind me where my Vecdar made me feel Vecna-- where on the Prime Material Plane?
Matt: Yes. Oh, where?
Liam: Yeah, we talked about it, but I can't remember.
Matt: You did, yes. It seemed to be hundreds of miles northwest of Vasselheim. You didn't sense any movement, but you knew the general direction and distance.
Liam: And that was yesterday.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Teacher?
Matt: Yes, Laura?
Laura: I was excited the last game and somehow have misplaced my Pelor champion piece of paper.
Liam: Oh, she doesn't get to have it now. That's how that works.
Laura: I don't know how it happened! It's not with my stuffs.
Matt: That's okay, I remember what it does, and if you decide to use it--
Laura: You'll tell me? Okay.
Matt: I won't tell you. You tell me you want to use it.
Laura: Oh shit, okay. I'm sorry. I had it, and it's not here.
Taliesin: It's weird how he's so nice and yet it still feels like you are in so much trouble.
Laura: I'm in a lot of trouble, you guys.
Liam: He's calm, but indifferent. Like the Dawnfather.
Matt: All right, so what would you like to do?
Travis: Yeah, what would we like to do?
Marisha: Should we go to Terrah? Check in with them, I guess, while we're there?
Taliesin: Seems prudent.
Marisha: And talk to Pa'tice.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. We ready to go?
Taliesin: I'm very ready to go. This is lovely and everything, but I've had my fill.
Marisha: I will burn my 8th-level spell slot to Plane Shift us to Terrah.
Matt: To Terrah, all righty.
Marisha: Mind the gap.
Taliesin: What gap?
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Travis: No effects from eating that fruit, right?
Matt: No, you didn't sense any effects from that fruit, at the moment.
Travis: Didn't remove a curse or anything?
Matt: No, you didn't. Nothing really caught you up to speed, in that.
Laura: Are we by those fruit trees again?
Matt: There are no fruit-bearing trees directly near you. The Sun Trees are around you. Further in they do, yes. All righty. Bringing up my notes on Terrah, since that's where you're going.
Marisha: Yeah, I should probably--
Laura: I'm so confused about the order of things. If we go to Ioun, and we don't have everything we need for this Prime Trammel, are we fucked? I know we need godly power in order to imbue them, right? Or something?
Liam: Either here or soon we need to sit and work this out.
Sam: What do we need to bring into the trammel?
Laura: Well, Pelor gave me this. Snap, snap, snap, zip. This. It's a stone and it's supposed to be strong enough to--
Liam: Power the trammel?
Laura: Part of it? Not all of it.
Marisha: We need to collect more, though, right? We have to get like eight or something.
Sam: Wait, it said that?
Matt: You weren't given any indication as to how many you needed.
Laura: But it did seem like this is not enough.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, Ioun was healing for eight centuries. That's where I got that number. Sorry.
Travis: I could do it, too. Five. Five stones of power.
Matt: All right, so as you complete your spell, Keyleth, you step through the base of the nearest tree, possibly the same one you spoke with earlier if you want to be a dick about it.
Marisha: Oh yeah! Let's walk through that asshole. That sounds worse for us. But fuck it.
Matt: All right, you aggressively stampede through the center of this one tree and emerge on the other side from one of the surrounding trees on the Terrah village. There are a number of these pseudo-petrified or dried-out large-trunk trees that seem to have slowly died off from the heavy tectonic shifts and small quakes that happen in this area, that have made a lot of the land unable to support large forms of plant life, or at least the trees that used to exist here. So you step out and emerge from the exterior of the village as it domes down into this small crater that you recall seeing before, where most of the village inhabits the central portion, and the village is there before you.
Marisha: What were the shard things called again?
Matt: The shard things?
Marisha: The things we need to collect?
Matt: There wasn't really a name for them more than they're small pieces of essence of the deity.
Marisha: So we need pieces of god.
Liam: Does the little seed of light given to my sister look anything like the little seed that Scanlan and Vax saw from riding the shadow creature in the sky?
Matt: No. In a sense that it's a small source of power of some kind, but what you saw there was maybe about that large on the platform. What she has is bead size.
Laura: Is it this size? Or this size?
Matt: Comparable to each. So you stand outside of Terrah. What are you doing?
Sam: What time of day is it? How tired are we?
Matt: Based on when you left, it would still be probably-- well, you were over in Vasselheim, which means it's getting dark, actually. I'd say with the way the sun has passed through the sky now, you've just gotten past dusk. There's still light in the sky, but it's going from oranges to purples to dark blues on the horizon, and you can see hints of firelight, torchlight and candlelight from within the actual city below.
Sam: Well, what are we going to need on this trip? Maybe we should get whatever supplies we need. Is it far? Are we going to become gas?
Travis: Are we going underground?
Marisha: Oh, to Terrah?
Sam: No, we'e in Terrah. But the next day, we're going to the--
Taliesin: To the pools.
Marisha: Do we want to stay the night here, then? I can't mist us right now. I'm tapped out. Camp here.
Laura: Vax? Can you sense Vecna? Is he still in the same place?
Liam: I can sense him?
Matt: You can sense him. He is, from your current location, thousands of miles from you.
Laura: Oh, hard to tell, then?
Liam: He's still really shitty, though.
Matt: Yeah, very heavy west-northwest direction from you, currently.
Sam: Well, sleep? Do we need to get any intel on where these pools are? Do we need anything?
Laura: We should maybe talk to the people of Terrah? It's not that late.
Marisha: Yeah, let's go. They have a spare room for us.
Travis: Are you the leader of all the people?
Marisha: I'm the leader of the Air Ashari and the Voice of the Tempest.
Travis: Is that a yes or a no? You don't have to fucking brag.
Marisha: No, there's four of us, and I'm one of the four.
Sam: Do you know the one who lives here?
Marisha: I do.
Sam: Then let's go see him or her. Or they.
Marisha: No, we can just go, like I was saying five minutes ago. Let's just go.
Matt: All right. So as you walk down into the village, a number of the guardians step out quickly, seeing an approaching party, however, recognizing Keyleth and her station immediately, turn into an escort that leads you to the center portion of the village.
Marisha: I request Pa'tice.
Matt: Quickly enough, they go and retrieve Pa'tice. You see the elderly form of the leader you've met before step out, the graying hair, the weathered dark skin tones, the long greens and brown leathers that drape off, showing hints of the knees and lower feet, the large walking staff that he carries at his side as he approaches and the headdress that seems to be a combination of thick twines and shale shards that have been woven in, steps forward. "Keyleth. An unexpected visit, most definitely."
Marisha: Kaitiaki.
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Pa'tice, I am so sorry for the late intrusion. We've just gotten back from the plane of Elysium, so we're a little tired. Yeah, we're fighting a god right now, well, more of like a demi-god, so have you heard of Vecna? Sorry, I'm probably getting ahead of myself. Do you have any food? Let's talk over dinner.
Matt: "We have food, yes. You are guests of Terrah. Please, we will provide whatever you require. Come, provide them a meal!" And he puts his hand out and they run off quickly.
Taliesin: I like that people just feed us. We show up, and there's food.
Sam: You've been used to that your whole life.
Taliesin: Not at home.
Sam: I have to sing for dinner. You just say--
Taliesin: Have you ever tried not singing for dinner?
Sam: Maybe I'll get more food.
Taliesin: You might!
Liam: You did have one year-ish where you were on the skids. You did your Prince and the Pauper bit for a little bit.
Taliesin: It's a big vague, but yes. I was on a boat for quite a while.
Travis: Oh my god, can we eat food? (laughter)
Matt: And quick as that, you guys make your way down. It's a modest meal, but it's a meal nonetheless. Mostly hunted creatures of the local mountainside, some dried beets and root.
Marisha: We always try to source locally.
Taliesin: Charmingly provincial.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Keyleth, perhaps you should let your people know that the world is in danger.
Marisha: So the world's in danger, as she said--
Sam: The waiter is like, what?
Liam: Runs out the door.
Marisha: Aw shit! I just induced panic.
Matt: Pa'tice, who's sat down with you, says quickly, "We have been made aware via the other Ashari that there is some danger possibly coming. We are awaiting word of what to do other than keep ourselves in a defensive position. We have to guard the rift, of course. But should there be a call to action, we'll do what we can. I'm unfamiliar with this Vecna, but whatever you plan, please be careful."
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. More than anything, I think I would want you all to be relief for the surrounding area and surrounding villages if anything disastrous were to happen. I know you have to guard the rift and that is insanely important and especially right now with someone like Vecna who could potentially abuse that. But if anything were to happen, I don't know if you could house extra people during a disaster.
Matt: "We are quite good at assembling makeshift and temporary lodging. The rock is our friend, if you will."
Marisha: Yeah, that's more, I think, what we would need.
Matt: "Of course, of course! Not a worry."
Marisha: Currently, Vecna is just north of Vasselheim, close to Pyrah.
Matt: "Have you asked Pyrah for aid, as well?"
Marisha: They've also been put on alert, but we have not personally been there yet since this has happened.
Matt: "Well. Good. They're closer. But we're happy to help if we can."
Marisha: Yeah. Thank you.
Laura: Things are happening very quickly. We just happened here first.
Matt: "We're happy to help. Where are you off to?"
Sam: The Pools of Wittebak.
Matt: "What brings you towards the Pools of Wittebak?"
Sam: You know this place?
Matt: "It is a series of poisoned wells and hulking, stupid giants."
Sam: Hulking, stupid giants?
Laura: Giants? At the pools?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: I thought it was something about gnomes there.
Matt: "It was once."
Sam: They grew. (laughter)
Laura: Is that something you can do, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't know. (laughs)
Matt: "They're geothermic large puddles across the mountainside. Various minerals being lifted up from the deep waters beneath the mountain. Heated, bubbling, boiling, steaming. But the giants moved in hundreds of years ago, stomped around, and ended up filling the entire subterranean gnomish city of Wittebak with fumes and poison. Killed most of them, and the rest fled to Kraghammer."
Liam: Do you all ever broach the area or do you just stay clear of it?
Matt: "Best to avoid, we have our own business to deal with. And it's 100 miles from here. It's not much of an issue."
Taliesin: And the pools are naturally poisonous?
Matt: "Well, some are toxic, some are not, but since the giants moved in and ruptured some of the natural formations, some of them have grown toxic or acidic, yes."
Marisha: Do you know if people still try to live there? We're looking for someone.
Matt: "If they are, they're foolish."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's our kind of people.
Laura: Maybe the person we're looking for is a giant.
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: Do you know what type of giant? We've seen a few types of giants. Do you know their make and model?
Matt: "The dumbest. Hill giants."
Laura: Hill giants.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Easy to outsmart, difficult to outrun. They'll eat anything, even small little gnomes."
Laura: Seems like they ate a lot of them.
Sam: (laughing) I guess so.
Laura: Pasty, I have a question. Do you know anything about Ioun?
Matt: "I know of the name."
Laura: But not much.
Matt: "We're not the most devoted people."
Laura: I know.
Marisha: I saw that. (laughter)
Matt: "I can't imagine I'd have any information you wouldn't."
Laura: Okay. Just checking.
Matt: "My apologies."
Laura: This food is really good.
Matt: "Yes! Enjoy your meal!" And he gets up and walks away.
Taliesin: He was so officious.
Laura: I thought we were walking into a fucking lake with gnomes living there. I didn't realize we were going to fight giants.
Travis: This got so much better all of a sudden.
Taliesin: If it were easy, it really wouldn't be us, would it?
Marisha: So the question is, is there actually someone of some minor intelligence living there that is this magical key, or did that person get eaten by a giant?
Taliesin: I cannot believe I'm about to say this. I'm inclined to believe the god. They're in the position where trying to trick us out of leaving is not necessary. They could've just told us to leave and be done with it. That information just wouldn't suit them, I don't think.
Marisha: I'm not saying it's bad information, I'm just wondering who the key is.
Laura: It's possible the key is now inside of a giant's stomach. In which case, it still would be inside of someone. Just a different someone.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe they're still living inside. Maybe it's like a Moby Dick situation.
Matt: You do recall the map that was shown to you by the Dawnfather Pelor. It was adjacent to the pools, not actually in the Pools of Wittebak. It was within a forest, and was a home.
Laura: Oh! I remember it now! It was a home inside. Oh, I drew a little map of it. Yep, that's it. Yes, it's adjacent to the pools, but there's a home in a forest. Did you like it? That's what my map was.
Marisha: Can we theoretically just mist over everywhere?
Laura: I mean and look out for a home in the forest? We'll have to fly pretty low. I'm assuming the home is going to be covered by treetop.
Travis: We never travel traditionally anymore. I'm just saying, I miss the romantic aspects of traveling the countryside. It's like fast forward, immediate gratification, fucking you know.
Sam: The Dawnfather said we must hurry or else the world will end.
Laura: It's very far. We could Misty Step to the forest and then walk in the forest?
Travis: Why are you fucking talking to me like I'm a child?
Laura: No reason, darling.
Travis: Okay. That would-- okay. (laughter)
Liam: Once this is all done, Grog, you and I will go on a long trek together.
Travis: Yeah? Yeah. I dig that.
Laura: Don't be dark and creepy and make it sound like you're being nice. I know you're being dark and creepy right now.
Travis: Oh, hey. Don't get after my camping partner like that, all right? Shit. Chill.
Liam: Can't predict this one.
Travis: No marshmallows for this witch.
Marisha: It is a little weird to be making promises, though.
Taliesin: Well, on that chipper little side note, I think we should turn in for the evening.
Sam: Yes, do we have lodging?
Matt: Lodging is provided for you. They have a number of various guest tents and small buildings that provide you with space. Not the highest of quality of places you've slept in, probably, and if you wanted to provide your mansion instead, you're welcome to, but ample food, quiet sleep. It's a comfortable evening's rest. You all find yourselves through the evening. As you sleep, and having this being the first time many of you have slept in Terrah, it takes you a while. There is just a general low hum or vibration to the ground that you sleep on. You get the sense it's probably proximity to the Rift, but there is this slow, perpetual (rumbling). It's like a weird, low rumble. Like a heavy bass sound that never seems to dissipate that you hadn't noticed until you were trying to quietly sleep. But it's not off-putting and within ten or 15 minutes, it actually almost helps to lull you to rest. You all come to in the morning, gather your supplies, and are preparing for the next leg of your journey. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Could I attune, either before I go to sleep or when I wake up, to the Dwarven Thrower instead of the Bloodaxe?
Matt: You may. All right. Any other attunements, anyone wishes to--
Liam: I'll set the Deathwalker's Ward to acid.
Matt: All right, to acid. Boom.
Laura: Before everyone else gets up, can I go find where Vax is sleeping?
Matt: You may.
Laura: This is a tent. What do I do? Do I knock? Do I shake it? I'm not sure. Scratch?
Matt: They're lodging made from large pieces of shale and rock, jammed into a somewhat triangular pattern to form an earth yurt, if you will.
Laura: Oi. Vax. Are you naked?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Put some clothes on, then. Jesus. Keyleth, sorry.
Marisha: Keyleth opens the shamble door first with a little earth movement. I'm dressed. Yeah. I'm not like that.
Laura: You don't sleep naked?
Marisha: I'm going to go get coffee.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth darts off in the distance and the two of you are left within the tent.
Laura: Are you decent?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: I'm coming in.
Liam: I'm still naked.
Laura: Ugh, come on! So fucking weird. (groans) I turn my back to him.
Liam: I start putting on the rest of my armor.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Can I ask you a question? Well, I'm going to.
Liam: Of course you can.
Laura: I look down at my feet. Why didn't you ever try to take these back?
Liam: Well, they're going to be yours, anyway.
Laura: Oh, Jesus. You know, the only reason I do things is that I take great joy in irritating you. If you don't show irritation, it makes it not worth it. (sighs) Can I turn around now? I'm turning around.
Liam: I am covered.
Laura: Good. Why are you so calm? You're so calm and confident now. It's weird.
Liam: I mean, I'm on bonus time.
Laura: Is he still cold?
Matt: His skin is colder than a warm body, yes.
Liam: But I'm not Bobby Drake, right?
Laura: What's his heartbeat like?
Matt: (very slow heartbeat)
Laura: (groans) Jeez!
Taliesin: Wow, way to hang onto that one, Matt.
Liam: But look. (slashing noise) I mean, look.
Laura: Is there blood?
Matt: Yeah, he bleeds, and it's a pretty open wound. You watch as the wound slowly seals itself up.
Laura: (gasping) No fucking way!
Liam: Oh, I didn't know it did that. (laughter)
Laura: That's really cool.
Liam: Thank you!
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I don't know, this is the dumbest conversation. This is bonus time. I shouldn't be here. It was the long sleep or come back and help.
Laura: So she gave you the option and then you came back and now you're what? Super? Super half-elf?
Liam: Well, I'm just following through on a promise made.
Laura: And we defeat Vecna and you're done, you're gone. That's it? Instant? Is it like we kill him and you're gone that second or is it like we kill him and you're here for another week or until the Raven Queen realizes that you're still here?
Liam: There isn't really a handbook.
Laura: She didn't tell you?
Liam: When Vecna is destroyed, she will call me back to where I would be right now. I expect everyone-- Keyleth and I have barely spoken-- I expect everyone to be sad, but I wish you wouldn't be so sad, not exorbitantly so, because I--
Laura: Exorbitant? That's a good word.
Liam: I read. Not as much as some, but I read. This is the path that I have chosen for myself and I did it based out of desperation, at first. But everyone dies.
Laura: I know.
Liam: And I think our group has become a little spoiled. We're not your ordinary group of idiots. We have blessings.
Laura: We're blessed idiots.
Liam: Blessed idiots, yes, and I know that we've gotten used to feeling like we can overcome losing anyone, but your average farmer or seamstress doesn't come back. And everybody dies, and all that matters is what you do with what you have, and I have done a lot, and I've taken great pride watching all that you have done. And I have good friends and I have fallen in love. More than most, I've had.
Laura: Yeah. After you die, do you stand by her side?
Liam: That I don't really know. I imagine she'll keep me close.
Laura: Do you like her now?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: She's necessary and she's of use, and I like that.
Laura: She brought you back to us for a while. I like her, too. Anyway, do you want the fucking boots back? Fuck! Yeah, sure, yes, fine, that's fine. I wanted to give them back, so there you go. I'm glad you asked for them back.
Liam: I don't have a lot of time. They really are my favorite thing.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Physical thing.
Laura: Just make sure you write it down somewhere that after you go back to the Raven Queen that your sister is your favorite in the universe.
Liam: Dear, every stitch on my body is yours when I am gone.
Laura: I don't want every stitch. None of it's worth you leaving.
Liam: I slide my feet into the shoes and I wiggle my toes around. Oh, I'm sorry. I also have a confession to make.
Laura: What?
Liam: I don't exactly have your shoes anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: I think that I left them in the Feywild.
Laura: The Feywild?
Liam: Yeah, I think I dropped them into a bog. They didn't fit me.
Laura: You are a motherfucker. You couldn't have just put them in the Bag of Holding?
Liam: I'm still me.
Laura: Great, wonderful. I like being barefoot.
Liam: You have very cute, small feet that fit in the boots that you gave me that did not fit my feet.
Laura: That's great.
Liam: There's probably shoes here.
Laura: Probably. All right.
Liam: I pull out her shoes and I put them down.
Laura: Well, at least there's that!
Matt: Got your shoes back. Keyleth returns with some coffee. The rest of you come to consciousness, and the morning sun is now blaring down over the Cliffkeep. It's a strangely clear sky for the north. While a lot of it is relatively cold usually, you're used to seeing the snow- capped mountaintops-- oh, you found it! There you go.
Taliesin: It was with you the whole time.
Liam: Must have been inside your shoes.
Laura: Oh my gosh! I put it in the safe place and I didn't realize it!
Travis: Thank you, chat.
Laura: Did they really know where I put it?
Travis: Yeah, they know where your shit is.
Sam: The chat knew where you put your stuff?
Travis: "It's in the page in front of your blue divider."
Sam: No way!
Laura: Wow, thank you. Thank you, guys!
Liam: How many fingers am I holding up?
Matt: So bringing it back in, guys.
Sam: Yes, we have a guest.
Matt: Yes. At some point. So what do you guys want to do?
Sam: Set off! For the Pools of Hatabah! (laughter)
Taliesin: For the forest near the Pools of--
Sam: The adjacent to the Pools of Hatafah.
Travis: We didn't want to bring any extra muscle with us, do we, from these peeps? Oh wait, we're misting a long ways away. Never mind. Sorry. Forget it.
Liam: Grog, you are our extra muscle.
Travis: See! High five! Up top.
Liam: I'm not dead.
Travis: His hand's cold.
Matt: So you're traversing via your Wind Walk?
Marisha: I guess. Are we wind walking there?
Laura: (mispronouncing) Wind.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Wind walk? Wind walking.
Liam: (mispronouncing) Wil Wheaton!
Sam: Hey, before we leave, real quick  Kiki.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Can you send messages or anything?
Marisha: No, man. We have been through this with our entire group so many times.
Sam: It's just you're so powerful.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: What do you need?
Sam: I would send a letter, but it'll take weeks. So forget it. We'll be somewhere close to somewhere with magic soon.
Marisha: We can leave it in the hands of the Ashari, see if they can find somebody.
Sam: You trust these folks?
Marisha: Yeah. They're all right.
Taliesin: They're not the worst.
Marisha: They're not the worst.
Sam: All right, I'll scribble a little note and say-- well, no, there's no way they can get it to-- it's too far! It's too far!
Taliesin: I was really excited to see your face when you handed it to them and they're like, what are we supposed to do with this?
Sam: Here, I'll show you, Grog.
Travis: Write it out, bitch!
Sam: I write, a sphincter says what.
Travis: A. As. Good message. That's a big word at the front.
Laura: You could have gotten the last one, though.
Travis: What!
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Pike taps you on the shoulder and is like, "I'll teach you that later."
Taliesin: Thank you for the Ashley Johnson simulator. That was weirdly comforting.
Matt: Curse you, Blindspot!
Travis: Yeah! Are we misting?
Sam: Yeah, let's do it.
Laura: Should we eat a feast first, or should we save that?
Taliesin: Let's save that.
Laura: Okay. I don't know what we're going to find!
Matt: That's up to you guys. So preparations being done, you gather your materials, Keyleth completes the Wind Walk spell and you all feel yourselves grow slightly lighter on your toes. You concentrate. Over the minute transformation, you turn into your mist forms and take off in what direction?
Marisha: Towards the Falafel Pools!
Sam: We wrote it down.
Taliesin: Falafel pool is actually really tasty.
Travis: Pools of Wittebak.
Laura: Yeah! Towards the mountains!
Sam: He said "which direction?" He did not say "Where are you going?" He said "which direction?"
Laura: We got to look at our map.
Marisha: We have it on the map!
Laura: We have a map!
Matt: Okay! Well, you have Terrah locked down. The Pools of Wittebak would not be on your specific map that you acquired earlier. You can ask around within Terrah within a brief time and figure it out. Somewhere between 100 and 120 miles, and he points in a specific direction. You mark the sun's traveling and where certain landmarks are.
Marisha: I quickly do the math of how fast I can travel and be like okay, it shouldn't take long.
Matt: It's an eastward direction from where you are.
Taliesin: You did actually, legitimately point east, too, which makes that even better.
Matt: That's weird.
Taliesin: Yeah, that is weird.
Matt: I'm putting points in my nature skill. Or survival, I guess. Anyway, too many editions in my head. (laughs) As you all take off into the morning sky, you begin to rocket over, and you're hitting jets of wind that are beginning to find their way over the mountain ranges, and you get blown a little off-course, but you maintain concentration as best you can in that direction. Who is leading this venture?
Sam: I've been there. No, I knew of it, right?
Matt: You knew of it, yeah.
Sam: But I don't know exactly where.
Laura: After listening to everybody, I'll lead the way. That way, I can keep an eye out for the forest next, too, and the house and all the things we're looking for. I got a good look at the map that Pelor held up in front of us, as well.
Matt: Right. Okay, cool. I need you to go ahead and make a survival check. Actually, for this, I'm gonna say-- yeah, because it would be tracking in the wilderness. So survival.
Laura: Survival? Great. Any advantage on that?
Sam: Wilderness is your favored terrain.
Matt: It's mountains, technically.
Laura: That's also my favored.
Matt: Then yeah, roll again.
Travis: Because that was a one.
Laura: Oh! So much better. 28.
Matt: Okay, that'll do it. Your speed is tremendous when in this form, so what would have been an extended trek on foot over a series of days, it takes you mere hours to eventually get to a point where you crest one heavy peak. On the opposite side, you can see down the cliffside, the edge reaches a slight precipice, and there you can see what looks to be for a mile or so a cluster of dozens and dozens of pools of water of different sizes, all jammed together in a geothermic cluster, where you can see bright greens that move to a deep orange-maroon at the edges from the various mineral deposits that have collected over hundreds and hundreds of years. You can see large columns of smoke and steam of different chemical colors rising out of various large pools, and at a glance down, you can see a number of shapes: a number of hulking, humanoid shapes; somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 or so scattered at different pools, moving in small clusters or gangs. Some of them are jumping in, cannonballing and swimming through the actual pools. Some of them are lounging around and lying. Some of them appear to be returning, dragging things from the nearby forest on the eastern side of the bank.
Marisha: This is a vacation spot. What's that water park nearby?
Laura: Wet 'N' Wild?
Matt: Essentially, for a few hundred years, you get the sense that the Pools of Wittebak have been a hill giant water park. You can see these large mounds of mud and scrap wood and things that have been built into these large hill giant domiciles onto the side of the mountain not far from the pools. It's become a definite hill giant wandering zone. So do you guys continue over the pools, down towards the nearby forest ridge?
Laura: Yeah, past the pools.
Matt: All righty. You come to the forest ridge, and you can see it's not thick forest. The ravine comes down off the precipice where the pools are. You get a few hundred-- I'd say, actually more than that. A thousand or more feet away from that precipice before plants even begin to grow. It looks like whatever toxic chemicals have burbled up in some of these pools have made a lot of the ground there unable to give any forest life or sustain any large trees. As soon as the forest begins, it's a dense little pocket, maybe a mile and a half, two miles across. That's what you've got. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Oh man. I should try to track any footprints in there and see if there's something around the edges, maybe, that lead back to-- shit, I don't fucking know. It's only a couple of miles.
Matt: If you guys begin to do a loop-over, who's doing a quick pass over the patch of forest? All right, make a perception check.
Laura: It's the forest. Do I get advantage on that one? Perception? What is that, 21? 21.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: Okay. Glancing over, you don't see any major glades or clearings. There doesn't appear to be any sign of bastions of civilization or any sort of logging going on. There's no areas where trees have been cut or cleared. It's a featureless forest top, from what you can see.
Laura: Can we fly down lower to where we're in between the trees?
Matt: You can go down into the forest, if you'd like. All right, who's going into the forest, then?
Marisha: I'll go.
Laura: I'll go. All of us?
Matt: So with Pike following suit, you guys all swoop down through the boughs of the trees and into the center of the forest itself. Within there, it's not a super thick canopy; it's not as heavy as the Feywild or some of the recent forests that cluster around Vasselheim. There are breaks in the canopy where you can see the sunbeams come through from the morning sun that's rising up higher and higher in the sky as you've traveled. The mist has burned away in this area, so it's a nice, warm forest. Glancing about, there is a lot of life in here. You can see signs of squirrels. You rush by what was a family of wolverine-like creatures that are rustling by. As soon as the wind scoots in and your mist forms come rocketing past, they all scatter and run off into the shadows. There's a lot of forest ground here to cover. For you to really super track with advantage, you'd have to go into human form. I'd give you a regular roll if you want to try and track in your mist form.
Laura: Not so much tracking right now, just a loose passover as we're going, looking for any kind of hunting traps or trails, signs of life of things that have been traversed a lot.
Matt: I'd say make an investigation check.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27. Begin coasting through tree after tree through small, tiny bits of clearing that immediately come into large clusters of trunks and knotted branches that all merge and cluster at different intersections. After about 20 or so minutes of this, trying to do a large spiral around the forest inward, out of the corner of your eye, Vex'ahlia, you glance over and see a quick glimpse of something that appears to be more structured. You look back and rush over and there you see amongst the trees what appears to be a humble-looking two-story home. You see a small balcony built on the second floor that goes over one of the larger rooms in the bottom floor. It's not huge, by any means, and is hidden by a lot of the local brush and trees there. Can't get a lot more detail at this distance, though.
Laura: Okay. We land. I land.
Marisha: I follow.
Laura: And behind a tree, I'm going to take form.
Matt: You take your form? Okay. So all of you land and follow Vex?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: You all take a minute to go back to your physical forms. You glance over, and there it is, standing before you. It's very shaded in this part of the forest. You can see a little bit of what looks to be interior light, very faint.
Travis: Like a normal person-sized dwelling?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: Yay!
Matt: It would be a little small for you, Grog. But you could walk in it. Proportionally, it looks maybe like it was built for a little bit of a smaller person.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I want to start eyeballing the ground of the house for any kinds of traps set out. Is that investigation, yeah?
Matt: That is investigation.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. So you guys begin to slowly--
Travis: Wait. Before we do, there are no random nudist giants that have run over in this area, right? There's nobody sees us over here taking off?
Taliesin: You're worried about giants streaking?
Travis: Not particularly.
Taliesin: That was very specific.
Travis: Well, yeah, have you ever seen a giant naked? You'll never forget it.
Taliesin: I might. I don't know.
Sam: Are you suggesting we set up a perimeter?
Travis: Yeah! I mean, it's a tiny house, I don't really want to go in there. I like having exits I fit through.
Laura: I don't want whoever it is to think that we threaten them in any way. But then, if they threaten us, I wouldn't want them to attack us, either.
Travis: Yeah, I'll just knock the house down from the outside.
Taliesin: Let's keep this structure standing for now.
Travis: I'll stay outside.
Sam: Are we knocking properly or are we just going to Invisibility in and see who's in there?
Laura: I feel like maybe knock properly.
Taliesin: If you think long and hard about it, it's not like manners have failed us very often.
Laura: Yeah. But do keep an eye out for traps or anything weird on the way up.
Marisha: I think we've failed at manners often.
Taliesin: We fail at manners more often. We'll see how this goes. We'll try being nice.
Travis: I'll stay out here.
Sam: I'll go knock on the door. It seems like a smallish door, right?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go with you.
Matt: Okay, so what's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go first.
Liam: Nothing perked up my spidey-sense?
Matt: From this current glance, no. You guys are behind a tree at a distance.
Travis: No nude giants, right?
Matt: Currently, no, but you're keeping an eye out.
Laura: I'm walking with a smile, looking very friendly.
Matt: Who's leading the charge?
Sam: I'll go knock.
Laura: I'll walk behind Scanlan.
Matt: We have Scanlan and Vex'ahlia.
Liam: I'm going to go, as well, and continue to eyeball for traps.
Taliesin: I'll be hanging back a bit, as well.
Marisha: I'll be comfortably back, as well.
Sam: Before we knock, what were we told was in this thing?
Travis: The key.
Sam: The key. Inside a person, inside a house.
Laura: It's possible the person is the key; we're not sure.
Matt: Is Trinket within your necklace for this?
Laura: No, he's out.
Matt: Okay, Trinket is out alongside you. Grog?
Laura: He's a very friendly bear, look at him!
Travis: I'm outside the house.
Laura: Trinket, smile! Be friendly!
Matt: As you get across this small walkway towards the front, as you're walking with a big smile, Vex'ahlia, something catches your eye on the ground right before her and you watch as she steps forward. You reach out and grab her wrist and hold her back before she steps down.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: There is a large, rusted, iron bear trap that is open that you almost stepped right into.
Travis: That would be have been donesies.
Laura: I was being friendly, and it almost crushed me. Trinket, be careful, this thing was made for you.
Matt: Trinket walks up to it.
Laura: No, no, be careful! Spit on it!
Matt: (growling)
Laura: Can he spit? Can Trinket spit?
Matt: (bear spitting) It's not very-- it's more of a power drool, if you will.
Liam: Is it easy enough to walk around?
Matt: You can walk around that one, and you begin to see what looks to be seven other ones that are clustered around.
Taliesin: This is probably a giant-infested forest.
Marisha: Yes, that's exactly why. Bear traps are the biggest thing you can get for a giant.
Sam: Can we evade them and get into--
Matt: You begin to walk around. Yeah, you would, actually. As you step around one, you can see, at the front door, there is a welcome mat that says "welcome." As you're approaching it, you can see the welcome mat, there's just something a little off about it. Like, it's raised higher than the ground should be.
Travis: Willkommen.
Marisha: Trapped?
Liam: Well, I could attempt to dicker with it, but we could just knock the door over it if we really are going on manners.
Taliesin: Double-check to make sure the door isn't a problem, either. I'd imagine if the welcome mat is.
Liam: The door's going to blow up if we knock on it? I mean, we don't have much luck with doors.
Laura: Can I grab a stick and lift the edge of the mat up?
Liam: Do you want to do that?
Matt: Are you stopping her from doing that?
Liam: Yes, I am! Let me take a look at it, please! I've already detected it. I will attempt to disarm it with thieves' tools, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: That's fine. That is a 29.
Matt: You walk over. You look and you watch. There's a small cord that is hidden amongst the brush that runs from underneath the mat through a small ring that goes up from the house, then up a branch or vine, so it's hidden amongst them. You look straight up about 40 feet, you see a nice, solid, thick trunk that is just (creaking).
Travis: That's some Predator shit!
Matt: Right above the door.
Taliesin: I feel like there's a complicated story that goes along with all of this. I'm really excited by it.
Marisha: Is this going to be an Uncharted kind of adventure?
Taliesin: We have found the cabin of Macaulay Culkin!
Matt: So knowing this, you walk over and grab the cord. Looking to see where the leverage is, you motion to Grog to come over and hold it. You find another piece of heavy stone that is by the wall to the side. With Grog's help, you snip it, bring it over, and tie it onto the edge of this piece of the stonework, like a small pole that was placed at the base of the house. It holds the weight of this suspended trunk and it no longer triggers based on the step.
Liam: Percy, I'm sorry, I know you like a good Rube Goldberg.
Taliesin: I was really excited by this thing. It's a shame to dismantle it.
Laura: It's still there. Maybe when we leave, we can crash it down.
Liam: Does the door look hinky at all?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: You did say kinky, right?
Liam: I said hinky. 18.
Matt: 18. It does not appear to be trapped, per se. It does appear to be locked.
Liam: Yeah, well, I don't want to pick it.
Laura: I want to use a stick, and oh! Here, Scanlan, you were going to knock.
Sam: (chuckles) What is this stick?
Laura: So that you don't have to touch the door in case it's magic.
Matt: Which as a note, the door, at full height, is about at the shoulders of most of you. You recognize this. This is definitely a homestead built on the scale for probably halfling or gnome. It's still pretty big for a gnomish home, meaning it's a little more spacious headroom, you'd probably be able to stand in comfortably, except for you, Grog, you're probably a little hunched.
Liam: So it's like an ostentatious gnome door. Little more than is needed.
Sam: Like me. I'll just rap on the door with my knuckles.
Matt: Okay. There is an awkward pause.
Sam: Hello? Bidet?
Matt: Darin, if you want to go ahead onto the stage, please. (cheering)
Laura: I'm glad he didn't murder us with his bear traps.
Sam: You need this? Oh, you need this. Oh! I've been goosed.
Liam: Hey, chaotic evil necromancer gnome.
Matt: You weren't supposed to tell them.
Darin: I didn't.
Matt: So you hear amongst your business for the day, out of nowhere (knocking) on the door.
Sam: Kaitiaki!
Darin: I open it.
Matt: Okay, you hear (clicking) what sounds like six or seven different locks unlock on the door, as it slowly swings open, and before them what do they see?
Darin: A very small, elderly gnome, bald on top, with a long white beard, and a bit of a distant look in his eyes, and he looks at you and says, are you real?
Laura: I think so.
Darin: You're real? Prove it! Say that you're real to my invisible frog companion.
Sam: I will step forward and say, hello, there. (whispers) I'm real.
Darin: Yes, you're real. There is no invisible frog companion. The voices in my head would not have spoken to that. (stuttering) They know a little bit better than that, but that doesn't matter, I haven't had people here in over 35 years. (laughs) But you're here! And you're real! Go away. (laughter)
Darin: Demistrik, show them out.
Matt: You watch as two tiny red claws come around the corner as these tiny, impish wings unfurl. You watch as a tiny imp releases from the edge of the doorframe. (wings beating) "Get out!" (door slamming) and slams the door.
Darin: And show yourself out, Demistrik. I don't need you here, 19 years of you is more than enough.
Matt: You hear muffling argument through the door as the voice goes, "I'll stay where I damn please. You gave me permission to stay. If anyone is going to leave, you're going to leave!"
Darin: I think you should go to Kraghammer and become a circus performer with a little tin cup and a little hat and say, "Oh dear, I am Demistrik, the magical imp." That's where you belong, I tell you right now.
Matt: "Sounds like a lot more fun than having to deal with you on a daily basis, you son of a--"
Darin: (offended cry) Language, imp!
Matt: The door creaks open once more. "Sorry." (door closing)
Darin: The door creaks open again. I'm sorry, as well. (whispering) For him, he's awful.
Liam: I stick my foot in!
Darin: No! (laughter)
Liam: I'm really very sorry to bother you, although I'm delighted to make your acquaintance. I'm having a very hard time not just smiling like an idiot. Could we trouble you just for a few moments? We mean no harm at all. We do need to talk to you. We've come a very long way... as farts. That's got to count for something.
Laura: (sing-songy) We could give you some interesting conversation. 35 years is a very long time.
Liam: We've done a lot, we've seen a lot, we could tell you all about it.
Sam: I play an old, traditional gnome song to soften him a bit.
Matt: Make a performance check.
Laura: What is an old gnome song?
Sam: I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: 24.
Matt: It's been a long time since you've heard music, let alone one that scratches an old memory of childhood. It's nice.
Taliesin: It's more or less whatever strikes your fancy, to be fair.
All: (humming Going to the Chapel)
Matt: You see the imp in the back going, "Ugh! Stop that racket!"
Darin: You don't even appreciate music. What would an imp song sound like? You can't say one, can you? Because you don't have music where you're from.
Matt: "I can, but it'll cause your ears to bleed! It sounds like this." (screeching)
Darin: I find that very entertaining.
Matt: "You're such a liar!" The imp (poof) vanishes before you.
Darin: He's gone. Don't worry about him. He gets a little bit... testy, if you will.
Sam: May we speak? May we have a moment of your time?
Darin: Oh, well... Very well. You can come in if you like. Oh! Be careful, there's illusions and thingamabobbers.
Liam: (stammers) Sorry, that's infectious. We have a really big guy. Are you all right with him coming in? Grog, are you all right with coming in?
Travis: How the fuck do I get in that damn door?
Liam: Have you not crawled on all fours before?
Taliesin: You should try it if you haven't; it's quite delightful.
Travis: Are you lying?
Taliesin: No. For once, no, I'm not.
Travis: Can I do an insight check on Percy?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19.
Taliesin: I have never actually been quite so honest in my entire life. I think you'll find it very therapeutic.
Travis: I roll in on all fours.
Taliesin: How does it feel?
Travis: I'm waiting for it to kick in.
Taliesin: Crawl forward, back a bit, stretch, downward dog, stretch.
Matt: You watch as this large, gray-skinned mountain of a man crawls his way in. You could duck-walk through if you really wanted to. This is worse than Gandalf in Bag End. All fours is probably the most comfortable means of transport through the house. But you walk in and immediately, you watch as your new gnomish friend is going around and quickly disabling small things, putting small keys and tying off strings and wires you saw that were set up around portions of the room.
Taliesin: I am going to try and map this in my head, the crazy stuff I'm seeing right now.
Matt: This place is a hoarder's den. You see shelves and shelves of books and papers and scrolls and stacks of them. You see on bits of furniture and chairs more stacks of books and sacks and satchels and quills and inkwells. Some spilled and left and dried long ago. This place is very lived-in, very chaotic, and very unique.
Liam: The first thing that I do as we come in is I scan the room, or rooms, for more Macaulay Culkin shenanigans.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Maculkins. I think we can just call them Maculkins now.
Liam: That is a 21.
Matt: Okay. You do see there's one portion of the floor that he keeps avoiding, instinctually, that catches your attention. You're like, "why does he keep walking around that?"
Marisha: What's your name, friend?
Darin: Oh, well, that was taken from me a very long time ago. I only have what they call me. You know, names are an odd thing, aren't they? Sometimes a name can stick to you like blood on a knife or your fingers on a wallet that might not be your property, and then who you were is not who you are and yet... here we are.
Marisha: That oddly made way too much sense.
Sam: What do they call you?
Darin: They call me Sprigg. There's more. They call me Sprigg the Obnoxious.
Sam: Sprigg the Obnoxious?
Darin: Yes. It's not my given name; it was a name that was given to me when it was given to me.
Liam: Did you used to be obnoxious? Because I'm not picking that up.
Darin: Oh. We're rarely who we used to be.
Taliesin: Is there mercury in those pools? (laughter)
Darin: Who? Is that a friend of yours?
Taliesin: I sometimes will talk to the fourth wall. It's a thing; ignore it.
Darin: It's a domicile. There has to be four walls. If there weren't, it would be a yurt. I don't live in a yurt, dear boy.
Marisha: I sometimes live in a yurt. They're quite nice.
Darin: I have nothing against yurts. (laughs) Like a stick that you would put in a yurt so it wouldn't fall over. I would want it to fall over, therefore, I have nothing against yurts. (wheezing laughter) Demistrik!
Matt: The imp just appears across the room and just goes, "Good one. That was-- I am so sorry."
Laura: Pike? Do you think maybe a Greater Restoration is in order?
Matt: Pike goes, "Why?"
Laura: No reason.
Matt: "Could I just touch your hand for a second? Is that okay?"
Darin: (stuttering) Why?
Matt: "Just to see if we can help your day."
Darin: Do you not think that I'm real?
Matt: "Probably not."
Darin: I assure you, I'm real. I'm here. My companions are long gone. They were like you, like you, like you, and you, and you, and I'm all that is left. You are looking into a mirror of your future.
Sam: I'm going to look like you, or you're going to look like me?
Marisha: No, I know what he means. Who were your companions?
Darin: Memories. They're all memories now. I don't even remember their names. I remember some of them, but we were heroes and now I am here.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: Were there no other gnome folk in your party?
Darin: No, there was one like you, there was a big one, a mighty one. There was one like you, brave and kind.
Laura: That's like me! That's exactly like me.
Darin: There was one like you. Smart, yet sad. And you, as well. Yeah, and I was you.
Matt: Pike goes, "Please?" She grabs your hand and concentrates for a second, you watch as the holy symbol flares for a moment and the warmth passes through her arms into your hand. And it feels nice. It's like holding a freshly heated cup of tea. And as the spell completes and she pulls back. "That's all. Thank you."
Darin: Thank you, very kind of you. Don't ever do that again.
Matt: "Right, okay. Okay."
Sam: Your companions. Not to bring up sad times. How long ago did they go away? Perish?
Darin: 37 years.
Sam: And how, was it in a fight?
Darin: Oh, yes.
Sam: Against a powerful entity?
Darin: Oh no. Against ignorance, against bravery that should never have been. And that's why I'm here and they're not, because I ran, you see. I'm your future. You'll all be gone. You and you and you and you and you, and you'll be left.
Liam: While listening to all that, Vax slid his hand into Keyleth's and quietly listened to the whole thing.
Darin: Oh, well. Perhaps we should talk of other things. Should we?
Sam: Yes. Yes, we want this to be a positive visit for you, so is there anything we can tell you from the world outside that you might be curious about?
Darin: The world outside? Who needs the world outside? I have everything here, and what I need, dear boy, I have taken from Kraghammer. All these books over there, you see, those are mine. They should have been mine to begin with, and I took them, and now they are mine. (wheezing laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to peruse some of these titles, quietly.
Sam: The books, you mean?
Darin: Yes. You'd like to look at the books, would you?
Taliesin: I find it's the easiest way to learn quite a bit about a person.
Darin: Oh, you're very welcome to look at anything you like. What will you give me, dear boy? I require something. And yet, what do I need, living here? Not much. Intelligence, no. Secrets, no. Love, no. Sadness, bravery, power. What do you have that you would give me?
Travis: I reach in the Bag of Holding. I take out Percy's glasses. Would you care for a pair of these testicl-- spectacles?
Darin: I seek power, dear boy, not silliness. If I wanted silliness, I would talk to a Sun Tree. No one ever should talk to a Sun Tree, they should only listen to a Sun Tree. And so I shall say again, if you would like to peruse my book and perhaps find what you are looking for, what will you give me that would bring power and redemption into my life?
Sam: What do you have, Grog?
Laura: (whispering) Give him some ale.
Travis: But that's not fucking power.
Laura: You don't know. Bet it's been a while since he's had some of that.
Darin: It seems you have powerful items.
Travis: I do. I have these Bracers of Defense.
Darin: Ah, but that is strength. I require power.
Travis: (softly) Shit. Fuck.
Taliesin: Well, I reach into my bag and start cleaning a small green shard of residuum, polishing it.
Darin: Demistrik! If you excuse me for a just-- while you look, I'll just talk to my imp. You'll pardon us. (whispering) A word, Demistrik?
Matt: "Ugh. Just one moment. What?"
Darin: The big one worries me. I think we should have a code in case we have to jump him.
Matt: "What code would you wish?"
Darin: Goliath grab! But we need to remember that. We need to remember that.
Matt: "Goliath grab. Good luck!"
Darin: We need some sort of mnemonic device to remember goliath grab. G, goodness gracious, grab that goliath. O?
Matt: "O? Huh. I'll tell you what, I've got your back."
Darin: I don't feel that at all. You're right in front of me. How could you have my back? (wheezing chuckle) I got you. (laughing) Go away. So what do you have for me? You've had ample time to look in your Bag of Holding to produce something very--
Travis: Powerful. Well, I do have one thing that seems to be pretty powerful.
Marisha: Oh no, Grog.
Travis: I pull out of the Bag of Holding a small leather case. I open the flap. I don't know if you have any interest in this, but my experience with these items has been very extreme. Would you care to take a card?
Darin: Would you care to give them to me?
Sam: All or just one?
Travis: No, you can pick a card.
Matt: Make an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add your arcana skill modifier to it.
Taliesin: You are a madman.
Darin: 15.
Matt: 15. You don't recognize what he's holding in his hands, but you immediately see the leather casing around it, and your essence being able to read certain elements of magic-- It does appear to be a powerful enchantment, whatever he has procured from the bag.
Darin: Indeed. Perhaps one card for one book?
Travis: Yeah, sure. I mean, Percy, do you have a book out of all of these that you want to read?
Darin: What are you looking for? What do you seek? What knowledge? I've got it all here.
Sam: We seek a key.
Laura: To find a very ancient goddess--
Darin: Oh, don't say Ioun.
Taliesin: We're not going to say Ioun.
Darin: You just did!
Liam: Is there another name that you would like us to use? Like a nickname instead of Ioun?
Darin: The Broken Goddess. I know more than Ioun, please! Ioun. Gods, what do they know? We know more than they, for we exist! We live! We adventure! They merely observe. Am I right?
Sam: You have a point. They don't do much for us in the day-to-day.
Taliesin: Are you saying you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Of course I know more than Ioun.
Taliesin: Can you prove that you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Yes.
Taliesin: So if I ask you a question that is almost impossible to answer, you could answer it before Ioun could answer it?
Darin: Could Ioun create a rock so heavy that even she couldn't lift it?
Taliesin: Oh, please. I'm far too clever to ask such a simple question. That's easy. I would have to ask something that was very difficult to answer.
Darin: I will give you your answer if you give me a card.
Liam: You know, I was just saying what a good idea I thought it was, but I thought you were talking about the entire deck, Grog. I think the entire deck is a fairer thing than to have him pull a card, because that seems unpredictable to me.
Travis: Yeah, that sounds perfect to me.
Liam: We're all in a small, enclosed space together, Grog, and I like this fellow.
Laura: Sprigg, it is quite powerful, yes, but also maybe slightly dangerous.
Taliesin: A bit dangerous, to be fair.
Darin: I'm here alone. Well, there's... oh, yes. Go peddle your papers somewhere where they'd like papers peddled!
Laura: You're not alone at the moment.
Darin: That's true!
Laura: This is very true. And I'd rather not put my life in the hands of you, not knowing you very well.
Darin: Some did. I'm here.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: They are not.
Laura: So something bad could happen, and you'd run away, and we'd be stuck here?
Darin: No. 37 years. I ran away. I've been here deciding how to live again, how not to run away. That's what all this is about, isn't it? You can't just hide from the world. I've done it! Done it for a long, long time. Maybe you being here means that I should hide no longer. Or maybe I just have an invisible frog friend. Maybe I have nothing here, and nothing here.
Taliesin: Whoever has devised these contraptions and created this safety for you is a genius. I'm not saying you're necessarily--
Darin: It was both of us.
Taliesin: I somehow don't think so.
Darin: What?
Matt: "It was all me."
Taliesin: I've had my own demons to contend with in my life, to make me doubt my own intelligence. I get the sense that your compatriot-- I hate to call it friend, here--
Darin: I hate to call it friend, and yet I do. Isn't that right, friend?
Matt: "Unfortunately."
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Darin: You can tell them.
Matt: "No!"
Darin: Just tell him.
Matt: "No! Why, because he asked me?"
Darin: Yes! Be polite. They're guests in our home.
Matt: "Oh, it's not our home."
Darin: 19 years you've been here, ever since your master died trying to enter and got tricked into one of my traps, and now you're here-- does that answer your question?-- now, why don't you tell him what I just said?
Matt: "My master died trying to get in here on one of the traps, and now I call this my home."
Darin: Beautifully said. Bravo. You should be a little performer in Kraghammer. You know what the reviews would be? Not very good! Shameful behavior. Abysmal behavior from the Abyss itself!
Taliesin: We don't have much. Many of the things that we carry are very dangerous. Obviously, you have a great deal of genius here. I'm going to show him the elemental shard. I don't know if this would interest you, but I consider it to be of great value.
Matt: So you're showing him the residuum piece?
Taliesin: The last piece of residuum I have.
Matt: All right. So this is a sliver of what looks like green glass. It's finely polished, about that thick, that long. You've read about this. You've read that condensed residuum is very susceptible to enchantment and/or the focusing of short-term magic spells. It's expensive, it's lauded, it's hard to find.
Darin: I will use that Ring of Telekinesis to lift it up and take a better look at it.
Matt: You watch as it darts out of your hand and wisps up, maybe two feet ahead of him, and slowly rotates above him as he inspects it.
Taliesin: Impressive, but not as impressive as the giant log.
Darin: Oh, yes. But is there power in this, dear boy? Or are there only secrets? For you are secrets. He is power.
Taliesin: I may be secrets, and that is of me, but I believe there is power in its secret. People died for that. Many people.
Darin: People die every day. Except me. That's my punishment, child. I live on. I live on with my shame and my intelligence and you.
Laura: Because of Ioun?
Marisha: What's your relationship to her?
Darin: What is anyone's relationship to a god?
Marisha: Good question.
Laura: Some of us are champions. Some of them don't like them. Some of them worship them but don't really get respect. What's yours?
Darin: All of that and more.
Laura: So you're a champion? Are you a champion of Ioun?
Marisha: You're a champion of Ioun. Of course he's a champion of Ioun.
Darin: I wouldn't say that.
Taliesin: But we might, wouldn't we?
Darin: Champion of Ioun?
Matt: (demonic cackling)
Darin: Are you going to start calling me Ioun's Champion?
Matt: "Only if it bothers you, Ioun's Champion!"
Darin: I like it. Drat, eh? Drat. You tell them what you know of Ioun.
Matt: "She's a heinous bitch who got what's coming to her 800 years ago."
Marisha: What?
Darin: It's a bit common, but that is his belief. What is yours? What is your thought about Ioun?
Sam: We know that she possesses knowledge that could help us in our quest to save the world, and therefore, no matter what her personality is, she is valuable to us.
Darin: And yet, is there value in saving the world? Or should you just let it all go away?
Laura: No, no, I think we should save it.
Sam: Yeah, we're pro-world here.
Darin: Are you? That is interesting.
Liam: Sprigg, you're seeking power.
Darin: I seek redemption. There is great power in redemption.
Liam: We offer you redemption. Collaborating with us grants you the power to fell a would-be god.
Darin: Excuse me. For one second. Can I speak to you for just a second?
Matt: (flapping wings) "What?"
Darin: He's tricky. I think we should get a mnemonic device on what we need to do if he becomes too tricky. We should say, elf boy grab! E! For egads! There's an elf, we should grab him. L! Let's grab that elf boy.
Matt: "Right, all right." You guys can hear all of this.
Darin: F. Forsooth, I shall grab this elf boy!
Liam: I'm not an elf. Not an elf.
Marisha: Why do people like calling you elf boy and elf girl?
Liam: We have vaguely pointed ears. Not even fully pointed ears. My mother was not an elf.
Darin: Just a second. He's not an elf!
Matt: "We'll stick with the device. I've got your back."
Darin: I still don't feel it.
Matt: "You will."
Darin: All right. Hello!
Sam: Hi. Hi, mirror man. Listen.
Darin: All right.
Sam: Let's cut to the chase here. We need information from you.
Darin: Indeed.
Sam: You need something from us. Grog, give him a card.
Marisha: Wait.
Sam: We're dancing around this! We need this man!
Laura: He took the stone! Are you taking the stone?
Sam: Are you going to take the stone as a source of power? He said it's too mysterious.
Liam: I thought we were talking about redemption.
Darin: If you'll allow me. You've been very quiet.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a little freaked out right now. You're my worst fear incarnate. Sorry, that seemed very rude. My worst nightmare incarnate.
Darin: That didn't make it any better, dear child!
Matt: (cackling)
Darin: (shushing) Go ahead. Why am I your worst fear in a carnation?
Marisha: I've seen you in my dreams.
Darin: Hear that?
Matt: "Go get her, tiger."
Laura: Trinket starts chasing the imp around the room.
Matt: "No!" Up into the corner, (hissing). Turns invisible.
Darin: Oh, I guess you found that unbearable!
Sam: That was a good pun.
Matt: You hear the tiniest little demonic fart by your ear.
Liam: I'm also gently steering Trinket away from the floorboard in the middle of the room as he walked by.
Marisha: Somehow everything you have said since the minute we've walked into this building has made 100% sense, and I think that's what scares me the most, is I understand everything you've said.
Darin: It should scare you the most. I was one of you. I did what you did. 37 years ago, I did it. And we fought, and we fought, and they were right here. They were right here!
Sam: Who is they?
Darin: My companions.
Sam: And who were you fighting against? You, we?
Travis: Vecna.
Darin: No.
Sam: Gods?
Darin: It was silly. It was hobgoblins. It should never have happened. It was a simple fight, and they died, and I ran, and I can't even remember their names.
Liam: Sprigg.
Darin: Yes?
Liam: Would you like to be needed again? Maybe it's time to stop running.
Darin: What would I do?
Marisha: We can grant you power in items, but I don't want to speak for all of us, but I think all of us can speak a little bit to the fact that items don't grant you as much inner power as you expect them to.
Laura: Unless they're boots. And then they're amazing.
Marisha: Unless they're very highly argued and debated-upon boots, in which case I still think the argument--
Darin: Are we about to have a debate about boots? I'm against them! Your turn.
Laura: I am for them, usually.
Darin: Continue, Councilor, but watch yourself.
Laura: Have you any idea where the key to Ioun is?
Darin: In the boots? We're talking about boots, are we?
Laura: Yes. Boots that hold a key to Ioun's location. Specifically.
Darin: I think the key might be here, but I don't really know.
Liam: Sprigg, the world is on the brink right now. It's worse than hobgoblins. We've come here in great need, and the world is in great need, and the power that I offer you is making a difference.
Darin: Then make me believe in Ioun. We'll make a difference together.
Liam: Make you believe?
Marisha: Of course he believes. Believing is not the question.
Darin: Books everywhere, you see. That's something you can hold. That's something you can learn.
Marisha: That's something that's tangible. Ioun is distant.
Laura: But she could be tangible if you'd help us find her.
Marisha: What if we have found her? What if Sprigg is right? What if all of the information that Ioun knows is here in Sprigg?
Taliesin: I really want to look at these. I want to look at these books really quickly. I'm having a moment. I just want to start looking at these titles. What are these books?
Matt: You go over and start walking towards the edge of the nearest bookcase, and all of you at once-- everyone but Sprigg, actually-- suddenly hear a voice come through, filling your mind, filling your consciousness, filling your ears. Sourceless, delivered to your consciousness directly. "Thank you for showing me where he is." And that's where we're going to take a break.
Liam: Fuck!
Marisha: How? We don't have the eye! What a cock!
Taliesin: Oh my god, he's been in the troll dick all along.
Marisha: It's always been the troll dick.
Matt: All right, we'll be in just a minute. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. For the Twitch giveaway, we have this awesome Peruvian walnut dice tray, leather interior. It's very nice. It's the same type that I have, actually, back here, which is nice. Giving it away for somebody in the Twitch chat, so run on over, and the code for the evening is Sprigg. S-P-R-I...
Darin: G-G.
Matt: G-G. Double G.
Darin: S-P-R-I-G-G spells Sprigg, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to win that valuable prize.
Matt: So pay attention in the chat. When it's time to, go ahead and enter Sprigg into the chat, and one lucky winner will be announced when we get back here. See you guys in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so first and foremost, we have our winner for the dice tray from Wyrmwood. That is our friend k0sn1ght, spelled in the way that you spell your XBox Live name: k0sn1ght. Congratulations, you are the winner. Go ahead and contact Danoba and get your information and we'll get that shipped out to you. Bringing us back in.
Taliesin: That was fast.
Matt: Last we left off, you all, almost all of you, heard a singular familiar voice. The low, gravelly undead voice of The Whispered One fills your minds, saying, "Thank you for showing me where he is." In that moment where you all pause in place, you hear a series of simultaneous sounds (arrows firing) as a number of heavy crossbow bolts from nearby windows all fire simultaneously at Sprigg.
Marisha: Do I have time for a reaction?
Matt: No, you do not. This is a surprise round.
Liam: This is the sound of bolts, no.
Travis: It's all right, he can't die. It's cool. We're all right.
Matt: So that first one is a 24. What's your armor class?
Darin: My armor class is 19.
Matt: Okay! So you take 23 points of piercing damage.
Darin: Okay. Oh, there we go.
Matt: That's 17. That misses you. It strikes your shoulder and glances off. One bolt sinks into your chest and you look down and you see it's this big, long heavy metal bolt and it's jutting out from the side of where your shoulder and pec is. Another one rushes by and glances off your other shoulder. The third one--
Darin: Well, this is different.
Matt: That hits. That's a 25. That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: That one actually misses; a six and a one. It slams into one of the nearby books right behind you, barely moving past your cheek. Fifth one, that is a 19 exactly, so you take 24 points of damage.
Laura: How many fucking bolts are there?
Marisha: 24?
Matt: They're all sneak attack. And that is 20.
Darin: Another one?
Matt: Another one.
Darin: Okay.
Matt: That one's going to be 26 points of piercing damage.
Darin: I'm gone.
Matt: You guys watch as all these bolts (arrows firing and impacting) into Sprigg's body and Sprigg falls back, unconscious on the side of the room. I'm going to bring out a map now.
Darin: Fly, you fools!
Marisha: (yelling) No, Sprigg!
Sam: Darin, it was really great having you on. Thanks so much.
Laura: Whoa, cool!
Sam: Whoa, this is a cute house!
Laura: Oh, I can't see inside of it.
Matt: Moving the top floor off.
Liam: There's crates of apples!
Sam: There's a sack of something in the corner! Oh my god, how are we all going to fit in there?
Matt: Sprigg is currently unconscious on the ground there. Percival was there talking. Trinket is off to the side.
Laura: Trinket! Where's the imp?
Matt: The imp is not currently visible. Pike would be over on the side here. Keyleth, Vax, where would you guys see yourselves right now? Actually, tell me where you would be. I think that's what I'm trying to ask.
Liam: I would be right next to Keyleth because I was holding her hand.
Matt: As I chuck you onto the ground.
Liam: It's all right. It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, comes back in a day later. All right, cool. So you're there holding that. Scanlan, where would you be?
Sam: Near Sprigg-ish.
Matt: All right, so I'll put you right there next to the scroll in the ground.
Liam: And Matt? Could you touch on the map where the bad man touched you? No, where the bad floorboard is?
Matt: Yes, actually, I can do that.
Liam: None of you know this.
Matt: None of you know this, except for you, which is actually why I'm not going to show you. You know how to avoid it, but nobody else knows where it is.
Laura: Where is the front door?
Matt: The front door is right there.
Liam: There, over by Grog on your right.
Sam: These trees need to move.
Laura: I know, these trees are a pain in our butts. Oh no.
Sam: There's cloaked men everywhere
Matt: You watch as one that was up in the stairs vanishes up top.
Travis: Oh, he actually made it upstairs?
Matt: He fired, and then ducked up there. I need everyone to roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative?
Matt: Yes. Including you, even though you're on the ground.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil. It's fine. Gil did all right.
Sam: I don't trust Gil. I never roll on his dice.
Liam: Rarely. I have, but I got my Matt Colville meteorite.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 20.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Oh wow, so we have Percy, we have Grog, and Vax. Okay, 20 to 15?
Sam: 19.
Laura: Should somebody roll for Pike?
Matt: Yes, actually. Okay, yeah.
Darin: Also a 19.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've got a very low initiative bonus.
Matt: All righty, anybody else?
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 12. I don't know why I did deuces. 12.
Taliesin: Peace out.
Sam: NKOTB.
Marisha: 12 initiative, Wu Tang out.
Taliesin: That's our next shirt.
Sam: Quidd, everyone. Quidd.
Laura: Quidd.
Liam: Quid pro quo.
Matt: All right, so top of the combat round. The surprise round is done, you watch Sprigg fall to the ground, bolts sticking out of the side of the neck, the shoulder, and the body. Unconscious, now beginning to pool blood underneath where he's bleeding out, and you glance around and you see a series of shaded figures in the windows that all dart out of the way.
Marisha: Cowards.
Laura: Dicks.
Sam: Oh, they left. The fight's over, everyone.
Matt: Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Wow, this is a lot that happened. I'm going to click my boots, and I'm going to run up the wall and run upstairs.
Matt: Which, for the purposes of this, I will place the upstairs over here. So as you dart up, Percival, you run up the stairway there where the one guy you saw was standing.
Taliesin: Is he right there?
Matt: Yeah, he ducked out of the way, and there's also one figure that you recognize from the Shadowfell earlier. You see one of the ghastly creatures that was darting through the ruins leaping from from rooftop to rooftop. Its skin is grayish and long, its limbs lanky, its fingers curled into claws, and this long tongue dangling from his jaws, it's getting ready to run down the stairs as you charge him, and it goes (growls).
Taliesin: Manners! Action Surge!
Marisha: Yay, Manners!
Matt: Okay then.
Marisha: We're bad at manners, until now!
Matt: All righty, so what's the saving throw on that one?
Taliesin: It's a DC 20 strength. Oh, I'm sorry, no. Never mind. It's an attack roll.
Matt: Okay, so you have to roll first to see if you hit it.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah, that definitely hits. It hits, and you watch as you pull the sphere out and chuck it in the direction of the creature. Pulls its claws back, slams into its chest, and then unravels. It falls to the ground, prone, unable to move, right there in the middle of the floor.
Taliesin: Just making sure that I can do this.
Matt: Was that your action, there, doing that?
Taliesin: That was my action surge. I can only do one round. Just seeing if I have anything at a bonus that I can do.
Matt: You spent your action--?
Taliesin: My action, I activated my boots. My action surge activating that. Do I have anything I can do with a bonus action?
Matt: Not really.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn to the other guy and pull the ripcord on the glove angrily. (revving)
Matt: You load up Diplomacy. Good. That's your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Me? Oh? Can I go into a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: And he fell where?
Matt: He fell right there, on the ground, currently bleeding out.
Travis: Can I run over to Sprigg and shove a-- should I shove a health potion in his throat?
Laura: Well, we've got healers.
Travis: Right. I'll run upstairs to see where Percy went.
Matt: You rage-run just past Percival and you see there's one creature bound on the ground and there's another guy who's there with his crossbow, he's trying to reload, who sees Percival and is getting ready to pull it up as you leap in front.
Taliesin: Smash him!
Travis: Do you mind?
Taliesin: Please!
Travis: Yeah. (rage noises)
Matt: Go for it. Roll for a double attack.
Travis: Reckless! Not Great Weapon Master. Two-handed with the Dwarven Thrower. That's a lot. 30, minus-- oh, there is no minus. 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Second attack?
Travis: 31.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Travis: So they're not giants. So I just roll a d10. That's a ten. Rage damage. 25.
Matt: 25 damage on the first hit?
Travis: On the first one. Second one.
Laura: 24.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. With your hammer, two hands, whack right across the side of its head. You see the jaw unhinge from the side. As he pulls back, it's hanging loosely there, and the second hit you clock right in the side of the temple, and it nearly goes unconscious, and picks itself up again, gets its crossbow ready. It's still holding. It's not down yet, but it's hurt badly. You can see now, up close, you can see these figures, they're dressed in very, very tight black leathers, cloaks enshrouding their body, the hood is still up, but you've knocked it back. There you see a human male in his late 40s, early 50s, the head shaved completely bald, a tattoo of black tendrils around the left eye, and the left eye is missing from the socket.
Travis: Black tendrils? Okay, cool. That's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. All right. Grog's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, let's talk this out. Click the Boots of Haste. I think, with 120 feet of movement, I can blur up the stairs to where Percy is in probably 50 or 60 feet. And then finish that movement and go past the guy, out the window, with all of my movement in 120 feet or less. Okay, so I'm doing that.
Matt: There's also a window here, a window here, and a window here. Just so you guys know, and a window here, if you wanted.
Liam: Definitely understand. Blur up the stairs, shoot past Percy, shoot past that guy, out the window.
Matt: You're on the balcony now, looking right about here.
Liam: Do I already see those guys?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 19 plus 14 is a hell of a lot.
Matt: 19 plus 14? Yeah, you do see them. And you glance down, you can see they're hiding amongst bushes, and they're specifically stealthed. But you're keen of eye enough to see where they're placed.
Liam: I stealth, hide. Bonus action to hide. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. 27.
Matt: 27. Okay. You're not sure if they see you or not.
Liam: All right, then from this spot, if they're in range, I'm going to throw Whisper at one of them.
Matt: Right now, you are currently up here. So you glance off and you can barely see one that's over the edge of the roof right there. That's the only one you can see.
Liam: But I can see them and I can ignore three-quarters cover because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: So you barely see the edge of one there. Sharpshooter. I'd say yeah, you can. You can hit both, if you want.
Liam: So the one that I can see, hidden, I will try to throw Whisper. I'm going to hopefully sneak attack him and bamf there. That is a 28.
Matt: 28. He does not see you. So you have advantage on that if you want to roll again.
Liam: Right. Natural 20.
Taliesin: Turn him into paste.
Liam: Okay. (counting)
Sam: Did Pike roll?
Matt: Pike did.
Laura: What did she get?
Matt: 11. Typical Pike.
Marisha: She's after me.
Laura: Well, no, but Sprigg is right after Scanlan. He's before we are. So I'd rather get him up before.
Liam: So that one is 60 on that guy.
Matt: 60 points of damage?
Liam: Yes, and I bamf there.
Matt: As you chuck the dagger, like right towards where the center of the shoulderblades connect in the back he (groans) and you watch as the crossbow that he had drops to the ground and he crumples over on top of it, but he slowly starts getting to his feet out of the bushes. He looks really hurt, but he's still standing. And you appear right next to him there.
Liam: So I did movement, I hid for my bonus, I have action-action as a paladin. And action.
Matt: You have attack-attack as a paladin.
Liam: Attack-attack as a paladin. And then my bonus action. That was the first of attack-attack, so now I'll just do a regular attack, which is a 20--
Laura: (sarcastically) I'm so glad he got those boots back, I'm just so glad.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Liam: That is a ten and I'm going to pump him full of poison. He has to make a DC check on 15.
Matt: That is a seven. No. Four plus three.
Liam: So he also gets, that was ten plus 14 total. 20 total, between the dagger and the poison.
Matt: So the second dagger, you shiv him in the side and he (groans) goes to spin with the heavy crossbow and try and pull away, and as soon as the poison through him he goes, (gurgles) and you can see blood vomit down the front of his chest, his eyes roll back and he twinges and falls to the ground.
Liam: And there's another guy there who can see me, right?
Matt: Yeah, and he's hidden, but he's like (scared, heavy breathing).
Liam: Whisper.
Matt: Okay, he's trying to see that you're not being seen.
Liam: That is 31. Yeah, okay. So that is two plus eight is ten, plus psychic damage. 18. I'm going to bamf there with Whisper.
Matt: Okay. All righty. You hit him and you stand there. You're right in front of him now. All righty. That ends your go. As you appear over on the other side, you realize that over in the clearing there, there is another one of the robed figures, this one clutching a long, black, smooth staff that crooks over in the front that looks like a hand holding an eye.
Marisha: What? Where? Who? There were more of them!
Liam: But you guys don't know that yet.
Matt: You guys don't know that yet, just him. Ending your turn, Vax. That guy on the ground is going to try and break free. That is a 17. DC 20?
Taliesin: DC 20.
Matt: It struggles on the ground and can't seem to break free of the current magic manacles that hold it in place.
Taliesin: Yeah, he's stuck. I love that we have floors!
Matt: Another one of these darts through the window, leaps across the way, right in front of Sprigg, and you being right there, Scanlan, goes, (angry hissing) and lashes out at you.
Marisha: He's going for Sprigg!
Taliesin: He's going for Scanlan.
Marisha: But because Scanlan's over Sprigg!
Taliesin: Oh, that's fair.
Matt: Makes two claw strikes at you. First one is 16 to hit.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right. You suffer eight points of slashing damage, and I need you make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy. Not great. 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Sam: Is it magical?
Matt: No, it is not magical, but you feel this pulse of some sort of necrotic disease hit your system, and you just manage to shrug it off. (relieved cheering)
Matt: The other claw comes towards you. That's a natural 20.
Sam: Natural 20 to hit, sure.
Matt: That is 30 points of slashing damage on the second hit. Make another saving throw, please.
Sam: That's 17.
Matt: 17. The second strike hits you and you feel as the side of your torso gets torn out of the side, the blood splatters onto Sprigg, who's already bloodied and now there's gnome blood on gnome blood. As you reach for your side, however, it does not take effect; you manage to shrug off.
Travis: Those are constitution saving throws?
Matt: Yeah. That ends the shadow ghast's turn. Sprigg, I need you to make a death saving throw, please. Roll a d20.
Liam: Come on, Sprigg!
Marisha: Come on, Sprigg!
Darin: 14.
Matt: Okay, so you're okay for now. You're stabilizing. You're not bleeding out, yet. Mark a success on your death saving throws there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I am going to, bonus action-- down here, success, one.
Matt: Actually, before he even does that, what are you doing on your turn?
Sam: I'm going to heal him first.
Matt: That roll wouldn't matter because he may heal you before you come up. Don't worry about it.
Sam: I'll bonus action Healing Word him, 2nd-level. I will sing to him. I'll do a little line dance right in front of him and I'll say: (singing) I'll heal your heart, your achy breaky heart. I just don't think you'll understand. That if I heal your heart, your achy breaky heart, you got to wake up and kill a man!
All: Ooh!
Darin: (singing) If only you had used Mage Hand!
Sam: Nice!
Matt: So how much does he heal?
Sam: Seven plus six. 13.
Matt: You heal 13 hit points. That roll doesn't matter. You hear this echoing song in the back of your head. The second song today you've heard from your childhood. You come to consciousness. You wake up and look around you and you can see him singing to you as this giant horrible necrotic creature is looming right in front of you. You have metal bolts sticking out of your chest and an old sensation you haven't felt in a long time courses through your body, which is the need to survive.
Sam: It's my turn still.
Matt: It's both of your turns at the same time.
Sam: I will hold my turn.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: Dimension Door, but I'm holding until either Pike or Keyleth heals him more. And I will also say to him, old man, do you have some fight left in you?
Darin: I hope so.
Sam: Hold that thought for one second.
Darin: Holding.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Darin: There's a bookcase, is there not?
Matt: There's bookcases here, bookcase there. There's books strewn and clustered in these corners.
Darin: I'd like to, if I could, use the Ring of Telekinesis to pull a bookcase down upon an attacker.
Matt: Okay. Currently there's a bunch of books up here on a shelf, you can pull them down on him if you'd like.
Darin: I would like to do that.
Matt: So from the ground, you yank a bunch of heavy tomes off of this large shelf that goes flying towards this creature. I'm going to make this a dexterity saving throw for it.
Marisha: The pen is mightier than the bookcase security!
Matt: What's the DC on the telekinesis ring?
Darin: Where was it? Ring of Telekinesis.
Matt: I'll pull it up here real fast. Looking up magical items really fast. I have it here. Oh, it's for the spell Telekinesis? That's right. What's your spell DC?
Darin: 17.
Matt: 17. No, that's a failure. So for this, go ahead and roll 3d6.
Sam: He failed, or the guy failed?
Matt: The guy failed. He didn't dodge out of the way. He's like, (confused snarling, book impacts) and gets pummeled from behind by a bunch of tomes, books, and random glass baubles that were on the shelf that shatter against the back of its head.
Darin: We have a six, we have a five, and we have a two. 13.
Matt: Then add your intelligence modifier.
Darin: My intelligence modifier is a four.
Matt: 17, nice! 17 points of damage to that one. As you slam it in the back of the head (impacts) and it doubles over and (snarling), its long tongue slashing around. You're still on the ground, and it's over you. Is there anything else you want to do on your turn?
Darin: Demistrik?!
Matt: You hear nothing.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Darin: Can I cast something?
Matt: That is an action to do that, so if you have a bonus action spell, you could do that.
Darin: I believe I do. Tasha's Hideous Laughter?
Matt: I believe that's an action to cast, unfortunately.
Darin: I don't think we have any bonus actions. Oh, are there any healing potions that I can use my Telekinesis to get a healing potion to me?
Matt: You can do that next round. The attack was your one action. You can stand on your feet, if you'd like to.
Darin: No, I'm gonna stay right here.
Matt: Got it. That ends your turn. Now, these guys go again.
Laura: That's good, they're at disadvantage, now, to hit you. They are! Because you're prone.
Matt: This guy's going to move in. This guy is still standing and is going to drop the crossbow and pull out his shortsword. Is going to go ahead and attack you, Grog, first. That is 13?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: You take five plus four, that's nine points of slashing damage, reduced to five, yeah. Round down, so it's four. Struck twice, missed both. Both of these guys are going to fire at-- one of them's going to fire at Sprigg on this end because it's their goal, here. With disadvantage, that is a 16? What's your AC again?
Darin: My AC is 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. It darts over you. It misses, it hits the side of the wall. The other guy's going to strike again with disadvantage. That's a 14. And you see the other guy pulling back with a crossbow and fire. You roll out of the way and it (arrow vibrating) into the wooden flooring right next to you.
Darin: Are there any traps that they hit?
Matt: No. That one is going to attack you, Vax, because you're right there in front of it. That's going to be a 13. Does not hit. Second strike, another 13. Both of its shortsword attacks, you duck out of the way and dodge, moving around very quickly. All righty. Those two right there, one of them is going to, because it saw that you got up, Scanlan, they're going to fire two bolts directly at you. That is a 16 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, and the second one is a 24.
Sam: Everything hits.
Matt: You are currently in base-to-base with one of their companions, so they both get sneak attack on you. 19 points of piercing damage from the first hit. 24 points of piercing damage from the second hit. And then they both duck around the side here.
Sam: What was the second one? 24.
Matt: They both, we'll say, they vanish from sight. You're not quite sure where they are right now. Those two also duck out of sight, not quite sure where they are, either. That ends their go. Now, the guy in the back right there, who noticed Vax show up, is going to, after you slaughter one of the guys, and stab the other one, is going to angrily go ahead and use Blight on you. Can you go ahead an make a constitution saving throw, please?
Liam: Natural 20. You fucking dick, necro guy!
Matt: All righty. That does half the damage.
Liam: It's still a lot.
Taliesin: I feel like a natural 20 should auto-fail this.
Laura: I know, right?
Matt: 21 points of necrotic damage to you.
Liam: All righty.
Matt: And is going to-- four, five, six. All righty. That ends his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to run over to the window that those guys disappeared from.
Matt: Over this way or this way?
Laura: Right there, yeah. Can I see that motherfucker? Did I see him run past the window?
Matt: You know what? Yes, because he was not stealthing. You watch as he darts by, and you would have a shot, yeah.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to shoot at him. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: All righty, look at that!
Laura: Trinket doesn't have enough movement to get over by him, does he?
Matt: No, but Trinket can attack whatever's in your area, too.
Laura: I'm going to attack him with my Bramble Shot. With the Blazing Bowstring. Ooh, yeah. That's a 31.
Matt: 31? That hits!
Laura: Yes! Okay! Do I get sneak attack on him? I don't, do I?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn! At least I got Hunter's Mark. Okay.
Liam: Hey Matt, I realized. I never shot out the wings, so I shouldn't have had as much movement as I did, so I think we should take the damage back from my last attack.
Matt: (counting). 50 to get up to the top there, so at your double speed, you'd be at 60, threw the dagger and threw the dagger. You're fine. It still works out.
Laura: Okay, 28 plus my 4d8 piercing damage. That's balls.
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth, just so you know.
Laura: Seven, nine, plus nine is 37. 37 points of damage.
Matt: The first arrow hits him in the stomach, doubles forward and pulls back. Now, glancing over, saw you rush up and couldn't get out in time and now is going to try and back up as you're taking the second shot.
Laura: Does he roll a DC of over 17? A strength save?
Matt: Rolls a natural 17. Literally. Strength save? Minus one strength modifier. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, silly necromancer. You and your strength of nine. All right, so he is currently entangled in the brambles as the vines wrap around and pull him in, almost near the tree. You see the staff is pulled close to his chest.
Laura: Nice. Then I am going to shoot him. Oh, wait! I didn't add my Blazing Bowstring damage. Eight more for the Blazing Bowstring. And then I'm going to shoot him again. I'm just asking: do you get sneak attack damage if they're restrained?
Matt: You do, yeah. You can do that. You have advantage on the attack, remember, because he's restrained.
Laura: That's okay. Eight plus 14 is what? 32?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Oh gosh! Okay! Ten, 11, 12, 13, plus sneak attack. 13. What's that? Ten. So 23. And then Hunter's Mark. Plus one. 24.
Matt: 24. Nice. The second arrow hits right in the throat, and you can see it doesn't hit anything vital, but you can see blood's starting to pour out. It's one of those things that if he were to pull it out, it would probably be very bad. But he's leaving it in right now. He's looking pretty rough.
Travis: The necromancer is?
Matt: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn? Keyleth, your turn.
Laura: I'm going to step away from the window.
Matt: Okay. Step away from the window.
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: Against the wall there? You push the table back a bit; book almost falls off the top. What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Trinket is going to run over to Sprigg and Scanlan.
Matt: Up to Scanlan, or the guy who's there?
Laura: Just to the guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just try to growl at him and scare him because he can't attack him.
Taliesin: He's technically now engaged with the bear, so if he walks away, the bear gets an attack of opportunity.
Matt: That's true. That ends your turn. Trinket goes (roars) right in front of the creature. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. In my weird, emotional panic, Keyleth is going to turn and look around and she sees Vex firing a bow and Sprigg down on the floor, and she's upset, and she's just going to scream at the top of her lungs and do a Fire Storm around the building. Just (screams) and then I'm going to go (boof) where I think people might be in my rage.
Matt: Okay! So around the building where?
Marisha: Around the building. Sorry, Vax. I don't really know you're there, but around here and around here, and I'm sure I see Vex shooting at things, right? I'm going to try and go around.
Matt: So you have right here.
Marisha: Here, around, and that way.
Matt: All right. Okay, because you didn't see Vax outside.
Marisha: No. He's getting hit.
Matt: You saw Vax run upstairs.
Marisha: I just know there were people shooting through this window and through this window, so I'm doing a perimeter around.
Matt: How many squares is it? Ten, right?
Marisha: Ten ten-by-tens.
Matt: These two here get caught in it, as well as Vax and that guy there.
Laura: What about the magician guy?
Matt: If she's doing a perimeter? No.
Laura: Did you know that I was shooting at somebody?
Matt: She doesn't see the magician. Doesn't know where it is. "The Magician." The Prestige!
Liam: I have evasion.
Matt: Which means it's either half or nothing.
Liam: Right. At advantage because of the boots. What do I have to match?
Matt: Her DC, which is 21, right?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh yeah, way higher than that. We're good.
Matt: Yeah, you take no damage. You duck out of the Fire Storm just in time for it to (raging fire).
Marisha: I need two more d10s.
Liam: Yeah, dexterity save, man. Area effect.
Taliesin: Smoky d10 and spiky d10. And you get rerolls!
Marisha: I reroll ones. None of these are ones, unfortunately. (counting)
Darin: I just noticed the little lanterns glowing. Bravo!
Matt: Oh! Bravo to Dwarven Forge, man.
Sam: Well, it's your house.
Matt: True. Good torches you have in there.
Travis: Way to be energy-conscious with those LEDs!
Marisha: 39 fire damage.
Matt: 39 damage. This guy incinerates. He screams and burns. He manages to dodge partway out, but even the partial damage burns him and he (screams). You see him run off into the forest ten or so steps, on fire, like a stun man shot in a movie before he (impact) on the ground and smolders there in the distance. Those guys take it. What was the amount again?
Marisha: 39, and they're on fire.
Taliesin: It's hard to stealth when you're on fire.
Matt: They're both on fire.
Marisha: So that was my action. I'm going to do that out of my staff as I slam it down. I'm going to look at Sprigg and say: gods damn it, Sprigg! And I'm going to use that as my Healing Word, and I'm going to cast Healing Word at second level. Which is 2d4. 11 points to you. And then I'm going to use my free action that I have to turn into a fire elemental.
Matt: Your free action?
Marisha: Changing into something's not a bonus, it's a free action to change into my beast shape. Circle of the Moon, bitch!
Sam: Did you just call your fiancé--
Travis: -- a bitch?
Marisha: No! Combat wild shape.
Matt: Combat Wild Shape makes it a bonus action, as opposed to an action. That's the difference.
Liam: I would like to retract my "bitch," please.
Marisha: All right, so I'm just Keyleth.
Matt: Does that end your turn? All right, so as Keyleth's turn ends, it comes to Pike's. The entire exterior perimeter of this part of the house is on fire. Flames are now starting to catch. It is dry wood; the entire building is made from wood of the forest, so your home is now in flames.
Marisha: Wait, hang on. No, I'm doing the perimeter. I did think about this, which is why I didn't attack the guy in the house.
Travis: If you napalm the forest, the trees will probably catch fire.
Liam: It's a quick jump, though.
Matt: In order to do the perimeter, it's not a blazing inferno, but it's starting to catch. Flames are starting to lick up the sides.
Liam: End it quick, we can save it.
Matt: Fire Storm's a dangerous spell.
Laura: Let's try to save those books before they all burn.
Sam: He's an old guy. We were either going to kill him or burn his house down.
Matt: It's Vox Machina's MO, man!
Sam: It was always going to end this way.
Taliesin: Things you own end up owning you.
Darin: So glad I wore a jacket.
Matt: Pike is going to rush forward and is also going to attempt to Healing Word you at level two. It's a heal fountain on you. That is six plus five. That's 11 hit points you heal.
Sam: As soon as she does that, I grab him and we Dimension Door out the house.
Matt: Where do you Dimension Door?
Sam: To the only place I know  front of the house. Outside the front door. Not right outside, but towards the edge of the map there.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, anywhere around there, on approach to the house.
Travis: Or do you want to be more over yonder?
Sam: Where's the front door to the house?
Marisha: Right there.
Sam: So I'd be 20 feet, the way we approached to the house. So where you got it, if that's the way we approached.
Matt: You guys approached this direction. So you're there. Make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Ten.
Matt: Okay. You don't see the two hidden fellows over here. You see something large and hulking moving through the forest this direction, at a quick glance.
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then we're going to be okay.
Matt: You guys have pulled out of that house. You're still on the ground and all of a sudden your body physically shifts, and you're looking up at the trees. You glance around and you can see the back of your house, you can hear the frantic fray going on. You see the necromancer who's currently covered in brambles and held in place. You see a couple of guys on fire, on the side screaming on the side of the house, and your house starting to catch fire. That's okay. Pike, on her turn, is going to--
Marisha: Keyleth has anger issues. It's fine.
Matt: Because it's a single target...
Sam: It's the "This is fine" meme, except it's just Keyleth.
Matt: She's going to cast a level five Guiding Bolt because that's what Pike does. So ranged spell attack against that guy. 11 plus-- yeah, that hits. That's a 21. So that is 8d6 radiant damage. Nice. 19.
Laura: Is she doing it to the magician?
Matt: No, this guy right there, in the room.
Sam: He's an illusionist, Laura.
Travis: Is she doing it against Copperfield? Is David Blaine with them?
Matt: So after she heals Sprigg, and Sprigg vanishes, she grabs her holy symbol and goes, "Chill out!" and shoots this giant flashing beam of divine energy that slams into it. You watch as a lot of its flesh burns away from the impact. It's still standing, but it's a shining beacon. The next attack against it has advantage. And then Pike's going to back up with you, Vex, towards the back where the bookcase is and goes, "You smell something?" You now hear, simultaneously, (slow thudding) and watch as the side wall and the back wall explode inward, as splinters of wood and stone (crashing) comes from this wall here--
Laura: Oh no, all of his stuff!
Marisha: So I didn't destroy your house first.
Liam: Flames! Flames, less of a thing.
Taliesin: On the side of the house.
Liam: Flames on the side of the house!
Matt: Two familiar hulking entities come barrelling into the chamber. Remember those giant things you saw walking through the Shadowfell that you barely avoided with the mask?
Marisha: The censer?
Matt: Who has the censer? Not on you right now. You don't carry a fucking giant smoking censer with you!
Laura: Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that big.
Taliesin: I think at that point, I think we put it in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: But you did make a bunch of those herbs.
Marisha: I do have the herbs.
Sam: And there's a shit-ton of shit on fire right now.
Matt: They burst through. (roaring) This big yell echoes through their metal masks. It sounds like this horrible-- imagine a giant vocal scream that's peaking on the audio level against a tinny metallic speaker.
Liam: (Bane voice) Your punishment will be more severe!
Matt: Essentially. This one's going to go after Keyleth. This one's going to make two swipes at Trinket because Trinket's right there. As they barrel through, part of the roof breaks. Guys up top, Percy and Grog, you feel the ground buckle a little bit below you and you drop about two or three inches as the building is starting to lose its physical frame.
Taliesin: Oh god, Grog, what did Keyleth do?
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. You beat me by one second!
Taliesin: I'm well aware. It was totally worth it.
Marisha: #thanksKeyleth.
Matt: That's one's going to go ahead and do two slam attacks against Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah, I've earned it. Come on!
Matt: That's 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: And that's a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's 20 points of bludgeoning damage from the first hit. And the second one is 30 points of bludgeoning damage. (two slams) And it slams you. The second fist actually pins you up against the wall there, and you feel ribs crack inside your chest and now-- they're both down low in this hulking mass. They're almost wider than they are any other dimension with how they're crouched down and the thickness of their body. They're taking up almost the entirety of the room right now.
Marisha: You said 30 points, right?
Matt: Yes, for the second one.
Marisha: So I'm at 83 points.
Matt: Correct. The other one's going to slam twice into Trinket. Giant fists. That's going to be a 28.
Laura: 28 hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: 22 hits.
Matt: That is five plus six. 11 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket.
Laura: Halved.
Matt: Halved, correct. And 22 points of bludgeoning damage, halved.
Laura: Okay, so 11 plus six is 27 points.
Matt: That ends their go. We're at the top of the round. Percy, you're upstairs.
Taliesin: Okay, this all happened. That's awkward. That's okay, I know where I am. I'm going to run out onto the balcony really quick.
Marisha: There's room over here.
Travis: That guy's still up there with us, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I figure you're going to handle him. Grog, take care of these two. What do I see outside on the balcony?
Matt: You see, currently down below-- make a perception check. Actually, you wouldn't even see them from your perspective.
Taliesin: I just rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Right, it's blocking your vision from this side. You do see Scanlan, you see Sprigg who is currently conscious, you see this necromancer who is currently held with brambles, and you see two streaking flames and hear screams on this side of the building.
Taliesin: Weird question, really quickly. Where is that giant log trap?
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: How much swing does it have? Is it locked all the way over here, or is it hung back there?
Matt: It looks more like a drop.
Taliesin: Oh, so it's a drop on the door. Good to know. In the meantime, I'm going to run on the exterior of the wall, like right over here, if that makes sense. That's going to be my movement. I'm going to take some fun, happy pot shots at these bastards.
Laura: At the necromancer?
Taliesin: At the necromancer! Let's start with that bound necromancer. He's fun.
Liam: With the Vecna eye.
Taliesin: With the Vecna eye. He's bound, so I have advantage to hit him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to use my Animus gun so I still have a hand open, and I'm also going to burn a point of grit so that I can get him to drop his staff. Here we go with advantage. Oh darn, it was so close. 28.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's-- ooh! Fancy. 18 points of damage, four points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or drops his items.
Matt: Oh, don't worry, he drops the staff, because there's not much left of his head. When you hit the arm, the staff's clutching, but you slam it and it hits the side of the head and causes the right side of the face to explode against the tree, the brambles still clutching as it falls limp to the ground, and they crush the body into a small rock of flesh.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: You get a grit point back, right?
Laura: You get a grit point back, you get a grit point back!
Matt: You just barely see them; they have three-quarters cover. But you have sharpshooter.
Taliesin: Three-quarters cover, what does that mean in this crazy world? I'm going to burn a grit for advantage and shoot one of them.
Matt: The one right furthest on the side there?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'll start there. Let's give it a shot. I love advantage; it's so wonderful. 32. I really should have done extra damage. So that's 1d10 plus six. That hits, obviously. 32 to hit?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Goodbye, necromancer.
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: How much was that, sorry?
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right, he's still standing. (bullet impact, yelps) He starts looking up to see where the shot came from as the giant bullet wound through the torso and out the back of the shoulder was clean through. You hear him breathing, gasping for breath. (gasping)
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him. I'm going to make this a sharpshooter shot, and again with advantage because that's fun. Here we go. Damn! Almost a crit. That's 29. That hits.
Matt: That hits, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage-- I'm sorry, 24 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: He falls to the ground, face first. The second shot hits him in the chest. He just goes down, crumples. His body begins to smolder.
Taliesin: I use my bonus action to reload and stare at the nice person below me.
Matt: That ends Percival's turn. Grog, you're up. You hear, downstairs, the (heavy thudding). There's the guy in front of you who's like, (angry breathing). What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I smash my Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: You can! And your head goes into the roof! (thudding)
Marisha: We're real sorry about your house.
Darin: It wasn't a house. It was a prison.
Laura: Well, then you're welcome.
Travis: I'm hoping the floor gives.
Matt: The floor gives out. As your head (crashing) into the ceiling (creaking, crashing) it falls out from under you. You come falling down on top of this guy. Rubble falls around. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw. I need Trinket to make a dexterity saving throw. The other shadow ghast fails.
Marisha: Nine.
Laura: 14.
Matt: Trinket, you, and the shadow ghast all take 22 points of bludgeoning damage as the roof caves in over on top. Large part of the upper floor now falls and this guy stumbles and is now prone there. He also takes damage. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage from falling through the wreckage. Trinket's is halved, yes.
Marisha: Ugh, debris, ugh!
Matt: That kills him. The shadow ghast right here.
Travis: Because he had barely any left.
Matt: Yeah. He's like, "Huh?" (crashing) Gets rained on with rubble, broken, splintered wood and stone.
Travis: The guy in Manners, he fell too, right?
Matt: His part of the ceiling didn't fully collapse. He's just out of the way. He's dangling off the edge right now, as he shakes, it's making its way towards the hole. The whole ceiling didn't collapse, just the area right below.
Travis: Beautiful. Can I take Tweedledee to my right and make two reckless attacks against him? They're not giants, right?
Matt: No, they're not giants. They're considered undead.
Travis: They're considered undead. 30 to hit. And the second one.
Matt: Big targets.
Travis: 29.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: So ten. 24 points. Plus the Enlarge-- 25.
Matt: 25 with the first hit. (whack)
Travis: 22 with the second one.
Matt: 22 damage on the second hit. (whacks) You're hitting him. Laying on its back, it has these metal spikes jamming out of its flesh. You can see portions of other creatures that it had slain that have been jammed on these spikes and rotted away on its armor. So as you're hitting it, you're knocking away parts of partially decomposed creatures that previously fell in battle to one of these creatures. As you're slamming into it, you can see it's just rippling, partially decayed muscle that seems to be unnaturally strengthened by whatever necrotic energy keeps it stitched together and alive. It's a thick sack of hit points.
Travis: Wow. Cool. Good to know.
Matt: Is that your turn; are you doing anything else?
Travis: That's interesting. I'm going to go into a frenzied rage as my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, and that's the end of your turn? Okay. End of Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. You heard all this go on and now the whole building is starting to catch fire.
Liam: I'm going to bolt to that window.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: No, other way. So I have a view of Keyleth, the creature, and Grog. I'm going to throw Whisper-- I've got sharpshooter-- at that thing, and bamf there.
Matt: I will say, at proximity to the flames that are starting to catch, you do take three points of fire damage.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: You threw the dagger at the big guy?
Liam: Whisper goes to the window at that guy there.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Liam: And it's flanking, right? Because of where Grog is, or Keyleth?
Matt: It's not flanking, but you get to add sneak attack modifier.
Liam: Okay. Yeah, that's fine. That's 32.
Matt: Yeah, that hits. So you appear next to it.
Liam: Three plus psychic damage is four plus this junk. (counting) 33, doubled to 66 plus psychic damage is 74. Bamf there.
Matt: And you appear next to it. As the dagger sinks into its torso, you watch as its chest muscles and the iron cage-like armor around it seems to swallow the dagger. As it goes inside, you watch as some of the muscles all of a sudden (squelch) fall off of its body, like whatever energy's holding it together is untethered and this weird, fleshy, stitched-together creature is starting to fall apart. It's looking pretty hurt.
Liam: Okay, so here's what I wanted to do. So movement-- and I have action-action, action, action-- action-action, action, bonus action.
Travis: (repeating) Action, action--
Laura: (repeating) Action, action--
Marisha: (repeating) Action, action--
Liam: Guys, it's the rules in the book! You can bust my balls all you want--
Matt: Well, that's your first attack, so you have your second attack.
Liam: So action-action for my regular attack, right?
Matt: Attack-attack!
Liam: It's just semantics. Attack-attack, hasted action, bonus action. So that was the first of my attack-attacks. And here's the second one.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Well, we have dagger, dagger, dagger. Now we have attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack as our next t-shirt. (laughter)
Liam: I'm dumping a level two Smite into this, against an undead. That's seven, 10, 11. Ooh, it's cocked. 17 for that hit.
Matt: 17 with the additional--?
Liam: With attack-attack.
Matt: Right. Well, but you said you dumped Divine Smite into that?
Liam: Into that one.
Matt: You did the additional damage for it being undead? Okay, so that was how much total?
Liam: Whatever I just said. It was like 16.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. 17 will do it, actually. So as you rush in with the second dagger, you jam up into the same space where it's falling apart, and you hear this dull (shockwave sound) on the inside as the divine energy radiates from the strike and its body (slurping) sloughs off of the bones and around your arm. It slowly falls around your arm like old gelatin and (slurping) slips into the ground, covering the floor around you.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to do the old crouch. Not that she needs it, but crouch in front of Keyleth. And then I have my hasted action for an attack and bonus action for an attack into the other one. 29, and the second one is higher than 29. I'm going to dump Smite into it. Three-- you're making me mess up the math, Laura!
Laura: Psychic damage.
Liam: (laughing) I can't keep track of the math!
Matt: (singing) Epic-level DND!
Liam: 25 on that towards that guy, with Smite added. And then the last dagger, with Smite, at level one, is two plus is 10, 14, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Liam: I dumped a ton of Smite into that.
Matt: You didn't add your modifier to the third strike, right?
Liam: I don't know, so why don't you just minus six? 19, so we'll call it 13. Some people might have been catcalling me while I was trying to do math.
Matt: That's okay. No worries. You hit with the two final strikes. They blast into it. You watch as some of the armor gets thrown off its body. It takes a little hit, but the other creature looks like it's largely all right. That finishes Vax's turn.
Liam: Let me enjoy my last two months of life!
Matt: Shadow ghast. What's the DC on the sphere again?
Sam: 20.
Matt: Is it 20? 19. He can't escape from this freaking sphere. The shadow ghast is up on the second floor going (growling). Manners, man. All right. Scanlan and Sprigg, what do you guys want to do?
Darin: I have a question. The gentleman who had an arrow in his throat: he's gone, right? He's been blown apart.
Matt: Yeah. Actually, make a perception check.
Darin: Okay. That's a d20, isn't it?
Matt: Yep, d20 and then add your perception modifier.
Darin: Got it. That's a 17.
Matt: A 17, okay. You glance over and you see two guys who are hiding amongst the bushes on the side there.
Darin: Now, it's too far away to cast a spell.
Matt: No, depending on the spell's range, depending on what you want to do.
Darin: Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
Matt: That we can do.
Marisha: That's such a good spell.
Matt: It's a fun one. So bringing up Tasha's here, looking at the range. There we go. It's a 30-feet range, so you want to get up and get a little closer, probably.
Darin: I will do that, if I could.
Matt: All right, so that's half your movement, and you can move two more spaces. You can hit one guy. So one guy of these two you can select.
Darin: The first one.
Matt: That one there? All righty.
Darin: Yes. I think his name is Dave? Roll a perception?
Matt: Make a saving throw, a wisdom save. That is a ten! Your spell DC is a 17. You watch as the guy there who has his crossbow out and sees you get up, spins around, has this giant, heavy crossbow, the bolt very recognizable because you still have three of them in your body. Aims it towards you and then suddenly (maniacal laughter) and drops the crossbow to the ground and doubles over laughing, falling to the ground and is now kicking and laughing like a hyena right now, unable to do anything.
Darin: Knock knock!
Matt: (maniacal laughter)
Darin: Right! (laughter)
Matt: All right, is that your turn?
Darin: Yes, it is.
Matt: All right.
Sam: There's another guy over there? Have I seen him yet?
Matt: You haven't, actually. You do see this guy's on fire right now, who is still around.
Sam: Oh, I see somebody.
Matt: Yeah, and you can see that hulking figure come running through, and you hear the (explosion) through the back of the building.
Sam: For the beginning of the round, I'll say, guys, I think large giants are coming. Be aware.
Laura: (screaming)
Travis: (screaming)
Sam: What? I can't hear you! Speak clearly!
Liam: Threepio! Where could he be?!
Sam: Okay. Shit. I'll approach the guy I can see burning, on fire. That's where the front door is, right? Is he in front of the front door?
Matt: The log is right up in this area.
Sam: Oh yeah. That. So I'll take out my Wand of Magic Missiles, and I will just take down the rope.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three missiles fire out of the wand and slam into the bits of rope up top. As they explode, it's enough of an impact to cause it, as opposed to fall straight down, just spin and fall. I'm going to go ahead and roll a dice to see which direction it's going to land from its front point. So we'll say inward would be one, two, three, four, five, six. That's a six. So it plummets down, hits the ceiling, scrapes off and slams down onto him. He's going to try and make a dexterity saving throw. That is a seven plus four, nope. That's an 11. Go ahead and roll 4d8 please.
Laura: 4d8?
Darin: Is this Dr. Comedy, who's writhing in laughter?
Matt: I think so. Oh. No, sorry, he's over here. This guy's on fire from her earlier.
Sam: Oh, that's a five. 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to him.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: You only got 16 on 4d8?
Matt: It's not enough to kill him, but it slams on him and then falls over. You see as both of his flaming hands on the ground going, (groans). He's currently restrained underneath it right there, and on fire.
Darin: Knock knock. (laughter)
Matt: All right, you going to stay where you are?
Sam: No. I'm going to move towards any entrance or window I see. I can't really see over there.
Matt: There's a window here, window here. This one has flames in front of it. This one's available.
Sam: I'll go towards that [no audio] other one.
Matt: Okay. Four, five. That's as far as you can move there. You see the guy on the ground who's laughing in front of you.
Sam: Yeah, no thanks to him. And for a bonus, I guess I will inspire Darin De Paul, or rather, Sprigg.
Liam: Why not both?
Sam: I will sing to him, (singing) You had a bad day, you gettin' knocked down. I sing you a song just to turn it around! You say you don't know, but please don't die. I'll sing you this song and maybe you'll go for a ride. You had a bad day. (speaking) I don't know how that song goes.
Matt: All righty, so you get an inspiration die. You get a d12 that you can use on any sort of skill. You don't have to use it right now, but whenever you use a skill check or an ability check you can add that to it if you want to. There you go.
Darin: Thank you. You know, I had a bad day.
Sam: (singing) You had a bad day. (groaning and laughing)
Matt: All right, so now it's the assassin's turn. Keyleth, how much fire damage does it do when they're on fire? Is it d10?
Marisha: (stuttering) Oh jeez. Fire Storm. Yeah, no. d10.
Matt: Thought so. All right, he takes eight fire damage.
Taliesin: Yay! Under a log.
Matt: Under a log. He's going to try and break free from restraint. Nope, that is a 14. He cannot move that giant tree that's currently crushing him on the ground. He tries to reach out for his crossbow and aim it out towards Sprigg with one hand because it's still loaded. But he has super disadvantage on this strike.
Sam: Super disadvantage. Is that in the book?
Matt: It is now.
Laura: That's in the new campaign guide. Super disadvantage. Only when you're stuck under a tree on fire.
Matt: Sure, I'll do all three. All right. Eight, 12, 12. I made him roll super disadvantage. What does this remind me of? Like a terrible old sci-fi movie where the bad guy's on the ground with the gun trying to aim it at the hero with his final shot and the hero just walks up and steps on the gun. You (whoosh) sidestep the bolt as it fires. Nothing on you.
Darin: Of course.
Matt: The crossbow drops, (grunting).
Darin: Knock knock.
Matt: (crying) On fire. All righty, that ends his turn.
Darin: (whispering) Comedy comes in threes.
Matt: This guy back here is going to go ahead and since you're the one who has his friend writhing on the ground, is going to go ahead and try to shoot you with his crossbow. You do see him, although he's unaware of that, so he thinks it's a sneak attack shot. That is a 14.
Taliesin: You got to get better cultists, man.
Matt: I know, seriously. They come in large numbers, so yeah. This one just (impact sound) hits the tree to your left. His aim's off.
Travis: He's missing an eye. His depth perception sucks.
Matt: Exactly. And he goes ahead and darts behind this building there, vanishing.
Sam: Did I see the bolt or any indication that he exists?
Matt: You do. He reveals himself when he fires. So you watched him come out of the bushes and (whoosh) fire and then duck around the side of the building. The guy on the ground is going to try and save against your spell. That is a 13 plus zero. Nope. He's still laughing. He's just on the ground, (laughing). Tears in his eyes now.
Taliesin: I love that spell.
Matt: That's the end of the assassins' turn. Necro's dead. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark the big undead monster in the room. And then I'm going to shoot him! With the Blazing Bowstring!
Taliesin: Be careful. You might catch the building on fire.
Laura: Oh, but I'm going to use the sharpshooter thing.
Matt: Take minus five and do additional damage? Okay.
Laura: Which I don't know if I should have done that on this particular one. It was 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 is exactly his armor class.
Liam: Yas, Pelor queen! (laughter)
Laura: Five plus eight is 13. Plus sneak attack, because he's got Trinket next to him. 13, 18, 23, sorry! 23 and then lightning damage. 24. 25, 26. And then Blazing Bowstring. God dang! 27.
Matt: Okay, 27. So that's your first strike. (arrow shot) First one just (impact sound) hits in the side and you see the bolt of energy arc out and the flames burn up the arrow. By the way, the wall behind you is starting to get really warm.
Laura: I'm going to move forward. I'm going to actually move toward the corner where Keyleth is.
Matt: There's a guy on the ground there.
Laura: Oh, there is?
Matt: Yeah. So you've got to step over him.
Laura: I'm going to step on him.
Matt: As you move past, he does get a swing with his shortsword at you. Oh, wow. That's a 25.
Laura: Oh, wow. He hits me. Probably because I stepped on him.
Matt: I think so. So you take nine points of slashing damage. Just like, (pain sound) as you're walking past.
Laura: (pain sound) Fuck. Ah, shit. Okay, I'm going to hit the big hulking thing again.
Matt: I realized he had disadvantage, but I rolled another 18, so it's fine.
Laura: Oh, okay, well, yeah. I'm going to do the same thing with the big hulking guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't add plus ten to the previous one!
Matt: Because of the sharpshooter, all right. 39 last time. So go ahead and take a swing at it.
Laura: Thanks! 14.
Matt: You're up next, Keyleth.
Laura: 14 plus six is 20.
Sam: Figure out how you're going to ruin Darin's life more.
Marisha: I know. That's my one goal in life. I'm a big old homewrecker.
Laura: I think that's just 32 because I don't get sneak attack again.
Matt: All right. So the second arrow slams into him. It's still holding firm. It's taking the hits and you see parts of its body are starting to spill black liquid out of the wounds and (growls) its red eyes still beaming out from behind the metal mask in front of its face. Its arm swings back and tears some of the ceiling beams out with it. It's looking pretty rickety right now. So that ends your turn?
Laura: I guess so.
Marisha: Is it in a fireproof safe? No? Okay!
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. So I have this big asshole in front of me, yeah? The house is catching on fire, right? Yeah. Nope, she'd still be really upset and really angry. So continuing what I was saying before, she's gonna rage a little bit more and go into her fire elemental self.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unable to contain her frustration--
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Matt: You technically entered the space of the guy who's on the ground, becoming a fire elemental, which lights him on fire. (screams)
Marisha: Even more upset. I'm gonna move right in the space of this guy.
Matt: (whoosh) So occupying his space from this side, we'll say. She can catch you guys on fire.
Laura: But she doesn't have to.
Matt: I'll double-check that real fast.
Marisha: I mean, I'm magical.
Taliesin: Sparkle fire.
Marisha: I sparkle fire.
Liam: Also, we can take it.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's fire.
Matt: You know what? It can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide, so I'll say yes, you can maneuver through. Only if you want to, can you set things on fire.
Marisha: I'm going to go into this guy's space, engulf in flames, and do my multi-attack, two slam touch attacks.
Matt: Go for it. He is now in flames.
Marisha: That's cocked. Ooh, that's good, that's good. 21.
Matt: 21, yeah.
Marisha: And 16.
Matt: 16 just misses.
Marisha: Fucking balls. Okay. No, plus six to 11. That's 17.
Matt: That hits. That's what you needed.
Marisha: So both of those hit. 2d6 plus three. First one is eight. Plus ten. 18 fire damage.
Matt: He's looking pretty hurt. As you slam him with both of your flaming hands and claw across his body, where the flame hits, you see it (hissing) singes through the flesh and drags charred remains of where the muscle once was where you dragged your claws through. The body's starting to shake as it's holding its form together.
Marisha: That's all I've got, I think. That's it.
Sam: No. You have action, action, action, action, action. (laughter)
Marisha: Bonus action.
Taliesin: Bonus action.
Laura: Hasted action.
Liam: Send all your complaints to Mike Mearls and Chris Perkins at Wizards of the Coast.
Sam: Matt, not to be a dick, but has anyone stepped on the trap on the floor?
Matt: Actually, you know what, Vax would have avoided it. Because Vax is in the spot where it was, but Vax knew where it was, so Vax would have probably gone over it.
Sam: So cool. You're doing the little splits over it.
Liam: Splitsing. Van Damme-ing it.
Matt: Wait, you wouldn't have, because when you threw the dagger--
Liam: Let's do it.
Matt: It's not a big deal. Thank you for pointing that out.
Sam: But your boots are gone.
Liam: She stole them again? How did you do it?
Matt: You guys glance upward as you hear a (deep swoosh) and up above you in the hole in the ceiling where there once was nothing but air, you see hovering above you a giant beholder just appear. (guttural moan) All of its eyestalks curling around it.
Marisha: What do you mean, it's not a big deal? That's the part that I'm confused about!
Matt: Thank you for that. So that finishes your turn, Keyleth. Pike's turn. Pike sees this--
Liam: If we're retconning that in, I'm retconning (blows raspberry) when I see it.
Darin: Don't get Gargamel angry.
Marisha: Does that mean that Keyleth would have seen the beholder beforehand? You know what, don't worry about it.
Matt: No. You were so angry-- it's in the hole above. You don't quite see where that hole was at the moment, you backed away.
Marisha: Man, so much blind rage.
Matt: So much blind rage. Look guys, that's what we're doing. So anyway, Pike does actually make an insight check, and says, "It's not real. Don't worry about it!"
Laura: Thanks, Pike.
Matt: Fixed. (laughter)
Laura: It's not a big deal, you guys.
Matt: Pike, however, is going to go ahead and make another Guiding Bolt at the large guy there. That's going to be a 20. That hits. That's going to be 4d6. 14 points of radiant damage, which will do it. So you watch as Pike blasts it in the face with the Guiding Bolt. As it hits, the mask gets thrown off, and where the head was beneath it, you see this empty black void with two red burning coals for eyes that blink out as soon as the mask is removed, and the whole body crumples to the ground and turns into a horrible, thick, black-purple ichor.
Laura: I'm going to have nightmares about that.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: The beholder is still upstairs, staying in place going (hoarse screaming). (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's that kind of thing.
Taliesin: Brilliant.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. They're both dead. That brings us back. Percival, it's your turn. There's the one guy on the ground there. One's laughing. We'll say for the purposes of this, for the time, most everything there is not much of a threat at this point. So systematically, the guy on the ground who's hidden by the tree, you can just--
Taliesin: I'm ignoring him. I'm not even gonna deal. I'm just hopping in the window. I'm going to grab my little guy there. I'm going to bring him out to the balcony, and I'm going to unceremoniously toss him out of the house.
Sam: Defenestrated!
Matt: You throw him (thud). He lands.
Taliesin: And then I'm going to jump and I'm going to crawl down the rest of my way and join him outside the house. And try and jump around the fire, dragging him away from the fire.
Matt: Make an athletics check. Sorry, acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Acrobatics? Bless you for an acrobatics check. I'm rerolling that.
Matt: No, it's not a saving throw. You can't do that.
Taliesin: It's not a saving throw. Oh well, that's fine. That's a 16.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: I had the Spider Climb boots.
Matt: Right, I know. But Spider Climb boots only helps you if you keep on the surface. So as you leap, you manage to land on your feet, but the flames do catch you a bit, so you take six points of fire damage as you start to burn. For the purposes of time on this one, the guy who's currently under the log just burns to death there under the log. Pinned, he's trying to reach for his crossbow, but he's only fired the one bolt that was loaded in it. The guy on the ground is still laughing as you approach him.
Darin: Are there any rocks about?
Matt: Yeah, there's quite a few heavier rocks on the ground.
Darin: Well, I look at him, and I say, "It was a prison, but it was my prison." And I use the Telekinesis ring to lift a rock and drop it on his head.
Matt: (splat) A horrible sickening crack sound. It slams into the head. You lift it up. The laughing has stopped, but he's still moving and you can see the face is broken. The nose is smashed to the side and it's just blood. He's starting to try and get back up.
Darin: Well, tell them that Ethred Brokenbranch sends his regards.
Matt: Do you let him get up?
Darin: Yes.
Matt: He gets up. (grunting)
Sam: I'll Lightning Bolt him as he runs away.
Matt: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of this, he runs off in the distance (footsteps, yelp) and falls to the ground, no longer moving.
Travis: Can I kill the guy on the floor? Can he be mine, please? Can I please smash him? The guy that's lying on the floor in the house, please?
Taliesin: Just sit on him.
Travis: I haven't Gallaghered anybody in a while.
Matt: He's on the ground on fire now, going (frantic gasps) patting out the fire.
Laura: Oh, Grog, put him out!
Matt: He spends his action putting the fire out now, and is like, (frantic gasps).
Marisha: Keyleth takes a few steps back and motions as a fire elemental...
Travis: I skip on in and (gibberish yell).
Matt: He's like, (scream, impact). Just smashed on the ground. Red watermelon.
Laura: Fire's out, I'm assuming.
Marisha: I drop my fire form, turn, see my anger, destruction, get immediately guilty, and then do a Tidal Wave to quell the flames.
Matt: The building is standing, mostly. The whole front of it is blackened. The flames are gone. Most of the interior is destroyed. You have two giant holes in the back. Most of the upper ceiling is ruined. The house is in shambles.
Laura: What about the books?
Matt: A lot of them have been destroyed. Some of the ones on the back wall have been burned. Some of them have been burned by people in flames or made of flame or general black ichor that spilled out. The house is pretty wrecked.
Laura: Can I go over to them and see if I can find some books I think Percy would like?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'm running over to see that staff with an eye in it.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay. You start glancing through. You find some history books. You find some that relate to local history. You see some books that relate to various types of creatures; some animals and beasts. Many that are encyclopedias of various rivers and it's scattered everywhere. It's just universal knowledge of pretty much anything he can get his hands on. So some of it seems less useful than others but you hand-pick a few out that you think Percy would like.
Travis: I don't mean to ask the obvious question, but how did he know we were here?
Taliesin: No, that's not an obvious question. I have no idea.
Marisha: They have multiple eyes.
Laura: But how? Was he watching us? Is he scrying on us?
Taliesin: Must have.
Laura: Oh, he's fucking scrying on us.
Taliesin: Maybe he can feel you the way you can feel him.
Matt: You get the sense that's not how this works.
Taliesin: Yeah. I don't know.
Marisha: He had another eye, right?
Sam: Does that thing have an eye in it?
Matt: The staff you see? It's a carved eye. It's made of wood and paint. It's ornamental. It's mainly used as a focus, technically acts as a plus-one staff.
Travis: Sprigg. You said this place was a prison. Did you mean that?
Darin: Of course I meant it, boy. I've been there for years.
Travis: Could you leave? If you wanted.
Darin: Of course I can. The prison was more up here than in there.
Travis: Oh. Sorry about the prison, then.
Darin: Why would you be sorry? I asked you for power and redemption. Don't you feel you gave me that? We lived, child. We all lived.
Travis: Yep. Yes. That is indeed what I was hoping for.
Laura: I lean out the window. Hey, Sprigg!
Darin: Hello!
Laura: Hi.
Darin: Hi! How are you? I have some arrows in me at the moment. You like arrows, don't you?
Laura: I do. Come in here, I'll take them off your hands.
Darin: Okay. Question  if you do that, I'd probably die again.
Laura: I'll cure you, darling. Don't worry.
Darin: She called me darling.
Sam: She's the cutest.
Darin: (growls) I go in. (laughter)
Matt: You walk into your destroyed abode, managing to sidestep all the bear traps along the way. You've walked the path many times and you know it and I'm actually surprised none of you walked into any of them. You knew where most of them were, but none of you wandered out far enough into the open to do that. They're all inside. You can see your giant friend, of course, that you were talking to as you walked in is twice the size he was earlier. Previously where you had to hunch, you're now having to almost belly crawl inside the house.
Travis: But why? There's no separation between the first and the second floor.
Matt: So if you stand in that space, you're fine.
Travis: I'm in my space.
Taliesin: I'm going to prop our idiot up in the window so I can go in and keep an eye on him even while I'm inside.
Sam: We have a prisoner?
Taliesin: Yeah. I kept one.
Laura: But he's one of those creepy ghouls that probably doesn't speak.
Matt: And in the last minute or so has not been able to break free but is still trying.
Taliesin: He automatically fails until 24 hours has elapsed.
Matt: After the first failed save?
Taliesin: Any further attempts by the creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. He ain't going nowhere. It's mean, man.
Laura: Me and Pike can heal him as I take the arrows out.
Matt: Okay.
Darin: At last you've seen the point of me, eh?
Laura: (sarcastic laugh) Sprigg, anything valuable in here that you want to save before we get you out of here?
Darin: Would like my organs! Oh, I would like to save those.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: All right. No. There's nothing.
Laura: No keys to Ioun? You know where she is?
Darin: I might. I hope I do. I hope that I can give you the answers you seek.
Laura: I hope so, too. I cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Pike casts Cure Wounds on you, as well, and you heal 18.
Darin: Do I know her name yet?
Matt: No, you do not.
Darin: Cleric.
Matt: "Pike."
Darin: Yes. Ethred. Or Sprigg. Whichever you like. You can call me Sprigg. Can you help me pray to Ioun? We need answers, and I think together we might find them.
Matt: "I can certainly try. Do you have any items of her iconography?"
Darin: Do I?
Matt: Yeah, actually. You just reach over and find one of the undamaged books.
Laura: You healed 19, by the way.
Darin: Thank you. Use this and you talk to her where I can't. At least, not yet.
Matt: "I don't know if I can talk to her. I'm not... But I can help you pray. I don't know if it'll be enough."
Darin: Let's give it a go. There's a first time for everything.
Matt: "Grog!"
Travis: Yeah?
Matt: "Can you help me clear some of the floor, please?"
Travis: Not a problem! (grunting) Keyleth, catch!
Marisha: Ah! Ow! (laughter)
Sam: Floorboards! In her face!
Travis: I thought you were on fire. I'm really sorry.
Matt: Pike takes you over to the center of the room and tells you. "Kneel with me. Now take this book and close your eyes and... apologize."
Darin: For what?
Matt: "For everything you said about Ioun."
Darin: (grumbles) All right. Well, look the other way. Find some things that are of value.
Travis: (whistles)
Laura: Trinket sits down next to him and stares, but I'll turn around.
Darin: All right. I don't know if you're listening, Ioun. It's been many years since I've actually spoken to a god. I'd like to express my deepest sorrow. You see, this home... didn't mean as much to me as life. And I think these people gave that to me. If you could give us... If you could give me anything, any little hint, it would be greatly appreciated and I would be a warrior in your name forevermore. Please. Was that okay, bear?
Matt: (huffs, licking) Licks the side of your face.
Darin: No, I'm not crying. You're crying, bear.
Matt: You sit there in silence with your eyes closed, concentrating, holding the book before you. Doesn't seem to be an answer. Just silence in the darkness. Nothing. Everyone wants to look at him-- still turned away?
Marisha: Keyleth is definitely staring, but pretending not to stare.
Taliesin: I'm watching through the book.
Laura: I'm leaning against the wall and staring at him now.
Matt: Nothing. Nothing responds. As you have your eyes closed, you hear this soft chuckle in the far corner of the room. (cackles) "Really? Praying, are you?"
Darin: Yes. Can you help?
Matt: "Do I look the kind of guy that would help?"
Darin: Yes. I've known you for 19 years and I think anybody's capable of anything, so why don't you do something unexpected?
Matt: "I think you're right. It's no longer your prison. It's not mine, either."
Darin: That's true.
Matt: (flapping) Flies out the window.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Darin: Kraghammer has another performer, and not a very good one.
Matt: While you've been talking, by the way, and the silence has been sad. Taking in the slight emotional cut that not getting a response and putting yourself on that limb means nothing. The rest of you notice his torso is glowing bright blue.
Marisha: What? Is it really?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Your stomach is glowing.
Darin: Growing? What? I didn't eat anything. How could my stomach be growing?
Sam: You're blue balling.
Darin: What?
Sam: (whispering) Look down.
Matt: Pike looks at you and takes your hands and opens your arms and motions to your chest. And the book in your hand, you pull aside. You glance down and you can see, there's this soft, bluish glow that's emanating from your torso. Strange.
Darin: You see? I didn't have to believe in Ioun. I've found my religion. (chuckling) I'm Bluish! (laughter)
Travis: Aw, man!
Darin: It didn't happen!
Matt: No, it did. That's canon.
Darin: Wait a second, gentlemen. We'll restart for just a second. It'll be fine. That little imp is gone. So apparently, the key... is me.
Laura: Is you? It is you.
Sam: Is in you or is you?
Marisha: It is him. I've known it from the minute that I laid eyes upon him. It's him.
Travis: You did? You knew that the moment you saw him?
Marisha: No, I mean I had a hunch, I had a feeling, deep down inside. I can't say it. If I say it out loud and then if it's not true then I'm an asshole.
Liam: To be fair, we've only been here 12 minutes.
Darin: Yes. House gone. The imp gone. Burny, burny. Sad, sad. Pray, nothing happened. Now I'm blue. That's a day for you, isn't it?
Laura: So do you glow brighter the closer we get? What's the deal here?
Darin: I've never glowed before, child.
Laura: I think it's glown.
Darin: I've never glowned.
Sam: If you're the key, where's the lock? Where do we take you?
Darin: Well, I have been gone for many, many years, so English may have changed. To be fair. To be fair. I don't know. This is all new to me. I would have thought it would be in one of those tomes.
Taliesin: I'm going to pick up the book that he was holding when he was praying. I'm going to just try and read it.
Matt: Okay. You glance through it. The book is a simple book, talking about the construction of barricades and it looks like it was less the contents of the book and more just the image of the book itself.
Taliesin: I'm going to hand him the book again and see if maybe there's focus to be found. Maybe this is--
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Oh, lord. Ooh. Let's call that a 28.
Matt: When you took the book from him and handed him another book, there was a very faint vibration to his body as you pulled it from him and gave it back to him. Which you haven't noticed, but there's a physical vibration to him.
Taliesin: If it's all-- with your permission, I'm going to take his hands.
Matt: Okay. You feel them, and you feel this very faint vibration to his body.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Continue holding his hands. I pull out the Tome of Quick Movement. Hold. Hold while I find the paper. Hold.
Laura: What if he's a tuning fork?
Marisha: (shushes)
Darin: That's very rude.
Marisha: Where is it? I have a lot of things.
Sam: Divining.
Darin: Oh yes. A divining rod. A rod to the divine. Perhaps I am a divining rod.
Laura: That's what I mean.
Darin: Well said, child!
Marisha: I pull out the fork we that we got to get to Elysium. Is it similar?
Matt: When you pull out the fork and you hold it, you recall that whenever you cast the spell Plane Shift, there was a faint vibration to the specific fork when you cast the spell.
Sam: He's the tuning fork.
Taliesin: He's the tuning fork.
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: What, no? This is good!
Marisha: No, it is good. It's good, it's just... Oh, Sprigg. No, it's fine. It's good. I don't know. Everything in my life seems to have this impermanence factor about it. So I hope he's not something that can be used and discarded.
Darin: I haven't been used in 37 years.
Marisha: Sprigg.
Darin: It's all right. At least I wasn't discarded all that time.
Marisha: I'm sure it's fine, I just--
Darin: Look. Look at me. Just remember. Whatever happens, remember me. That's all that's important.
Liam: That's good advice.
Darin: That's all that we have. My friends are gone and I don't even remember their names. I don't remember Thetapax or Zephyr or... the guy with the nose. He was my favorite. (coughs and sniffles) Dusty in here, isn't it?
Marisha: Oh, Sprigg.
Darin: (sniffles and coughs) I remember. (softer) I remember. See? It's all up here. So whatever happens, keep me there. All right?
Marisha: I guess I have to start getting used to losing things.
Darin: Yes. Or you can be hidden away in a prison for 37 years. And that's not life, child. That's hiding. Don't hide.
Marisha: I've already built my own prison. They don't know. I'm already there.
Darin: You can break out. You can. It's hard. But you can do it. Just take the first step. And then you take another one. And then you take another one.
Marisha: And I grab his hand, and with that, I cast Plane Shift to wherever he is leading to go.
Matt: All right. The rest of you gathered hands for this?
Laura: I guess so.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Is there enough of us? Trinket, in the necklace. Quick!
Matt: Trinket. (roars) Into the necklace.
Darin: Wait. My invisible frog companion.
Sam: Is he real?
Darin: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: There is a sudden (sucking noise). A shuddering of power energy around you as you feel the vibration out of Sprigg's hand emanate throughout the entire loop you guys have created throughout your grasp. The familiar bright light flashes before you, and you feel your body being pulled through, at incredible speeds, through darkness. There. The familiar racing of the divine gate. (fast travel noise) As you pass through one of its many portholes. Then, adrift. By now you've-- the times you've passed through the gate, you've passed through it a handful of times since now. Adrift. Still holding hands, but the circle's beginning to turn into an oval. You can all glance around and see each other. Did you miss your destination? Did you overshoot? What's next? (whoosh) Another white flash. And suddenly you're at a destination. You glance around and you're standing within a small chamber. It resembles a decadent bathhouse but with no water nor occupants. It's empty. There are marble pillars stretching to a domed ceiling about 60 feet above you all. Silk-draped cloths drift and hang at odd angles throughout the ceiling. Glowing points of magical light latched within iron cages dangle at the edges of these pillars about 15 feet up that give the faint glow to an otherwise darkened room. There are walls on each side of this chamber, about 30 or 40 feet from you, and one arched hallway across from you that leads to the only other chamber you've seen.
Marisha: I immediately turn and look to see if Sprigg is still holding my hand.
Matt: Sprigg is still holding your hand.
Laura: See? All that fucking shit was for nothing! He's still alive!
Sam: Are you the same Sprigg as before?
Darin: I hope so. Let's ask my invisible frog companion. Well, I guess we'd better go find what we are looking for.
Marisha: Okay. Glad you're with us, Sprigg.
Darin: It's good to be alive.
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Darin: Remember that.
Marisha: Okay. I will.
Matt: As you guys walk forward towards the singular hallway, you go through the domed arch, and the hallway extends on. Featureless, smooth grey marble. Like a solid punch that seemed to have carved out whatever this material was. It extends for 100 feet. 150 feet. And even though there's very very faint light, and many of you can see through darkvision, there is a darkness about 60 feet from you that seems to consume what you can see. You can only see so far beyond that radius, and you're not quite sure where that oppressive shadow is coming from. The air is chilled, but not uncomfortably so. You can hear the distant sound of pinched winds whining through small spaces. A familiar sound from the many times you've spent underground, through caverns that had some openings that allowed air to streak through to the surface. A few steps more and suddenly the hallway opens into a second chamber. Into a library, if you could even call it that. Bookshelves that stretch upward for seemingly hundreds of feet, before flickering lights fell from your vision. You do not see where they stop. These columns of just tomes and cases and scrolls and parchments stacking as in tablets and any form of recorded information seem to just be infinite in front of you, to two sides of this road and upward. They seem to stretch in almost every direction, the walls to the side of you. You see columns ahead of you, and they tend to wind and curl like a labyrinth made of bookcases, to no end. It's very Escher-esque in how the further up you look, they tend to curve and shift and bend around each other. Your eyes, now attuned to the realms beyond mortality, you catch glimpses of shifting wind gathering books and turning pages. Spirits of the library, though sparse as they may be from this entry point, organizing. Reading and learning from whatever words are within. You begin to almost get vertigo, trying to contemplate the strange and overwhelming construction of such a wondrous place. An endless sea of stories. Spectral custodians keeping the tales of each other and the history of Exandria past, present, and binding the pages to tell what will eventually be the present, currently the future.
Taliesin: I've dreamed of this place.
Liam: Inside Matt's brain?
Taliesin: This is immortality. This is everything. (sighs, chuckles) I may never leave. I glide over to Vex and hold her close. This is stunning. My god, I think they may have actually forgotten all the idiot things I said yesterday.
Laura: Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
Taliesin: I think they've completely forgotten. I'm sorry. May have panicked.
Laura: I give him a kiss.
Taliesin: I'll be right back. I'm going to run towards one of those stacks, like a child.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the first--
Taliesin: I'm doing a title run. I want to figure out the organizational system before I touch a book.
Matt: There are no words on any of the spines.
Taliesin: I pick one.
Matt: Okay. You pick.
Taliesin: All right. I pick it up. I look around to see if anybody has a problem. And I turn to the title page.
Matt: It's ironic you do this, because the book is in Celestial.
Taliesin: I read Celestial.
Matt: You do. It's ironic that you did that. (chuckles) Glancing through, it appears to be describing a birth. Describing a tunnel, then a light, then a cry.
Taliesin: I skip to the end. Last page.
Matt: It seems to be an older man, surrounded by his family--
Taliesin: I've got it. I put it down. I pick up another one.
Matt: You glance through this book.
Taliesin: First page.
Matt: Begins very similarly to the last one.
Taliesin: Last page.
Matt: This one actually ends with what appears to be a horseback riding accident.
Marisha: Oh god, they're souls.
Taliesin: 115 pages in.
Matt: 115 pages in you get to a page that seems to talk about the sorrow of a lost romance, and trying to deal, coping at a young adult age.
Taliesin: I put it back and I turn. They're made of people.
Laura: Wait, what? It's skin books?
Taliesin: It's people! And I'm going to find the most interesting spine and I'm going to turn to the first. Birth. Death.
Laura: I can't read that, dear.
Taliesin: Birth! Death! Sex. Birth, death, some disappointment. I am just gone. I'm running back and forth, finding whatever interesting spine I can. Are they all in Celestial?
Matt: They are currently. All the ones you've picked up are in Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Okay. This is great. All right. I'm eventually probably going to pass out from mild hyperventilation and have to sit down.
Laura: We should maybe find Ioun, don't you think?
Taliesin: If we must, yes. Just as an experiment, I'm going to think about Vesper and try and touch a book. I don't expect this to work, but I'm going to close my eyes and think about, and pick it up and flip through it.
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: You grab a tome and pull it forth, and as you read through the story, it's an unfamiliar one.
Taliesin: There's a system. I will discover the system. I'm going to keep running around like a kid.
Matt: What are the rest of you guys doing while Percival is running around like a kid?
Travis: I'm not interested in the fucking books.
Marisha: Distracted by Percy, Keyleth just scans. Does anything in Primordial stick out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's good. 29.
Matt: Glancing about, none of the spines have anything written on them, so you have to start pulling a few books out and opening them.
Marisha: I hold my hand over and pull.
Matt: You open it up. It's not in a language you understand.
Marisha: I put it back and get frustrated.
Taliesin: I've stopped. I'm good.
Liam: Watched her the whole time and quietly walk up behind and give her a hug from behind and don't say anything.
Sam: Are there any doors leading forward or back?
Matt: It's a labyrinth of bookshelves. There's a path forward between, two or three ahead of you, but then it comes to an end where it splits off in two directions. Like I said, they travel up infinitely, so you're not quite sure which way leads where.
Laura: Is Sprigg still glowing?
Matt: Sprigg is, actually-- There's a very faint blue glow in him that never really faded since your arrival.
Laura: I wonder if we could follow the glow. Warmer?
Marisha: Hey, Sprigg. Stand over there!
Darin: All right. I run to where she's pointing. Is there any change in the glow?
Matt: No noticeable change.
Marisha: Damn. Sprigg, stand over there!
Darin: I just was shot with a bunch of arrows, so give me a second. I run over there, stop halfway and go, ow, and then I continue. When I get there, any change in the glow?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Darin: Oh, it's a one.
Matt: No discernible difference.
Sam: You're inspired, if you want to use inspiration.
Matt: It's a natural one. It's an auto-fail.
Taliesin: Is there a card catalog?
Sam: Is there a central area info desk?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to begin to wander around and try to find your way.
Sam: Oh, that's a natural 20.
Matt: Scanlan seems to walk with purpose into one of the random rows.
Sam: I'm clutching my Ioun stone.
Matt: Okay. All right. Anyone else do anything?
Taliesin: He seems to have purpose. I'm giddily following behind.
Matt: Okay, Percy's following Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to walk with Percy. Oh, and Trinket's out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket (bear grunt) looks confused and starts looking up.
Laura: I know. I know, dear.
Matt: Falls onto his back.
Sam: Are Vex and Percy walking with me?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to whip out my flute and I start going, (wedding march).
Taliesin: Oh. He may have heard.
Laura: He heard?
Taliesin: I thought you were going to die! I may have panicked.
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: We were asked to plead for your life, and I may have panicked.
Laura: Who did you tell? Percival, who did you tell?
Sam: Look at your shirt.
Laura: What? (screams) No!
Taliesin: I panicked!
Laura: Percy!
Taliesin: I panicked! There was a giant glowing sun, and I may have panicked. Well, I was a bit vague, but I was--
Laura: A bit vague? Scanlan, what did he say?
Sam: Well.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: First comes love. Then comes marriage.
Taliesin: I may have hinted that we might have eloped. May have hinted.
Sam: Wait, you're married?
Taliesin: I may have hinted.
Sam: Wait, no, you said you were betrothed to be married? Wait, you're married? Oh, wow, you just spilled it!
Taliesin: Silence! Cone of Silence!
Sam: They're married!
Matt: You try and yell, and it's making no sound. It is just absolute quiet. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Darin: I run in the corner and see if I glow again.
Liam: Keyleth and Vax heard the (wedding march), so we had a very different silent scene over in our spot.
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth was quietly sobbing in Vax's arms and then heard (wedding march) and went (angry roar).
Laura: Why is that bad? Why was that angry?
Liam: Because we don't get that.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Grog?
Sam: So you're going to ruin everyone else's joy. You're one of those couples.
Liam: Thank you, vacation Scanlan.
Marisha: Worst double date sangria partners ever.
Taliesin: He's back, ladies and gentlemen. He's back and taking no prisoners.
Sam: Are you guys going on vacation? We got a divorce.
Liam: It's the Debbie Downer SNL sketch.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm as uncomfortable as I can possibly be. This is the worst-case scenario of my entire life. I'm not moving and hoping this is all over soon.
Taliesin: I love that.
Travis: It's just endless books, beyond what you can see! Are there chairs?
Laura: I feel like Pike would've comforted him.
Matt: Yeah, Pike comes over.
Travis: There are chairs?
Matt: No, there aren't. She goes, "Do you want to go with everyone else, Grog?"
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Matt: "It's okay, yeah! They're walking."
Travis: I want to leave. Fast.
Matt: "The faster we follow them, then the faster we can go."
Travis: Okay. Let's go.
Matt: "I bet you could read some of these books."
Travis: I bet not. These are really tall books.
Matt: "Come on." She grabs your hand and begins tugging you behind her. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: Me and him?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Leaning into each other.
Matt: Okay. So you guys stay there.
Darin: I'm trying to see if I'm glowing anywhere.
Matt: You run around for a good minute and a half and you're not seeing any sort of change.
Darin: Nothing?
Matt: No.
Darin: Can I go forward into the bookcases and look right and left to see where they lead?
Matt: Okay, yeah. You turn around the corner and see them disappear around the edge.
Darin: I'll continue.
Matt: Okay. So you follow them. As you guys are having this silent argument, Sprigg catches up to you, but you hear nothing, Sprigg, as they're all going...
Taliesin: I just turned it off. I got everyone to agree.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi. How's it going?
Darin: Glowing. You are, too! What's going on with that? Yeah, you seem to be blushing.
Laura: It's so hot in here. It's very hot in here.
Matt: Pike and Grog catch up around the corner.
Travis: What did you find? The way out? Exit?
Sam: Seems like it could be this way. We'll have to band together and go forward.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Where did you get the sunglasses from?
Sam: It's glowing in here.
Matt: The Ioun stone actually is giving a faint glow similar to the glow that you see emanating from Sprigg's torso.
Sam: Is it glowing any more than--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh, okay. That's an eight. Maybe 11, I don't know. Do I add Jack of All Trades?
Matt: You do, yeah. If you're not--
Sam: I really want to know. I will inspire myself, and I'll add a d12. That makes it 16.
Matt: Okay. You start getting the sense, the further you walk, both your stone and Sprigg are beginning to emanate a slightly stronger glow, and so you guys begin to realize that this could be used as a path to something. You're not quite sure.
Sam: Let's keep going.
Matt: Okay. So everyone's going behind.
Liam: Imagination clarification, because a Silence effect went off there. Did Vax and Keyleth hear, "You're married?" Or was that all covered by Silence?
Matt: No, he crushed that in Silence.
Liam: So we heard the song, but that's it. Good to know.
Matt: Everyone else has gone ahead and vanished into the library. You guys are staying?
Liam: Noticing that we're totally alone, silently tug Keyleth down after them.
Taliesin: I felt that honesty was important at that moment.
Laura: No, it very much is. I'm very glad. I'm just surprised he didn't say anything. I spoke with him.
Sam: He was acting nobly. I won't tell anyone if you don't want me to.
Taliesin: We had to tell them eventually.
Matt: As you're following the stone, you hear some footfalls as Vax and Keyleth catch up to you guys.
Marisha: We already know. It's fine.
Liam: You're engaged. You don't have to--
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: I'm sorry I didn't tell you about that. Engagement. But you know.
Marisha: You fucking liars. You fucking liars! Just tell us! We know!
Laura: We got married.
Taliesin: We may have gotten married.
Marisha: Yeah. (sarcastically) Oh, surprise!
Taliesin: It was going to be--
Laura: (weakly) Celebration!
Taliesin: We didn't want to make it a thing. We wanted it to just be--
Sam: I think it's great.
Laura: Thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: It's wonderful when two people can fall in love and have each other forever and ever. That's nice. No, I mean it! You guys are great. You're super cute together. You'll make Whitestone-- You'll be celebrities there.
Travis: Do we have to get you gifts?
Sam: No, they eloped, so we're clear.
Taliesin: Very specifically, no. This place.
Marisha: Yeah, it's amazing. And Keyleth lights up her flame hands as she walks off in a fury.
Taliesin: Do you not know what this place means? Am I the only one who understands what this place means?
Travis: I would love to know.
Taliesin: It all matters!
Laura: None of us have forgotten.
Taliesin: No, I mean, really! It all matters! So much, and it's not going to go away! Nothing goes away!
Marisha: No, it only gets filed away in some library where no one else can experience it except for, what, one, maybe two people ever.
Taliesin: One and two people are all that it takes to experience something!
Matt: An echoing voice billows out from the right side of your troupe. A creaky, warm, matronly voice that surrounds and almost welcomes you with the intonation of a grandmother. It says, "Nothing is forever, Percival." You glance off to the right, and you can see there's a break in the bookcase. To your right, you see the shelves have stopped ahead in this direction to reveal a circular common area within the library, where the ground domes downward into an 80-foot-wide concave pit of cushions and tables, all standing at odd angles alongside this pit, but never sliding. Gravity seems to shift depending on where the dome stands. These tables hold teacups and writing implements and various other décor, and things that involve binding and writing. None of them slipping, all of them affixed to the table as the dome slowly comes to a central rest. Long, spiraling streams of silver, blue, and gray silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, and they come down like drifting silks that push past as you enter the area. Sitting 40 feet from you in the center of the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older woman with long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is somewhat weathered and wrinkled around her almond eyes, but the warmth of her smile, and her vibrant purple irises put you at ease immediately. Her blue and white robes tumble out from her form in tendrils of parchment that snake through the pillows like roots. She smiles as you turn and see her. "I felt that you would find me." And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Sam: Wow, Matt. Wow, Darin!
Liam: Can everybody watching still at home give a round of applause for Darin?
Matt: Seriously. If you're available, you may want to, if you can, come and join us for the first half maybe. Not next week, but the week after Comic Con, if you're interested. Because I want to roleplay out you meeting Ioun.
Darin: It would be an honor. You know how important this is to me.
Matt: Great. I'll look forward to having you back in a couple weeks, then.
Darin: And I will see you next weekend, as well!
Matt: Yes, indeed. Oh, Comic Con. Guys, thank you so much. Great game, well done. Breaking stuff, apparently. Once again, we have no episode next week because we'll be at Comic Con, but we have our panel on Saturday for Critical Role. Love you guys, hope you have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, the Dungeon Master and the person unable to find a barber who understands "leave it long." (laughter)
Matt: But that's okay; it'll grow.
Travis: Time jump, backwards.
Liam: You look handsome in any hair.
Matt: It's okay. But anyway, welcome. Before we dive into tonight's episode, in which we have our fantastic Scanlan Shorthalt. "Scanlan Sharthard" would be a much more apt name. Here via satellite. Hi, Sam.
Sam: What's up, guys?
Matt: Glad you could join us.
Liam: Wow, look at all that white and pink.
Laura: He looks like he is in Miami.
Marisha: The white and pink contrasting with the fur is very confusing to my brain.
Liam: (hum "Axel F")
Laura: (hum "Axel F")
Matt: (singing) No one watching is old enough to know what that thing is. Yeah, a few people do. And thank you. I know. All right, so first and foremost, let me get through our announcements real fast. Let's see. We have very few tickets left for the live show at GenCon, which we're excited for next week, guys; it's going to be a lot of fun. We're excited to meet everybody at GenCon. We have our campaign guide debuting there physically at the booth. We have a panel, we have a bunch of fun stuff coming up, so excited to see you guys out there.
Marisha: It's going to be so much fun.
Matt: Let's see. Merch-wise. Laura.
Laura: Hi!
Marisha: Oh man.
Laura: We have something to show you guys. You just wait. Hey guys, why don't you roll that footage?
Matt: "Hello, Tal'Doreians, and we have an exciting new product that we want to share with you today on Gilmore's Glorious QVC. What you see here is a beautiful Major Arcana Tarot Deck featuring some of the most prominent figures of who's-who in picturesque Tal'Dorei. Painted by the brilliant Lady Ioana Muresan, printed on the finest cardstock parchment with glittering gold foil, imported from the mines of Kraghammer. This is truly a showstopper for any high society soiree. You're not just telling their fortunes, you're bedazzling their future. Now, today we're offering this beautiful purple and gold deluxe edition as well as-- that's it, actually. I wouldn't offer any other than the finest edition at my store. The going market retail price is four platinum or 40 gold pieces or 400 silver pieces or 4,000 copper pieces, but today we are giving you the special Gilmore's Glorious QVC value of-- Sherri, no, we're still filming those. Please, you're getting them all smudgy!" (beep)
Matt: "The special Gilmore's Glorious QVC value of 24 gold pieces and 99 copper. That's right! Just two and a half platinum pieces! But that offer only lasts until the disclosed amount of seconds runs out on the timer in the corner. Scry now or come down and visit me, Gilmore, at Gilmore's Glorious Goods in the Abdar's Promenade district of Emon."
Laura: Oh, these tarot cards? Hold on, let me open it up, since you didn't see enough of it in that amazing commercial.
Travis: Oh my god, they're so shiny.
Laura: Liam, tell us about the artist.
Liam: Oh, the artist, Ioana Muresan, who is a long time Critter and has done a lot of art for our show, and we love her, and she did such a amazing job. Thank you. Look at this!
Laura: Go check them out. They're in the store right now. They're amazing. All of the other stuff that we had is still in the store, as well, including this fabulous necklace. And the posters shipped, so get ready to get them. Or maybe they're shipping tomorrow, something like that. I don't remember. But they're going out. And then the aprons are shipping at the end of next week, so you'll be getting those soon, too.
Matt: That new card smell. The gold gilding at the sides is so cool.
Liam: It's got gilding on the sides. Everything shines.
Matt: Gilmore's Glorious Gold Gilding. As a person who enjoys collecting cool major arcana, this makes me so happy.
Travis: Yeah, baby.
Liam: I'm not going to play. I'm just gonna look at these.
Matt: Thank you, Ioana Muresan. Your work is amazing.
Laura: You're amazing.
Matt: All righty. Critical Role podcast up to episode 30 is available. We're working tight on the next batch of ten. Will have announcements very soon for that. Let's see. People who are Alpha users, we have all the back episodes of Critical Role, all the way up from one to 107 available on Alpha. They retroactively added all the bells and whistles, HP trackers, all that fun stuff, conditions, all the little fun things for the entire show. They just finished it. So you have that waiting for you if you ever wanted to binge again.
Liam: They added Horshack back into the cast. That's a reference that nobody in the audience got.
Laura: I don't even understand that reference, bro.
Liam: Yeah, I know how much older than you I am.
Matt: That's okay. Let's see. Do we have a Talks Machina next week?
Taliesin: We do.
Matt: Yes. So we have Talks Machina at 7 00pm next Tuesday, Pacific. We have Brian Foster, who will be returning for the glory. And then I think that's it. I think that's all of our announcements for the evening. That being the case, let's go ahead and pull ourselves in this evening to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello and welcome back. Goddamn it. (sighs) Welcome back. I'll remember that. Your dungeon master will remember this. So. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in trying to find a way to seal off the growing threat of Vecna, now restored to physical form and seeking ascension and achieving it, you've gone to a number of the deities across the Exandria pantheon of the Prime Gods. Gaining some blessings and gaining bits of essence from these deities to create something called a Prime Trammel, an item that was used previously during the Calamity to seal one of the betrayer gods and could possibly put an end to Vecna's newly ascended form and reign as the only god on the Prime Material plane across the Divine Gate. Information given to you by the Knowing Mistress sent you beneath an underwater volcano known as Scaldseat, where you proceeded to learn how to breathe water and then step into toxic fume-filled tunnels, where you proceeded to breathe through the water via Grog's jug. Very clever. But finding your way through a short battle with some of the indigenous life forms there, a mother and two children magma bulettes. You headed down deeper into the volcanic caverns of Scaldseat, eventually finding a long-sealed series of chambers by the Allhammer, the deity for craft, family, and legacy, where somewhere supposedly beneath this volcano and hopefully within these long-sealed chambers lies the Core Anvil, where these Prime Trammels can be constructed. As you made your way through here, hearing the undulating reverberating pounding of some distant piece of machinery, it seemed, heading down the stairs you were put into a hexagonal chamber which had a square of coals and above that, X bars against the wall where in the center you saw a gold inlaid seal, almost. What's the word I'm looking for? An empty triangular shape, a pyramid inverted within this golden seal. And a series of these iron warriors that were embedded in the walls. Behind the stairway, you saw, and you identified upon seeing it, means of smelting metal and other forms of material. When Percival was inspecting one of these warriors, it immediately came to life, and you watched as the glowing outline of each one of these ten-foot-tall, 12-foot-tall metallic warriors glowed bright orange. They each emerged from the walls with these large two-handed greatswords at their side and immediately began to incite conflict. And that's where we left off, so to begin this fray: Where are you guys placed, currently? Percival, you would probably be right about where that guy emerged.
Taliesin: I would probably be about there.
Laura: You were on the wall.
Taliesin: I had my boots on, so I was up by his face.
Matt: Okay, so we'll put you there. Oh god. Here you go. Grog was by the smelter.
Laura: I feel like I had been looking at the thing. The big empty pyramid triangle thing.
Matt: So you'd be over in this area.
Marisha: I feel like I was with Vex, maybe on the other side. Yeah.
Laura: I was on my broom, because I had been hovering looking at it.
Matt: Fair enough. So you'd probably be about--
Laura: About there, then.
Liam: I know that I had just poofed the wings out and I think I was inspecting one of the big metal men before it came out of the wall. I don't really remember which.
Matt: Most likely one of the ones that was not attended by another member of the party. So we'll say about here. And Scanlan, whereabouts were you?
Sam: You know, near things. Can't really see too well, so put me where-- Let's see. I was at the door when we opened it and then I was beautiful. And now I'm not as beautiful. So put me near the door.
Matt: Near the door? So we'll put you over in this one here.
Taliesin: So all of their faces are indented?
Matt: Yeah, each one of them, as opposed to the other warriors you saw in the chambers that led down into this area, have no faces. Instead where you see are an empty void triangular like the large seal, but vacuous.
Travis: But matches the same shape?
Liam: They didn't Man-E-Faces around? I'm misremembering that? Maybe I just really like Man-E-Faces.
Matt: Which is a good thing. But regardless, I would like you all to roll initiative.
Laura: Not so soon! (grumbling)
Travis: Is their head height about the same height as the seal and the crossbeams?
Matt: The seal is a little bit higher than where their heads are. All right, so 25 to 20.
Laura: 23.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right, so we have Grog. 15 to ten?
Sam: 12.
Liam: Oh sorry, I was looking at a book. 18. Sorry.
Matt: All righty. Keyleth, what'd you get?
Marisha: Five. I don't want to talk about it.
Matt: Well, that being the case. As these large metallic warriors are emerging from the sides of the chamber, wrenching the large metal blades, these large rectangular almost slab-like swords, bladed on each side, Vex, you're up first. What are you doing?
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: What do we do?
Taliesin: What do you do, hot shot?
Laura: I want to attack them. I'm going to attack the one next to Percy. Attack-style. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him and then I'm going to attack him. I'm going to do this, and then this, and then this.
Travis: What are things like this considered? Creatures or golems?
Matt: Constructs.
Laura: God dang it! That was a miss; it was a one. It was a natural one.
Matt: All right, yeah, so you do actually pull back the arrow and it strikes true. However, the armored plating is so strong that the arrow shatters across the front of its armored chest.
Laura: Fuck! I do it again.
Matt: All right, second shot.
Laura: Oh my god. 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Laura: Okay, well that's good. Oh my god, I'm going to scream. Yeah, I know, bro. You're not bro, you're hubby.
Travis: She called me "bro." Game of Thrones is obviously back on the air.
Laura: 14. Don't say other numbers! 14 plus seven is 21. 24.
Matt: 24 points of damage. All righty. And are you going to stay wherever you are, or do you want to move?
Laura: How high is the ceiling?
Matt: The ceiling is about 30 feet up.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to fly up.
Matt: 25 to 30 feet.
Laura: All right. I'm going to go to the roof.
Matt: Okay. You're going to go all the way up to the roof?
Laura: Oh yeah. Some of that was lightning damage. That was two points of lightning damage. Because they're made of metal. I don't know if that did anything special.
Matt: Okay. Thank you for the heads-up on that. All righty. So ending your turn, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right. To start, am I within striking range of him if I back up a little bit?
Matt: If you back up a little bit?
Liam: Yeah. Do I need to disengage?
Matt: You are currently engaged with him.
Liam: Okay, so that I'm that close.
Matt: Yeah. You were inspecting it as he emerged.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And then I'm going to stick him in the face is what I'm going to do.
Laura: Oh wait, I get 3d6 of sneak attack now?
Matt: If you haven't been marking that, yeah. You should do that.
Laura: An extra four.
Liam: So that's 30 for the first. And for the second. 30 for both.
Matt: 30 for both hits?
Liam: Yeah, because I'm at advantage because I'm going before them.
Matt: Correct. So both hit.
Liam: All right. So the first one, which will get the sneak attack fun, is ten plus psychic damage is 16 plus sneak attack damage. (counting) 38 for the first. Plus Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Plus another d6.
Liam: 44 for the first and for the second is one. That's it. Is one plus the Hunter's Mark again, right?
Laura: Only Hunter's Mark once on your attack.
Liam: So it's only for one attack? Because I don't use it all the time.
Laura: Just kidding. It's Hunter's Mark every time.
Liam: Every time?
Laura: Yeah, no, I know that.
Liam: So five for the second.
Laura: Yeah, sneak attack's only once but Hunter's Mark is every time.
Matt: Yeah, whenever you hit it with a weapon. All right. So what's that second one you said?
Liam: Just five.
Matt: Five? All right. Got it.
Liam: Wait! That's not true, sorry. 11. Because it's not an offhand attack, it's my second paladin attack.
Matt: That's correct. There you go. 11. Boom. All righty. And you're going to stay put, or you're going to move somewhere?
Liam: I'm going to risk an attack while I'm not hasted. I'm going to risk an attack and back up about ten and go up another 15.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, they can't throw those greatswords, right?
Laura: Don't give him ideas. Stop it.
Marisha: You can't be paralyzed or restrained.
Travis: Helps a lot.
Matt: All righty. So you're also just about at the ceiling with her. As you shoot up and away, it strikes up quickly after your daggers have been carving into its armor. Its blade comes up in a wide arc against you. That is an 18 plus 12. 30.
Liam: 18 plus 12? Just barely hits.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Wow. Do we still have our Death Ward on?
Matt: You do, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, thank you for reminding me.
Marisha: And our Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: We're pretty metal.
Matt: 32 points of slashing damage as the blade rakes across the front of your chest and forces you back even further. Your shoulders end up slamming into the ceiling from the impact of both you retracting back and the blow itself. Your wings have to catch you for a second and you're keeping yourself elevated at the moment. Finishing your turn there. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Right. Standing by the blacksmithing stuff, I say, you are interrupting Grog's arts and crafts! And I would like to rage.
Matt: All right. Into a rage you go.
Travis: And I would like to charge at that little bastard right there.
Matt: This one here on its own?
Travis: Yes, please.
Matt: Up into his face you go.
Travis: Up into your face!
Laura: Get him, Grog!
Travis: Reckless, regular strike. Not terrible. 29.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Laura: 29 is not terrible. Did you know that?
Travis: Hey, that's good. 28.
Matt: Damage? All right.
Travis: The second one. Reckless, great weapon master.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just because. That's a million. That's 34 minus five is 29!
Matt: 34 minus five? Nice, that hits!
Travis: Five, nine, 21, 31. 31 points of damage.
Matt: 31 points of damage. Fantastic.
Travis: And that ends my turn.
Matt: All righty. Ending Grog's turn there. Percival?
Taliesin: I'm going to cry out to everyone  we need their heads. Don't hit them in the face, please. I am engaged. I know, there's nothing I can do. I am engaged with that thing, aren't I?
Matt: Currently, yes.
Laura: Maybe he doesn't see you because you're above him.
Matt: You technically triggered it. It's seemingly aware of your presence. In fact, the moment you say that, you watch as the metallic head goes (creak) and looks up right to you, that creepy triangular void staring right at you.
Marisha: Do you think you can dispel their magic?
Taliesin: I don't know. I'm going to try and take a run in the other direction. I know it's going to take a swing at me. Yep, I'm running down the wall.
Matt: This way, to the corner?
Taliesin: Yep, as far as I can go.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get on that wall.
Taliesin: I'll start coming that way, too. Not a full-- it's six spaces., so--
Matt: So at that point you'll be about there. All righty. It does swing at you.
Travis: You'll be fine.
Matt: 19.
Taliesin: 19 just hits.
Matt: 19's your AC?
Taliesin: AC's 18.
Liam: Escher man is down! I love being able to see everything.
Laura: I know!
Matt: 34 points of slashing damage. Which almost cleaves you off the wall.
Taliesin: 34 points? Okay, so hold on, let me do the math on that. (counting) Okay, yeah, I'm at 151 because I had a whole bunch of temporary points.
Matt: As you're running along the wall, it hits you from behind and for a second you feel the urge to black out and you fight through it and keep running. You can feel the warm spreading on the back of your shoulder blades from the blow, and you careen around that corner and stop, spinning to survey the room. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I pull up. I'm going to take my first shot. I'm going to take a straight shot and I'm going to blow a point of grit. We'll get to that, and I'm going to try to get him to drop his sword. First thing is I'm going to try and get him to drop the sword. That's a 34 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Strength save against a 20.
Matt: Okay. That is a 13.
Taliesin: Drop your sword.
Matt: Its sword clangs to the ground as you fire. You see one of its fingers is bent back and busted from the impact and it looks over for a second. You watch as its broken finger (clicks) snaps back into place and it looks back at you.
Taliesin: Okay, so that was shot number one. Oh boy, here we go! I've also got to do damage on that, which is-- I'm so sorry, where are all my dice? There we are. Oh, I didn't do that, so none of that. Where are we going? I'm going to drop three points of Cabal into this, as well. Oh, there we are. Six points of psychic damage, four points of lightning damage, and 16 points of standard piercing damage.
Matt: Got you. And which weapon's this?
Taliesin: Animus.
Matt: Got it. Perfect. All right, so (boom) the finger curls back and breaks into place.
Taliesin: Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to cast Hex on him. Give him disadvantage on strength saving throws.
Matt: Well, strength ability checks.
Taliesin: Strength ability checks. And I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot. That's 20?
Matt: 20 just barely hits.
Taliesin: Okay, good to know! Making that note. So I'm going to drop three more points of Cabal into that, so that's 20 points of piercing damage, four points of psychic damage, 13 points of lightning damage, and three points of necrotic damage.
Liam: Percy's turned into Rambo.
Matt: Okay. So the second one you watch as one of its armored shoulder plates dents inward from the impact, and there's a small pierced hole in the center where it seems to have blasted through its armor.
Taliesin: And last shot. I'm going to try and push him ten feet back.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Natural 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Should have done damage. There's no damage on a push shot.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: But he got pushed.
Taliesin: But he got pushed ten feet back. And hey, I get a grit point back.
Travis: Yeah man, when we got pushed in the playground, that got in your head.
Taliesin: So he's got to move ten feet before he can pick up his sword.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: And that's everything.
Matt: All righty, that ends your turn? All right, it is now their turn. So the one that you just blasted back, as it skids to a halt, almost slams against the wall, it looks over at you across the way and then looks around and surveys the room quickly with its strange triangular vapid lack-of-a-face. Glances up and sees Vex'ahlia on the broom above. Goes into a full leap to push with its feet off the wall and attempt to grab towards you in the middle of the air.
Laura: Oh no. It can jump that high?!
Travis: Like a WWE cage match.
Matt: It's half the size of the room, practically, in height.
Travis: This could be real bad. We might get total-partied right here.
Matt: So I'm making this a grapple check, so roll either acrobatics or athletics.
Travis: Whichever one's better. Acrobatics.
Laura: 25?
Matt: No. 34. (groaning)
Matt: I rolled really high. So as it leaps in the air and grabs you, it drags you off the broom and then basically slam-dunks you into the coals. (crash) Straight over, prone into the coals, landing at the side of them right there. The broom goes clattering off to the side. It's still chained to you from the apparatus that you placed, and it scatters across the stonework a couple of feet from you.
Travis: I thought it was just going to slam you into the ground!
Taliesin: Oh, it's going to hurt!
Matt: You suffer 19 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact.
Taliesin: Remember you have the temporary hit points.
Matt: And then ten points of fire damage from being slammed into the coals. You are considered on fire. You need to take an action to put it out or you take 1d10 damage every turn.
Travis: (singing) You whip your hair back and forth. (screams)
Matt: However, its sword-- and I'll go ahead and use this as a marker-- the sword is on the ground right there. So it can't use that right now. The other two can! So this one over there that got shot by you and flew away, as it arcs up, it's starting to look around to see if it can gain any real intent to go towards you and then glances off to the side and instead sees the smaller targets, the softer, easier-to-get-to druid and gnome.
Liam: What a fool.
Marisha: Bring it, bitch!
Matt: Turns to engage both of you.
Travis: This is the coal pit!
Matt: It's going to stop partway through there, and it's going to go right up there. You watch as underneath the head, the armor part in the chest suddenly hinges open, and you see this bright burning furnace in the center of its chest that (boom) lets out this extremely white-hot burning angry torrent of flame.
Sam: Can I cast Cutting Words, or can I use Cutting Words?
Matt: You can, if you'd like.
Sam: I don't know if it's going to do anything, but sure.
Matt: It can reduce damage. Because Cutting Words can reduce damage on an attack.
Sam: Only by a little. I want him to miss, right?
Matt: Well, it's going to hit regardless. You guys have to make saving throws.
Marisha: It's a cone. It's just going to hit us.
Matt: It would be about there. Get all of you, including the other guy.
Laura: If I'm prone do I still get to roll to roll through the coals to avoid it or some shit?
Liam: Yeah, hide yourself under the coals.
Travis: (laughter) Yeah. Like the McDonald's ball pit.
Matt: You do not get disadvantage on saving throws, so you can still continue to roll. I need Scanlan and Keyleth and Vex to all make dexterity saving throws, please.
Marisha: There's a hypodermic needle in here!
Travis: Oh god, yeah.
Taliesin: How very Santa Monica.
Marisha: Sorry, keep hitting the mic. Just dex saving throws?
Marisha: (groaning)
Taliesin: (groaning)
Sam: Wait, are you pointing to me? Oh! I have this dice. It's the first time I've ever used it. It has poop on it; someone sent me poop dice, and I think I just rolled a natural 20 because I rolled the poop.
Matt: What's on the other side of the poop?
Sam: The other side is a skull.
Travis: So that's a one, right?
Laura: I think for you, you count the poop as a 20.
Sam: Is poop 20 or is poop one?
Laura: I think poop is normally one.
Matt: What's next to the poop? What other numbers are near it?
Sam: 19, 13, and seven.
Matt: No, that's a one. Two ones on that!
Laura: You got a one, as well?
Marisha: No, I rolled a three, so I'm at seven.
Matt: Yeah, so Keyleth and Scanlan, you both from the chest furnace take 38 point of fire damage as it burns out in front of it. You take half that.
Laura: Okay. Which is what?
Matt: It's 19 points of fire damage to you. And the flames burn across the other armored individual, the giant construct, and you watch as some of its damaged form begins to seal up from the flames.
Laura: Flames help it. Fire heals them. Cold damage. Do cold damage!
Travis: Fire bad!
Taliesin: Fire good!
Travis: Is good?
Marisha: You said minus 38, right?
Matt: So that's going to end its turn. The chest slams shut now and the flames retract back inside, and you watch it exhaust smoke out each sides of its armor, and the flames that you saw burning in there are now dimmed, but beginning to flare up again. The one that's by you, Grog, is going to go ahead and move adjacently. Its head spins around for a second to look up at you and then it spins back to you, it's going to make two strikes at you with its greatsword. It has advantage on you because you used reckless.
Travis: Yes, it does.
Matt: All right. That is 31.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That is 30.
Travis: 30 points of damage.
Matt: No, that's two attacks.
Travis: Oh yeah, they both hit. Of course.
Matt: Okay. So for these, 33 points of slashing damage, reduced to half.
Travis: What is that?
Matt: So that's 16? Right? Yeah.
Laura: 31 divided by two? Yeah.
Matt: Well it's 33 divided by two. And then the other one is another 34.
Travis: Damn!
Matt: So there you go. Round down, so 16 points of slashing damage. So that's going to end its turn there. All right, bringing us to Scanlan. Your turn.
Laura: Do something amazing.
Sam: I'm on vacation, so nothing's going to be amazing. Is the sword still on the ground?
Matt: It is.
Sam: Is it near me?
Matt: It's about 25 feet from you.
Sam: Okay, I will cast Bigby's Hand! And I will pick up the sword and I will use it to hit not the guy whose sword it was, but the guy closest to me.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They're technically both equidistant from you.
Sam: Okay. Doesn't matter. I want the guy who hit me.
Matt: Okay, so you can move Bigby's Hand. I'll see how many feet it can move, because it'll pick up the sword, I don't know if it can--
Sam: It can move 60 feet.
Matt: It can move 60 feet? Okay then! Then yes, it definitely can. It darts over to the guy who hit you with the flames, so go ahead and make your attack. I'll say for the purposes of this, I'll add an additional d12 slashing damage to its strike.
Sam: I got an 18. Plus something; I don't know.
Matt: 18 to roll for its attack, plus your spell attack, so that definitely hits.
Sam: Oh, plus 11. Yeah, that's huge. Is this a sword attack, or is this Bigby's Hand's clenched fist attack?
Matt: I'm making it a clenched fist attack, so it's 4d8 force damage from adding an additional d12 slashing because it's wielding a sword while it does it, because that's cool.
Sam: That's cool. Okay, I love you, and thank you. So I roll 4d8. Cool. Oh wait, wrong one.
Matt: 4d8 plus 1d12.
Sam: 4d8, 17 plus 12, 29.
Laura: Well, plus a 1d12.
Matt: Plus you have to roll a d12.
Sam: Oh! Sorry, thank you. Then it's 17 plus seven.
Matt: Okay. 24 points of damage to him. All right, perfect. So the fist comes by and slams into it. The sword arcs through its armor and you watch some of the plates separate a bit, but it's still holding itself in place. That's your action?
Sam: Oh, I get a bonus. I will inspire Keyleth. I guess. Not that she needs any help; she's so fricking powerful, but I will inspire Keyleth by singing (singing) Your Minxie brings all the boys to the yard and they're like, it's better than yours, damn right, it's better than yours, you can teach them, but you'd have to "chorge?" (speaking) I don't know.
Matt: Take a d12 "chorge" die. All right. And do you want to move at all?
Sam: I'm close to a guy who's going to hit me if I move, right?
Matt: You're not currently in melee with a guy yet, but you're on the outside of melee with two guys.
Sam: Then I will move dead center on the board.
Matt: All right, so you're going to move back up the stairs a bit, then. You'll be here. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Do you need help off the coals?
Laura: I'll figure it out.
Marisha: You're fine, right? Okay. I am going to turn and do a Tidal Wave against this guy in front of me, so he has to make a dexterity saving throw. Tidal Wave.
Matt: Pull this up real fast.
Travis: Away, the guy behind you or the one across the pit?
Taliesin: The one closest to us, or the one on the other side?
Marisha: Let me see. (counting) I don't think I can hit both of them with most of my stuff.
Laura: Can you hit the two that are by us?
Marisha: I can, but I think it'd also hit you. It's a straight line.
Laura: How much damage is it?
Marisha: 4d8 bludgeoning.
Laura: Put me out, I wouldn't be on fire anymore.
Matt: You can do it in a way that would probably hit both of them, but it would probably hit her, as well.
Laura: Do it!
Marisha: Are we concerned about me extinguishing these coals? We can light coals again, right?
Laura: Unless they're magic.
Travis: I have made fire.
Marisha: Okay, cool, then with permission from Vex, I'll put you out! And then I'll step out of the way.
Laura: Maybe it'll push me out of the coals.
Travis: It's going to turn this room into a sauna.
Marisha: Yes! I'm turning into a sauna! I'm going to hit that and go (boom).
Matt: All right, so it slams across them. All right, dexterity saving throw for Vex and both of them.
Liam: This combat just got a lot sexier.
Matt: (laughs) 18 and a nine.
Marisha: Fail. Both of them.
Laura: Oh, do I roll a dexterity save, too?
Matt: You do.
Laura: I think I fail it. Oh no. 16, fail.
Matt: Knocked prone, knocked prone. Okay yeah, so you take the full damage, as well, but you are no longer on fire.
Laura: Yay! Did I get pushed out of the coals from the water?
Matt: No, but the coals are no longer burning, so it's not a huge deal, at least that edge of it isn't.
Marisha: So they take 19 damage, they're knocked prone, and the water extinguishes all unprotected flames.
Matt: So as this giant column of flame roars up, you watch as one of the constructs disappears into the water and gets slammed into the wall, (sloshing) over the coals, temporarily douses you, flames go out but you get battered around briefly by the other guy behind you, both of your forms crash into each other. He falls onto his back and as the water subsides steam fills the room now, visibility is now limited.
Marisha: Like a fog cloud?
Matt: Yeah. Everybody in here for the most part, unless you're directly in melee range, you're at partial cover.
Laura: Is it up through, all the way to the ceiling?
Matt: Yeah, it only lasts a round or so, then it'll dissipate. But for the next round or so there's partial cover for anybody not directly in melee.
Marisha: Partial cover? So it works both ways.
Matt: Yeah. Against them and you.
Travis: As if Vax needed any other reason to hide.
Marisha: I can feel the chat saying "Thanks Keyleth." I can feel it!
Laura: You know what? Seriously though, thanks Keyleth.
Matt: Are you going to stay where you are?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. We're at the top, Vex, you're up.
Marisha: No, wait! I'm going to take my bonus action to go water elemental. And then I can still move, right? Can I then move my water elemental into this guy's space and as part of my elemental form I can move into spaces that are within an inch.
Matt: Yeah. That'll do.
Marisha: Can I enter a hostile creature's space?
Matt: Yeah. Perfect. All righty. That ends your turn. Vex, now it's your turn.
Laura: Okay, so I'm going to stand up.
Matt: You get up, (groans). The flames are gone. You're still aching from being slammed so heavily into the coals there and you can look down, you can see beneath the water that has turned to steam and is dissipating on the middle of the hot metal floors of this room. The construct is still thrashing and about to get its way back up. What are you doing?
Laura: I can see him good enough though to shoot him?
Matt: Oh yeah, he's right there.
Laura: Am I at disadvantage because he's prone, but he's right there?
Matt: You're at disadvantage both because prone and you guys are in melee. You can back up if you want to to try, I mean unfortunately because he's on the ground and it's a ranged weapon, it's still disadvantage. It's nothing to do with the weapon, it's the fact that he's on the ground, prone.
Taliesin: Oh it's on the ground, okay.
Laura: Okay well I'm going to back up, because he can't take a strike at me, right?
Matt: He can take a swing at you, but it'll be his fists.
Laura: I'm going to back towards the stairs where Scanlan is.
Matt: So you're back up towards the stairway there. It does get one swing at you, no he already got-- no, because your turn is before his, so he does have his reaction. So he swings out with a fist at you, that is a 21.
Sam: I will Cutting Words that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Thanks, Scanlan!
Matt: Well, what are your Cutting Words to him?
Sam: Oh. I'm going to quote from some old TV show and say: you are a monstrous mechanised misguided moron! That's it.
Matt: Very nice. Go ahead and roll a d12.
Travis: I don't know that TV show.
Taliesin: I think it's Lost in Space.
Sam: Correct, Taliesin Jaffe! Oh shit, I only rolled a three.
Laura: Does that Cutting Words him down to 19 or 18?
Matt: Yeah, that brings him down to an 18.
Laura: Then he doesn't hit me.
Matt: As the fist swings wide, the words seem to strangely cut through to what element of an ego this charisma-one creature has and slams into the metal, causing this large, heavy knuckle punch to the ground as it resounds with this heavy (clang) that shakes the ground. Vex, you manage to move by without issue.
Laura: Great! I think I'm going to then try to attack him.
Matt: Go for it. Two attacks with disadvantage.
Laura: Okay. Ugh, natural 20 was one of them. 30 is the first attack.
Travis: It's 20 and an 18, that's pretty good.
Matt: Actually, it's an interesting point, the prone. An attack roll against the creature has advantage if the attacker is within five feet of the creature.
Laura: Oh, so if I hadn't moved away I would have been okay?
Matt: Possibly. It's still ranged; you'd be at disadvantage for ranged in melee, so would have been a regular attack.
Laura: Yeah, so it's not cancelled out, if I hadn't moved it would have been, never mind. We'll just fucking say it's fine, because then I'm going to wish I had that crit I just got. So 30 was the attack roll. Okay. (groans) Okay, that is 13, 14, 15. 15 plus one lightning damage. Plus six sneak-- no sneak attack, just kidding.
Travis: Did you Hunter's Mark him?
Laura: There's the Hunter's Mark. Five Hunter's Mark. That's the first attack, and the second attack at disadvantage is 19?
Matt: 19 just misses. Hits the armor, (crash) shatters across it.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Is that your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Vax.
Liam: All right, I want to slam down right--
Laura: Sorry, can I use my bonus to hide behind one of those pillars?
Matt: Sure, go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's foggy in this room!
Travis: Vax!
Liam: Yes, all right, slam down right by that one's head, straight down to the ground, take a split-second to look up at the watery druid, shake my fucking head, stab, stab right into its face. Yeah. Okay, so the first one is a 33.
Matt: 33 hits.
Liam: Yeah, and the second one is 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Liam: All right. So he's prone; he's at disadvantage. I'm going to dump Smite into both of these. Yeah! (counting) 36 plus the Smite, which is 32, 39 for the first, and then for the second hit is two, six, eight, plus the Smite, eight, ten, 12.
Matt: Total damage? All right, so as you slam down the first strike, you jam it right into the chest, and as you pull back the blade you watch as one of the chest armor pieces flips open and the flames, the furnace of its chest that are starting to burn in again begin to fill with the water from the water elemental, and more steam emerges from it. As it's starting to feel the furnace burn out, you reach in with your dagger and find a cool spot and jam it right in the middle where you see one of the embers is the brightest and as your hand goes in and strikes it, the ember goes dark and immediately the creature falls limp there.
Liam: Then, so with the way Hunter's Mark works is I can move it to another as a bonus action? Can I get it over to the one by Grog?
Matt: What's the range on it?
Liam: Oh jeez. 90 feet. Okay, so I should have a little bit of movement left, so I'm going to shoot back up, high-five my girlfriend on the way, and go as high as I can in the room.
Marisha: It goes (splat).
Matt: Yeah, it's like punching a fire hydrant. All right, so you're going to head over this way.
Liam: I'm only 60 feet because I'm not hasted wings.
Matt: Right, but this also is a small area, so between here, it's almost 30 feet there and then 30 feet up, so you'd probably be closer to here.
Liam: Okay. Awesome.
Matt: Yeah, there you go. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: All right, this guy can obviously play heavy. Reckless, great weapon master, can I make the first attack, I'm going to try for the first time--
Matt: And remember this round, don't forget your retaliation ability.
Travis: Yeah, right.
Matt: You forget it a lot.
Travis: I do, I know. I'm sorry, I get confused! I'm going to try a trip attack with my new maneuvers. It's a d8, right, that's added--
Matt: To the damage, but you still have to roll to hit first.
Travis: Okay. Reckless, great weapon master! 30 minus five is 25.
Matt: 25 hits, yeah.
Travis: So 11, 27, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41.
Laura: 41!
Matt: 41 points of damage to it!
Travis: And he's tripped. Oh, he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Correct. He actually got a 15, and your DC for your abilities-- do you have that figured out? You should have that figured out. It's eight plus your strength modifier plus your proficiency bonus. You're way over.
Travis: Oh! Okay, cool.
Matt: So six plus eight. It's 14 plus your strength bonus, which is I believe eight, yeah.
Travis: 26.
Matt: No, not 26, it's 14 plus eight.
Travis: 76.
Matt: Yeah. Sure. So with that, first you knock it prone onto the ground, tripping out from under itself as you sweep across its legs, you watch as one of the pauldrons that's built into its leg splinters off, and you can see the inner mechanisms of the construct's leg. What do you want to do for your second attack?
Travis: I want to hit it again! Reckless, great weapon master. Thank god for that. Seven. Shit, that might not be so good. 20.
Matt: 20 just barely hits.
Travis: Oh, it hits. Okay. One, seven, 17! Oh, 17 plus ten, so 27.
Matt: You're in melee, too, so the reduce his ability doesn't really affect you since you're right up against him. How much was that damage total?
Travis: 27.
Matt: 27 points. Okay. As you swipe it from under the ground and it falls onto its back, it slams, hits the ground with a hard metallic (clang). Using that momentum you swing back, (wham) and slam down on top of its chest, which caves in briefly, you can see bits of the flame of the interior furnace flickering around the edges where the metal's now crinkled inward, exposing the burning flame. Is that your turn?
Travis: Can I spend an action surge to do one more strike into his Gallagher-afflicted chest. Reckless, great weapon master! That's a lot. 16, 20, 34, 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Roll damage. You have two more attacks with your action surge.
Travis: Oh shit!
Laura: It's just another attack.
Taliesin: Welcome to my world, man.
Travis: 21, 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Travis: Nice. No, 29 was the hit, and 31 was the damage.
Matt: 31 was the damage?! Okay, so as you pull your weapon up from that first impact, seeing the damage it's done, you grin and you feel the veins bulge once more in your neck and you bring it up a third time for this one, slamming it down, the chest caves in entirely and you watch it fall limp as its arms detach and fall to the side. It's done. You still have one more attack, and you haven't moved.
Travis: Can I turn (cracking) to my right in my rage and start running across the room to Old Stupid Butt on the wall? 50 feet.
Laura: Oh, you got to it!
Travis: Last one! Reckless, great weapon master!
Matt: (laughter) Okay!
Travis: That's a million. 35, 30?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Five, 21, 31.
Laura: It's so good when they're within range of Grog.
Matt: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn, Grog. That brings us to Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend a point of dead-eye to that last one that's on the ground, and I think that cancels out the disadvantage. Yeah, let's just shoot him. Yeah, that's a 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Taliesin: That's ten points of damage, two points of necrotic, two points of psychic. And do the same. That's 32.
Matt: That hits. (groaning)
Taliesin: What a senseless waste of human life.
Laura: The tarot cards!
Liam: The tarot cards!
Taliesin: Tarot cards are fine!
Marisha: They're actually fine. They were on the box.
Matt: Just let me know what magical items you need me to re-print out for you.
Taliesin: All of them!
Marisha: And your new dice box.
Laura: Can we get some paper towels?
Liam: Ten points of coffee damage.
Taliesin: Ten points of coffee damage.
Laura: It may have landed on some wires.
Taliesin: That's nine points of normal damage, two points of psychic damage, six points of necrotic.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Somebody's running now. Soon as we said wires.
Taliesin: And for my third shot. That's 30 points.
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Taliesin: That's 17 points of normal damage, four points of necrotic, one point of psychic.
Matt: Okay. So after Grog rushed up and slammed in this one's chest, he pulls back and actually pulls the armored chest plate that retains the furnace in the inside off. It's still wedged on the axe. And as it pulls open you see the flame begin to spark and billow out of the chest. How do you want to do this? (shouting)
Travis: You are frenzied raging right now.
Taliesin: I want to pour a cup of coffee-- (laughter)
Marisha: Morning traffic Percy's like (groaning).
Taliesin: I'm going to sit. I've already got him, second time I'm going to find very carefully every little crack, and I'm going to get him in there. I'm going to listen to them bang around on the interior. I'm going to rattle them around.
Matt: You hear the ricochet on the inside (clanging), as it does, the flicker burns really bright, you can feel it almost burns into your beard but you pull away real fast, almost like looking out of the trap in Ghostbusters. So you turn away. The flames (crackle) burn upward and then immediately go dark afterward, it falls and collapses to the ground there, unmoving.
Travis: I looked in the trap, Ray.
Marisha: Ugh, no!
Taliesin: It's going to be fine.
Laura: The worst. It's seriously under the box though, on the wires.
Liam: But coffee and Wyrmwood are the two best things, so you're mixing the two best things. (yelling)
Laura: It's everywhere!
Taliesin: Holy cow. I have a coffee problem.
Matt: The coffee-pocalypse has come to Critical Role this night.
Travis: That's an eight-ounce cup. It's a normal cup of coffee.
Taliesin: You would think, and I've been drinking it all night.
Laura: How is there so much coffee?!
Taliesin: I don't know!
Travis: You can caffeinate half of Burbank right there.
Taliesin: Ignore me.
Matt: It's hard to. So. As you all take a moment to look around, you can see that these three warriors now lie broken and destroyed on the ground. Whether it be drowned, torn apart internally, or bludgeoned in the center of their chest cavity, they are no longer moving. You still, now in the quiet, hear the rhythmic (steady banging) that's been perpetually feeding into the distant background of this entire structure deep beneath the volcano. What do you want to do?
Travis: Can I look at the golem, the construct that's down by me? Is his face, the triangle face, is it detachable? Can I remove it from the rest of his person?
Taliesin: We can always put it underneath the smelter and pour in.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Hold onto your butts. That's a one.
Matt: There's no button for it. There's the old fashioned way.
Liam: I'm going to land down next to the other one and start looking in the same fashion. Across the room.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: And I will do it the old fashioned way.
Matt: So make a strength check, please.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Like most of its armored pieces, the arms detach, but the head is a solid jointed portion to the torso.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22. And as you're inspecting this, you hear this horrible (clanging) sound in the distance as you see Grog with his foot up on the center of the armored clavicle piece, yanks the head off of it, tearing, causing the metal to bend back and spring for a moment in the air.
Travis: Look, it's just like the one above the coals!
Liam: Oh, that's how you do it.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Taliesin: We've got to do all three heads.
Travis: That's an interesting phrase.
Laura: See if you can smelt some platinum into that thing, Grog. Should it be platinum? Should probably be platinum, yeah?
Taliesin: We have the platinum. Let's see what happens. Let's smelt the platinum into the heads.
Laura: You know how to do it, because you're a blacksmith now.
Travis: We're not supposed to like, kissy-face the heads to make some sort of a 3D shape?
Laura: No, it's already got a pyramid in it.
Travis: Good deal.
Taliesin: I think we're going to put all three into the one.
Travis: Sounds like a plan. Can I go over and archaically remove the other two noggins?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: May I assist by holding the bodies with Bigby's Hand while you pull the heads?
Matt: Yes, actually. Make a strength check with advantage, Grog.
Travis: 23.
Matt: Yeah, so with Bigby's Hand wrapping around the body, clutching it like an action figure, you very easily (crack) pop the head off, and you now have two disembodied heads.
Travis: One more. Do you want to help me with this one, too? Yeah! What's wrong with your voice? 18.
Matt: 18. (groaning) It takes a little while, and it pulls off, but it's mildly deformed from being pulled off. It seems like the hole in the face is intact. It took so hard a try.
Travis: We got the ashtrays.
Taliesin: That'll do. Let's try this.
Travis: All right. We head over to the smelting apparati.
Matt: Okay. So you walk on over, and it's a small furnace built in there with extremely hot coals, and it seems to be an influx of perpetual heat, but there's a large bellows next to it that you can use to try and increase the heat there for a temporary, short time, and you once again, strangely, you look over to it and you know exactly how this works, like you've always worked with it before. So the flames that were a burning orange-red, extremely hot, begin to flare into bright yellow and white in places. And the heat emanating from it is enough that it causes a lot of you to get uncomfortable in the presence and you have to take a step back, Grog enduring it.
Marisha: I'm still a fire hydrant. Keyleth is on fire marshal duty. I do some misting, like at Six Flags to cool off Vex.
Travis: You can't just run through you, like Universal City Walk or something?
Marisha: Yeah. Mainly just to make Vex sexy. That's really all I'm going for. I turned into an elemental. I've got to do something with it.
Matt: Make a check with your blacksmithing tools, which is your proficiency modifier, and we'll say for this, because it is more of a dextrous use of this skill, add your dexterity modifier.
Travis: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24. So in setting up preparation, you take each one of the heads, and to fill each one of their-- I want to say concave, but it's an interior pyramid space. Convex is outward. It will be about 100 platinum pieces or so to fill each face void. So you take the platinum, you melt it down into the smelter, get it to where it's in the gripped, tong-held metallic reservoir, until it eventually melts down. You then pour it into each of the heads, so 300 platinum utilized to do this. It fills to the very edge. Some of it spills over, but you can easily snip that off. As you wait for it to cool, which you can probably help with, actually, as there is no basin for quenching the metal at the moment, so the steam (whoosh) rises up all around, and you turn the heads over, and each one (sliding sound) leaves these heavy metallic pyramid pieces that are smooth and perfect on three of the sides, and one of them appears to be almost like a broken crystal on the inside. It's a shattered, messed-up section.
Laura: Puzzle piece! Got to fit them together!
Taliesin: Okay, so if we fit these together--
Matt: They seem to fit together very well; you figured it out very quickly, they fit and hold together.
Laura: With the jaggedy ends, or with the smooth ends?
Matt: The jaggedy ends all fit together.
Taliesin: Does this now make another concave piece?
Matt: All together, it makes a pyramid that comes to a central point.
Laura: (shouting) Let's put it in the big thing!
Taliesin: So I've still got some Spider Climb, so I'm going to grab one and lift up. All the fliers?
Laura: Yep. Let's go.
Matt: Okay. So the three of you make it up, fit it together, push it in. It fits in perfectly. Slips in. You all back up... nothing.
Laura: We push it in harder.
Matt: All right, make a strength check.
Laura: This is definitely going to be really good.
Liam: I push on my sister's shoulder blades.
Laura: 15.
Laura: (groaning)
Liam: (groaning)
Matt: Right, you guys (groans) get behind and shove, push. Nothing.
Travis: Can I try?
Laura: Yeah. Grog, you try.
Travis: I run across the coal pits and Superman punch the pyramid.
Liam: I barrel-roll out of the way.
Travis: I rage before I do this.
Laura: Oh Jesus. There's a dent in it now.
Matt: You get advantage on this, then.
Travis: That's what I was hoping for. 21.
Matt: (impact noise) The impact on this causes the whole room to shake almost, from the blast. You hear the echo right up the stairs in the hallway that you emerged from, you can hear continuing as it slowly dissipates in the distance. You land, and you can see there's actually a knuckle mark in the platinum from the impact. No effect.
Laura: Hey, I've got an idea. What if we take this thing off of the cross beams, right? And stick it in the coals, or something. Because why are the coals here, right underneath it?
Marisha: I drop water elemental form. You think it needs to be hot first?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: I look up, I line up the apparatus and look across the room, does it feel like there's any other Indiana Jones--
Matt: The stairway is in the way. Because the stairway doesn't come all the way to the top of the ceiling, and then back here it blocks this passage between the two of them, but as you go and look, all it is is the reddish, rust colored cross-beams that are bolted against the wall, and in the center there's the round golden crest with the triangle shape which is now filled with the platinum key that you've made.
Taliesin: Are the coals hot or are the coals cold?
Matt: The coals are currently now cold.
Travis: Should we try turning it?
Laura: Oh yeah, good idea! But we should reignite these coals, because I think it's bad that they've burned down right now.
Marisha: I think so, too. Just to test, yeah, I'm going to do Burning Hands. How quickly do they catch?
Matt: Pretty quickly. And you get the sense that they were slowly catching, anyway; there's something about them, the heat that the general room perpetually emanates maintains the fires within. But your flame with the burning hands very quickly elevates and quickens that process, and you watch as the coals now glow to a bright orange-red hue, and you can feel the heat emanating from them.
Laura: Can we turn the circle? Does it move?
Matt: So you go up to the edge and you grab the edge of the golden crest and tug! And it's not moving.
Laura: Gosh darn it! What are we supposed to do?
Marisha: Are there any inlays?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: Okay. It's not my strong point. Goddamn it, that's like the fourth three I've rolled today.
Sam: Hey, you're inspired.
Matt: (laughter) You are inspired. Up to you.
Marisha: Better. 12.
Matt: 12. It's smooth gold, there's no signs or runes or anything on the side.
Taliesin: I want to see if there's anything in the holes that were left by the soldiers who left.
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: The three suits of armor came out of the wall, so there's now a wall that we haven't seen behind them.
Laura: Maybe it's supposed to be gold.
Marisha: Platinum is for the trammels.
Matt: Okay. So you go ahead and look inside which one?
Taliesin: I'm going to do all three, but I'll start on the one on the left.
Matt: Okay, roll an investigation check.
Taliesin: That's investigation check. What did you do? Six.
Marisha: Is that also a three?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's also a three.
Matt: You look around inside and the shape is a perfect indentation of the physical form of the three metal warriors. You don't see any signs of anything beyond enough of a cavity to fit them snugly when they're dormant.
Liam: Hey Scanlan? You want to use your dragon fisting friend to put that pyramid in the coals and heat it up and then shove it back in?
Sam: Wait, what?
Liam: Do you want to use Bigby's Hand to take that pyramid, shove it in the coals, heat it up, and see if that makes a difference, shove it back in hot?
Sam: So you want me to heat the platinum and then shove into the guy's face?
Matt: Bigby's Hand, by the way, at this time has faded. It only lasts for a minute with concentration. The spell has faded.
Liam: Well, maybe the pyramid heated up could make a difference.
Travis: All right, I walk up into the coals, take the platinum pyramid out, and I'll drop it down into the coals.
Matt: Okay, it's about 15 feet up off the ground.
Travis: Shit. Can I jump, Boots of Feral Leaping?
Matt: You can. I'd say you leap up and grab the edges of the seal with your giant strength, and wedge your fingers in the side and pull it out and land on the coals. You do take four points of fire damage as the coals begin to burn into your feet and the proximity of the heat. But you back up out of the coal based center now holding the key.
Travis: I drop it in the coals.
Matt: Okay, the three pieces come apart as soon as you pull it from the section, so you have the three different pieces right there in your arms.
Taliesin: So when three pieces go together the part that goes towards the wall--
Matt: It's another point. It's like a four-sided pyramid.
Taliesin: All right, it is a pyramid, so the whole pyramid goes in the wall.
Matt: Yeah, it's a flat seal on the outside.
Laura: I think this needs to be gold, dear.
Taliesin: Why would it be gold?
Laura: Well, the outside is gold.
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: Maybe the platinum is only for the trammels, not the key.
Laura: We can try it. We have gold.
Liam: Finish my stupid idea, and then we'll move onto the next stupid one.
Laura: Good call.
Travis: Has the platinum pyramid started to heat up yet?
Matt: You're holding it in your arms.
Travis: I drop it in the coals.
Matt: Okay. You drop it in the coals. You wait about five minutes or so, and you can see a faint bit of heated glow slowly heating up, but these coals are not smelter ready.
Travis: You know what, I feel like, I feel like, this is stupid. I pick them up. (pained gasps) Tell me where they go
Matt: Okay, make an intelligence check, Grog, to assemble the three puzzle pieces of the key.
Travis: Negative two. Nine.
Matt: (laughs) He's having a hard time putting those pieces together, guys!
Liam: I fly over, I'm Deathwalker's Warded to fire and I'm going to start helping.
Matt: All right. You each take five points of fire damage just helping touch and assemble this key. Once you get it put together you hold it in the grasp of your hands. You leap using the Boots of Feral Leaping, jam it back inside. Land off to the side. Nothing.
Travis: Asshole! Son of a bitch!
Laura: We got to fucking try it in gold! Try it in gold. Maybe try it in gold.
Taliesin: I have one other thought.
Sam: What?
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: What's the red armor made out of?
Laura: (gasps) What are the armors made out of?
Matt: It's a dark, reddish-black metal.
Laura: Can we melt the golems into their heads?
Travis: What?
Laura: Melt each one. Maybe it's got to be the metal they're made out of.
Travis: The triangles are like this big and the armor is like massive.
Laura: Yeah, so take some of the metal and melt it down into the head.
Marisha: What is the metal? Can we do a check to see what kind of metal it is, what it's made out of?
Matt: Either of these guys can attempt to do that.
Taliesin: I can take a look. What would that be?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check plus your tinkering benefit, intelligence check plus your blacksmithing proficiency modifier.
Taliesin: So that's intelligence plus my normal tinker check?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So that's not bad. Let's see.
Travis: 19.
Taliesin: Oh wow! That's 32.
Matt: Okay. So both of you say out loud at the same time, "Oh, this is volcanic glass metal."
Taliesin: Volcanic glass metal. Aha!
Travis: Volcanic glass metal. Aha!
Laura: So maybe can we melt it?
Taliesin: Only in a glass volcano. No, I think it will melt.
Travis: Do I know if volcanic--
Matt: Yeah, it's a--
Travis: It's--
Matt: (laughs) It's a type of metal--
Travis: It's a type of metal--
Matt: You're following me on this?
Travis: Yeah, I'm following you on it.
Matt: Okay, it's an oxidized red iron base that in the construct and the folding of the metal, to build the actual armored structure of these creatures, had bits of volcanic glass folded into the actual metal as it was created.
Laura: I feel like that makes it special.
Travis: (laughs) Bring on the Night King.
Taliesin: We can give it a shot, can't we?
Travis: Melt them down into each of the three.
Liam: Why don't you make their dreams come true and rip their groins off?
Laura: Melt their body into their face and make triangles out of the metal.
Matt: Okay, so because you rolled a very high check, I'll let you know, that generally heating up a metal to the point in which it's liquid and then pouring it into the same metal is going to mess up the mold.
Taliesin: That's a terrible idea. Let's try gold. I would have felt very foolish.
Laura: You guys are so smart about this stuff, then we should do gold.
Travis: It comes, it comes in waves. It's like a new awakening.
Taliesin: We'll try the gold.
Matt: Okay, so about a hundred gold pieces per head. So 300 gold pieces removed.
Laura: Wait, how come it was 300? Oh, it's not the same worth, it's the coin.
Matt: Well, it's a hundred gold pieces per face. So it's 300 gold pieces total. So 300 gold taken off, total. You smelt it down, same process, and then place within each of the three molds, wait for it to cool and then you remove the three key pieces of the solid gold. They all fit together just as the platinum pieces did.
Travis: Can somebody go pull that thing out, and then I will put this one in?
Taliesin: I'm pulling it out.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and you pull out the chunks of heated, now cooling platinum and drop them into the coals for a moment. You pull them off the coals, carefully.
Travis: Can I run up and MJ the new gold pyramid into the--?
Matt: Sure, make an intelligence check.
Travis: An intelligence check? Oh, because I got to put them together. Two!
Matt: Grog is having a hard time with that. Okay.
Travis: I'm making an origami swan.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you guys eventually help him put it together a second time.
Liam: That is a really good macaroni art you've made. It's so good. That's a boat, right?
Laura: Let's put it in the key.
Matt: All right. So as they have it assembled, you rush up, leap jam it in up there and it slides into place. You hear a heavy slamming sound and what sounds like the scraping of heavy chain mail. (metallic scraping)
Travis: I grab the platinum pyramid and I put it in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: No! I already said that I had them. No. No, he doesn't do that.
Matt: The wall immediately shudders and you see a layer of dust and soot, (falling sand) off of it. as it falls to rest onto the ground and you see the wall slowly rise up. (grinding gears)
Marisha: Wait. I want to prep something. Hide!
Matt: Okay, so who's hiding?
Liam: I am.
Matt: All right, stealth check.
Laura: Yeah, and I'm hiding behind the pillar that I'm next to.
Matt: All right, so you hide behind there.
Travis: Scanlan, face death with me!
Sam: This is bullshit. I'm going to stand there, hands on hips.
Marisha: I'll hug the wall closest to the door.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Travis: It's just going to reveal another stairway, come on.
Taliesin: It's going to be another door.
Travis: Did you guys see National Treasure?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: What?
Taliesin: No, I never saw National Treasure.
Laura: Oh my god, it's so good.
Taliesin: Okay, well we'll make an evening of it.
Marisha: It's Nick Cage at his most mediocre.
Laura: St. Nicholas.
Matt: As the door eventually comes to a stop maybe a foot before it reaches the ceiling, black smoke pours in from the other chamber. You watch as it immediately fills the ceiling and then begins to dissipate up the stairway and the hallway above you where you guys originally descended from. You see flashes of sparks and embers through these clouds of black smoke and soot within the chamber. It's obscuring most of your view within the inside. And that heavy pounding, that (pounding) is much louder now. You can sense that it is actually the source of that rhythmic beat, that metal-on-metal clang you have been feeling since you first came into this series of chambers. You can see small streams of glowing orange molten rock within the chamber, which is slightly down and before you. Looks like two small ten-foot-wide rivers of molten rock, metal-- you can't quite tell from here, but it's glowing orange and red, and they both convene and go dark in the center where it looks like they are being covered or obscured by something that you can't quite make out at this distance.
Laura: A giant anvil?
Matt: Make a perception check, anybody who wants to glance in. Right now, the only people who can look in would not be Percival and Vax because they are in the way back, and Keyleth is hiding, if you want to glance in the side you can.
Marisha: I can do a peek?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: 17.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: 24.
Laura: That sound is creepy as fuck.
Taliesin: I know, it's a lot of sound.
Matt: What you can make out for the most part is this central platform is raised. It looks like there's a staircase that leads up to a middle platform that is in the center of this larger chamber, and it looks to be a couple of large, heavy platforms or pillars that have roaring flames at the edges of them. You can see beneath it, the two pools of lava that disappear beneath it, and you see a hint of a spiral staircase on each side that curls around the back end of where those two rivers of molten rock meet. Behind that, you see the flashes, (sparking) like these rhythmic engines of sparks that are pouring out of the black smoke that is perpetually filling the upper part of this chamber. However, since now it has a place to escape, the room is slowly revealing the interior. You can see on top of this platform in the center a large dark metal object, roughly four or five feet from front to back and about three feet wide of dark, jet black metal, with small veins of glowing red and orange that curl around it that occasionally flare with each impact of whatever this rhythmic metal clanging is behind it. As the smoke begins to dissipate even further, more visibility reveals the shape of this object to definitely be that of an anvil. You can see a number of chains that are linked to it on each side that dangle off the edge. You cannot quite see what's at the end of these chains; they're falling off the side of this platform and out of view. You'd have to get closer to see what they are. However, the shape that you now see, right behind this platform, looming at about 20 feet tall from your estimation at this distance, Keyleth, as you are the one who sees this before anybody else does. You see a stocky humanoid form that is looming over the anvil, both of its fists resting on each side of the platform. You can see its trunk-like arms and legs are dark gray stone, and the head carries no face; it is a smooth absence of face. You can see red cables that dangle from the top and the back of the head that are then pulled together in the back like a ponytail, and around the center of its torso and its lower body, these extremely thick layers of leather wrap that make a kilt that dangles past the knees of this giant stone structure that stands there looming over. In one of its hands you see a comparably small but impressive-looking hammer of gold and black that is currently chained to the platform. It's the one that isn't currently dangling off the side. It's in its hand and it's resting there. And you can see the heat emanating from both the pools of molten rocks on the side of it and the flames behind. Most of the imagery is perpetually shifting and being altered by the sheer volume of heat that this chamber holds. This is apparently the Core Anvil, and whatever decor around it looks very intimidating. What do you want to do?
Marisha: The humanoid figure doesn't seem to have noticed us? He's not moving?
Matt: It's not moving. It's standing there right at the platform.
Laura: Over the anvil?
Travis: Is that sound still happening?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: And the figure is 20 feet fall, you said?
Matt: Yeah. You don't see the ceiling in here, because it's all filled with black smoke.
Travis: Can we see the source of the sound? Can we see what's causing that yet?
Matt: You can't right now. It's behind that entity, and you see behind where the platform is, the darkened back portion of the chamber, these two flashes of spark and flame. As they do, you see bursts of smoke and flame billow up and continue to fill and feed the ceiling.
Marisha: I convey what I see. I think you might have a guardian you have to fight over that hammer, Grog.
Laura: Oh no, again?
Liam: I creep up past my sister and place a hand on his knee, which is in my fucking face.
Marisha: If we can take 60 seconds, I back up into a corner and start casting Conjure Elemental and conjure another water elemental to be on our side, from the staff.
Laura: Maybe he's a friendly giant really creepy-looking entity.
Marisha: Maybe he's the guy who tried to use the anvil before.
Laura: Maybe he's the Allfather. Is that what he's called?
Matt: Allhammer.
Travis: Well, look. Before we step into that arena, we control this space. How quick and quiet can you be, to see if he responds to your movement?
Liam: I can get in there.
Laura: In and out, super fast.
Liam: Sure. You want me to get a look?
Travis: Yeah. See if he reacts to you.
Laura: Dart up to him and go (taunting) and then dart back.
Marisha: Hang on. We might want to be careful about getting too high. There's a lot of smoke in there; we don't want to suffocate.
Sam: That's the only time Marisha has ever said those words. (laughter)
Marisha: We're live on the fucking internet, Sam Riegel!
Sam: Hope your mom's watching.
Liam: Thanks for watching everybody, that's the end of tonight's show. Oh my gosh.
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Liam: Can you add any of your secret sauce to my sneaking?
Matt: You have to stay within a certain radius of her to get the effect.
Liam: Never mind, I'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, do it. This is what you do.
Laura: Just fly in really fast. Be creepy and quick.
Liam: Do I need to do an additional stealth? Creepy is automatic. It's a given.
Matt: Because this is heading into the chamber as opposed to just staying behind the platform, yes. You have to roll again.
Liam: Okay. Natural 20.
Taliesin: We don't even notice him leave.
Matt: So you head into the chamber. Okay. As you make your way inside, you look left and right and you can see the dark stonework begins to mingle with the metal and begins to go into the rough edges of the volcanic rock that it's built into. You see two large pillars to each side of you that have these red rocks embedded in the side that give this faint red glow that gives a hint of light to the chamber. There's the heat from the pools. The whole chamber in here is very uncomfortable for you. Thankfully, your armor giving you heat resistance does help a bit. You can see the anvil on top of the staircase on the raised platform and that large hulking entity that's looming over it at the moment.
Liam: If he's here and I'm over here, can I fly up just there so I can see the front of him a bit? The angle of his face, if there is one, anything to see? Or is he facing out towards us?
Matt: He's facing out towards you.
Liam: Never mind then. Shoot.
Laura: You've got fuzz on your face. Can I get it? No, you got it. It was right on his lip, so every time he talked--
Liam: Nice.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Taliesin: Be bold.
Liam: Float in space and do that.
Matt: Okay. You fly up? That is not stealthy.
Liam: No, from where I am. I'm not making noise, I'm not flying closer to him. I'm just doing this. Whatever you want to do.
Marisha: "I stealthily get his attention by waving my hand in his face."
Matt: There's a difference between stalking off in the corner and flying up into the center to get a look and then seeing if he sees you. So what are you doing? You have to distinguish that.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to fly back to the gang. Could you pick this fuzz off my face? I couldn't get it off the whole time, it just keeps re-affixing. I don't know. I flew in and out.
Taliesin: We're going to have to get his attention somehow.
Laura: It's got to be you, because you're so fast. If you get his attention you can dart out really fast.
Liam: So what do we think we're doing here? Are we talking to this thing?
Laura: Should we try talking to him?
Travis: We might.
Laura: Maybe it's better.
Taliesin: It's a crazy plan, but it just might work.
Laura: You can speak Celestial, too, right? You don't just read it.
Taliesin: Gefülten. Yes, I speak Celestial. (laughs)
Travis: Oh man, Swedish Chef over here.
Matt: So we now have, as Exandria canon, that Celestial sounds like Swedish.
Taliesin: You can bury that as deep as you want.
Matt: Thank you for that, Taliesin.
Laura: I thought Celestial sounded more like singing.
Taliesin: Well, you know, it's like a whole thing.
Liam: Can I get another quick re-rundown of the room? So he was up at the top of the stairs, facing out, not moving and was that wall behind him, or does it go further past him at all?
Matt: I'd say about 15 feet behind him you can see the occasional reflection of the flashes of light, where it looks to be there is a wall behind him. There is an end to the chamber, but you're too far away and it's too obscured by smoke for you to know exactly what's behind him.
Liam: And when I got in there, I didn't get close enough to see if there was any good hiding spots beyond him?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. There are corners to the chamber. As you fly up and glance you can see two more small equal-sized pits of coals, behind him on either side, and you do glance, two 20-foot-wide domed machines that you see the flame and the billowing smoke are being pushed out of. It's a weird engine-like structure with two of them behind it, that you can see the flames. (hammering) And that's where the sparks are shooting out of each time.
Liam: Do the talking thing, I'm going to go back in.
Marisha: Before we start, how long has it been since we entered this chamber?
Matt: It's been maybe ten minutes.
Marisha: Entered into the volcano.
Matt: Oh, into the volcano?
Marisha: Yeah, entered into the first forge room. I'm trying to find out if Freedom of Movement is still on.
Matt: Okay, with all of the smelting, put together I'd say it's probably been close to an hour.
Marisha: Can I only have one condition effect on him? Or can I stack them up?
Matt: You can have as many as you put on him. If they're not concentration, you can stack as many as you want.
Marisha: Okay, Freedom of Movement is not. I'm going to cast Freedom of Movement on you again, and then I think Enhance Ability is, though, so I'm going to use my concentration to give you Cat's Grace, right? You were using dexterity for the smelting?
Travis: Yeah, on that one.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's would be dex or strength.
Matt: For most blacksmithing, you gather that it will be dex or strength.
Travis: Well, strength is way better than dex.
Marisha: Then I'll give you Cat's Grace. You have advantage on dex checks.
Liam: And DM. How long were we in this room?
Matt: In that room? Since you entered that chamber it's been about an hour.
Liam: It's been an hour? My wings then are--
Matt: At this point, yeah, your wings have now dissipated.
Travis: Percy, I'm not afraid, go talk to this thing.
Taliesin: In Celestial, I'm going to say hello. I'm going to say it out.
Matt: You shout it into the chamber?
Taliesin: Hello? We come seeking the Allhammer. We need help. Vecna walks the earth again. We come seeking a way to defeat him once again.
Laura: Tell him we were sent by Pelor.
Taliesin: We come with the blessings of Pelor. And I'm going to start entering, very gingerly.
Travis: I'm right behind you.
Matt: Okay. So Percival is entering--
Liam: Actually, I'll throw out that I crept back in ahead of that, so in there, hiding.
Laura: I'm floating behind him on a broom.
Matt: All righty. Scanlan, where are you coming in on this?
Sam: I will lag behind Grog.
Matt: So we have Percival walking in, and who is right behind Percival?
Taliesin: Grog.
Matt: Grog, all righty. Scanlan right behind Grog.
Laura: Does it have to be single file with this?
Matt: No, it doesn't.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to be back over to the side of Scanlan.
Matt: All right. Keyleth?
Marisha: I'll take up the rears with my water elemental.
Laura: The ground is still super duper hot, right?
Matt: The ground is, yes. All righty. So as you begin to enter the chamber and make your way towards the stairway and this central, raised platform with the two flaming pillars that flank it. Shouting this into the chamber, it echoes through, and you still hear the (hammering). Each flash of light causes this faint glow across your faces and the faces of your companions as their shapes go from dark obscured in the shadow and smoke into a brief reveal of your form. As you begin to approach the stairs, you hear this faint grinding of stone as the faceless giant's head slowly looks up to face you. But that's all.
Taliesin: I keep walking.
Travis: Me, too.
Matt: Okay. As you guys continue to walk, you get to the bottom of the stairs, and you watch as one of its hands on the side that clutches the hammer unfurls and releases it and the hammer, once let go, swings, the chain going taut and it slams into the side of the raised platform out of sight and as it does, it stands up and rights itself, but its head is still looking down at you, Percival.
Taliesin: We ask permission to use the anvil.
Laura: Tell him, nod yes. Once for yes and shake his head no.
Travis: How about this? I'm not afraid. If he takes offense, I'll take it better than most.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Matt: So do you ascend the stairs?
Travis: I am in the front now.
Matt: Grog has now moved to the front. All right. And you take your first couple steps onto the stairs. As you do, the large stone entity spins around and steps into the smoke that obscures its shoulders--
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself one more time, while this is happening.
Liam: I'm going to down a potion. And then a quick question, too. Hunter's Mark has a duration of an hour, but since that last battle lapsed, am I then not allowed to slide it to this guy?
Matt: No, it's gone now. It has been more time-- the process of smelting and then re-smelting and figuring out and adjusting everything, it has taken over an hour, sorry.
Travis: Can I use my Second Wind? Just because.
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Man, I could really use Spider Climb right now, goddamn it.
Travis: Heal 13 points.
Matt: All righty. So as you continue to step up the stairs. Grog, as you approach, you get about a third of the way up there and you hear what sounds like heavy metal scraping against stone and one giant burst of sound. You watch as the giant figure shifts and turns back out of the smoke, holding across its front in one hand a large cleaver-like blade with runes glowing across the side of it. About 15 feet or so from end to end, and as it spins, it looks down towards you all and holds it in front, the flat end facing out towards you in a ceremonial way.
Taliesin: What kind of runes?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Laura: Maybe if you use it the right way, it will be fine.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: You have no idea.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: Are they runes or a language? Is it a script?
Matt: These are specifically arcane runes of an enchantment-type nature. It's holding the blade out in front like that, clutching the handle on one side and putting its hand against the flat of the blade in the other.
Taliesin: Do we have our bits of god?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We might want to have them available for the moment.
Laura: Yeah. I take mine out of my pocket.
Matt: So Grog, go up to the top? You make it to the very top of the stairs, and there is the anvil there before you, and the heat you can feel. You know when you're close to an explosion and there's that brief minute of extremely uncomfortable heat that you flinch? It's that, perpetually and all of you are sweating masses beneath your armor. You're afraid at certain points that your eyebrows are beginning to singe and curl. It's hard to breathe because the air is so hot and so thick, and occasionally you can't help but find yourself coughing at the caustic black smoke that fills a large portion of the chamber.
Travis: I am consciously checking my beard.
Matt: Okay. As you approach the top of the stairs, the head looks down at you. What do you do?
Travis: Am I standing at the anvil now?
Matt: You're standing right at the edge of the stairs, the very top of the platform, and the anvil's maybe five feet in front of you. You can see all the chains that are hanging on the side and dangling off the sides of the platform.
Travis: Can I see where the chains are leading or are they just dangling off?
Matt: The platform is about 20 feet wide and so the chains that are all hooked at multiple places to the edges and the outside part of the anvil are taut and then dangling off the edge of the platform. So you can't see where it goes. You know one of them is the hammer, because that's what he let fly off the side.
Taliesin: I kept track of which one was the hammer.
Travis: Give me the platinum.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Well, put it together first, please. Thanks. With the platinum, I will approach the anvil.
Matt: Okay. You step up to the edge of the anvil. As it does, the blade tilts so that now, as opposed to the flat facing you, one of the two bladed edges is now--
Travis: I stop.
Laura: In your vision of how to do it, did you see this guy?
Travis: Did I? No. Do I see any blacksmithing tools, anything that I would use to hammer this?
Laura: The hammer that he let go of.
Travis: Oh, that's hanging off?
Matt: You saw that, but you didn't get a great look at it by the time it was chucked off the side.
Travis: Flat. Edge. That does feel like a ready, set.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: I take one step back.
Matt: The blade goes to a flat.
Marisha: So next, after the edge, is decapitation.
Travis: I'm pretty sure that would be 150 points of damage.
Laura: What if you go and try to pick up that hammer first? Do you need it?
Travis: I'm picturing the anvil right in front of me and he's off to the side, right?
Matt: The anvil is right in front of you. He's on the other side of the anvil. You only see the upper part of the torso because he's standing off the platform below it. So you see him from the waist up; he's about 20 feet tall from top to bottom, you only see ten feet of his torso there. The blade's out in front.
Travis: And the hammer is somewhere between me and him?
Matt: Yeah. Make a perception check to see if you remember which chain it was.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: There's four chains on each side that are dangling off the side, and you are not sure which one it is.
Travis: Oh, it went hanging off.
Matt: It went held off the side, so now there are four chains that are taut on each side of the anvil that are vanishing.
Taliesin: Is he another golem?
Matt: It looks to be a golem-like construct, yeah. You have seen golems and you have encountered golems before, and the constructs of them can vary. This one, elements of it have the same proportions of a golem, but there are elements that seem more human-like as opposed to an armored battering ram. The refined details of it-- no, your perception roll isn't high enough and you're too far away to make out much more of its form.
Laura: Is his sword as big as our table is across?
Sam: Oh, what if we show him one of our little beans?
Laura: Well, I pulled mine out.
Sam: Maybe you have to show him how good a blacksmith you are to earn the privilege.
Travis: Yeah, but I've got to get to the anvil to do that.
Matt: Yeah, the blade in his hand, just the blade from hilt to end is about 15 feet long.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you read the arcane runes on his sword? Do you know what this enchantment is?
Sam: I can certainly try.
Matt: Make an arcana check, Scanlan, as you glance over, stepping into the edge of the stairs.
Marisha: Can I help him?
Matt: No, it's purely based on his knowledge.
Laura: You've got this Scanlan! Come on!
Sam: This is arcana?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Come on, vacation Scanlan.
Sam: It's a 21.
Matt: 21. The runes across the blade specifically deal with cursing the physical form of what touches its blade.
Travis: Shit. Okay, cool. Instead of walking towards the anvil, can I start walking to the right, towards one of those chains that's dangling on?
Matt: The chains are immediately to the left and right of the anvil, so to go towards the chain you'd be stepping closer to the anvil, and as you turn to the side its head tracks you as you go.
Travis: Is it tilting it down?
Matt: You haven't moved forward, so no.
Travis: Okay. Can I keep moving in that direction?
Matt: Okay, you begin to step forward towards the chain. The blade comes down to a flat end towards you.
Travis: I'll stop.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and sneak around the side of it. What's behind it?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. Glancing over, what you can see between the smoke, you see the two pits of burning coals to the-- behind, right and left of it, with small steps that lead into the coals on each side and you see the two edges of these large, cylindrical turbines of stone and metal where the impacts are and the flames flickering off it.
Taliesin: Are those bellows or is it more complicated?
Matt: You're not sure. A lot of it is obscured from the smoke that's spilling out of it and you're too far and the light's too dark in here, from that distance.
Taliesin: What would happen if we put that machine out?
Laura: Well, it's not like you can step up to the anvil before the metal's hot anyway, right? So maybe we're stepping up to the anvil too soon. Maybe you have to heat the metal first?
Taliesin: I think that it feels like a guardian. What if we put the water elemental in the--
Marisha: I was just going to say. I'm going to come into the room a little bit.
Matt: Okay. So you step in. Most of you are at the base of the stairs. Grog is at the top of the stairs. Scanlan stepped up behind him to look at the runes on the blade. That's where you currently reside.
Marisha: Is his eyesight still trained on Grog?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: I'm going to send my water elemental forward and see if it attracts its attention, since it's not a mortal.
Matt: Where do you send it?
Marisha: Towards the anvil.
Matt: Okay. So you head up the stairs. The water elemental swarms around the side. You see wherever it moves forward there's steam pouring off from the heat of the ground and the surrounding metal and stone. As it comes up the steps, more and more steam (sizzling) emerging off the back of its body, it comes to the top and it's now next to Grog. You send it towards the anvil?
Marisha: Yeah, but didn't Grog train to the right?
Matt: Grog stepped to the right and then began to step forward and then stopped.
Marisha: Does the water elemental seem to be catching its attention at all, or is it still looking at Grog?
Matt: It's still looking at Grog.
Marisha: Can I move the elemental to the left to see if it follows the elemental?
Matt: Okay, the elemental moves to the left. It doesn't follow the elemental.
Laura: I wouldn't send him any closer to the anvil, though.
Travis: Well, he might swing at the thing if it got closer.
Marisha: That's what I'm wondering.
Laura: It might send him in attack mode.
Travis: So unless we're short on ideas, we might have to starburst this thing. Scatter it.
Sam: Who forged here before? What god?
Matt: The Allhammer.
Travis: Ioun helped, Pelor helped.
Sam: Well, should we show our god shit? Did we do that yet?
Laura: Well, yeah, I'm going to fly up next to Grog, but I'm not going to go past him, and I'm going to hold up the little bead of power.
Matt: Okay. His attention focuses in between the two of you. Doesn't change his stance; the blade is still tilted down towards you.
Laura: I'm going to step one step forward with it, no further than Grog stepped that first time.
Matt: Right, yeah. The blade is still turned towards you. Doesn't seem to react.
Laura: All right, I back up. Fuck!
Travis: You thinkers better think.
Taliesin: I want to put the engineering behind it out. I want to put those pistons out.
Marisha: But what if the pistons are fueling the fires, the forge?
Travis: We still can't see what's sending up those?
Matt: You're not close enough, and you don't have a far enough view. It's blocking the bulk of it.
Laura: I'm going to fly to the side against the wall.
Travis: What about an Oracle Arrow?
Laura: Yeah, that's what I was going to do, so I could shoot it around.
Matt: Okay. So you fly off to the side of the chamber.
Laura: Yeah, and I'm going to shoot an oracle arrow behind him to see what's going on over there.
Matt: Okay. You go and fire the arrow just past him. As you do, his head darts with the speed of the arrow as it clacks against the back of the wall. Without even looking towards you, this hand releases the blade and the blade swings a wide arc about a foot above your head, Grog. (whoosh) Slams something in the back of the wall out of sight. You hear what sounds like a heavy chain snapping and falling to the ground and the wall behind you where you entered the chamber (crash) slams shut. As you all hear the sound and take in the scenery, you watch as it retracts the blade into an offensive position, and we're going to take a break. We'll be back here in just a moment, guys. We have a giveaway.
Laura: I wasn't even shooting at him!
Liam: That's all right. We did our due diligence. We poked it and we prodded it.
Matt: This is a big package going out to a bunch of folks there. It's the complete black poisonwood set, which is awesome. It's the tray, the vault, the dice tower. Oh god, it's all falling. It might be a little broken; I apologize in advance.
Sam: It smells of coffee.
Matt: Exactly. That's what it looks like. It's going to be signed by the cast for you. So to be entered in that giveaway, come into the Twitch chat over the break, and the keyword is going to be tarot. T-A-R-O-T. So yeah, we'll all be back here in a few minutes, guys. Enjoy your break, and we'll see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. So! First and foremost, our winner in the chat of the awesome collection of various Wyrmwood collectables is ProfessorJedi. Congratulations, ProfessorJedi. Danoba will contact you and get your information to get those to you ASAP. So congrats.
Marisha: Also, I've been flooded with tweets on where I got this shirt.
Liam: It's the best shirt.
Taliesin: And I was wearing it yesterday.
Marisha: You were wearing it yesterday. The amazing Whitney Moore made it.
Liam: This very shirt? This one?
Taliesin: A more masculine cut of this exact shirt. Not that exact shirt, but another one very similar to it.
Marisha: Although we do have a few shirts that we share and trade off.
Laura: Tell us where to get it.
Marisha: For Human Peoples! I just tweeted it out.
Taliesin: You can get a pin, you can get a hoodie, you can get any form you want.
Liam: I know you, so I'll ask you later, too.
Marisha: Yeah, okay.
Matt: All right, then. So last we left off, you had made your way into the chamber that holds the Core Anvil beneath the underwater volcano of Scaldseat. Upon approaching the central risen platform where the anvil was, some stone-built guardian that loomed over it, upon approaching and testing the boundaries, an unintentional firing of an arrow in the vicinity seemed to have triggered an aggressive stance, and the entity seems to be on the assault. So now, with the chamber there before you, I would like you all to take stock on your current positions and roll initiative.
Liam: He's going to hit you like he is at a driving range!
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, like tee-ball.
Marisha: I'm also rolling for my elemental.
Travis: Oh, that's really unfortunate. I get advantage on those, and that was terrible.
Matt: All righty. So 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 24.
Liam: 20. Jeez.
Matt: All righty. 20 to 15?
Travis: 20 to 15? For the love of god?
Matt: Okay. 15 to ten?
Laura: 14.
Sam: 12.
Marisha: 11 for my elemental.
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: 11 for my elemental.
Taliesin: You're not? Okay.
Matt: Ten to five?
Travis: Six.
Marisha: Six.
Taliesin: Oh. Six?
Laura: We are fucked!
Matt: Top of the round. As the large forge guardian stands with its giant rune blade before it, Percival. You're up first. What are you doing?
Laura: Make peace! (laughter)
Travis: When the DM smirks like that.
Taliesin: I'm going to bake a pie and deliver it-- okay, I'm going to run back towards that red crystal.
Matt: This one?
Taliesin: Yep. I run that direction, and then I'm going to use my bonus action to do that. I'm going to hold my attack until his attack.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that ends Percival's turn, holding his action to attack when it attacks. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Oh jeez. You know what, I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to run over right next to Keyleth.
Matt: All righty. 20, 25, 30. That's about as far as you can get on regular movement.
Liam: Right. I know what I want to do here. Is Percy within 30 feet of me?
Matt: Percy is, yes.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to cast Bless on Scanlan, Keyleth, and Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What does that do?
Laura: Obviously doesn't give a shit about me any more.
Marisha: Well, you stole the boots.
Laura: I gave them back!
Liam: You're so capable. You bless up to three creatures of your choice within range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before this spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number. So you three.
Marisha: Attack roll or saving throw?
Matt: Yes, you can add a d4 to it. Your movement and your action?
Liam: That's my action. I have a bonus action. This is an intimidating map, Matt. I am going to roll backward and sit underneath my sister and her judgemental ass.
Matt: Okay. So you're going to dash over under her?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Top of my turn, I'm going to fart.
Matt: (chuckles) It's how she propels the broom.
Marisha: It immediately catches your butt on fire because we're surrounded by methane gas. You take four damage.
Laura: And you're on fire.
Marisha: And you're on fire, yeah.
Taliesin: This is really intimidating. The crystals are glowing, and it makes me unhappy. Is your crystal red, too? (gasping)
Taliesin: No! Not cool.
Laura: He can walk! He can move!
Matt: Steps, leaps--
Liam: Fuck yourself! Wow!
Matt: It lands in the center.
Travis: Look at him winding up. This is awful.
Matt: With his legs down, straddling the two sides of this, and he's going to go into a blade storm, and spins around in a wide arc.
Taliesin: Okay. So if he's going to do this, I was holding my attack. I'm taking my attack now right before this happens. He has no face, does he?
Matt: Currently, you do not see a face, no.
Taliesin: There's no face. So if I were to make a head attack, that would probably be really goddamn useless. One way to find out.
Marisha: Well, he has a head. You can have a face and not a head.
Travis: Maybe it's a mask.
Taliesin: Maybe it's a mask.
Laura: Maybe it's an illusion.
Taliesin: Fire a grit.
Marisha: Did you custom mess with this figure? You did, didn't you?
Matt: Just to cover the face.
Taliesin: To hide his shame. Do I add the d4 to this, if I so am inclined?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: And I can do it every time?
Matt: Every attack, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh wow, this is so nuts. So first attack. Out of curiosity, does it keep my misfire? Does it knock me out of misfire, technically?
Matt: It's still rolling on the d20.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. Okay. Let's put that away, then, and let's take some psychic damage, because that's funny. Oh, that's great. Okay.
Matt: Nine points of psychic damage.
Taliesin: Yeah, so 142, that's cool. Ow. I'm going to put that down and get a bigger gun and try that again. And that blows that grit, as well. Much better! No, it's not. Oh my god. Oh my fucking god. It's just doing it. Never mind. I'm going to blow the rest of it and spend the end of my turn trying to fix one of my guns really quickly, and do a quick clear-out. Which is 12 versus misfire on the psychic. And I do!
Matt: You manage to clear the weapon.
Taliesin: I cleared Animus. Bad News is still out of commission. And that's my turn. Never mind.
Matt: So as the blade storm, it does a large sweep all the way around it with the blade, hitting everything within 15 feet of it.
Sam: Is it an automatic hit, or is it something I can do Cutting Words on?
Matt: It's a roll to hit, but Cutting Words would affect a single attack against an individual. Yeah, because each attack roll is separate, so it would affect one of the attack rolls.
Sam: Well, I will Cutting Words it for my attack. No, he's going to hit me no matter what. Who's in the path?
Matt: Well, let's find out first. So it's going to be Vex, Vax, Scanlan, and Grog. And then Keyleth and Percy are out of range, as well as the elemental. So against Vex that is a 17.
Laura: Doesn't hit.
Matt: Doesn't it, and you dodge out of the way. For Vax, 17.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: Rolled two threes in a row. Striking around to Grog, that is a 24.
Travis: That'll hit. Can I try my parry maneuver?
Matt: What does the parry do?
Travis: It uses your dex modifier plus the--
Laura: Sup dice? He really wrote sup dice.
Matt: Yes, you can, to reduce the attack by your superiority dice plus your dexterity modifier. Yep.
Travis: I'm going to try. Seven plus two. Nine?
Matt: So you would take 37 points of slashing damage, but instead you take nine away. That would be 28. So you get 28 points of slashing damage.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Taliesin: And you took 28 points.
Matt: And you are pushed 15 feet away. You are now right off, you get knocked over the side. You get knocked prone off onto the edge of the platform there, almost catching yourself before rolling off the side of the platform.
Liam: It's so exciting!
Matt: Scanlan, that is a natural two. That's a 16 to hit.
Sam: It will hit, but I will do my Cutting Words.
Matt: Okay, so roll a d12.
Sam: Okay, a d12. I rolled a nine.
Matt: Okay, so that will miss you. As it swings towards you, what do you do?
Sam: I will quote Dr. Smith again and I will yell at him: you are a tiresome, tin-plated, tintinnabulation.
Matt: The second construct you've bruised the ego of today. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, Grog.
Travis: Okay. 18, with a minus two.
Matt: 18? No. Your vision fades as the curse takes hold. You are considered blinded at the moment.
Travis: Okay. Anybody else? Lights out for anyone else?
Matt: And that's its turn. Vex, you're up.
Travis: No big deal.
Laura: Oh jeebies. Oh! I can use disengage! So he doesn't hit me! I'm going to move away from him.
Matt: Okay, where do you move?
Laura: All the way across, over here.
Matt: Well, your movement with your broom is? How fast is your broom?
Laura: I don't remember because I don't have the thing anymore.
Matt: (heavy sigh)
Laura: I know, Matthew! I think it's 40. Probably.
Matt: Broom of Flying  50 feet.
Liam: Wow, that was fast!
Matt: Look at that. Analog!
Laura: 50 feet. I'm writing it down right now, okay?
Matt: You can get right over right above where Percival is. So that's your bonus action to disengage, your movement to get there. What are you doing now?
Laura: I'm going to attack him.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That dice attacked me while I rolled it. A 23.
Matt: 23 misses.
Taliesin: What?!
Travis: 23 misses?
Matt: Yeah. You strike the armor on the side of its body, and the arrow disintegrates on impact. You see bits of it catch flame from the nearby heat.
Laura: Oh lord. Okay. I thought because he was big, maybe. Is he covered head to toe in armor?
Matt: It's made of solid stone with pieces of metal armor around the body.
Laura: Great. Okay, so I'm going to attack him again but in his neck. Oh, that's good. That probably hits. 18 plus 14.
Matt: That'll hit, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I didn't want to do the math. (counting) Do I get sneak attack?
Matt: He is in base to base with your brother, so yes.
Laura: Wait, that's lightning. One extra lightning damage and then nine sneak attack.
Matt: Okay, so the total on that is?
Laura: 17 plus nine is 27.
Matt: 26, yeah.
Laura: Plus one lightning damage, so it's 27.
Matt: Right, there you go. All right, cool. The first arrow shatters, the second one you manage to strike and it embeds itself in the stone, and sticking out. It's hard to see if it had made much of an impact. That ends your turn, and that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Me? Oh Jesus. This thing's big and scary.
Matt: You're on the top of the staircase next to the water elemental and Grog, who's currently on the ground screaming that he's blind. The entity is about 15 feet away from you. You're just out of range of its blade, and it's an intimidating thing to have that close to you.
Sam: Yeah! Of course it is! I'm not dumb. Super intimidating! So how far is he from me?
Matt: He's about 16 feet from you. You're just out of range of the blade. Well, no. Actually, because it did hit you, so on the edge of there, you are within 15 feet of him, yeah.
Sam: Okay, not knowing what to do, I will (raspberry). I'm looking at my spells; I've got nothing. I will blast him with a Lightning Bolt, a level three Lightning Bolt.
Matt: Level three Lightning Bolt. Okay, so roll 8d6 points of damage.
Sam: You know what, I'll do level four, so 9d6, I suppose.
Matt: All righty, so that is a natural 20. So that's advantage on the saving throw. However, its dexterity bonus is nothing. It's a straight 20. Your spell DC?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22, so it does not make the save.
Sam: So it's 34 points of damage.
Matt: 34 points of lightning damage to it. The bolt hits it and seems to arc through, and its faceless head slowly shifts to face you.
Sam: Jesus. I'm within melee range of him, so if I move I will get hit, yes?
Matt: If you move out of his melee range, you will, yes.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You'll get attacked. Doesn't mean you'll get hit.
Sam: Grog, you're okay, right?
Travis: I'm blind! It's very hot!
Sam: What?
Travis: It's very hot! On the ground, and I'm blind!
Sam: I don't know what to do about you, I'm sorry! I'll inspire you, I guess, right? Because you don't need health?
Travis: Yeah, great, thanks!
Sam: (laughs) Sorry! All right, I'll inspire him, I suppose.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: What do you sing?
Sam: Oh, sorry. I will pick up my flute and I will sing: (singing) You like it when my flute goes, baby make your booty glow, Scanlan know you want to show my song, song, song, song, song.
Travis: Is that Sisqó?!
Matt: Take your d12. All righty. That's your bonus, your action, and are you going to stay where you are or are you going to move?
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to stay where I am.
Matt: Okay. Ending that turn, it comes to the elemental. Actually, no. At the end of Scanlan's turn, it's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to make a rune blade strike against Vax, who's right in front of him. That is a 22 to hit.
Liam: And this is a straight-up attack. Yeah, I believe that hits. Yes, it does.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Wait. I'll use my last Luck of the day on him, and he has to reroll.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wait.
Liam: Wait.
Matt: That is a 19.
Liam: No. (cheering)
Matt: No. (cheering)
Travis: Well done!
Matt: So as the blade arcs overhead towards you, you barely duck out of the way. It slams on the ground, sending shards of stone and metal up in the air around you. You feel it rain over your shoulder and the back of your head as you slowly pull away from it. All righty, now it is the elemental's turn.
Marisha: Okay, it's going to move over to him. And he's bigger than large, so he's going to do a multiattack. He's going to do two slam attacks. Plus seven to hit. (groans) One's a natural one; the other's a natural 18. So one hits. 2d8 plus four bludgeoning damage.
Matt: What's the attack? 18 plus?
Marisha: 18 plus seven.
Matt: Okay, so it would be 25? That hits. Are the creature's attacks considered magical?
Marisha: They're two bludgeoning attacks.
Matt: Nowhere on there does it say it does magical damage?
Marisha: It just says bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Okay. So as the elemental swings out both fists against it, no effect. None of its attacks seem to have any effect or impact on the creature. It's like bludgeoning the side of a mountain.
Taliesin: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: And he doesn't seem to be distracted or give two shits about him.
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Marisha: Okay. Cool.
Taliesin: There's a lot of fires to put out, I guess.
Marisha: Yeah. You know, I'll keep him on standby in case people catch on fire.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. That ends the elemental's turn, then? Grog and Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: What did you find out?
Travis: How about you go first?
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to do 9th-level Shapechange and take a cue from Scanlan and turn into a planetar.
Liam: Ooh! Do you have a big dick, too?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: Yes I can. With Shapechange. Right? It is a challenge rating that I can do, right? Planetars?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You lose concentration on the elemental.
Marisha: That's fine.
Taliesin: Not like he was really--
Marisha: Doing much.
Matt: But the elemental stays and is now hostile to you.
Marisha: Right. Can't dissipate him or anything?
Matt: I forgot your figure again! I'm the worst!
Taliesin: I was going to say, can you dissipate it?
Marisha: Not really.
Taliesin: Oh. That's okay.
Matt: So the planetar size is large. We'll say for the purposes once again of this week, we'll use Doty as the planetar, so there you are.
Laura: But he says it in Swedish.
Taliesin: Dooty.
Marisha: Dooty.
Matt: Your wings extend. You are now in the planetar form.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to go up to Grog and do Healing--
Matt: Well, your action is to cast the spell.
Marisha: (groans) So I can't do anything else?
Matt: No, Shapechange takes an action to make the transformation. Next turn you can take your action.
Laura: It's okay. That's great. Grog definitely won't fall in the lava on his turn.
Marisha: I was going to say, can I at least go up to him and grab onto Grog's loincloth to make sure his ass doesn't tumble into the lava?
Matt: You could certainly try.
Taliesin: You could kind of do that.
Sam: Loin-grab.
Matt: So we'll say for the purposes of this, you glide over, and you're now flying up next to Grog on the edge of the platform. There you go.
Laura: To keep him from wandering off.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog?
Travis: Cool. Can I use my action to get up from being prone? Half my movement, sorry. Onto one knee. In my mind, because I can't see! And can I hold my action until I can see again or until it's my turn?
Matt: It's your turn.
Travis: Until I can see again.
Taliesin: You don't get to save against this, does he?
Matt: No. Nope. All right. So that ends Grog's turn, holding his action.
Travis: Crouched, so both hands are on the ground.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to take another swing at the slippery little rogue paladin on the ground that it can't seem to hit. Natural one. Jesus Christ. Okay. That'll be the end of that luck.
Liam: That demigod does not exist in this universe.
Matt: Percival, your turn.
Taliesin: So first thing I'm going to do is get a quick little heal bonus going, because why not. Let's do a heal. So that's 14 points up, so I'm 156. A little bit better, and that's my heal. I'm noticing that this thing's only taking magic damage. The hammer it dropped is underneath the planetar right now, right?
Matt: It is currently dangling off the side, along with other series of tools: tongs and other smaller blacksmithing accoutrements.
Taliesin: I'm going to run in that direction.
Matt: Okay. Five, ten, 15, 20. Another step, and you're starting to hit the molten metal and rock.
Taliesin: Molten metal and rock? I can't jump that, can I?
Matt: You can try, yeah. Make an athletics check.
Taliesin: Not an acrobatics check, I take it?
Matt: Not for the leap.
Taliesin: But there are chains that I can reach there?
Matt: If you're leaping towards the chains, you can attempt to grab it, yeah.
Taliesin: Well, I'm going to attempt to grab the hammer.
Matt: Okay. Are you using it to swing, or are you just trying to grab and hold on?
Taliesin: If it's available for a swing, I'll try for a swing.
Matt: Okay, I'll give you advantage if you're going for the chain, then, as you're swinging across it. Go for it.
Taliesin: Roll with advantage? Athletics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Please don't fucking fall in lava.
Taliesin: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Percival runs, swings across, and I'll move this a bit.
Liam: Oh, the golem is dead.
Matt: Percival barely makes it across. (grunts) If you let go of the chain, you'll land. If you hold onto it you'll dangle and swing in the center.
Taliesin: This is the hammer chain?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So am I touching the hammer right now? But it's not a magic hammer, it's just a really nice hammer.
Matt: You just grabbed it. You can take a moment to look at it next round, if you want to.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to take a moment to look at it. I've got an action, still.
Matt: Do you want to do that, then?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll use my action to admire the hammer.
Matt: Okay. Make a arcana check. As you're clutching the hammer now, it's dangling down, and you're holding onto it. And the heat is burning from underneath you, and you can see the (bubbling noises).
Taliesin: No. I have an arcana of seven.
Matt: Seven. You're distracted by everything going on around you and the heat in your face. You can see it above you, the black and gold scrolling on it. It looks beautiful, but you can't make out any more details than that, unfortunately.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it. Okay, I'm hopping off, then.
Matt: You swing back, you swing, and then you land. We'll say because you rolled a natural 20, I'll let you do that.
Taliesin: Yeah, all right. I'm over there, hiding. Fuck.
Matt: Okay, that ends Percy's turn. At the end of Percy's turn, it's going to use its third and final--
Liam: Damn it. What? Where did the big guy go? There he is!
Sam: He's trying to kill the cricket.
Matt: You did it? Good job.
Laura: It shut him up for a little bit.
Liam: Can't get the golem, but you can get the cricket.
Matt: (laughs) Well done. All right, at the end of Percival's turn, it's going to use its third and final legendary action to to try and get that hit on you. Natural 20. (groaning)
Travis: Oh my god, really?
Liam: Making up for the last time. Fine, give it to me.
Laura: No, can you uncanny dodge?
Liam: I can uncanny dodge, yes.
Laura: Don't you have another thing?
Liam: Just uncanny dodge, so maybe I can cancel out his doubling. Yeah. Uncanny dodge halves the attack, so it'll be right where it's supposed to be.
Taliesin: Technically, it'll lower slightly lower than where it's supposed to be, because it doesn't just halve the doubling of the dice.
Matt: 57 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Uncanny dodge.
Matt: All right, reduce that to 28 points of damage and your vision goes dark.
Laura: Oh no. Wait, don't you have to roll the constitution?
Matt: That's true. Roll constitution save.
Liam: Not good. 14.
Matt: Your vision goes dark. It hits you, and you hit the ground, and the sheer-- the searing pain hits your body, and as you get up, it feels like all the smoke fills your vision. All you see are occasional flashes of red, almost like you're surrounded by a miniaturized electrical storm, and you have no idea what's around you.
Marisha: So he's blind?
Matt: You're considered blind for the moment, yes. It's your turn.
Liam: Okay, I would like to cast Vow of Enmity on this dick, which will put me at regular, because I would get advantage versus the disadvantage of blindness, so now I'm at regular.
Laura: Is it a visual spell?
Matt: That's what I'm checking right now.
Liam: Oh, wow. I've got it here.
Marisha: Yeah, spellcasting's a bitch.
Matt: Vow of Enmity. Creature you can see within ten feet of you. You cannot currently see it.
Travis: Shit, y'all. Fuck.
Liam: Okay. Instead, I'll use my bonus action to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: You need--
Liam: Visual on that as well? Okay, got it, never mind. It's not his turn yet, wow. Okay, I'm going to use my bonus action to disengage. I can move five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. And I'm going to get the fuck out of here. Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, there. And that's it, I'm fucking blind and I ran because I can't see shit. Done.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. It's now its turn. It gets its legendary actions back.
Laura: Guys, this is bad. We haven't actually done anything to him, have we? No, I got an arrow on him.
Taliesin: You got an arrow, which didn't probably do any physical--
Laura: It was a magical arrow.
Matt: See if it gets its blade storm back. Nope.
Travis: Probably should have cast the mansion door before we started.
Taliesin: We can still do that.
Travis: It takes a minute to cast.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Marisha: We can make this work.
Laura: We can't even run away.
Liam: He's coming to finish me off. Look at this motherfucker!
Laura: He's going to kill all of us, dude. He can get all of us in a circle. Everybody.
Marisha: I lost control of my elemental.
Matt: Here's what it's going to do. Because you ran off. It hit you; it's not even focused on you. The head turns and looks towards you, Vex'ahlia. It's going to make a rune blade attack against you. Oh jeez. That is a 17.
Laura: Doesn't hit.
Matt: Jesus Christ, it has rolled so many twos and threes, then 20. It swings and you dodge out of the way. However, hearing the skittering of a gnome behind him, without even looking, it back-kicks behind it with its foot.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my god.
Matt: That is going to be a 21, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, yeah, of course.
Matt: All right, so you take 23 points of bludgeoning damage and you are pushed 15 feet away from it and knocked prone.
Laura: No!
Marisha: No!
Matt: I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, Scanlan.
Liam: Hey, you're blessed, so add 1d4.
Sam: Oh yeah, that's right. Okay, that's terrible.
Liam: Plus 1d4.
Sam: So I've already rolled a 13, plus a d4. This is not going to go well, is it? d4 is another one. That's 14.
Laura: Can you inspire yourself?
Sam: What?
Liam: Inspire yourself.
Laura: Inspire yourself.
Sam: This is not a check; this is a save.
Matt: Well, let me double check on that for your bardic ability. And how many more bardic inspirations do you have at this point, by the way?
Sam: I've only used two.
Matt: You used Cutting Words, you've inspired Keyleth, and you've inspired Grog.
Sam: Oh, Cutting Words counts? Then I've used four so far, and I have two more to go.
Matt: Two more to go. And as far as your peerless skill, you can add it to any ability check, yeah, so not a save, unfortunately.
Sam: All right, bye guys.
Matt: What was the total?
Sam: 14.
Taliesin: Is that including your dex save?
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, wow.
Matt: Scanlan gets pushed off the edge and falls prone (sizzling) into the molten metal below.
Taliesin: Oh man. This is so bad.
Travis: That's a lot of dice he's picking up.
Matt: You're on fire.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Travis: I feel like you're filling a playground with gravel right now. I feel like he's playing putt putt golf with us.
Liam: Well, he's strung us along on several battles to get all of our juice out.
Marisha: Yeah, he really has. We need to rest.
Matt: You take 53 points of fire damage, Scanlan, as you are currently now partially submerged in molten metal and screaming in horrible pain.
Liam: Man. Boy, it sucks, doesn't it, buddy?
Sam: But with vibrato.
Matt: That's going to end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Great. I'm going to disengage.
Matt: Okay, so you use your bonus action to disengage. Where are you going?
Laura: I'm going to go over to Grog.
Matt: All right, so you fly over, and where are you going?
Laura: I'm going to fly next to him and I'm going to touch him and I'm going to cast Lesser Restoration on him.
Matt: Okay. You use your action to cast Lesser Restoration. So the Lesser Restoration affects--
Laura: Heals blindness and deafness.
Liam: Good, go to the 250 hit point guy. Good call.
Laura: He needs to be able to fucking see so he can smith while we're trying to distract this fucker.
Matt: The blindness fades as she touches you. Your vision comes back.
Travis: Cool. Oh, right, then I held my action for that.
Laura: Yeah, that's the thing, he was holding.
Travis: Should I try and smith?
Taliesin: Here's the question. I should know this how quickly can these things be made?
Matt: Well, to be honest, the process of each trammel is going to be a 15-minute process. You can't hyper-smith in the middle of battle. (groaning)
Laura: Well. Okay. Do I have any more movement left?
Matt: That's 15 minutes if it's a straight multiple people helping circumstance.
Laura: Do I have any more movement left?
Matt: Not really. You had to go over an arc to get there.
Taliesin: You could grab the hammer.
Travis: Yeah, but what purpose would it serve?
Taliesin: I don't know. Maybe it's a control hammer. I don't know. I'm grasping at fucking straws here.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: That's my last level two that I cast.
Travis: I could try.
Taliesin: You've got actions.
Laura: Great, so I don't have any more Lesser Restorations. I can cast it at a higher level, maybe.
Marisha: You also still have Freedom of Movement on you. You don't have anything else at all; I got lost concentration. But you do have Freedom of Movement.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Grabbing that hammer is definitely an option.
Laura: I don't know why you would grab the hammer.
Travis: Maybe he'd stop moving if I grabbed the hammer?
Matt: Vex, is that all you're doing this turn?
Laura: I mean that's all I can do. That's my action, my bonus, and my movement.
Matt: Yep, all right, so Scanlan.
Travis: Oh, but I held my action until I had sight.
Matt: Correct, you have sight now. What are you going to attack? Because you can't move, it's just your action.
Travis: You're on the hammer, aren't you?
Taliesin: I let go.
Travis: Should I try pulling up the hammer and see if that does something? Okay, I'll try and pull the chain up to grab the hammer.
Matt: Technically, when you're holding your action to do something, like an attack, you can only do that because it's a reaction, a very quick thing. Basically, as soon as you get your vision you're like, (panting).
Travis: I will rage, and that's it.
Matt: I'll let you rage on that, sure.
Marisha: Can he attack the elemental that's now rogue across from him?
Matt: He's not within range, unfortunately. It's across the way.
Travis: Can I turn around and look, now that I'm right up next to the Core Anvil, is there anything that I'm noticing about it that would move or knock off? A switch or a button?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Doesn't look just like a flipping anvil. Yeah, okay, cool. That's a two.
Liam: This is such a shit-show! Love it!
Matt: It looks like an anvil, a beautiful anvil, a primal built, ageless anvil.
Travis: I never see shit!
Liam: Hey, that's my magic trick!
Matt: All right, so Scanlan. You're currently submerged in molten metal, screaming, on fire. Your turn begins and you take six points of fire damage. You're prone and sinking into it. What are you doing?
Laura: You should probably get out, right?
Sam: I guess, yeah, probably. (laughs) I will, I guess, save my life and Dimension Door out of there.
Matt: Okay, you Dimension Door out of the lava?
Sam: Yes, please. I have no other options.
Matt: You can walk out of it. You're right next to the edge.
Sam: Oh, I'm next to the edge?
Matt: Yeah, you could pull yourself out of it.
Sam: Oh. Well, I'll try that first with my movement, I guess, right?
Matt: Yeah, with your movement you get out. You're ten feet out of it. You're on fire still, but you're no longer melting in the lava. You're hurt, but you turn the corner and you can see the giant guardian that is now currently facing off with the rest of your allies on the other side of the platform in the far corner of the room. You're staring at its back. What are you doing?
Sam: Oh boy. I wasn't expecting to attack this turn. I'll do the lightning again because it seemed to have some damage. No, you know what? We've got to block his sword, right? Shit. I will Bigby's Hand and try to grapple his sword.
Matt: Okay, you're doing another Bigby's Hand? And you'll attempt to grapple his sword?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I don't know if that's going to work at all.
Matt: Well, let's give it a shot. Bigby's Hand moves over here.
Liam: Oh, he's dead! He's dead, Matt. Game over.
Matt: If we go by that tactic, Bigby's Hand's dead. You've all died. I'll put him there. Percival has been dead for a long time. We'll put that there. That's good. There you go. All right.
Laura: I want to try to move Bigby's Hand to hold on to his arm. Can I try it?
Matt: If you want to. Grasping Hand?
Sam: I guess. This is supposed to be against a creature, not against an item.
Matt: Right, I'm letting you do this, though. It's fine. It makes sense. It's big enough. Make an athletics check, using the strength of Bigby's Hand, which is a plus eight. Roll a d20 and add eight to it.
Sam: It's a 19.
Liam: Blessed! Hashtag blessed!
Sam: 19.
Taliesin: Plus a d4.
Sam: Plus three, so that's 22.
Matt: 22. It rolled a 19. (cheering)
Matt: It is grappling the blade. What that means is, for the purposes of this, all of its attacks are at disadvantage until it can break free from Bigby holding the blade.
Liam: Bigby's Hand!
Matt: That's your turn, unless you want to use a bonus action for something.
Sam: I will use a bonus action to level two Healing Word myself.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: I will sing, (singing) I'm freaked out by the shape of me! I'm burned up and nobody can see. So you know what I'll do to thee? Give some health to my body. (vocalizing) (laughter)
Matt: Damn it, Sam. Take your 2d4 plus six. Finishing that out, it is the elemental's turn.
Marisha: He is slowly steaming away, right, because it's so hot?
Matt: You're not going to rules-lawyer me out of the elemental. (laughter)
Matt: It makes a slam attack against both Vex and Grog. Vex, that's a 15 plus seven, 22. And Grog, that's a 17 plus seven, 24. What's the bludgeoning damage from the elemental?
Marisha: It's 2d8 plus four.
Matt: Vex, you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage. Grog, you take 11 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to five.
Liam: Where you at, big guy?
Travis: 190.
Matt: Grog and Keyleth. Your turn. Keyleth, you now have complete control of your form.
Marisha: Now people know why I don't conjure that many elementals. I'm going to go fly away, since Grog is now fine. Go over to my boyfriend. Would it be part of my movement to grab him and pull him away a little bit, and then can I still have an action, or would that be my action?
Matt: No, that would be your action.
Marisha: Then I'm going to fly by and do a Healing Touch on you. You get 6d8 plus three hit points and you are freed from your blindness.
Liam: Oh, I love you so much!
Laura: That's amazing! Hey, Scanlan, you should have done that before. That would have been really cool.
Liam: Holy shit!
Marisha: 12 plus four, 15. No, 16. Plus another three brings us to 19. Plus another four brings us to 22. 23. And then a three brings us to 26 hit points and you are cleared from your blindness. Can I use the rest of my fly speed of 120 feet like my boyfriend to then fly away?
Matt: Certainly. Which direction?
Marisha: I want to go back and over on this side. Yeah, a little bit closer. Yeah.
Matt: You fly over. As you swing, it glances in your direction and with a reaction, gets an attack of opportunity on you with disadvantage. That's 20. What's your armor class in the planetar form?
Liam: Captain Planet AC is 29.
Marisha: 19, so it hits me.
Liam: Hashtag blessed, though!
Marisha: I am blessed!
Matt: Doesn't add to your armor class. It's attacks and saving throws. It's a level one spell, guys. It hits you. You take... 42 points of slashing damage, and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: You can't be blinded as a planetar, can you?
Matt: You are not immune to blindness as a planetar.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Laura: There's no way to run away from him. We have to either defeat him or find a way to disengage him.
Marisha: Is it con as me or con as the dude?
Travis: There are four chains hanging off of the thing, and we all know the hammer is attached to one.
Taliesin: The rest are other tools.
Marisha: Do I take my planetar's constitution?
Matt: Yes. That's plus seven.
Marisha: That's cool, but then I still have my war caster ability, too, right? I have advantage?
Matt: No, that's against concentration, so you will have to do that in a second, but first, this is to see if you go blind or not. This is a curse effect.
Travis: Don't they have truesight and stuff?
Marisha: I do have truesight as a planetar. It is pretty good, so that's 27.
Matt: 27? Okay. You resist the blindness. However, now half that damage.
Marisha: You said 42?
Matt: So half of that is 21, so DC 21. Make a constitution saving throw with advantage.
Taliesin: With a d4.
Marisha: I'm good. 17 plus my constitution?
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. So you maintain concentration on your form. Perfect. That finishes Keyleth's turn. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Yeah. It's hammer time. I'm going to run down here-- five, ten, 15-- right there, to this side.
Matt: Perfect, you can get up right against there. The elemental gets one swing at you as you go out of its range. That is a three plus seven. Ten. It hits your back and it's like, ooh. It's kind of cool.
Travis: And I'll take both of my attacks at the giant death-bringer. Just reckless, not great weapon master. Hoping for a crit, which was not it. 31.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Great. That's better. 32.
Matt: Hits. These are both with the minus five?
Travis: No, not great weapon master. Just reckless. Six, 22 for the first one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I can't disarm him; he's a giant. And 20 for the second one.
Laura: His weapon is grappled right now, so I don't know if you'd have advantage on trying to disarm him.
Travis: He's gargantuan, though.
Liam: He's already at a negative because of Bigby.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And that is it.
Matt: That is it? All right. So that ends your turn. At the end of your turn, Grog, it's going to go ahead and use its legendary action to swing back at you as you're hitting it. So you slam it in the back with the axe, as it angrily swings a wide strike towards its back, hoping to catch the side of your chest, with disadvantage, that is an eight plus 14. 22.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That hits. Okay. You take 27 points of slashing damage, reduced to be 13.
Travis: Can I use my stone's endurance to reduce that further?
Matt: If you want to, or you can take a retaliation shot. Up to you. Don't forget your retaliation.
Travis: Yeah, I was going to do it afterwards. I thought he did two hits backwards?
Matt: Well, stone's endurance is a reaction. You get one reaction, so it's one or the other. I'm pretty sure it is. I'll double check.
Taliesin: I feel like we're missing at something really hard.
Matt: Essentially.
Laura: I feel like he's invulnerable.
Matt: Yeah, you can use your reactions. It's one or the other.
Travis: Okay, yeah. I'll do the retaliation.
Matt: All right, cool. You take the 13 damage. Constitution saving throw, please.
Travis: Okay. Oh shit. It's that fucking sword. Right.
Sam: You have inspiration.
Travis: Thank you. Going to need it. 20. I'm going to use my inspiration. 28.
Matt: 28. You resist it. No issue. So now you can take your retaliation shot.
Travis: Okay! Reckless, great weapon master. Why not? That's 31 minus five, that's 26?
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: Nice. Fuck. 27.
Matt: 27 points of damage.
Travis: That was a shit roll. I rolled a one. Oh! I reroll ones! Sorry. Reroll ones. Thanks. 12! That's way better! (cheering)
Matt: That's an extra 11 damage on it.
Travis: 28, 38.
Matt: 38 damage. There you go. So as you resist the effect, you come back with a third strike, slamming it into the back, and you can watch some of the armor in the back cracks. You can see bits of glowing orange in places. It's still looking fine, but it's taking hits. It isn't impervious.
Marisha: This is why I wanted a stupid water elemental.
Liam: He's on death's door, guys. We got him.
Matt: That brings us to Percival's turn.
Taliesin: I'm going to run all the way back to the back of the room, I'm going to put as much distance-- well, actually I'll take my shots first. I've got Animus up, so I'm going to spend a point on it. I'm running out of grit. And I'm going to try and take a shot on this guy.
Laura: I'm just above you telling you how hot you look as you're doing it.
Marisha: Physically, you're really sweaty right now.
Liam: Your hair is so white. You're like Steve Martin without the ukulele. I'm just so turned on by you.
Taliesin: 36. That hits, I assume, so that's 1d10 plus 1d6, and then I'm also going to blow the last of my lightning into that, as well. That's 18 points of standard damage, two points of psychic damage, and 15 points of lightning damage.
Matt: Nice. 35 total on that shot.
Taliesin: That's one shot. This is my last advantage shot. I'm going to take another advantage shot on him. Here we go.
Travis: Come on, dude.
Taliesin: That's 24 on the advantage shot.
Matt: 24 just hits. (cheering)
Travis: That's what it is. 24.
Taliesin: Here we go. 15 points of damage plus three points of psychic damage. I should start taking track of this. Shooting again, no advantage. 20.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn an action surge and take three more shots. And I'll roll 3d20. Actually, hold on. No, it wouldn't matter. 22, yeah it doesn't actually hit. So here we go. Taking three shots. Oh my god! So this is great. I take three more shots. First one is 29, so that hits.
Liam: If any of those miss, you're blessed.
Taliesin: No, they did not. So this is going to be fine. I did roll the other two. 19 and 19, which are both criticals. I got two criticals that we're going to get into. First shot is not a critical. That's 12 points of damage and one point of psychic damage. And then let me get an extra d10 and an extra d6. This is weird. New critical. New type of critical.
Matt: Takes half of the critical damage next turn. What was the total on that last one?
Travis: 26.
Matt: All right. So critical damage.
Taliesin: Critical damage. That's 11 points of psychic damage.
Matt: The psychic damage is doubled, too, by the way.
Taliesin: Yeah! And 20 points of normal damage. 20 normal and 11 points of psychic.
Matt: Okay, so 31.
Taliesin: And now the next critical hit.
Liam: (whispering) Yes. Yes, Percival.
Travis: Come on, you sweet chinchilla.
Taliesin: Oh my god. That's a terrible roll. That's okay. 12 points of normal damage and six points of psychic damage.
Matt: So 18.
Taliesin: And so the two of those combined, cut in half, is what he takes next round's bleed damage.
Matt: Yeah. Which is 49, so he'll be taking 24 points of bleed damage.
Taliesin: I'm running in the opposite direction!
Liam: You broken bastard.
Matt: So you run around this way.
Taliesin: Oh, and that's two crits, which means I get two grits back. I'm like (grunts) that way.
Matt: This is as far as you can get. If you want to go that way, you'll have to go around in lava, so you have to go around. That's as far as you can get there. That ends your turn, Percival. All right, at the end of your turn it's going to use its third and final legendary action to hack down at you because you're up next.
Liam: Bring it. I have no fear.
Matt: All right, so that is a 25.
Liam: Hits.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That was with disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Damn.
Liam: Uncanny Dodge. Halve it.
Matt: 33 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Okay, halved.
Matt: All right, so it'll be 16, and I want you to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Right after you were healed.
Taliesin: This is just what you're going to be doing.
Marisha: That's why I went there.
Liam: That gets me to 18.
Matt: 18, not enough. The darkness takes over again in your eyes. It's still there in front of you, you know where it is, but your vision is taken from you. That is going to end that. It's now your turn.
Liam: I hate holding my turn, because I don't understand it. If I hold my turn, I can only attack when it gets back to me, right?
Matt: Depends on whatever action you decide to hold.
Liam: Can I hold my turn to cast Vow of Enmity until I can see again?
Matt: You can do that if you want to.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until I can fucking see to cast Vow of Enmity and attack.
Matt: So you're expecting somebody else in your party to come heal you?
Liam: I'm going to do fuck all without it. Yes. That's what I'm doing.
Matt: Okay, all right.
Taliesin: You can move. You have a bonus action.
Laura: Well, bonus action is Vow of Enmity.
Liam: This guy can get anywhere. He has shown us that he can get anywhere on this map. There's no point going anywhere. No, I'm going to stay put. That's what I'm doing. I've already called it.
Matt: Okay, so Vax is going to hold that. It's now his turn. Let's see if he gets the blade storm back. Does! He does get the blade storm back. So he's going to leap and land up here in the center. Oh god.
Laura: (singing) Bigby's Hand!
Taliesin: Oh, that also means he takes his bleed damage this turn.
Matt: It does, yeah. So we're going to go ahead and put this over here.
Liam: Can anybody do an attack of opportunity?
Travis: I do.
Liam: And then, can I get an attack of opportunity even though I'm holding? I have no idea.
Matt: You will, yes.
Taliesin: I'm so excited by how you're doing this here. This is some crazy shit.
Laura: It's the sword. It throws him off balance.
Marisha: He's been doing his yogas, though.
Matt: So takes another 24 damage, all righty. Both you guys get attacks of opportunity.
Travis: Reckless, great weapon master. 30.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Okay. For 30 points of damage.
Matt: (crash) It takes the hit, it lands. Go ahead and make your attack.
Liam: Okay, so I had him flanked with Grog, right, because he was right between the two of us? So down to regular attack.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Good. That hits. That's 18 plus a lot. Plus 14.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: That is 11, plus psychic damage is 13, plus these fuckers. (counting) 35.
Matt: Okay, takes 35 damage, and the blindness fades.
Marisha: Wait, how did you do that?
Laura: His concentration, maybe?
Liam: Yeah, maybe because I cut a bit?
Matt: It seems less concentration. You get the sense that the blindness lasts until you hit it.
Liam: Can I see now?
Matt: You can now see.
Liam: So now I can do my held turn.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Liam: Am I within ten feet? I'll move forward a bit.
Matt: Well, you held your action, not your turn. There's a difference.
Liam: Okay, but he's near--
Matt: I will say, the minute you hit him and the vision comes back, I'll allow you to do it.
Liam: Well, wait. Is he within ten feet of Grog, would you say? His foot?
Matt: Sure, I'll let it happen.
Liam: Well, I'm going to save it, then.
Laura: No, he said you were in range. He was in range right when you moved.
Liam: I understand that. I'm weighing multiple options, dear. No, I will cast Vow of Enmity. I'll cast it on my bonus action, then attack, attack.
Matt: You held your action as Vow of Enmity.
Liam: To attack, right, to attack. Which was to cast Vow of Enmity and not to attack, as well?
Matt: You can't hold your whole turn. You hold an action.
Liam: Vow of Enmity.
Matt: So as it lands there, it uses blade storm, (crash) strikes around as it sweeps everyone in a 15-foot radius, which will be Grog, Vax, Vex, the elemental, and Scanlan.
Laura: Aw, he can even get Scanlan? But he's so little!
Sam: Am I still holding on to his sword?
Matt: With Bigby, you are, so disadvantage on all these attacks, correct. So against Scanlan, that is, hah. Avoided a natural 20 because of that. So that instead is going to be a 22.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All righty. Against Vax is a 29.
Liam: (scoffs) Yeah.
Matt: All right, against Grog. That is a 21.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: And against Vex is a 24.
Laura: Ooh, that hits. And the elemental.
Matt: Elemental is an 18.
Marisha: Hits. Armor class 14.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so each of you suffers 44 points of slashing damage.
Laura: I'm going to uncanny dodge.
Matt: Okay, so 22.
Liam: And I've already used my uncanny dodge in this round, I think.
Matt: Yes, because when he took his turn, you did.
Liam: Yeah, so mine is 44 for me.
Matt: 44 to the elemental; you'll want to keep track of that.
Marisha: Yep, I'm on it.
Matt: And then 22 to you. And I need all of you to make constitution saving throws.
Travis: Come on, baby!
Matt: The elemental fails.
Taliesin: It's a blind elemental
Marisha: Nope, it can be blinded! He's got 70 hit points. He hasn't taken any more damage, correct?
Laura: Oh no! Ugh!
Marisha: Who's blind?
Laura: I'm blind!
Marisha: You're blind? Is Grog blind, as well?
Travis: But I'm in melee, so if he leaves, I can hit him.
Taliesin: Yeah, and the minute you take your turn, you can make a reckless attack.
Liam: Blind. Wow.
Matt: Scanlan, what's your constitution saving throw?
Sam: I made a 23.
Matt: Scanlan resists it.
Liam: That's you, and you, and Scanlan.
Matt: So now, Scanlan, I need you to make a concentration check on Bigby's Hand now.
Marisha: War caster. You have advantage!
Matt: So DC 22, because it was 44 damage. So you have advantage.
Sam: The first one was that poop thing again.
Matt: Okay, so one.
Sam: Second one, I only rolled a seven, so I'm sure this is not going to add up to something good.
Liam: What's your save? What did you roll?
Marisha: Yeah, are you sure the poop is the one?
Matt: Yeah, the poop is a one, we already covered that.
Sam: What am I adding to this, Matt?
Matt: Your constitution saving throw.
Liam: Plus 1d4.
Matt: Plus 1d4.
Sam: Okay, I'm still not going to hit 22. This is a check, though, so I could inspire myself, maybe?
Matt: It's not a check, it's a saving throw.
Sam: Okay, then it can max out at 20.
Matt: Well, 20 is the max. That's what you're trying to hit. The DC is 20.
Sam: Oh! Okay, well then I will roll my d4 and see if I can hit it. I only rolled a three, not a four. (groaning)
Matt: Bigby fades. No longer holding the weapon, the hand fades and the blade is now no longer held back. The creature's looking pretty hurt, but it's still hanging in there.
Travis: All I see is wicked Davy Jones wanting to chop us to pieces.
Matt: End of his turn, Vex, you're up.
Sam: Who's up?
Matt: Vex's turn.
Laura: Do I remember where he was? Can I shoot in his general vicinity, even though I'm blind?
Travis: Yeah, please, shoot me in the neck.
Marisha: I thought you said, "can I shoot at his genitals?"
Liam: Is Grog close enough for flanking for her?
Laura: 21 won't hit him, right? Okay, so I'm going to try it again. Goddamn it. No, it's at disadvantage. Neither of them hit.
Matt: Both arrows go wide, disappearing into the smoke of the room. You still hear the machine, (booming), behind you.
Laura: Okay. Let's see if this is-- nope, it's an action because I'm a genius. I'm going to back up. I don't know if that'll do anything. I'm going to disengage and I'm going to back up on my broom.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. I'm rolling so good tonight. Shush. 17.
Matt: 17. Because your training saved you, you pull back and you manage to hear the echoes of the bubbling and the sounds nearby. You know where the stairs are, and you don't fall off of them.
Laura: Oh, I'm on my broom, so I was flying backwards.
Matt: Okay, well if that's the case then you managed to drift backward. How far back do you want to go?
Laura: As far back as I can without dying.
Matt: Well, you're going to pull back and then slam into the wall over here, because you're not quite sure where that is. So we'll say you're there. That ends your turn, Vex. At the end of your turn, the forge guardian's going to use, let's see--
Taliesin: Don't say "let's see."
Travis: I'm right under his foot. I'm right there.
Matt: Yep. He's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to attack with his rune blade against--
Taliesin: I was going to say, you are the heavy damage dealer so far.
Matt: You are hitting it a lot. Yeah. It's going to go against you. Just for this hit. Advantage against you? Natural 20.
Laura: Oh no! Why? What are you at?
Marisha: That's a lot of air math going on.
Matt: 61 points of slashing damage, halved to 31.
Travis: Okay. Cool. Can I take my retaliation?
Matt: It hasn't come back to your turn yet, because you've already used that last turn.
Travis: You are right.
Matt: Wait, have we? Because you went last time to attack it, yeah, and you took it as it hit you back at the end of your turn. Yeah. So that brings us to Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I will cast another Lightning Bolt at level six this time, which is 11d6.
Matt: It rolled a 17 on its dex save. It has no dex bonus, so that hits without issue, so full damage, so 11d6.
Sam: Okay. 11d6, yes. Okay. That's only 42.
Matt: That's pretty decent, though. 42 points of lightning damage as you blast it from behind. (crackling) The energy hits the back and arcs through its weapon and its blade, and you can see steam rising up around where its fingers grasp the handle. The leather kilt that hangs at its sides is singed and burned from the impact. Well done. Do you want to move or stay where you are?
Sam: How far am I from the thing?
Matt: You're about ten, 12 feet from it.
Sam: I will not move.
Taliesin: Oh, but you're not blind anymore.
Sam: I was never blind.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. You avoided it.
Sam: But me hitting it doesn't un-blind someone else, does it?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Oh, shit. Okay, I'll Healing Word myself again, I guess.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What is it? 2d4 plus six.
Matt: At the end of that turn, it's going to use its second legendary action to attack Vax this time. And since you're blind, it has advantage. That is a 29 to hit.
Liam: Yeah, that hits. This is within the same round, by the way.
Laura: What is your--
Liam: Low.
Taliesin: That's okay.
Laura: You can't die.
Matt: 29 points of slashing damage.
Laura: He can't die? That's a rule?
Taliesin: Let's not test that.
Matt: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. It's the elemental's turn. The elemental is going to thrash whatever's nearby. It's hostile to everything in the area, and the closest thing to it is the creature. So it's going to attack with disadvantage twice against it. That's a miss and a natural one on the second one, yeah. The elemental swings and is hitting nothing in the air. It's angry and thrashing about. At the end of its turn, it's going to use his last legendary action to attack Vax one more time. That's 29 again?
Liam: Hits! Don't even bother; I'm unconscious.
Matt: Okay, so you are, yeah. It would've been 26 points of slashing damage. So with that, you are unconscious.
Travis: Okay. We're good.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to Grog and Keyleth's turn.
Travis: I'll go.
Marisha: Go first, see if you hit him.
Travis: I piñata swing, reckless, great weapon master.
Matt: Okay, so the reckless cancels out blindness, so this is a straight roll.
Travis: Single. Don't fuck me, Gil. Blacksmith die for a blacksmith thing. That's not great. That's a miss. Yeah. 20 minus five is 15.
Matt: Yeah. You swing, and it hits air.
Travis: Well, I have one more. I'll make it reckless and not great weapon master. Natural 20.
Matt: Gil fucked and un-fucked you real fast.
Travis: It's been so long since I've done this, I don't remember how this works. Okay. So it's three times the thing.
Matt: Yeah. For you, you roll the dice and you do the critical damage like you normally would.
Laura: Yeah! 12!
Matt: So that's 24, plus your bonuses.
Travis: Which is 16.
Matt: And the extra necrotic damage, right? Have you been forgetting necrotic damage this whole time? Grog.
Liam: There's a lot of rules and a lot of math. It's a big book.
Travis: Yeah, I've been forgetting the fucking--
Matt: Well, now's the time to remember it, buddy.
Liam: Travis has a job, another job.
Matt: It's all good.
Travis: 1d6 necrotic damage.
Marisha: Sam, how many hit points do you have left?
Sam: Well, there seems to be some confusion about that question. I have it at 62, but the overlay has me at 44, so I don't know.
Matt: Plus two additional d12s.
Travis: A one, 51. And a seven, so 58.
Matt: 58 points of damage on the hit, and your blindness goes away.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: Must be nice.
Laura: It's okay. It's all right. I forgot Hunter's Mark for so many episodes.
Matt: So this time as you swing out, it cracks into the side of him and the axe actually wedges a few inches into the side of its thigh and rear region. As it wedges in there, you actually hear the first sound emanate from this creature: (growling). A deep, guttural, vibrating, low sound. And as soon as your vision clears up, you see it turn around, its head under its arm, down at you. You're seeing some damage on this thing.
Travis: I'm like Tony Stark in the Hulkbuster armor. I'm sorry! Go to sleep!
Matt: That the end of your turn?
Travis: Yes, that's the end of my turn.
Matt: Keyleth, do what you're going to do.
Marisha: You're blind as, well? Okay. I see my boyfriend down, but I think he's all right, he's fine. You're fine. God, all my friends are fucking blind. I turn and I fly over to Vex and I go, snap out of it! I slap a healing whatever into her. A healing touch.
Matt: All right, so you heal the blindness.
Marisha: So 6d8 plus three. Give me a d8 again.
Taliesin: Reroll ones?
Marisha: Not with healing. (counting) 32.
Matt: You heal 32, and your blindness dissipates.
Matt: All right, so you still have movement.
Marisha: I'm going to fly back to where I was and patrol.
Matt: All right, so you're right there at the edge of the lava, keeping an eye on the battlefield.
Marisha: Yeah, and out of his swinging range.
Matt: Yes, you're not quite within his range. All right, that ends your turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: Taking three shots. And that's a 34 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Anything that didn't hit, I'm going to run Bless. So that's 15 points of damage, five points psychic. That's 24.
Matt: 24 just hits. No, the Bless is concentration, right? That shit's gone.
Taliesin: That misses, and then the other one misses.
Matt: Totally forgot to keep rolling concentration for you on that. That's a thing you've got to keep in mind whenever you take damage.
Taliesin: Burning an action surge for three more shots. Burning a grit for advantage.
Matt: That's right, because you have another action surge.
Taliesin: So advantage number one is a 17 to hit. 26, that hits? Let's put that away; that's not helpful anymore. That's 13 points of damage, two points psychic. Next advantage shot. That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Thanks, Gil! Gil's on our side!
Taliesin: That's seven points of psychic damage. Oh shit. That's 28 points of piercing damage.
Matt: Plus nine points psychic?
Taliesin: Plus seven points psychic. Half that damage, next round.
Matt: Right. The total of that together, then is?
Taliesin: Total, (counting) that's 34.
Matt: So it takes 17 damage next round.
Taliesin: Next round, on its turn. I'm burning another grit for my final shot.
Laura: Does grit give you advantage?
Matt: He can burn a grit to get advantage on a shot, if he wants to.
Taliesin: Yeah, I can do a lot of things with it, but he's so big, this is my best shot, because his AC is so fucking high. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: Did you have disadvantage on it?
Taliesin: And that's 16 points of damage and one point of psychic damage.
Matt: All right, so those are your shots.
Taliesin: And I'm running towards that fire pit, straight back.
Matt: This way. You're going to have to leap over lava.
Taliesin: I can't whirl around it?
Matt: If you want to go around it, you can go (counting).
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: All right, there you go. All right, that ends Percival's turn. Death saving throw, with advantage.
Liam: Good, natural 20.
Matt: You're fine. Actually, you stabilize. You're fine. End of your turn. It's now the forge guardian's turn.
Taliesin: Is he blind? Is he still blind?
Matt: Well, he's not conscious, and currently you are still blind, yeah.
Liam: Am I at zero hit points and stable, or one hit point and stable?
Matt: Zero hit points and stable.
Liam: Love it.
Travis: One hit point. Zero is unconscious.
Matt: You don't have to make the death saving throws anymore.
Laura: Oh, but you're still unconscious.
Matt: No, you regain one hit point if you roll a 20! You're right!
Liam: But we're not at the top of the round, right? We're still mid-round, correct?
Matt: Correct. So you're conscious now, though your vision, you open your eyes, and there's still darkness, but you're conscious. All right. The forge guardian does not regain his blade storm. He's going to make two melee attacks against you, Grog, since you've given him the option. Actually, he's going to go ahead and leap a little bit, to land here, not enough to give you an attack of opportunity. It's going to make one strike at you, Grog, and another kick attack at Scanlan.
Liam: Kick a gnome?
Taliesin: Gnome-kicking is a time-honored tradition.
Matt: 31, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that hits. I'll take the retaliation after, as well.
Matt: 34 points of slashing damage. Down to 17. And Scanlan, that is 28 to hit.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: You take 24 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: I will reduce that with Cutting Words.
Marisha: He's about to go down, isn't he?
Matt: All right, so reduced, so roll a d12. This is your last bardic inspiration, so you're done with this now.
Sam: d12. Six.
Matt: Okay. So take six damage off of that.
Sam: What was the damage? I don't think you said.
Matt: I thought I did, but I don't remember.
Sam: You rolled a 20-something to hit, but I don't think you said damage.
Matt: That's fine. I can't remember. Okay. (counting) 25 points, reduced, so you take 19 points of bludgeoning damage as it kicks you, and you are pushed 15 feet back.
Liam: Past the lava!
Marisha: Past the lava!
Travis: Skipping across!
Marisha: Please tell me you're not unconscious.
Matt: So Scanlan, you immediately are kicked back into the molten rock and iron. That is 61 points of fire damage.
Laura: Did he go under? Tell me you're not unconscious.
Sam: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Scanlan is now on fire, and (sizzling) he's T-800-ing.
Travis: Can I take my retaliation attack?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Reckless, great weapon master.
Laura: I think I can get him out.
Travis: 34 minus five. 29.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage on that.
Travis: 23, 33.
Matt: 33 damage. By the way, at the top of its turn, it also took 17 points of damage from your hemorrhaging shot. It's looking rough now. It's looking pretty rough. All right, so that finishes that turn. End of his turn, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Yeah. Okay. All right, can I get to Scanlan from my position on the map?
Liam: Movement, dash, action to grab him.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to pick him up.
Matt: All right, so you glide down and you grab his body, and you lift him up, and you get him out of the lava but that's as much movement as you've got.
Laura: Can I use my action to--
Matt: It's your action to grab and pull him out.
Laura: Can I use my bonus action to dash away?
Matt: You can. I'll say you move half speed because you're having to bring him with you.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to back up.
Matt: So you can get both of you guys back up to wherever you want to go.
Laura: Into the corner.
Matt: Into the corner? So you get about there.
Laura: At least I got him out of the lava.
Liam: I have had a jackrabbit knee under the table for ten minutes.
Laura: But that's it? That's everything.
Matt: All right, so that ends Vex's turn. Top of the round, Scanlan, you immediately take fire damage because you're still on fire, so you immediately fail a death saving throw.
Sam: But I have some sort of Death Ward on me.
Matt: You do have Death Ward on you! So as you go and reach and grab him and pull him up, the Death Ward flickers on and he comes back to one hit point. You pull him off to the side. As soon as his turn comes up, he takes seven points of fire damage and now goes to zero.
Marisha: He didn't fail a death saving throw.
Matt: The Death Ward has expired.
Liam: Point of clarification. We're at the top of the round, so I just went from one hit point to two hit points.
Matt: Yeah, I think so, actually. Well, it's the top of your turn, so yeah. Let me double check on that.
Liam: Safe at two. No one can touch me.
Travis: Yeah, you're all good.
Matt: All righty, so that brings us from Scanlan's turn to the elemental's turn. The elemental is going to go ahead and (whoosh).
Sam: This overlay thing's pretty cool.
Liam: Yeah, right? It makes remote play not quite as removed.
Sam: Can we have a hologram version of that in front of us all the time?
Travis: Yeah, right here.
Marisha: Yeah, counting our hit points for us?
Sam: That we can see, I mean.
Matt: That is 13 against your armor class. Does not hit. And 14 does not hit. It has the blindness on the elemental, still.
Travis: Super cute elemental, chasing me like a puppy.
Matt: Ending that elemental's turn. It is now Grog and Keyleth's turn.
Travis: I'll go. Turn straight at him, reckless, great weapon master.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: That's going to be enough. Come on, crit. No. Okay.
Matt: Technically, sorry, before we get to that, at the end of its turn, at the end of the elemental's turn, it's going to go ahead and strike you with its blade.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to keep that roll just in case something happens.
Matt: No worries. That's a 27 to hit.
Travis: Which it does.
Matt: 36 points of slashing damage, reduced to half, so that's 18. And make a constitution saving throw, please.
Marisha: I have four as my planetar, so I've got two more of those that I just did, in terms of myself. I'm trying to keep tabs.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24? Yeah, you resist the blindness. So your turn, unabated as you were before.
Travis: Right. Minus five, is 31 to hit.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Travis: It was a great roll. And the second one is pretty big. 34 minus five is 29.
Matt: That hits, yeah. Both do damage.
Liam: Let me do a little roleplay here. Oh, baby!
Travis: 17 plus ten is 27 for the first one. Oh, nope. I'm sorry! That was a one, so I'm going to re-roll it. Five, 21, 31 for the first one. Second one. Three, 29, and my fucking necrotic dice. Two, four more.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: That does. Actually, can I move? I'm going to stay in melee, but I want to come over here in case he decides to golf-swing me into the fucking lava river.
Matt: Sure. It's going to use its second legendary action to attack you, as soon as you move around, it's going to sweep low and attempt to try and cleave you in half. With the advantage against you, natural 20. (screaming)
Taliesin: Knock it off!
Matt: That reckless attack, man. He gets advantage on all his attacks against him.
Travis: That's the reason I roll so high most of the time.
Marisha: Yeah, you kill them before they can retaliate.
Matt: 73 points of slashing damage. On 3d12, it was a ten, eight, and a 12.
Marisha: What was it, 76?
Travis: So that's 37?
Matt: It's 20, 30, times two, 60, plus 13. So 73. So half of that would be 36, we'll say. 36 points of slashing damage, and make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Travis: Yeah, 24.
Matt: 24, okay. Resisting it still.
Travis: I can still see?
Matt: Yeah, you can still see. All right, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. You can still see? Everyone's good? You're up? Everyone's up?
Laura: Scanlan's dead. Unconscious.
Marisha: You're with him. He's fine. I'm going to fly over. 120 feet. I've got a five-foot reach range. I'm going to do my multiattack as my planetar. So two hits, with plus two. I'm going to do Gil.
Liam: Come on, Captain Planet!
Travis: We just had three fights in the same day.
Marisha: Goddamn. That's a natural 19 on one, and a natural 16 on the other! Plus 12 for both of those.
Matt: Yeah, those both hit.
Marisha: Okay, and then for both of those, 4d6 plus seven, and an additional 5d8 radiant damage.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Kiki, it's yours.
Laura: Kill it!
Marisha: Okay, for the d6s alone. Okay, that's six plus four, that's ten plus another five, 15, plus three is 18.
Matt: 18 plus seven. 25?
Marisha: I'm just doing the d6s. 25, and then, not as great the second time.
Taliesin: Do you re-roll those?
Marisha: No, not for this. Only elemental damage. So five, six, seven, plus another seven, so 14.
Matt: 14, okay, and then now 10d8 radiant damage.
Marisha: Now 10d8 radiant damage. I may just roll these twice, okay, so the first one. Okay, ten plus seven, so 17, plus another seven is 24 radiant, and then (counting) 19 damage. Radiant damage.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (shouting)
Matt: As you rush across the room, rushing towards it, and strike out towards it, what do you want to do?
Marisha: Okay. (grunts) As I look around, see all my friends, blind and running around insane, I'm going to go (yells) and fly across the field, and come down with a big radiant strike, and try and invoke in the back of my head, (singing) Hallelujah! And (grunts).
Matt: As you arc down with your weapon, the holy, divine energy spraying off of the strike, the arc slams into the center of the guardian's chest, and you watch as the armor expands and explodes. You see this core in the center that previously has been guarded by its stone form, and there on the inside you see this beating red gem that (power-down sound) goes cold. As it does, the guardian drops the blade (footsteps) and walks to the other side of the chamber, pieces of its armor falling off to the ground. You see cracked parts of its outer form breaking off in small chunks of shale, and it makes its way to the opposite side, walking around, carefully, each of you. It takes and places its blade (crashing) up on this stand on the wall, turns around, and goes completely inert.
Laura: Whoa. It was a trial. You had to be able to beat him in order to forge here. I'm putting Scanlan out! Because he's still on fire.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan is still on fire.
Laura: Scanlan is not on fire anymore.
Travis: Is he unconscious still?
Laura: He's still unconscious, so I'm going to cast Cure Wounds at level one, because that's what I can do, so I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on him to bring him back to life.
Marisha: Okay, and then I fly over, (whoosh), and do my other healing touch on Vax.
Matt: How many healing touches does he have?
Marisha: Four.
Liam: Wait. I don't need it. Wait.
Laura: So six points, Scanlan, that's what you've got.
Liam: The massive gash across my entire body, as you stand there for 30 seconds, starts to close.
Marisha: Cool. (whoosh) I go over to Scanlan and do a healing touch. 6d8. (counting) Can you give me one more d8? Okay. Scanlan, you have 14, 15, 26. You heal 26 plus three, so 29 hit points.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: And you're cured from any diseases. Is anyone else blind or rough?
Liam: That's gone as soon as he's done fighting.
Matt: Yes, the blindness has faded.
Marisha: I have one more of these if anyone else needs healing.
Travis: I'm in double digits, which is uncomfortable for me.
Laura: Yeah, you're low double digits, too!
Marisha: You're low double digits? (whoosh)
Matt: Where are you at?
Travis: 53.
Marisha: I drop same thing into Grog.
Travis: Yeah, I got my ass handed to me. Two crits by that giant bastard.
Matt: That reckless, man. That's the downside.
Travis: I know. I'll take, though. It's worth the gamble.
Marisha: (counting) You get 37 hit points.
Matt: The first part of this fight, he was sucking. It was like, two, three, three, two, and then he picked up. All righty. So in the silence, as you guys take a moment to breathe and recover, the uncomfortable heat in here is sweltering. The guardian is motionless across the forge. The blade is set up against the wall, now obscured by the smoke that's still billowing up across the back wall. Getting a better glance around, you can see a lot of the soot and black that has gathered in the upper areas of the ceiling, which is about 50 feet high. There you see, faintly glowing and obscuring the air above it, the Core Anvil, the chains still held taut as the various blacksmithing implements hang dangling off the sides of the central platform.
Travis: Well, that was a bitch. What do you say we cut to the chase and hammer this shit out?
Laura: I hope he won't come back to life as soon as we start.
Marisha: Is my elemental still going rogue?
Matt: I will say at this point, because the elemental took quite a bit of damage, that you guys quickly dispatch it. I don't want to have to worry about you guys killing a blind elemental. It's fine. No longer blind, but still. (splat) It's gone.
Marisha: Keyleth goes Mickey in Fantasia for a second, and she's the axe to the brooms, killing my creation.
Travis: There's a big splash up against the wall, but it's just water.
Taliesin: Sam, your inspiration is a long rest recharge, not a short rest, right?
Matt: Short rest.
Taliesin: Oh! If we take a short rest, he can inspire us when we do this.
Laura: Yeah, we should probably, if we can, take a short rest.
Liam: That's a half hour? Yeah, that was hard.
Taliesin: I want to sit down.
Laura: Just so you guys can think about your process, know exactly what you're doing.
Taliesin: We do need to discuss this.
Matt: While you guys are taking a short rest, you can heal up with your hit dice. I also need everyone to make a constitution saving throw, please, because it's so hot in here.
Liam: Do I, with the fire on the Deathwalker's Ward?
Marisha: Yeah. And me with the mantle?
Matt: This is a little more than the usual mantle. I'll say you have to make it, as well, Vax, just make it with advantage.
Marisha: Do I get with advantage because of the mantle or no?
Taliesin: 18.
Travis: 21.
Laura: 19.
Liam: 25.
Marisha: 14.
Laura: Scanlan?
Sam: I rolled that poop thing again.
Matt: So both Scanlan and Keyleth gain a point of exhaustion.
Sam: Wait, do I get advantage? No, I don't know.
Matt: You do not.
Laura: You got a lot of hit dice that you can roll.
Travis: I do, but still. Four.
Matt: Your constitution modifier is?
Travis: Five.
Taliesin: And now I'm up to top again, and it only took two hit dice. And then I get my heal back. I get my action surges back. Grit comes back on a short rest.
Laura: I'm back to 144.
Liam: Back at the temporary 137, due to the feast.
Taliesin: I'm going to really quickly fix Bad News. All right, I fixed Bad News.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Wow. And so many things don't work anymore. Okay. Yeah.
Matt: What's wrong now?
Taliesin: Oh, my Hex is burned, my Spider Climb's burned, Diplomacy is a long rest before that goes again.
Matt: So you guys finish your short rest. What do you want to do in the chamber? You have the whole chamber at your disposal.
Travis: I would like to go to the top where the Core Anvil is and start pulling up each of the tools that are hanging by the four chains.
Matt: Okay. You find numerous sets of tongs. You find twisting tools. You find metal punches. You find chisels of all sizes. You see a form of leg vise that's laying at the side of the anvil which you know immediately, weirdly for you, a leg vise is a small device that you use to clamp metal onto the anvil to work on it. You use your foot to hold down with pressure. You also see the hammer that was chained to it, as well, which is very well made. The dark black hammer metal look with gold inlay. It looks like scrolling all across it in places. All these different tools are all chained to the actual sides of the anvil.
Travis: Can I tell what material the black part of the hammer is made out of? If it's rock, metal, some sort of volcanic glass?
Matt: It appears to be metal.
Laura: So these trammels need to be made out of platinum. You know how to do it, right?
Taliesin: No, I know how to do it.
Laura: Okay. So what do we do?
Travis: I have the chunks of platinum. I hand the chunks of platinum over to Percy to put the-- I guess they don't have to be in--
Taliesin: We're going to have to smelt them.
Laura: They're going to be melted.
Travis: So we should do that, right?
Taliesin: We're going to have to start with smelting them. Well, I don't know. You know the process, I don't. Why am I in character talking to the dungeon master? What's happening? Ah, the meta.
Matt: You understand, based on the discussion you guys had between the design, the platinum has to be smelted down into workable bars, ingots of metal that can be hammered and folded. You have to get into the chamber to do so because the smelting materials are in the chamber you just came from. This is the forging chamber. The other doors are still closed. Once they're made into bars, and this is from the design that you recall Ioun gave you, the beads of divinity that you've been given, you have to actually shatter across the anvil and then fold the pieces into the metal.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: Once that's done then you actually have a solid blank of platinum inlaid with the fragments of divinity. You then have to draw out the trammel tips, which makes them into a fine point like a long javelin-like rod. Then you have to use the vise, after heating the metal, to twist the trammels. The actual design has them twisted because it helps conduct the divine energy to the point. And then using the chiseling tools, you have to work in the runes that match and channel the incantation that Scanlan's book has. It's a multi-process step that's going to require both of you to work together on this, since some elements of it are blacksmithing elements, some of it are tinkering.
Laura: So we have to get into the other room first before we do any of that. Can I fly over and see if I can find any kind of apparatus that would--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Going with her to do the same. Investigation?
Laura: 30.
Matt: So 30. You glance up and you see it looks there like there were two chains that were originally down held on a crank device. However, the chain has been cut and the other half of it is about 20 feet up in the air.
Laura: Okay. And I'm assuming that I'm not strong enough to pull on that chain, right? I can try. I'm going to try.
Liam: Why don't you and I try?
Laura: Yeah, but you can't fly anymore.
Marisha: I can, though. I still have wings.
Laura: You fly on one and I'll try to get the other one.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So planetar form. Go ahead and make a strength check, please.
Marisha: I am looking right now. My strength is 24, so plus seven. (scoffs) Again. Why again with the threes?
Taliesin: Put that one away.
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: Oh, I rolled a 13.
Matt: You two tug on those chains, and they are not moving.
Laura: Can the guardian do it? Hey, you that was attacking us. Can you get those chains?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: (laughs) Really? Yeah, it wasn't a very persuasive thing to say. 14.
Matt: 14? It makes no motion, change, nothing.
Liam: Shorthalt, you got any Bigby's left in you?
Sam: I could do one if we really need it. What's wrong with Grog? He can't do it?
Laura: It's too high.
Liam: He could do one. We could get him up there.
Marisha: Is the end of the chain able to where I can pull to at least make it reach Grog or no?
Matt: No, you don't have the strength to pull it down, not with that strength check, unfortunately.
Liam: Can you Bigby one and maybe Vex can slowly pull Grog up to that thing on your broom?
Laura: Or she could probably lift Grog up.
Marisha: Can I fly Grog up?
Matt: Yeah. You can lift him up. (grunts) It takes you a minute and it's a slow pull. You feel the veins bulging on your blue-skinned forehead. (grunts)
Travis: Kicking my feet, which doesn't make it any easier.
Marisha: Dog-paddling.
Matt: But you do get up, Grog, and you grab the chain. Make a strength check.
Travis: I'm not still raging, unfortunately.
Matt: You can still be raging if you want to.
Laura: You're very angry about it.
Travis: 23.
Matt: As you lift him up, you grab the chain and rappelling down, you begin to find places in the stonework and metal on the side and hold on with your other hand, pull. As you do, you watch the wall on the opposite side (scraping) move up on one side a little bit and get stuck.
Sam: Should I Bigby the other?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: All right. I'll have to do it at level seven.
Marisha: Oh shit. We're so tapped out.
Matt: So Bigby's Hand appears, (whoosh) rushes up to the other chain. Go ahead and make a d20 roll and add an eight to it.
Sam: 21.
Matt: As Bigby pulls the other side, the wall on the opposite side adjusts and both chains now, Grog and Bigby's Hand together, pull and pull and pull and slowly, as you're both pulling across the metal and dragging it downward, the opposite wall (scraping). Opens up.
Sam: Oh wait. Is this an ability check?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I'm exhausted.
Taliesin: Bigby isn't, though.
Matt: Bigby isn't. It's a check for the spell, not for you. So together you both eventually bring the chains to the bottom and you find one of the number of hooks on the floor area where you can wrap it around to hold it in place. It's tenuous but it's holding. And so the large metal door on the opposite side is currently now held up about 13 feet up. It's only partway up right now but that's all you need at the moment.
Marisha: Can Grog and them let go? Is it going to slam shut?
Matt: They found large rings and hooks to hook them onto.
Travis: We hurry to the other room.
Taliesin: We hurry to the other room. If we can get any inspiration, too, before we start this process.
Laura: There's no inspiration-- Oh, no, he rested. Yeah.
Matt: Short rest, so he has his inspiration back.
Taliesin: Let's just smelt for now.
Marisha: And now I can do my concentration. Let me burn another spell. I'm doing Cat's Grace on you. That fell to the wayside before.
Matt: You have advantage on dexterity-based ability checks.
Travis: Oh that's right, that's the one. Thank you.
Matt: So. Let's see here. Grog, Percival. You head to the original chamber before this. You find the tongs and some of the metallic ingot-based molds. You take in pieces of platinum equal to the amounts you guys had pulled up before. How much was it?
Laura: 300 platinum each.
Matt: That was for the face. For the trammels.
Laura: Oh. Would those little pyramids work to make the trammels? Or it needs more?
Matt: Well, no. There's other molds there with the smelting device.
Laura: I got 4,920 platinum.
Matt: If I recall, it was 1,500 platinum per piece, I believe.
Travis: So 4,500. So enough for three trammels.
Matt: So you guys made the platinum transition when you were in Vasselheim. And the reason it takes so much is because even the natural platinum that's out there has some impurities in the process of the creating so you guys have to repeatedly go through and burn and pull out impure segments of the metals that come to the top.
Laura: Make sure you use some of those pyramids we made, though.
Marisha: Yeah, so we don't waste that platinum that we melted into triangles.
Matt: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a blacksmithing tool check. This is with proficiency bonus. It should be dexterity for this.
Taliesin: At which you have advantage.
Travis: Which I have advantage.
Matt: Correct. So you'd roll twice.
Laura: 1,500 per trammel? Of platinum. Okay. We're fine. Yeah. Can you get your calculator out? Never mind. I can do this it myself.
Taliesin: Yeah, figure out what dex plus proficiency. Whatever your dex plus prof is.
Travis: Oh, advantage. Right. I got it. 19.
Sam: Oh, do you want me to inspire you or anything? Do you all need anything?
Taliesin: How long does inspiration last for?
Matt: Up to ten minutes.
Taliesin: Let's wait until the final--
Matt: All right. So. It takes you a good 20 minutes or so, 30 minutes or so per ingot to get all the impurities out, to heat it and to scoop it out. Eventually gets so you can form three bars of pure platinum to the level that you know the requirements of the trammel are. You look around. You don't see any areas here to cool the metal. You didn't get a good look at the other chamber necessarily to see if there was something for it.
Travis: I still have the Alchemy Jug with the water in it.
Laura: You might shatter that jug.
Taliesin: There's probably everything we need in here if we take a look around.
Marisha: Do you need water?
Taliesin: We're going to need water.
Laura: Can I fly around and see what we can see?
Matt: Sure. You glance around and there's the two machines over there that are still (crashing). Behind and in the center of the two machines you do see a trough about eight feet on one side and three feet the width of it. It is empty, however.
Marisha: I go over and cast Create Water.
Matt: You manage to fill the trough, brimming with cool, instantly created water.
Laura: We've got a trough!
Matt: Back and forth, you guys take the molds with tongs and (sizzling) quench the metal and pull out the three heavy platinum ingots, ready for use on the actual anvil.
Liam: This just turned into an Aerosmith video.
Matt: (laughter) So. Now that you're working on the forge, you have your Gauntlets on. The two of you walk up and you have all these tools around you. To fold the metal, you're going to need the hammer. So you grab the hammer and the hammer's pretty big. It's like a maul. It's a two-handed hammer.
Travis: I love this.
Matt: You need the beads of divinity for this next stage.
Travis: Who's got the beads?
Laura: I've got a bead.
Sam: I've got a bead.
Matt: So you take the Ioun one, which has a faint whitish-gray glow, and place it in the center of the anvil. Go ahead and make a strength check, Grog.
Travis: Can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: (heavy breathing) That's even better. 25.
Matt: 25. With a giant echoing yell, (grunts) you bring the hammer down and you watch a flash of bright, vibrant white, faintly blue light flicker and beam across the room. All of you for a second have to hold your eyes and look away and as you come back, the hammer is on top of the anvil. As you pull it back, you see, where the bead was, there is now a crushed dust of the same color, roughly about the size of a plate. None of it's scattered away from the anvil, it is a crystalline diamond-like powder that remains.
Travis: Do we fold this into one of the ingots? One at a time?
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: All right. So with you holding the tongs and helping him, you take the hammer. I need you to make a blacksmithing tool check.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Matt: This is with strength, on this one. This is hammering the metal and folding it into the metal.
Travis: That is a 19.
Matt: 19's fine. The hammering isn't too hard. The different things have different difficulties, and so the folding isn't too bad. So with that, you guys take the dust and you scatter it across the metal and then hammer and fold, hammer and fold and take more and scatter it across the metal as it's still heated. Hammer and fold, then go and take it off to the side to two of the coal areas, and you watch as the furnaces burn and heat the metal up again. You bring it back up to the steps and hammer and fold, hammer and fold with more of it until eventually, you've managed to hammer in over the next 20 or so minutes, both of you sweating, feeling a little bit of stiffness and soreness in your arms from this process, but you've been far worse.
Laura: We're cheering them on the side. Good forging! Fold that metal.
Matt: You eventually build a rod blank for your first trammel using the bead of divinity from Ioun. That is complete. So who's next?
Travis: Whose bead is up next?
Laura: Oh god. All right, here we go.
Matt: All right. So you take the faintly yellowish-glowing bead of divinity from the Dawnfather, place it onto the anvil. Make another strength check, please.
Laura: Does he need inspiration?
Travis: Persistent rage. I'm raging balls this whole time.
Matt: Do you still have an inspiration on you right now?
Travis: I do not.
Laura: Scanlan?
Sam: Do you want me to inspire you?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: All right, I will-- I go up to Grog and I tell him: Grog, I'm going to tell you some words of wisdom that I learned from a book once. A wise man said, "The man who hast smelted verily didst also dealt it."
Travis: Wisdom. Unparalleled wisdom!
Matt: So with advantage, and you're still raging on this.
Travis: Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. 25.
Matt: 25 again.
Travis: 17 plus eight.
Matt: Both times you've hit 25, and the DC on this is 25 on the sheet here. So with Pelor's bead of divinity, you (crash) slam down a second time. This time, you guys see a flash like you stare into the sun for a split second. The heat in the room grows even warmer for a moment, and it's like being on the outside of a Meteor Swarm blast, which you all recall very distinctly. You come back and pull the hammer away, and there you see the scattering dust of the Dawnfather's blessed bead. The two of you then go ahead and take in the next ingot and begin. You heat it up, bring it back to the anvil and begin to fold, scatter, fold, scatter, reheat, bring back, fold, scatter. Repeating the process until you get all through it. I need you to go ahead and make another blacksmithing tool check.
Travis: Advantage because of the Cat's Grace. It's a 19.
Matt: This is strength, still.
Travis: Oh, it is?
Matt: Yeah. I'll tell you if it's dex or strength because you're hammering the metal. He's turning it over.
Travis: 27.
Matt: 27. Yeah. Without an issue, you guys manage to fold in your second trammel blank without worry. Bringing you to the third one, the third and final.
Travis: Bead.
Matt: Producing and placing onto the anvil, Vax, you leave behind there the small jet black smooth oval bead.
Travis: I reach into my pouch and I take out one of my peas that I got, and I put it on the anvil.
Laura: Don't do it. Get it off of there, Grog.
Matt: Strength check, Grog.
Travis: Raging strength check. Okay. It's inspiration time.
Sam: Inspiration time?
Travis: I'm going to use the dice.
Marisha: Because you didn't use it before?
Laura: No, he hasn't used it. (gasps)
Travis: It's a 24.
Matt: 24. (clang) You slam down. And you pull back the hammer, and there it remains. Unshattered.
Laura: Try it again.
Travis: But my arms are really sore. I need a massage.
Laura: I'm going to over and rub his muscles.
Liam: Grog, if you do this I will give you something really cool. Really cool.
Travis: By whose standards, yours or mine?
Liam: Yours.
Travis: All right.
Laura: Do you want to inspire him again, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes, I do. I will sing to him. (singing) Pour some platinum on thee and get it on an anvil. Pour some platinum on thee when you need a trammel!
Matt: Take your d12. All right, Grog, as you try again, pulling the large maul hammer up.
Travis: No. Come on, Gil. That's dog shit.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: I'm not even going to use the inspiration because it won't get us there.
Laura: Try one more time. Can he try again?
Travis: Well, now hold on. I would have to roll a 12. Of a d12.
Sam: You'd have to roll a 12?
Laura: Try it, though.
Matt: It's up to you.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: Oh, motherfuck.
Matt: (impact) You slam down with a second hit. As it hits, the reverberation of the impact fills the room. You pull the hammer back and there it remains, but you do see a mild crack through its form.
Travis: (panting) I'll try one more time. One more. No inspiration.
Marisha: Can I do anything to help him?
Taliesin: No. Let's just do it.
Marisha: Can I give him Guidance?
Laura: Do you get any more inspiration, Scanlan?
Sam: Sure. Yeah, I can inspire one more time.
Travis: Hold on. Let me try it without the inspiration. Let me try.
Matt: If you give him Guidance, it will give him an additional d4 he gets to add.
Marisha: But it would get rid of his Cat's Grace, but you're not using it.
Matt: Oh yeah, because it's concentration.
Travis: Let me do it straight up.
Marisha: It's a cantrip. I'm going to give you Guidance! I'm doing it! Guidance!
Matt: So as you're doing this, Keyleth comes up behind and then touches you.
Marisha: Come on, Grog! Come on! That's my Guidance.
Travis: I didn't need it. 25 on the dot.
Marisha: Good.
Matt: What could have been only two trammels, you barely manage to succeed in properly shattering and not ruining the third bead. (impact) As you slam, all of you for a second see nothing but darkness. All the light, all the flame, even the heat of the room goes jet cold for an instant. And all of a sudden, the light of the furnaces flicker back on, the machine once more (crushing). The engine slams and light filters back. You pull the hammer back. You see a scattering of darkened coal, obsidian dust remaining behind.
Travis: I've never been so happy to see a 17 before. Oh my god.
Liam: Work that Play-Doh. Come on.
Matt: With that, you two holding the tongs, you take and fold the metal, hammer it, fold the metal, hammer it. Make another blacksmithing check. Go ahead and make your final blank.
Laura: Okay, but now you can add things.
Travis: I've got advantage. Is it strength or dex?
Matt: This is strength still, this one.
Marisha: You still have Guidance.
Travis: But I get a d4 on top of it? Oh, that's great. 26 without the other stuff.
Matt: Without an issue. So with that, you fold and you have your three finished trammel blanks, each one infused with the bead of divinity. Now you need to draw them out. And you can do these as one check for the three of them. So you go in and you take these blanks, these long rods, and you heat up the tip and bring it back, you holding with the tongs. You begin to, at an angle, hammering it against the top of the anvil, to eventually bring it to a gradual point. I need you to go ahead and make a blacksmithing check. This will be dexterity because this is less of just hammering, this is a little more careful manipulation of the metal. Did you cast Cat's Grace on him again? Because if you don't, it's not advantage.
Marisha: Cat's Grace.
Travis: Then I'll keep that. And then what was the Guidance? Do I have Guidance any more?
Matt: No, you can't have both.
Marisha: Do you want advantage or do you want that extra d4?
Taliesin: Advantage.
Laura: So he can still add one d4 on this?
Marisha: Pick one.
Travis: It's a 15 with advantage.
Matt: It's a 15?
Sam: Shall I inspire him?
Matt: Well, you have to inspire him before he makes the check.
Travis: Because it's my dexterity modifier plus my proficiency bonus, right?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Can I help with this?
Matt: You are helping with this.
Taliesin: Oh god. Okay.
Matt: (laughs) We'll get to you shortly. So as you begin to hammer it out, it's getting a little fragile at some points. I'll let you make one more check so you don't ruin one of the trammels.
Travis: Advantage, right?
Taliesin: Advantage and inspiration.
Sam: Sure. Yeah, I'll inspire him again.
Laura: He needs as much as you can give him, Scanlan.
Sam: I will give him every inch of myself.
Laura: So one? (laughter)
Sam: One by one by one, yeah.
Travis: My god. That's better. Okay. That's a 24. Should I use the inspiration?
Sam: Yes, you should.
Travis: 29.
Matt: 29. So this time, seeing where the imperfections were in the hammering you initially did and curving and bringing fragility to one of the trammels, you double back, heat up, and correct the mistake. Over the next ten minutes or so, you both carefully work to bring each to a razor point at the end of these large platinum javelins now. They're thicker on one side and come to an impossible point at the other. You have three of these base trammels now complete.
Laura: Now we got to twist them?
Travis: No, we got to put the runes in.
Matt: So now you have to twist them. This is where you bring up the leg vice. So you go ahead and you clamp it in there. This is without your help. This is now you taking and heating the metal and twisting it as you go, so make another blacksmithing check.
Marisha: I can guide you. I can do nothing else.
Matt: This is a dexterity-based.
Marisha: Oh, it's dexterity still? Then keep the advantage. You have advantage.
Travis: (sobbing) I'm tired of this.
Laura: Does he have any more inspiration?
Sam: Sure. I can inspire him.
Laura: Wait, keep inspiring.
Taliesin: He already rolled.
Laura: But he hasn't announced it.
Matt: He already rolled.
Travis: It's a 26. It's okay.
Matt: So with that, you, one by one, slowly using the clamp, twist, heat it up, grab, clamp, twist, hammer, twist and continue this process for each trammel as everyone looks on with bated breath. The deafening sound of the engine-like contraptions fill the space like a heartbeat. Their rhythm gets into your muscles and the aches begin to fade as you focus on the hammers in unison with the (slamming). Becomes this very primal forging-of-the-world vision to see Grog atop this anvil for over an hour at this point now, sweating and hammering away at these trammels. A vision of the Allhammer once, long ago, forging weapons of old, long-forgotten and lost, now Grog sits here, forging the means of sealing one of the biggest threats to the Prime Material Plane by himself. As you finish twisting the final trammel, you pull it up (sizzling), quenching them in the water that you left behind. And as you pull up, you can see as the steam rises, the three twisted javelins of pure platinum ready for the final scrolling.
Travis: (panting) Okay. Okay, give me the cool thing.
Liam: I don't want to do that with everybody here. I'm not lying to you. It's really cool.
Travis: I'm too tired to be upset about it.
Liam: Later. I promise.
Marisha: What do you--
Taliesin: Well, let's see. What do I have to do?
Matt: The only hammer here is that maul, but all the chiseling and tinkering work takes a much smaller, more delicate hammer.
Travis: I do have the Dwarven Thrower.
Matt: It's going to have to be a smaller edge than that.
Laura: Like what? Whisper?
Liam: Edge? Yeah?
Matt: It has to be a hammer.
Marisha: Like a rock hammer.
Laura: Can we look around for a little teeny hammer?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Teeny hammer?
Laura: 12 for me, so probably not so much.
Taliesin: Make an investigation check?
Travis: Me too.
Liam: 18 for me.
Taliesin: Glad I got that roll out of the way.
Travis: 15?
Matt: Looking around, all the other tools are for different things, but there's no other hammer. There's the one singular giant hammer on the chain.
Laura: Have you picked it up? Maybe it changes shape.
Taliesin: I'm going to try picking the hammer up.
Matt: Okay. You pick up the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and attune to it.
Matt: So you take a bit of time to attune with it, if you feel that's something you could try.
Taliesin: I'm going to examine it.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: Make another arcana check. Let's see what happens. Oh, that's better. 21.
Matt: 21. This is definitely an enchanted hammer. You take time with it and focus, and once you feel the essence of attunement begin to drift into this hammer, you unattune from one of your other items and you will it. The hammer actually (shrinking) shrinks down into a small, light hammer. Ball-peen hammer.
Travis: Smart move.
Taliesin: I'll drop Animus for now.
Marisha: Your coffee-stained artifacts.
Liam: I dropped my travel mug.
Matt: So. Now with this tinier hammer in your grasp, you walk over and put the trammels on the anvil. You grab some of the chiseling implements, and the two of you together begin to work. And you're mainly there taking the hammer and driving the back of the chisel while he's guiding the design because you don't know what vision he has. So you've done all the groundwork. You've built the structure, the base plate for it. But you have all the intricate designs in the head that Ioun imparted with you. So now you almost go into a trance with the chiseling tools and you have three in your hands and you're juggling them behind and you're staring ahead. It's really weird to watch Percival go from this focused individual to staring off into space and his hands take over and begins moving the chisels along. Each one of them almost too fast for you to keep up and you get to the point where you're like (rapid hammering). Trying to keep up with him as he's moving along. As you do, you watch as this intricate scrolling begins to appear and dig itself into the side of each trammel. He rotates it with the tongs, moves into place, gets the chisel and removes it, rotates it again and as this continues, it gets faster and faster and faster. I need you to go ahead to make a tinkering check.
Marisha: Do you want any Guidance?
Taliesin: Oh, I'll take anything I can get.
Laura: Cat's Grace is what, dexterity?
Taliesin: Well, technically that's a dex check, so if you have Cat's Grace I'll take it.
Marisha: Is it a dex check?
Matt: It's what you gave to Grog earlier.
Marisha: Okay. Then I will give you Cat's Grace at third level because my 2nd-level spells are tapped. And so are now my 3rd-level spells. Nothing more.
Taliesin: If you have any inspiration, I'll also take it.
Sam: Yes, sure. I'll give you some. I will sing to you. I will sing: (singing) bang bang, Percy's ball-peen hammer goes down, upon the ground! Bang bang, Percy's ball-peen hammer makes a really, really big sound. (vocalizing)
Matt: The actual heat from the Core Anvil is enough that when you hold the trammel against it, it gives it just enough of a malleable edge for you to go ahead and chisel through it without issue. As you're going, it's three checks: one for each trammel. So the first one?
Taliesin: That's without inspiration. That's 31.
Matt: 31. (skittering, clanging) After about five minutes or so, you finish and grab one of the trammels and (clang) onto the ground. Begin on the other. (skittering)
Travis: Slow down!
Taliesin: (groan)
Marisha: (groan)
Marisha: Try again. Inspiration it?
Taliesin: I might be able to inspiration this because that was a really bad roll. Both of them are the same. Both of them are two. And this is not one of those things where I can fix. It's either good or it's bad.
Laura: We might be able to fix it.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and add a little bit of inspiration, maybe.
Marisha: (groans)
Taliesin: That's not very good. That's 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. The second trammel, as you're chiseling along, you feel as the metal (cracking) begins to bend and snap in one place. It's still one piece. (sighs) The DC has gone up, but you get one more shot at that one.
Taliesin: Can I get one more inspiration if you got any? Are you out?
Sam: I've used five, and I think I get six.
Taliesin: Let's take another one. Just in case because Jesus fucking Christ.
Matt: The DC was 20. Now it's 25.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: If this fails, it's going to break a trammel.
Laura: Oh my god!
Taliesin: Please. I will happily take that inspiration, please.
Sam: All right. I will inspire you with some bullshit.
Marisha: No one has any other type of Guidance or anything?
Laura: I'm looking. I've got nothing.
Travis: I don't have anything; I just hit things!
Taliesin: It's a skill check. It's not a save. Oh wait. I don't get to add anything from the hammer for this?
Matt: No. The hammer is allowing the process to take place.
Liam: Do we need to do this right now? Can we take nappies and come back?
Taliesin: I think it has to be soft, right?
Liam: You would have a whole other batch of inspirations in the morning.
Sam: Yeah, but he's got one more shot at this.
Taliesin: I think we have to do it now, right?
Matt: The trance is there. It's up to you.
Taliesin: Give me one more inspiration if you can, and we'll see where we go.
Sam: I will sing one more song to inspire you. I'll sing: (singing) Here's a little song I wrote! It's filled with inspiration note for note. Don't fuck up! Or I'll kill you! (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I don't feel good.
Travis: One at a time.
Taliesin: That'll do. 18, 28, 30.
Matt: 30.
Travis: And we have the inspiration for the third one.
Matt: You managed to complete the scrolling on the trammel. The trammel is still noticeably fragile, but it seems functional. The enchantment will be channeled. So second trammel's done. Final check on the third and final trammel.
Travis: Come on. Jesus.
Marisha: This is so stressful.
Taliesin: That's not bad. Yeah! So that's 34! (cheering)
Taliesin: Rolled a 12 on the inspiration dice.
Matt: With that, the feverish pace of the scrolling as you work across the final trammel, Grog, it's almost to the point where he'll move the chisel to a place, you'll hammer, move back and he's going too fast and he has to go back. And while he's not even looking at you, the chisel will clang multiple times across the side of it, telling you to fucking hit the back of it with the hammer. You take it and slam it, move along, eventually coming across each side of the spiraling trammel to completion. At that point, the hammer still in your grasp, you back away. Percival, you take it and the heated edge of it is burning into your hand a little bit and you walk over and drop it into the trough water. (sizzling) Turn around, drop it next to the third and final piece.
Taliesin: And I faint. (laughter)
Matt: And as Percival hits-- He passes out onto the stairs, half-leaning onto the stairs. You catch him. Grog, you look at your feet where Percival left the last piece and you reach down and pick up the three trammels. They're about that long, each of them, and they're these heavy spikes that come to a gradual spiraling twist at the tip. They're covered in intricate, beautiful scrolling of some sort of arcane language that you are unfamiliar with, and you don't think you've been so proud to be part of crafting anything like this before.
Travis: These are obviously too dangerous for this world, and I walk over to the lava. (laughter)
Travis: Kidding!
Laura: This is a step up from fine leather boots, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, it's true.
Matt: And with the completion of the trammels, this leg of your journey now complete, we're going to close tonight's episode. Good game. (sighs) We'll pick up this at GenCon next week at our live show.
Marisha: So GenCon we're going to start with trying to get out of an active volcano?
Taliesin: Well, I think we'll assume that we're going to take a mansion rest and we'll come out of a mansion rest. Can we assume that's going to be it?
Matt: If you want to take that point now, we'll say with the end of this episode you guys take a mansion rest? No?
Travis: No?
Laura: Or are you tapped out? Do you have any spells left, Scanlan?
Sam: I saved one level eight spell for such a thing.
Laura: So we head into the mansion.
Marisha: And I technically have one 7th-level spell, so if we want to go into the mansion and then I can Plane Shift us home, we can do that. Or wherever we want.
Taliesin: So we can Plane Shift, mansion wherever we need.
Travis: And if we go into the mansion, the first purple servant that hands me a salad, I behead unless it's the GoFiBePo.
Matt: So are you going to long rest and then Plane Shift or Plane Shift and then long rest wherever you land?
Marisha: Plane Shift and then long rest.
Laura: If we're in the mansion, he can't see us. So that's the only thing. It might be good to rest inside the mansion so he can't attack us before we attack him.
Taliesin: Are we going straight to him?
Laura: We don't know.
Taliesin: All right. Mansion.
Marisha: I will be burning my 7th-level spell at the top of the day instead of at the end.
Taliesin: So let's Plane Shift somewhere and mansion.
Marisha: Well, no. I can only Plane Shift us on this plane by basically hacking the spell because the mansion is another plane of existence. So I can't Plane Shift us on this plane. I have to plane to another plane.
Taliesin: We need to rest. Let's rest. Yeah, ignore it.
Marisha: We'll figure it out at GenCon. We'll figure it out in Indianapolis.
Laura: Fuck it, we'll do it live!
Taliesin: We'll do it live!
Travis: We'll do it live!
Matt: All righty, then. So. We'll pick up there next week at GenCon. (exhales) All right, guys.
Travis: That fucking giant sword-swinging bastard! Is he even wearing underpants under that? We don't know.
Laura: No, he's not. I saw his balls. I saw his golden balls.
Liam: It's a big iron pendulum swinging around.
Travis: Legendary action  the nut swing.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh goodness gracious, we got to get all of our stuff. Do we need to bring our own binder to GenCon?
Matt: Yes, bring your binders. Bring your sheets. Otherwise, the rest of you, thank you for joining us, as always. Rest well. See you next week, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.
Travis: Beautiful map, Matt. That was amazing. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]